John Chapter twenty. Early on the first day of the week. While it was still dark, Mary of Magdala went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and said, They've taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they've put him. So Peter and the other disciples started for the tomb. Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there that did not go in. Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the chimney. He saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. The cloth was folded up by itself separate from the linen. Finally, the other disciples who had reached the tomb first also went inside. He saw and believed. They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes, but Mary stood outside the tomb crying. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white seated there where Jesus' body had been. one at the head and the other at the foot. They asked her, Woman, why are you crying? They've taken my Lord away, he said, and I don't know where they've put him. At this she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus. Woman, why are you crying? Who is it that you are looking for? Thinking he was the gardener, she said, Sir, if you've carried him away, tell me where you've put him and I will get him Jesus said to her, Mary. Turned toward him, cried out in Aramaic, Raponai, which means teacher. Jesus said, Do not hold on to me. I have not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers. And tell them, I am returning to my father and to your father, my God, and your God. Mary of Magdala went to the disciples with the news. I've seen the Lord! She told them that he had said these things to her. On the evening of that first day of the week when the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and his thighs. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again Jesus said, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And with that he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. Now Thomas, called Didymus one of the twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came. When the other disciples told him that they had seen the Lord, he declared, Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my fingers where the nails were and put my hand at his side, I will not believe it A week later his disciples were in the house again, and Thomas was with them. Though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Tom, Put your finger here. See my hand. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop, darling, and believe. Thomas said to him, My Lord is my God. Then Jesus told him, Because you've seen what you've believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and yet have been. Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not recorded in this book. But these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing He may have life in his name. So ends the reading of God's Word now. Let's give our attention to its message. We're all afflicted with doubts, aren't we? Perplexing questions seem not to have any answer Things like, Lord, why are you letting this happen in my life? Lord, it it just doesn't seem to make any sense. It doesn't seem to square with what your word promises I don't see any purpose to it. I don't understand why I'm suffering like this. I don't understand why this is happening. And you just begin to wonder, what answer is there for? And sometimes later on we'll get an insight as to what God's purpose in that difficulty was for us. But frankly, we must admit as Christians, not all of us. Sometimes the answer doesn't come. And when the answer doesn't come, I find that I'm driven back to the basics of my faith. Back to the basic bedrock foundation questions, such as, is Christianity true after all? Is the Bible really true? Did Jesus really rise from the dead? Because I would suggest that if Jesus really did rise from the dead, then three things must follow from that. Number one, if Jesus rose from the dead, then it follows that he is who he said he is. That he in fact has vindicated his claim to be the Son of God, Savior, and Lord Jesus was correct in all that he said about himself. Secondly, it follows that if Jesus rose from the bed, that all that he taught Is true, is trustworthy, and reliable. Everything he said about life and how to live it, how to know God and how to live the abundant life that he spoke of is absolutely reliable. I can follow that and know I'll never be misled. Because the one who said that vindicated his absolute knowledge by rising from the dead. And thirdly, it follows Not only is Jesus who he said he is and what he taught on anything true, but it also follows that the entire Bible is true. Because Jesus said himself that he believed that the entire Old Testament was without error. Jesus himself was convinced that the Scripture was totally reliable. He provided for a New Testament through his disciples who would be also without error. In fact, the entire Bible finds Jesus Christ to be the center Keystone. A keystone, you know, is that which holds together an arch, and if you take it out, the whole thing crumbles. And that's what Jesus is to the Bible. The whole thing depends on him. And if Jesus, who taught that the Bible is absolutely reliable, rose from the dead, then we know that we can trust him. And so although I may not find an answer to those questions, they confuse me, perplex me, and bother me. If Jesus rose from the dead I can rest because I know there is an answer, and I can trust the God who has told me to follow him in what he's told me in his word. And know that though it may not make sense to me, I can walk in confidence in the ways. So what I'd like to do this morning is for us to examine again the resurrection accounts With the question, are they true? Are they really reliable? Can we stake our lives on them? I'd like them to Take a look and ask this question, did they really happen? Realizing that one of the main problems as we look at the accounts is the apparent contradictions there seem to be between the accounts. Now, here's where it helps, you see, if you did the assignment that I suggested in the bulletin last week and have looked at the accounts this week If you have, you're more aware right now of what those contradictions seem to be. Of things that just don't seem to fit together. And I'd like to take a look then at these accounts and I'd like to ask with you the question: can they be harmonized? Can we put together a picture of that resurrection and the events that followed it? That will vindicate these accounts in their historical accuracy, their authenticity. Or in fact, are they stories that were put together by a bunch of guys who wanted to believe this, or for some other motive gave these accounts, but really didn't have their act together, and therefore our faith crumbles at this point. You see if these accounts do contradict, if they're not really reliable. Then you and I, as Christians, are simply self-deceived fools. Paul says we're of all men most miserable Because our whole lives are staked on a fairy tale. So the accounts that we have of the resurrection really are quite important for us to be able to harmonize. So that we can know we can really celebrate this thing, that Jesus is risen, and not simply a fairy tale that goes along with the Easter bunny and coloring eggs in spring. Well then let's take a look. Under two points as you see in your bulletin outline, I would like to do this by telling the Easter story, telling the resurrection story And then secondly, by trusting the resurrection accounts. I want to look at the story. I'd like to look at it with you. First of all, just to see the story See it put together, see if it can be harmonized, and then to look along the way with that at a couple of points that also will give a certain ring of authenticity to these accounts in order to convince us that the resurrection actually happened. Not just with its unique story But that it's true, it's history, it happens. First of all, then telling the resurrection story As you know, there's four accounts that are given in the four gospels, and they're each given from a different perspective. They even seem to contradict, as if these were men who wanted to convince us that these things were true, but they really didn't have their act together. For instance, if you read Matthew's account, you have the distinct impression that there were two Marys that went to the tomb. That one angel spoke to them about the fact that Jesus was risen, and that on the way back to tell the disciples that, that angel appeared to them. On the way, and he said, Jesus is going to meet his disciples in Galilee. Go tell his brothers, and they go tell him, and that the first time Jesus appears to the disciples is in Galilee If you read Mark's account, you have the distinct impression that there are two women, two Marys, plus a Salome. So you got three women here to go to the tomb. Uh they also meet one young man, presumably an angel, who tells them that Jesus is risen and that he will appear in Galilee. And that's the end of the story as we have it in the original account. After that it's not clear what other accounts were added and where they fit in. If you look at Luke's account, you have the distinct impression that there's a whole group of women That goes to the tomb. And that these women come and they see two angels. Did these two angels tell them that uh Jesus is risen and as they're on their way back to the disciples to tell them that That Jesus then appears to these women, excuse me, that Jesus doesn't appear to these women, but later on that day he appears to two disciples who are on their way to Emmaus. And he uh appears to them as the first appearance, and then later on that evening to the disciples in Jerusalem. And then forty days later he's still with them in Jerusalem, and then goes up To his father in heaven. No mention of any appearances in Galilee. If you read John's account, you get the impression there's one Mary who goes alone to the tomb. See one Mary in John, two Marys and Matthew, two Marys and a Salome and Mark, and two Marys a Salome and a whole group of other women in Luke. And in Mar in Mark's account you meet any angel And she just sees an empty tomb. She goes back, she tells Peter and John they come to the tomb, and then Mary comes back with them. She remains there, and then she sees an angel. And as she oh, two angels. And these two angels give her a message, and then minutes later, she sees Jesus. And then after that, that evening, Jesus appears to the disciples in Jerusalem. A week later, he appears again to the disciples in Jerusalem. And then later on he goes to Galilee and appears to them. All different ideas of what went on. And just to add to the confusion, if you look in Paul, he writes his own account of the resurrection in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Paul says that Jesus appeared to Peter before he appeared to the other disciples, and he appeared to over 500 at once, neither of which incidents any of the four Gospels even mention. Now, how can these things be possibly reconciled? Are these men who just simply had some ideas that they wanted to believe so much and they put it down and somehow these things were brought together in a way that showed up And in fact, they really hadn't uh put together their story in a way that was believable, that is full of contradictions. I'd like to offer to you a chronological account of the story that I would not claim is the final answer. I don't claim that what I'm going to offer to you now is uh the thing that you can uh write up in some uh theological journal and say this is the solution to the resurrection accounts and uh we have it all solved now. But I would suggest that that this putting together of the pieces of the puzzle will potentially solve all the problems First of all, I would like to suggest, as you see, in the bulletin account there, that there were eight recorded appearances That there are in fact eight times that we have a record of Jesus appearing to people after his resurrection. I would suggest that the eight itself might be very significant. Eight, you know, in the Bible is the number of new creations. Jesus rose on what day of the week? The first day. But the first day, you see, is also the eighth day of the week. It's the seventh day of the old creation, the rest of the old creation, plus one more day, the beginning of a new week, the eighth day, the beginning of a new creation. And Jesus was the beginning of a new creation, a people, a new people who he was now calling together when he rose from the dead. Now that's not purely speculative, you know, the Old Testament teaches that. You had the year of Jubilee, and what was that? The year of Jubilee was seven times seven years plus one year for the new creation, the fiftieth year. Seven times seven plus one, a new creation. That's what the whole meaning of Jubilee was. The new creation, the starting over. You have after Jesus appears in the resurrection. He stays with the disciples for 40 days, and then ten days after that, you have The Feast of Pentecost. And on Pentecost, the Holy Spirit comes upon the church, and you have the new age, the new creation. What's Pentecost? It's seven times seven weeks plus one week, the fiftieth week. So it may be significant that the Bible does give to us eight selective recorded appearances of Jesus after he rose from the dead. Now how do they fit together? Well Go with me in your imagination to that first Easter morning. And perhaps you would have seen something like this. There's a whole group of women that get up before dark and they start off for the tomb. We're told in one gospel that they took off before dark and that they arrived to the tomb just after sun up. Luke gives us the fullest account of who went. Two Mary, Salome, and a number of other women also. They get to the tomb, and just as they arrive to the tomb, there's an earthquake. The earthquake rolls away the stone, and just as that happens, Mary Magdalene looks in and sees that the tomb is empty. She then takes off and runs to go find Peter and John. She takes off and leaves before she hears the message from the angels. So she missed that. The other women stay, but now let's follow Mary. In her haste she runs back, and she finds Peter and she finds John and she tells them Not that the angels have said he's risen, you see. She didn't get that part. But only that the tomb is empty, and we don't know what they've done with the Lord. Now that's significant. You have your Bible still open. Notice in John 20, verse 2 You have the account there that Mary went to the tomb. Only Mary is mentioned. But what does it say in verse 2? She came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple. The one Jesus loved, and she said, They've taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they've put him. I'd suggest that that we is a very important clue. Mary was hardly the kind of person to use a royal we. She had been possessed with seven demons and she was ignorant. She'd hardly go around talking about a royal we when she used that pronoun. What I would suggest to you here is that John is aware that there are more than Mary who went to the tomb. All he's interested in, though, is what Mary did. And in the selective way that's very characteristic of all the Gospels He mentions only that which he is interested in telling us about. But being true as a historian, he also tells us that she said we, implying that there were more there. So the Gospels don't claim to give in each case the whole story. They're claiming to give their perspective, and you see little clues like this that show you that they realize that there's something else But it's not of their perspective and interest to tell that part. So Mary says, we don't know where they put it. So then Simon And John go run to the tomb. You know the story how they arrived there, and they go and they see that it's empty, and then they go back to their homes, now beginning to dare to believe that Jesus has risen. Mary goes back with them, perhaps running after them. She arrives to the tomb, and after they've gone, Mary stays. And as Mary's there at the tomb weeping in her grief and broken heart, two angels appear to her, different from the other accounts. They say to her in verse 13, Woman, why are you crying? She answers, They've taken my Lord away. And I don't know where they put him. At this, remember, she turns around and in her tears and in her grief she looks and there's Jesus standing there, but she can hardly even see him through the mist of her tears. hardly daring to even look up and know who's there and not caring, uh just in the profound grief that she has, and so she thinks it's the gardener and she says, and when Jesus says to a woman, Why are you crying? Who are you looking for? Says thinking it's the gardener. Ah sir, if you carried them away, come, tell me where you put them and I'll go get 'em. I don't want to give you any trouble, but I just want to get the body in my order And then that Jesus, who had a couple of years before, called her name to release her from the seven demons , says her name that same way again, Mary. While she can't recognize him through seeing him, she can never forget that voice. And immediately Mary recognizes that it's Jesus. So Jesus speaks to her , tells her the news of his being in a new situation now that she can't cling to him, she can go back and give the news. And this I would suggest is the first appearance. Now, there's also some substantiation in that because if you read in Mark chapter 16, verse 9, which is the first verse That's after the verses that are universally accepted as the original part of Mark, the first verse after that in Mark 16. 9 says that this was the first appearance When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons Now that's not the original, perhaps, and so we don't base our absolute knowledge on it, but it certainly substantiates this telling of it. Well let's go back to the women now Mary goes on, and the other women, remember, stayed at the tomb after Mary had run off. They stayed there and they heard two angels And these two angels then give them simply the message, Jesus is risen, go tell his disciples. So these women all then take off without Mary. They take off, go back to tell the disciples, and then just minutes after Jesus has appeared to Mary, he then comes and appears to the rest of the women. Now I can't be dogmatic on that. It may in fact have been that he appeared to these women first and then appeared to Mary. Uh the Bible doesn't tell us. Uh there's nothing to argue one way or the other. Personally I'd like to believe he appeared to Mary first. But maybe he appeared to these women first. In any event, he appeared to them and he told them that Jesus has said, I'm going to appear with my disciples in Galilee. What they don't know is that he's planning a surprise visit before they get to Galilee. Well, they go back and they tell the disciples that and they don't believe them Later on that day, two disciples, not part of the twelve, are on their way back to Emmaus. And Jesus, in the third appearance, appears to them. Appears to them you remember the story of their going to Emmaus and how their hearts burned within them when they realized that it was Jesus who was speaking to them and how he opened the scriptures to them. They run back to the disciples in Jerusalem. They tell the disciples that Jesus has appeared to them. And you notice they come back and there's ten disciples there. Thomas and Judas are missing. They come back and they tell them that, and why did Jesus wait so long? I wonder if it's not that he delayed appearing to these ten because he wanted to test their faith. Jesus, remember, had said to them on many occasions, I'm going to suffer and die, and I'm going to rise again. And he wanted to see if they would in fact believe his word, if they would honor him by believing that he would fulfill that which he said. Well, as in many other cases, they float the test, remember. There they are, and there's not a one of them that's saying, Oh, wait, but if Jesus did say he's going to come back from the dead. In fact, they're so distraught that when the disciples come back from Emmaus And tell them, and then Jesus appears to them, the fourth recorded appearance that's given to us in Luke. They're so dumbfounded they think he's a ghost. Jesus has to convince them by showing them his physical appearance that in fact it's him. So then they believe, but Thomas isn't with them. So you have the fifth recorded appearance given to us in John chapter twenty, where they come, where Jesus comes again the next week, knowing what Thomas said. Uh an indication that Jesus now uh knows all things that they talk to Thomas and he says, I can't believe if I don't put my hand in the prints, the nails, and the spear thrust. John is Jesus knows that, and a week later, they're back in the same room. Jesus comes and appears to them again. Now with Thomas And then sixthly, after all these Jerusalem appearances, they go to Galilee, and John 21 tells us how he appeared to them up in Galilee some days later. Matthew tells us of the Galilean appearance only. He doesn't say Jesus didn't appear in Jerusalem. He just leaves that out. Luke tells us about the Jerusalem appearances only. He doesn't tell us he didn't appear in Galilee, just simply leaves it out. But John tells us about both Jerusalem and Galilee so that we can see the harmonization of the two. Then finally, seventhly, or not finally, but seventhly, sometime during those forty days, Paul tells us in First Corinthians That Jesus appeared at one point to over five hundred at one time. None of the gospels tell us about that. There's also the implication You see in Luke's account, in Luke twenty-four, but particularly, in Acts 1 1 to 5, that there were other appearances that we don't know about Luke tells us how Jesus was doing a lot of teaching and demonstrating a lot of miracles during these forty days. We're not told anything about that. So it makes perfect sense that Paul would know about some other things that are not included in the Gospels. And so Paul tells us about one of those, in which Jesus appeared to over 500. Incidentally, the four Gospels also don't tell us about that appearance to Peter. The disciples coming back from Emmaus do mention that. They come back to the disciples and they say, Jesus has appeared to Peter, to Simon, and to us. So the implication is that sometime between the time he had appeared to the women in the morning and to those disciples of Emmaus in the afternoon, Jesus also appeared personally to Peter. In some in some intimate little bit of conversation Jesus had with Peter that has been kept out of the Bible completely Something known only between Peter and Jesus. And the Bible doesn't tell us about it, except those two little clues, that Jesus had to appear to Peter in order to restore him and to comfort him before he even got to the other disciples. And then finally the eighth recorded appearance is on the time of the point of Jesus' ascension. The eleven disciples are there. We see this, by the way, it's not right in the bulletin I had there, Matthew 28, 16 to 20. That is not the ascension. That's in Galilee. The ascension took place in the area of Bethany outside Jerusalem. cross that out it should actually be Luke twenty-four and acts one. Those were the two record those are the records of the appearance of Jesus at the ascension And so um at that time Jesus of course gives his final instruction and then he goes up to the Father. Now this doesn't answer every question And I suggest that there are no questions about the harmony of these accounts that's insurmountable within that kind of a framework. The fact that it has to be put together this way I would claim does not in fact erode its credibility, but rather enhances it. For three reasons. Let's move on to the second part then, trusting the resurrection accounts. Three evidences of the credibility, the historicity, the authenticity of these accounts of the resurrection. For the first, I would suggest the absence of any spectacular details. You notice in what we've just said that there is a sparsity of details. We're hungry for more details about the resurrection, aren't we? I mean if you and I had had been there as reporters and wanted to be able to get down the facts, there's a lot of questions we would have liked to have asked. What was Jesus' body like? Uh what happened on in a number of different uh areas In fact, did it ever occur to you that the Bible gives no account of the resurrection itself? All we have are the events that followed the resurrection. There is no account of the resurrection. No one saw it. All they saw was Jesus afterwards. Now I would suggest to you that if anybody was putting together in that era an account of a resurrection, they wouldn't have missed that chance. It would have been if it was common to any of the other kind of literature being written at that time, full of all kinds of spectacular detail about Jesus coming out of the tomb. about some miracles that he was performing in doing that. About all kinds of people falling to the ground and people acknowledging that that this one Jesus had vindicated his claims. You don't see anything in it It's almost under plea. You're hungry to know more. And I would suggest that that's because that's simply the way it happened And the gospel writers, you see, couldn't couldn't juice it up in some way that was that was palatable for the people of their age. They simply said, This is what the Lord did, and this is the way we'll tell it And that is so contrary to what you would have expected for somebody in that culture to write about such an event that it rings out to us, it must be true, or else they would have never written it that way. Second thing I would like to suggest by way of evidence, firstly the quiet majesty of the unspectacular accounts Secondly, it is contrary to all Jewish expectations. And not only in the fact that it's not spectacular enough But just if you were trying to persuade the Jews at that time that Jesus in fact was the Messiah who had risen from the dead, these fellows have done it most clumsily. I mean, who does he appear to first? He appears to an ignorant, formerly demon-possessed woman from Galilee. Now, there's nothing that would be more abhorrent to a rabbi in Jerusalem or any of the Jewish elite. than to think that when the Messiah rose from the dead to conquer death, the first person he spoke to was in their estimation a woman, an ignorant woman, a formerly demon-possessed woman, and a formerly demon-possessed woman from Galilee. In every single category she loses You see, there's nothing that would be appealing to the Jewish leadership at that time. The only thing that can account for the fact that they would have written it this way Is that Jesus transcended all the cultural expectations of that time. And that's exactly how he did it. Nobody would have contrived such an account. The only account for it is that that is what happened. And so they set it down as it happened. Not only was it contrary to their expectations in it being to a Galilean, formerly demon-possessed woman But even the disciples, remember, have problems in their expectations. Even up to Acts 1, they're saying, Now Lord, it's at this time you're going to restore the glory to Israel. And Jesus says, You guys have still missed the point. Again, if it had been written by somebody from the Jewish culture at that time, they certainly would, in their own expectations, not have omitted something that had to do with the glory of Israel. And the kingdom coming and being fulfilled in the expectations they had. But Jesus, just as in his birth, so in his resurrection, cut across the grain of all the expectations. And the only way you can account for it is that's what you're happening. Finally, as we've seen, the story is difficult but possible to harmonize The accounts are difficult, but they're possible to harmonize. And this shows us two things. First of all, it shows us that there was no collaboration. I mean can you picture four people, or five if you include Paul, sitting down to write the accounts of the resurrection and coming up with as many problems as we have, as we try to put them together, but none of them in fact being a contradiction? Can you imagine fellows sitting down and saying, we want to persuade the Jews and the whole world that Jesus has risen from the dead? And so we're all going to put together some different accounts here, and we're going to make it look like they don't fit. And that's not exactly the way you do it. You just couldn't contrive something like that. You would make it fit So the people would look and they'd say, Oh yes, obviously this pit piece fits in here and that piece fits over there, but but you're not forced faced with that. You look at it and you say, It doesn't seem to fit You're faced, I would suggest, with the same kind of feeling you have if you've ever examined witnesses who have all witnessed a particular event And what happens is you listen to them one by one. What happens if they're genuine witnesses this I my app my experience has been that invariably they will give you in their account things which seem to contradict what the other has said. Because they're looking at it from their own perspective. And you scratch your head and you say, wait a minute, that doesn't sound like what this guy said. That doesn't sound like what this woman said over here And then you begin to examine, you probe more deeply, you get behind what they meant, what was just a half-statement here that wasn't fully completed. And you begin to see the pieces fall together. That's the nature of true witnesses. So I would suggest that it Lawyers who have looked at this, some of the finest minds of history have looked and have said there is no historical event in all recorded history more genuinely fully attested Than the resurrection. That is in fact the impression that you come up with as you examine the accounts. No collaborations And no contradictions. It's genuine. And that's the only thing that accounts for the way we've received it. What finally are the effects of this on you and me? I would suggest that the first effect would be that you can trust Jesus with your doubts. The assurance that Jesus has in fact risen from the dead. That we have reliable accounts that tell us that he has, in fact, risen in history, will greatly overshadow your most perplexing questions. That doubt, that confusion that you have this morning about something in your life, and you look and you say, Why, Lord? And the Lord says, I'm not ready to give you the answer for that right now. But I want you to look at my son. He's risen. Can you believe that? If you can believe that, then you know he's who he said he is You know that what he taught is reliable. And you know that my word in its totality is reliable. And you can rest in that. Even though you don't know the future. You know who holds the future, and you can trust him. So the first effect is for you and for me to take all our doubts and connect them with the resurrection Don't leave them disassociated. But when you're confused and when you're perplexed, and when you face that unanswered question, you take a look at the empty tomb. You take a look at these accounts and you say, Is Jesus risen? If he has Then I don't have to struggle with that and have it produce doubts and unbelief. Finally The second effect is that you trust Jesus with your life. Have you trust Jesus with your life? As your own personal Savior and Lord. The assurance that Jesus has risen from the dead means the sting of death is gone for his people. The resurrection isn't something for us to simply come and to celebrate as an annual rite of spring The resurrection means that there was a man who walked the face of the earth two thousand years ago. And that man was sent from God. That man was the very Son of God. He came because there was only one solution for your sin and for my sin. Only one solution for your guilt, only one solution for the life that you've messed up because you've gone your own way rather than God's way. And that solution is in the person of Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ came and he bore that sin. He bore that sin in being crucified, being cursed of his father, as we talked about last week. That same Jesus walked out of the tomb three days later. That same Jesus walks the universe in glory today. That same Jesus offers you salvation today But that salvation is not in coming to church. That salvation is not in following the golden rule. That salvation is not in simply trying to follow some things that the Bible says. That salvation is in a person. It 's in the person of Jesus who walks the universe as the risen Savior. And if you don't have him This is a very sad day for you. Because you're on the outside looking in. You're on the outside looking in at life, at life abundant, that's offered through a risen Savior. And you don't have any part of that if you don't have Jesus. But he offers you that life. There's nothing keeping you from taking that life today. From coming to Jesus this day. We 're saying, Lord Jesus, there's nothing I have to offer. The only thing I can do is to come and to receive the life that you have, because you died And you rose again. And in you, and in you alone, is life. You have taken away The sting of death. The little boy was allergic to insect stings, particularly bee stings On one occasion, this little boy was stung by a bee. He was rushed to a hospital just in time to save his life. The little boy knew that if he would be stung by a bee again, it would probably cost him his life. One day he was out riding with his dad in the car. And a blee bee, a honey bee, flew in the open window. The boy immediately became hysterical and panicked and scrambled to dash over the seat into the back The father quickly pulled the car off the road, and he grabbed the bee in his hand. As the boy looked Calmly, calm down, settled down. And then to his amazement, he saw his father release the bee. Immediately he became hysterical again and tried to scramble for the back seat again His father quickly put his hand on his shoulder and he said, Son, there's nothing for you to fear. See my hand The stinger 's in my hand. I've taken away the sting of death from me. The bee can no longer harm me. Jesus Christ has taken away the sting of death by burying it in himself. And death can no longer harm us because he's risen. Oh Lord Jesus. How we as children fear the sting of death more than anything else. Look in amazement as we see you, Lord Jesus, take into your own body that sting of death. And we see that you have walked away the first fruits of a new creation. A new people who have been bought with your precious blood. Ah, Lord Jesus, how we thank you that you have given us these four or five different accounts of your resurrection to give us such a clear ring of authenticity, so that we might know that even in the problems themselves, there is the mark of historicity That mark of genuineness which shows to us that these were not collaborators, rather eyewitnesses. The Lord of glory. Oh Lord, we pray for each person here. Lord, that you would turn each person's heart to you. But there would not be none that would walk away from the service in this day who would say that that's a nice story. I wish I could believe it Father, that every one of us would know you personally, would know you, Lord Jesus, because we've recognized our need for you. We've recognized there's nothing we could do to earn your favor. But we must give ourselves to you that your death would be sufficient for our sin, that your resurrection would be our means to life Help us, Lord, each one who has doubts and confusion and perplexity this morning. That you'd enable us to see that the big question is not whether we can find an answer to that doubt or problem The big question, the final question, is did Jesus rise from the dead? And if he did, there is an answer to that problem. I may not know it, may not ever know it in this life, but there is an answer. Because you're who you said you were. Lord, help us to make that connection, to see that, and to rejoice this morning We serve a Savior who's risen and walking the universe today as Lord of Lords and King of kings. Hallelujah. Amen So Jesus Christ is risen today. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Let us stand and sing number 198 in praise to the Christ, certainly Was resurrected. Number one hundred ninety-eight. Sallot cry , tell you the