Do I believe that it was a coincidence that I planned to preach this message on December the third and that because of the death of Kathy, my wife's mother? That it was postponed so that I now preach it on December the 17th? Absolutely not I believe it's an evidence of our great shepherd's care for you that he transferred what was my plan So that we would be considering him as a faithful shepherd the day after the Garvey tragedy. I want to thank the many of you who were praying for us and encouraged us in our time of difficulty. With the death of Kathy's mom, sudden and unexpected. And uh we actually expected more conflict in the family, and God brought peace God brought healing, showed himself as a shepherd to us in a number of ways that I can't go into now, but ways that deeply touched us And I particularly want to thank Steve for filling in on very short notice and expanding his message on Ezekiel 16. uh to be able to open that up to you. And so while we were then in the second week, the planned week in Denver, Colorado, we knew you guys were in good hands. And uh that that one was, you know, kind of the emotional roller coaster. That was the upside. We had just a glorious, delightful week with uh three grandchildren, our daughter, son-in-law, and um experienced once again the world of sippy cups and diapers nonstop and I will tell you the one thing that that trip did for me was to give me a profound, renewed appreciation for the life, the energy, the depletion, the constant care of you mothers of young children. That uh I don't know if it's just because I'm older, but boy, I'll tell you, that is morning, noon, afternoon, night, non-stop. A lot of fun, but uh I realize that's a very draining uh thing. It's not for the faint-hearted We also saw God show himself as a shepherd to us in a number of meaningful ways during that time together. And we're glad to be back. But then yesterday To have my heart pierced as many of you by the news of the Garveys accident and the death of little Jesse. I had gotten to touch Jesse just once. Um he was one week older than my grandson. And to think of holding my grandson and then thinking of Jesse's little body was Something overwhelming for me. So um up and down. Then seeing this morning Tiffany McGarry after many weeks. the such pain, being bedridden, back for the first time in worship, uh up and down, joys Pain, trials, difficulty. And so it is so good to come and know that this morning God addresses us with these words from Ezekiel 34. I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will tend them. He will tend them and be their shepherd. I, the Lord, will be their God and my servant David. Will be prince among them. I the Lord have spoken. Remember the book of Ezekiel is a book To disturb the complacent and to give hope to the hopeless. It was written before and after the sack of Jerusalem And the end of the Davidic monarchy. You remember that a few weeks ago now we looked at uh Ezekiel 17 where God talks about the House of David like a mighty cedar that is felled and cut down, and out of that he takes one little shoot, one sprig. And he causes that to grow to become a magnificent cedar that is a refuge for birds to come and hide in. And we're reminded very much this week, you need a refuge. And I need a refuge. And he's a shelter for you and for me. And then In chapter 21, he reminded us that when all hope appears to be gone Zedekiah is going to be removed from the throne. Jerusalem is about to fall. Everything is coming apart at the scenes, and it seems there is no hope left in any human leader, in home, in anything. He gives us that one beautiful word, until, until he comes, to whom the rightful rule belongs. And all things will be different then. There's that time of hope, the time of restoration, the time of the new Eden, the time of the Messiah to come. And then Steve ably took us for two weeks into Ezekiel 16, showing us Israel that cared only for their comfort and not God's kingdom. And how God refused to abandon them, but as a faithful husband, he stayed engaged with them and yet spoke to them hard truths. truths of grace and calling, grace to those who so obviously didn't deserve it. And then we come, continuing our holiday messianic prophecy series to chapter 34. In chapter 34, we see the contrast now between the faithless shepherds of Israel and the promised true shepherd, the faithful shepherd to come. Now we don't have time to read the whole chapter, but I want to run through some of this so that you see the backdrop important to understand verses 23 and 24. In the beginning, let's see verses 2 and 4, God indicts those faithless shepherds, and he says to them, Son of Man. says to Ezekiel, Son of Man, Prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to them, This is what the sovereign Lord says. Woe to the shepherds of Israel, who only take care of themselves. Should not shepherds take care of the flock? You have not strengthened the weak, or healed the sick, or bound up the injured. You have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost You have ruled them harshly and brutally. The name Shepherd is given to the rulers. You see that? You shepherds have ruled them harshly and brutally. And the idea of shepherds in the Bible is that they are the kings, the rulers, they are those who are to care for the sheep. In Psalm 78, for instance, God speaks of David, the shepherd of the sheep, as the shepherd also of his people, kind of using a play on the words there. You see there it says that uh he chose David, his servant, and took him from the sheep pens. From tending the sheep, he brought him to be the shepherd of his people, Jacob of Israel, his inheritance. And David shepherded them with the integrity of heart. With skilful hands he led them. In 2 Samuel chapter 5 and 7 he speaks to David as the shepherd of Israel. In Jeremiah 23 and 25 he speaks of the rulers as shepherds. In Isaiah he also speaks of the prophets as shepherds. The shepherds are those who rule, to lead, to direct the people. And the idea here is that leadership is always for service. It's never for power. We all know that power tends to corrupt, and sadly in 600 BC, the leaders of Israel had been totally corrupted by their grab for power. They were abuse of the authority that God had given to them. They were like corrupt CEOs or politicians of our day. The imagery of Shepherd to us is not familiar. But it's one that we at least are acquainted with and you need to get into in order to appreciate what's going on in Ezekiel 34. Again, I don't have time to cover it, but just briefly the outline is that in the first ten verses, God indicts the faithless shepherds, the false shepherd rulers. And then in verses 11 to 22, he contrasts himself as the true shepherd, the one who cares for his sheep tenderly. In verses 23 and 24, then, there's a startling shift because he says, I am the true shepherd, but I'm going to send a shepherd. I'm going to send the true shepherd, one from the line of David. In other words, this shepherd is going to be a human being. But clearly he's going to be a supernatural human being. because of the way that he's described. And then as a result of that, in verses twenty-five to thirty-two, he talks about the showers of blessing. You know that old children's hymn? There shall be showers of blessing. That comes from Ezekiel 34. The showers of blessing that come under the rule of this true shepherd. So you see, the point is that a nation is either cursed or blessed, depending on whether its leaders are evil or good. Imagine what it would be like in the United States if we were headed by a perfect shepherd to lead us as a nation. A person who is able to govern with infinite wisdom, perfect justice and mercy, but not only that, but this shepherd knows you by name. He could visit Columbia and he could call you by name here, each of you in the congregation, and he'd say, I not only know your name, I know every need, the deepest longings of your heart. And I am perfectly capable of meeting those needs. That's the kind of shepherd that Ezekiel is describing as the promise for his people. And what he does is he makes three contrasts in these two verses between the false, faithless shepherds and the true shepherd that is promised of God to come. Very briefly, the first contrast. It seems like a very simple one, but I think it has some profound meaning. There will be one shepherd, not many. Notice the emphasis. I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David. He will tend them. He will tend them and be their shepherd. This is one shepherd. Now, this one is coming from the line of David. He's going to come at this promised time. And he will not be simply good while he's alive. David was a good shepherd to the people. His son Solomon was even a better, wiser shepherd who brought Israel to new heights of unprecedented glory. But then what happens after that shepherd leaves? Solomon's sons, Jeroboam and Rehoboam. We're very deficient shepherds. They began to lead Israel down paths of woe and difficulty and misery. And so, no matter how good one shepherd is, if he only lives one lifetime, usually he's not followed by somebody who walks in his steps. But rather, like the Maccabean household and others, there is a deterioration, an abuse of the power, so that things quickly become miserable. And yet five times in Ezekiel 37, God says, this shepherd is going to rule forever. He's going to have an eternal kingdom. This one shepherd is going to be the shepherd of my people forever. Now it's important for you and for me to remember that we have one shepherd at Columbia Presbyterian, and it's not Alan Harris, it's not Steve Green, it's not Tim Flora. We can make the mistake because we are naturally dependent on one another. God has designed us so that when we're hurting, when we're in need, when we're in confusion, When we're in a situation like the Garveys, we need human compassion and comfort. God used Dolly Myers to minister to Stephanie in unique ways yesterday that she needed. But it's very easy for us to under those circumstances look to people to be our shepherd. To displace our understanding that Jesus is my shepherd, to say, no, I'm hurting, the elders need to fix me. The elders need to fix my spouse. The elders need to clear up my confusion. They need to fix my life And the Bible is quite clear that all we are is mere under-shepherds. The best that we can do is point you to the one shepherd. Who knows the depths of your heart and is uniquely capable of ministering to you in ways we never could. I was reminded of that again last night when after just uh such a long and emotionally wrenching day thinking about the Garveys, talking to them and being Not being able to think about other things. Um I was so looking forward to talking to my wife, who's still in Colorado with our grandchildren and our daughter. And uh I was really looking forward to being able to just unburden my heart and share with her and for us to be able to talk about some of that together. And uh so I was thinking I'm depending on Jesus, my shepherd. But it'd be good to hear from my wife. And then I called up And I found out that on the other end, their heat had gone out. And it was 23 degrees. And Kathy had tried to build a fire in the fireplace, which promptly set off the smoke alarm. So they're freezing, they can't breathe, the kids are freaking out And I'm trying to tell her, listen to me, and what a terrible day this has been. And she's trying to get a husband to listen to her. You know, if you look for somebody to be your shepherd, we'll never come through for each other. And I was reminded when I hung up the phone and we had a good talk, but I mean it wasn't the satisfying kind of thing that I had looked forward to to go to my shepherd and say, Lord Jesus, I'm sorry. I had displaced you. Only you can fill that void and ache in my heart. You have one shepherd The best we can do is to point you to him. I will give them one shepherd, my servant David, who will tend them, tend their hearts, tend their needs uniquely. The Garveys have one shepherd. Tiffany McGarry, Ann Clifford have one shepherd. We as a congregation need to point each other again and again to Jesus. The second contrast that Ezekiel makes for us here is that he contrasts the faithful shepherd, that's the next blank, the faithful shepherd in contrast to the faithless ones. He will tend them, and he will be their shepherd. Now, very briefly, let me run you through the verses before verse 23 and 24, the contrast there. And you see them in your bulletin outline. First of all, they, the faithless shepherds, use the sheep instead of caring for them in verse 3. In verse 4, he says, they let them fend for themselves. In verse 5, he says that they scattered the sheep rather than gathering them. Verses 5 and 6. Verse 10, he says that they eat the sheep rather than feeding the sheep. Now it's not saying there's anything wrong with having lamb chops. It's saying that the sheep here are standing for God's people. And so he's talking about these rulers devouring the people rather than ministering to them and feeding them. They should have been heeding God's discipline through Nebuchadnezzar and repenting and leading the nation in repentance. Instead, they were ignoring God's warnings. They were trying to deliver themselves, and they were laying terrific burdens on the people in the process. Perhaps a way of understanding a little bit emotionally of what that felt like is to imagine that the elders of Columbia Presbyterian have a meeting about the future facility. And let's suppose that in the next couple of years the economy goes into a steep decline and depression. A number of you get laid off from your jobs. Others of you have to cut back. We're all tightening our belts. It's very tight. It's very uh difficult times, and everybody is feeling the strain. And the elders come to you and they announce, we've decided that now is the time to finish the $8 million facility, to finish this property, and to bring glory to Columbia Presbyterian. Now, you might say, if you were to do that, we'd say, go to it, fellas, but count me out. But let's suppose that we have the authority not simply to call you to a pledge in a campaign, but to tax you for that purpose. So we're going to eat into your already limited savings by taxing you to build a monument to our glory. That's the picture of the shepherds that Ezekiel's portraying. They're devouring the people for their own glory. In contrast, he then speaks about a faithful shepherd who gives himself to the people. He talks about himself as the one who goes on a search and rescue mission, as the shepherd. Numbers of us have heard about the rescue mission in Oregon and terrible conditions, weather conditions of snow and wind. And God says, I am the shepherd who will go out, and I will search for those that are lost, and I will find them, and I will bring them back. Verses 11 to 13. Then in verses 14 and 15, he talks about the fact that he will feed his sheep and he will give them rest. In verse 16, I will care especially for the weak among them. Not let them fend for themselves. But particularly care for the Garvey children, for those that obviously can't care for themselves Then he goes back again and he contrasts what they're like. He says that they trample the pastures and not only do they eat the best pasture, but they trample the rest of it. Not only do they drink the clear water, but they Walk in it and muddy the water for the rest. They're so self-centered, so unthinking and uncaring for the rest. And when the food is there, they butt and shove and they scatter the rest of the sheep and feed themselves first like you see some seagulls and ducks do when you try to feed them by the shore. The big ones push out the little ones and grab it all for themselves. And God says that's what the shepherds of Israel are like. But then he contrasts the true shepherd. Now you may remember some of you that back in the 1970s, Philip Keller, a shepherd in Africa, wrote the book A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23. Very instructive and insightful book about shepherds. He talks in that book about the fact of how he cared for his sheep, but how he had a neighbor at one point who didn't give a rip about his sheep Abused them and didn't care for them. And he said those sheep would stare through the fence into his pastures. They were thin and gaunt and full of vermin, diseased. And he observed the fact that the lot of a sheep is totally dependent on what kind of a master it has. He says that sheep can be content and thrive, or they can be hungry, diseased-ridden, and nervous, depending on the shepherd. Sheep, he says, are not like other animals. Sheep simply don't just take care of themselves. You can't just let them out and they'll fend for themselves. They can't do it. They require endless attention and meticulous care. The nature of sheep is that they will blindly follow a leader, and yet be fearful, and yet stubborn, stupid, and resist what's good for them. He says they're an utterly perverse animal, and yet we shepherds would give our lives for them. We set our hearts on our sheep. And so the sheep of David's line, the Messiah, that Ezekiel speaks about, he says there, will tend them. He will take care of them. He will be their shepherd. He will love them and do everything that's necessary for their well-being without any regard for the cost to himself. He's the fulfillment of David, the shepherd, who do you remember when he was a young teenager? He said he was tending the flock, and a bear and a lion attacked the flock. And at risk of his own life he fought off the bear and the lion for the sheep. And he caught and this shepherd comes in that line, but David was not the faithful shepherd. That people could put their trust in. For do you remember at one point in David's life, he set his eyes on Bathsheba. And he gratified himself with her at her expense, and then had her husband murdered to cover his sin. A faithless shepherd. And then 600 years later comes Jesus after this prophecy. And Jesus is born in Bethlehem, the town of David. And you remember who the announcement goes to first? Shepherds, who are in the neighborhood. And the angel says to them, I'm telling you about a savior that's been born to you. And this shall be the sign. In other words, this is significant to you. He will, you will find him in a manger. Why in a manger? Because that's where you feed sheep. But what do you find in the manger? Jesus, because he feeds his sheep with himself. Isn't that precious And so three times the New Testament speaks of Jesus as a shepherd. It says he's the good shepherd. It says he is the great shepherd, and it says he is the chief shepherd. In John chapter 10, Jesus refers to himself as the good shepherd. You see it up there on the screen. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He's a good shepherd in conjunction with his death for his sheep. And then in Hebrews it refers to his resurrection. And here he's called the Great Shepherd. May the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. By his death, he purchases his sheep. Through his resurrection, he shows his power to take care of his sheep. And then in 1 Peter 5, he shows us the great hope that we have. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. As a chief shepherd, he comes back for his sheep to bring them into a pasture where there is no more pain and there's no more hunger. And the waters are always still and satisfying. And he feeds his sheep with himself forever. Oh, what a picture. What a picture that you and I need this morning and every morning to understand our shepherds. Think of the way he describes himself in Isaiah chapter 40 in verse 11. He tends his flock like a shepherd. He gathers the lambs in his arms. He carries them close to his heart. He gently leads those that have young. What a precious verse for you mothers of young children to memorize. And to say in those days when you get up and you say, Oh, I wish I could spend time in Scripture, I wish that I could spend time in worship. But I got one hanging on to this ankle and the other one's hanging on to a hip and I don't know what to do and how can I get the time? And he says, Hang on to this verse. It's in your heart I gently lead those that have yellow. For I'm the faithful shepherd, and I take care of you in your need. Let me ask you. This morning do you realize your need of a shepherd? Do you realize that you can't take care of yourself? That you need the shepherd who left the ninety-nine to go out and seek for the stray Maybe that's you this morning. Maybe Jesus is calling after you as the shepherd to come, to come to himself, to come home. To come back and to find nourishment, safety, rest in what only He can provide for you Are you like the sheep that bleeds as it falls over the cliff? I know what I'm doing. Splat You need a shepherd. I need a shepherd. Jesus is that shepherd. And he calls you to himself. Finally, briefly, the third contrast. Is that he is a royal shepherd who will rule his flock forever. A royal shepherd to rule forever. I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will tend them. He will tend them, and he will be their shepherd. I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I, the Lord, have spoken. He picks up on that idea in Ezekiel chapter 37, and he speaks of himself as that shepherd who will rule his flock forever. My servant David will be king over them, and they will all have one shepherd. They will follow my laws and be careful to keep my decrees. They will live in the land that I gave to my servant, the land where your fathers dwelt, and my David servant my David will be their prince forever. It will be an everlasting covenant. I will put my sanctuary among them forever. My dwelling place will be with them. And the nations will know that I make Israel holy when my sanctuary is among them forever. Philip Keller reminds us that every shepherd where he lived had to place their mark upon the sheep. The shepherd would take a very sharp knife, and he would gather the sheep to himself, and he would take that knife and he would cut his mark in their ear. It was painful for the sheep, but it was also painful for the shepherd. But that mark was the mark that showed that the sheep belonged to someone. He was under that shepherd's care, and if you were going to harm that sheep, you'd have the shepherd to deal with. And if you're a Christian this morning, you have the mark of Jesus upon you. If you are a child of a believer, you have the mark of Jesus upon you. And you know what it is? Your baptism. Jesus has marked you with an indelible imprint that only he can see that says, You are mine. You are under my protection. You are under my guardianship. Do you recognize his authority to rule and to care for your life? Some of you kids have the mark of Jesus upon you, and you haven't recognized his authority To take your life, to rule you, to tell you where to go, to lead you out into the green pastures and to bring you back safely. Do you recognize Jesus' authority as your shepherd to rule your life forever? That's what Ezekiel says. That's part of it. He not only tends you, he rules you for your own protection When we were in Colorado, a number of times we would take a walk around the neighborhood. They have a very nice neighborhood. You can see Pikes Peak from it, the majestic mountains in the distance, and we'd walk up and down the streets And uh there was a little park that uh we loved to play in and uh kids loved that because that's where grandpa would become a troll and chase them from slide to swing to all these different things. And one day we were out and He said, let's go to the park to play for a little bit. And I said, okay, fine. We walked up the street and I said, let's go. And uh I knew the way was straight ahead to the park. My grandson was sure that the way was to the left. And he said, No, no, no, Grandpa, it's this way. You know, I live here. And I said, Yeah, you may think that. But it's and they had only lived there for two weeks. And I said, no, the way is up this way. And uh he had an uncharacteristic kind of meltdown, they call it uh started screaming, no no no grandma, this is this way, it's this way, you know, this way. Well I had their white lab, Rocky, and I said, listen, Rocky and I are gonna go this way And when you realize that it's this way, you're welcome to come and join us and we'll play in the part. And so my wife took the two kids and they went that way, and Rocky and I went this way We went and played the park by ourselves. After a while we decided we'd better go out and find them. And so when we did, I had a talk with my grandson and I said, you know, we lost our time to play together. It's important that you learn to follow me, your parents, so that you learn to follow God. And then we say it's this way. Trust us. And you went that way. And we lost our time. At first he was defensive. I know what I was doing, but when I said that, he suddenly burst into tears and he hugged me. He said, Grandpa, I'm sorry. And as I hugged him, I thought, oh God, were my heart that tender, when I stray from my shepherd, I want to run back and say, Jesus, I'm so sorry. I want to follow you. Did you want to follow him this morning? He wants to lead you, and he invites you to come to him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, how we need a shepherd. Oh, we need a shepherd in so many ways. We are such dumb sheep to try to take care of ourselves. And Lord Jesus, how we thank you that you are there calling us back. That far more than I could ever do, you want to grip us in your mighty arms to hug us. And to say it's okay. For you have laid down your life for your sheep. You have paid all the price that's necessary for our sins to be forgiven. You have risen from the dead as the great shepherd of the sheep to rule us and provide everything that is necessary. And you are also that chief shepherd that will come back and receive us to yourself. And so whether it's the Garveys in their pain and confusion, or whether it's each of us in our own disappointments and confusion and particular needs. You are sufficient, and we come to you, and we pour ourselves out before you that we might follow you with greater abandon and trust this week. Because you and you alone are the faithful shepherd. Amen.