Uh truth is a powerful thing, isn't it? And uh truth cannot ultimately be suppressed The USSR tried to, for years, suppress the writings of Alexander Solzaniskin. But eventually they were revealed and they were vindicated. American Civil Liberties Union um tries to work with many governments in order to suppress the truth of the gospel in the public school system In the name of plurality, but the truth will eventually prevail I would suggest to you that a very moving example of how powerful gospel truth is is seen in the accounts of the trial, the suffering, and the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because there you have the most blatant example of intentional suppression and distortion of truth and justice ever seen. And yet, if you look closely at the account, you will see several examples of truth being itself spoken unwittingly by the liars and the mockers of Jesus. So I would like to build your faith and encourage your hearts this Palm Sunday morning by drawing your attention to five examples. In Matthew chapter 27 of Jesus' enemies ironically and profoundly declaring truth in spite of themselves. And that you will see in this Matthew's demonstration of the sovereign control of our God in history. So that even when Jesus seems the most helpless and God's cause the most hopeless, He causes his enemies to praise him by declaring the truth of the gospel. That's worth thinking about. So let me offer to you five examples, and in each case I want to look at what they say and what they mean, and then the profound truth that is declared in spite of themselves. May God speak to your heart this week. I would suggest that you do, like we've talked about the last couple of weeks taking one of these points each day and meditating on them to bring up to Good Friday when we'll meet together to take the Lord's Supper and consider again the death of Christ But that you would think about that this week and that the Lord would uh assure you of his complete trustworthiness to comfort your heart about how safe you are in him, or How dreadfully foolish you are to resist such a one's claim on your life We're not going to have the scripture on the overhead this morning. That's a delight to Michael. But uh we're uh Not doing it because last week was a challenge. This week would have been ridiculous. I'm covering a lot of verses. We'd be kind of scrolling through them. So use your Bible. Hopefully you brought a Bible and use it to follow along with me as I do this. But uh let me remind you that there's always a rack back there of Bibles that you may borrow as you come into the worship and hope you return it when you go out. Don't want to be caught stealing a Bible. But they're always available for you to follow through. Now I've taken these all from Matthew 27, so that I'll help you to keep them together. You heard what Tim read in the account. uh that he read of the trial up to Matthew chapter twenty-seven uh in verse twenty-six The first point I want to draw your attention to is found in verse 25, where you read there that all the people answered, Let his blood be on us and on our children. That's kind of a blood-curdling cry, isn't it? A cry of defiance, where they are saying we accept full responsibility for what we are doing. We accept the responsibility of the death of this rabbi because we are so sure that what we are doing is the right thing before God. When has anyone ever been so woefully mistaken? And of course While it is true that they will be held responsible for crucifying the Lord of glory, there is also, I would suggest, another deeper meaning here. There is a profound truth that is hinted here in Acts chapter 2 The scene there, of course, is fifty days after this, at the Feast of Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit came upon the hundred and twenty. And Peter, who this night denies and betrays the Lord Jesus Fifty days later, filled with the Spirit, declares the gospel boldly. And so you see Peter saying in Acts chapter 2, verse 23. This man was handed over to you by God set purpose and foreknowledge. You, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. So you notice that he is combining both God's sovereign control of history, it's his appointed purpose, but you are responsible, you wicked men did this. Pointing out both things. Notice he's speaking to this same crowd in Matthew 27, who said, Let his blood be on us and on our children. You're the ones who put him to death. And so then he goes on in verse twenty-four. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. Picks that idea up in verse 36. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now these same people, when they heard this, they're cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and to the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter replies Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children, and for all who are afar off, for all whom the Lord our God will call May his blood be on us and on our children. Your only hope is that you repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of sins in Christ's death. And this hope is for you and for your children. It's the same idea that you have in Hebrews In chapter 9, where it talks about how the only way for us to be forgiven is to have his blood on us. Picking up the Old Testament idea, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 13, the blood of goats and bulls, the ashes of a heaver sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean, sanctify them so that they are outwardly clean. They need the blood on them. How much more then will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself unblemished to God, cleanse our consciences? From acts that lead to death, so that we may serve the living God. Do you see this? What is on the day of Jesus' death, a cry of defiance? Is changed to a prayer for mercy. May his blood be on us and our children. We accept it. Ah, Lord. May his blood be sprinkled figuratively on us and on our children In order to make us clean. Now don't miss this. If the blood of Christ was sufficient for forgiveness for those who there that day literally murdered him, assigned him to the cross to be crucified. Dare you ever ask, Lord, could you forgive this sin or that sin in my life? If the blood of Christ figuratively is on you by faith in him and his finished work, I declare to you with the authority of Jesus Christ Himself, you are clean. And you can celebrate this morning, this spring morning, and come and sing and rejoice. God, I'm clean because the blood is on me. I'm clean because the blood is on me. Why do we say that together? Say it just Speak it together as a confession of your faith. I am clean because the blood is on me. Let's say it together. I am clean because the blood is on me. Not superstitious. But if in your heart you believe that the blood of Jesus Christ sacrificed for you is sufficient and necessary for your sin to be forgiven, God hears that, and you are clean. And so you see, what they intended as defiance becomes, ironically, a profound statement of a confession of faith and the gospel. Let's go on. Verse 26, he released Barabbas to them, but he had Jesus flogged and handed him over to be crucified. And then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. He stripped him. They put a scarlet robe on him, and twisted together a crown of thorns, and set it on his head. They put a staff in his right hand and knelt in front of him and mocked him Hail, King of the Jews, they said. Then they spit on him. He took the staff and he struck him on the head again and again And after they had mocked him, they took off the robe and they put his own clothes on him, and they led him away to crucify him. Ham, King of the Jews, the second statement I want you to notice. Pilate releases Barabbas. He hands Jesus over to the soldiers, take him in to the praetorium. There they strip him, and they tie him to a pole, and they administer the dread 39 lashes. Lashes with a whip with bits of bone or metal in it to rip the skin from the victim's back and then as the lashes continue the strong powerful malicious strokes With that fledgellum, they rip into the muscles and lay us back open. And then after that, when they take him down uh near um fainting from the shock of it. Somebody gets an old scarlet robe and they say, stick that on them. He's a king, he says. So let's get him a crown. So they weave out of long thorns with brambles and bush, and they weave that into a crown and they jam it down onto his head And they say he's a king. He needs a scepter, so they get this old pole. They put it in his hand. And then they bow down and they say, Hail, King of the Jews! John says they begin to punch him. They beat him. They spit on him. Have you ever been spat on What could be more degrading? Except to be spat in the face. They spit in his face. These are hardened soldiers. And they punch him. Isaiah says they pull out his beard. They administer to a helpless victim all the rage prompted by hell. Hell, King of the Jews. And he looks so utterly helpless And you look at him and you say, could this be the one of which the angel came to Mary before his birth? It says, the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will be the king of the Jews. In fact Of his kingdom he will rule and reign over it forever. Could this be the king of the Jews? What must the soldiers have thought? How pathetic. But looks can be so deceiving, can't they? I still remember a number of years ago teaching a course at Westminster that I teach there every couple of years and in this course it was a course for pastors and there's pastors from around the world in that course and One of the pastors there was a Korean fellow, I still remember him, Sung Kwan Kim. Sung Kwan Kim was a very ordinary-looking fellow. ordinary and average student. In fact there was really nothing that stood out about Sun Kwan Kim. His English wasn't very good, so he didn't talk a whole lot And when we were going around to introduce ourselves, people were talking. I asked them to tell where you're from, what is that you're doing, and what will you be doing, you know, after this course. What are you heading on to? He said, well after this course, he just stayed in a very matter-of-fact way. After this course I'm going to be uh taking over the largest Presbyterian church in Seoul Korea. And I thought, yeah, and I'm the Archbishop of Canterbury too. Uh I thought I must have been missing something in the English, and I thought the English isn't really very good, so I I couldn't have heard that right. And through the rest of the week it was confirmed I couldn't have been hearing that right. I don't know what he's doing, but you know. Nice guy. And then a couple years later, uh, I got an invitation to teach that same course to pastors from all over Korea. And it was going to be held at the largest Presbyterian church in Seoul, Korea, Chungkyung Presbyterian Church. And um I still remember Kathy and I uh went over there and Uh we're put up at the uh most lavish hotel in South Seoul and um got to teach the course This Presbyterian Church, 25,000 members. President of South Korea had been an elder there. We were ushered into the senior pastor's office. His office could have contained the four offices of the pastors of Columbia Presbyterian. Fine woods, oriental rug, brought in to meet the pastor, and there's Sung Kwan Kim. And it wasn't, hey Sung, how you doin'? It was a whole new glory, you see, a new identity. He's the senior pastor of Hung of uh Chung Hun Presbyterian Church. What will the soldiers think when they see who Jesus really is? And they bow before him in that day, and they say Hail. The word hail that they used was ave, like you hear in ave Maria means hail. Latin is what they spoke. Ave, hail, king of the Jews. In all his radiance and glory, they'll know him as he really is. And you know who he is. Have you bowed before him? And declared, Hail, Lord Jesus, your King of my life. I bow that you would rule and direct me You see Matthew's irony in this? Amazing? Go on. Verse 32. As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene came named Simon, and they forced him to carry the cross. They came to a place called Golgotha, which means the place of the skull. There they offered Jesus wine to drink mixed with gall, but after tasting it he refused to drink it. When they had crucified him, they divided up his clothes by casting lots. In sitting down they kept watch over him there. Above his head they placed the written charge against him. This is Jesus The king of the Jews. Now it was Roman custom to write the charges on the cross above a person that they crucified. That helped in crime deterrence. What did this person do to be crucified? Well he did this. This is the law he broke. This is what he did. This is why he deserves from the Roman government to be crucified. And what they write over Jesus is that this is Jesus, King of the Jews. Do you see the despising that is communicated from Rome? See, this is what we think of the king of the Jews. We crucify him. Now, John tells us that the chief priest went to Pilate, who ordered that. And he said, hey, hey, no. Put on it, he said, he claimed I'm the king of the Jews. Don't let that stand as an offense the way it is. And you remember, as we've looked at that story with Pilate and his interchange with the Jewish leaders, he was so frustrated and disgusted with them. He despised them. And Pilate must have given him a steely look and said, What I have written, I have written. In other words, you want to make something of it? And they had no choice but to slink away, muttering and mumbling. But Pilate had no idea of the truth that he was declaring. This is the King of the Jews. And you know what else? John tells it he wrote us in three languages. It was not written only in Aramaic, but it was also written in Greek and Latin. And so you have the declaration, this is the King of the Jews, written in the biblical language, showing he fulfilled the prophecies. of Isaiah 53, Psalm 22. But it's also written in the language of commerce and culture, Greek. He's Lord of that. It's also written in the language of politics, Latin for Rome. This is the king. The king scripturally, he is the king commercially, he is the king culturally, he is the king politically, he is over every kingdom and over every sphere. He rules as king. In fifty days from then, Jews from every nation under heaven would hear the 120 declaring the praises of God that Jesus, the King, has been raised And that he is Lord of all. And they would hear it in their own languages, because he's king of all the earth. And less than 300 years after that, their own Emperor Constantine would declare Jesus as King and Lord of the Roman Empire. Changing it to the Holy Roman Empire. How those soldiers would have laughed and scorned if you had said your own emperor. In less than 300 years we'll declare that he is king. What irony Even John at the foot of the cross, what must he have thought when he looked up and saw that sign? This is the king of the Jews, my Jesus. Oh Lord, how? How can it be? How can you be the king and suffer all of this? But things are not what they seem. But God is in control. And he reminds us of that by having the truth declared again and again and again. Even in that dreadful day. But you go on. Verse thirty-eight Two of the robbers were crucified with him, one on his right and one on his left, and those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. Come down from the cross. If you're the Son of God In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders mocked him. He saved others, they said, but he can't save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross, and we'll believe in him. He saved others, but he can't save himself. Do you see that? It's exactly right, isn't it? He saved others. And if he's going to save others He can't save himself. He simply can't do both. They intended to say that he's a fraud and that he's helpless And they miss the profound truth of it. But this statement gets to the very heart of the uniqueness of the gospel and of Christianity. Namely, if there is any other way for God to save sinful, rebellious creatures from the hell they deserve and the consequences of our rebellion. If there is any other way other than the sacrifice of his own son, and God were to choose to sacrifice him. Then he is no loving father but a monster. Let's suppose for a moment that you were drowning out in a stormy sea. Off ashore. No one can get to you, but my son, Dean, is in fact a strong swimmer. And let's suppose he's taken the Life-saving course, and he and I see you out there and we decide that he will try to go out and save you. But I know that there's no way that it'll be able to save you and himself. But we agree to do it. And so Dean dives in and he swims out, and I see him rescue you, and I see him drown before my eyes. And you come back in, and you say, What love, what sacrifice But now let's suppose that you discover that behind the sand dune there's a shed and I've got a life-saving boat back in there. And I simply decided to not get it out and use it. What now do you think of my love and sacrifice? Do you see how misguided it is for Us as Christians to say Jesus is my Savior from sin and He's my Lord, but my family, my friends, or people that haven't heard the gospel, maybe there's some other way. That God will be able to save them. Somehow, I don't understand it. Maybe there's some other way. He saved others, but he can't save himself. If there's any way to save himself and save others, then God is a monster. And so this is a clear declaration, not intended by them. But a clear statement of the uniqueness of the gospel and the necessary sacrifice of Christ. And now you come to the last. Verse 43. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, I am the Son of God. In the same way, the robbers who were crucified with him also heaped insults on him. You see, the taunt here has two intended effects. First of all, it's to discredit him. to say that God has obviously abandoned him, so he must be a fake. You who thought you were serving God, that God would protect you and take care of you, clearly you never expected God to abandon you in such a way. So it's to discredit him before all those who see it. But in addition to that, it's also to discourage him. And that really causes a pang in me every time I read that. We talked, you remember at Christmas time about what Jesus would have looked like according to Isaiah, where he says he was disfigured more than any man, looked inhuman. And what Jesus' body and face must have looked like as they saw him hang on a cross. Can you imagine what kind of heart would see someone hanging? Barely able to breathe, with her face all swollen and disfigured, the blood streaming down, and need to get in one more taunt Just if possible, to make him a little bit more miserable and say, God that you hoped in, that you trusted in, where is he now? He's abandoned you. Unwittingly, they're fulfilling Scripture. Because in Isaiah chapter 42 in verse 10 You read, My bones suffer mortal agony, as my foes taunt me, saying to me all day long, Where is your God? Now notice this. Jesus responds with Psalm twenty-two. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And they probably feel a bit of victory. See? He's crying out, he realizes God has forsaken him. But the Savior very significantly uses scripture to state the abandonment that he's experiencing from God. And if they had only thought for a moment in all their hatred and their blind accusations It might have occurred to them to read a little further in Psalm 22, because when you come down to verse 6 of that same psalm, You read, the psalmist says, But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They hurl insults, shaking their heads, saying, He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. Do you see? They're quoting Scripture. And if they could understand what was going on, how they would have been cut to the heart Because they know if you read on in Psalm 22, that when you get down to verse 14 and 15 and 16, you see that the psalmist is there stating that God did hear his prayer. That God did rescue him and deliver him. And then you go on to verse 24 to the end of the Psalm, and there is this beautiful picture. of a victory feast of vindication of all the peoples, great and small among the nations, come to celebrate the vindication of the suffering one. And so in three days, there will be the fulfillment of Scripture of Psalm 16 Therefore, my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices. My body also will rest secure, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the path of life. And you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. Not only for Jesus, but for you if you are joined with him. Do you see that? Do you see the statement of the gospel even at this blackest moment in history? Rejoice, brothers and sisters. Things are not what they seem. May your own faith be encouraged When you look in your life and you think that God is nowhere on the scene, and that He's abandoned you, to know it may be at that very moment He's working a profound work to glorify Himself. I think of a young assistant pastor named Cliff. Back in 1945, working in a church and So very much wanted to marry his fiance. They had so very little money. Scraped everything they could at the end of World War Two and they had a very simple wedding and then they put all the money they had into a um ticket to tickets to get to a resort area and they had just enough money for this hotel they knew there. The idea was that uh because there was uh a friend of his conducting some evangelistic meetings that he would be able to play, uh play trombone and do some music, be able to play there and uh make enough money to fund their honeymoon. They got to the resort area and uh went to check into the hotel and the military had taken over the whole hotel. No place to stay. The only hotel in the town Now, how do you say, God, thank you for that? Here I am on my honeymoon. This is all we have. You knew that. We prayed about it. And now there's no place to stay. Where are you? What are you doing? They were so destitute they didn't know anything to do but go out on the highway and try to thumb a ride to who knows where Somebody picked him up and he said, um, where do you want to go? And they said, We really don't know. And they explained the predicament and then um he said, Well I know a lady down here has a grocery store, a couple rooms upstairs Uh, why don't you see if maybe she could let you stay in her rooms and so she rented a room to them for five dollars. Next day they were playing their music and she found out they were Christians and she said, I know a Christian over here, this town and Maybe that person would let you stay in their home and called and found out yes they were welcome to stay for free in their home. And as they were staying in that home, then that person said, I know of this This other guy who's holding some meetings over at this conference center, I think you'd enjoy it. Why don't you go over there to attend his meetings? And so they decided to do that. Turned out that the night they got there the song leader was sick. And somebody uh found out that Cliff was a musical guy, and so they asked Cliff if he would lead the singing. The speaker was a very young Billy Graham, and that's how Cliff Barrows and Billy Graham met. When it seemed that God was nowhere on the scene and it abandoned them, that he was in fact working in his Inscrutable providential ways to change both their lives and begin a ministry that lasted for over fifty years in hundreds of crusades together. And what is God doing in your life? How is he forming and shaping, who can cause even his enemies to declare his glory at the moment of seeming defeat? To know that he will in your life bring about his purpose and that he will cause even his enemies to praise him That he can take care of you. And even if you're experiencing mocking and persecution because of your identification with Jesus, know at that moment you're in the closest fellowship with him who understands exactly what you're doing. And will care for you in his love and his mercy. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, open our eyes that we might see the glory of the gospel. That you are a God who causes even your enemies to declare the truth of the gospel. And your truth will always prevail. Your ways will always prevail, whether it's in the life of Jesus who you've raised from the dead, and who, because he refused to save himself, was able to save us. Lord, we pray that there be no one here who would be so foolish as to think they can hold such a one at arm's length. And not bow and say, Hail, you who are king, and give their lives to you by faith and trust. Lord, help all of us to see our need of you. And how absolutely trustworthy you are, how safe we are to put ourselves into your care. And even though there may be things going on in our lives right now that we don't understand, we can't make sense out of, to know that you You caused the enemies and the accusers of Jesus to declare the gospel. When you raised him from the dead, vindicated yourself as absolutely trustworthy. Lord, we place ourselves again in your hands and declare, we love you, we trust you, we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen