Good morning, everyone. Mihon Karakimasha came from Japan, but we'll preach in English this morning if that's okay It is so good to be back at Columbia Presbyterian Church. We're so thankful That you sent us to Japan 31 and a half years ago? How many of you were here when we were here as an intern and then an elder? Okay, church has changed a lot, it's grown a lot. Very exciting to be here. When you sent us our first term in Japan, we kind of look like this. We have uh That's kind of how we looked. And then God kept giving us more children. And a month ago we had a family reunion here in Japan. We finally got everybody together and we looked like this Uh twenty-six grandchildren, nine kids, and pastor at Chapel Gate one time said, uh be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, but Dan and Carol, you don't have to do it by yourself, you know. But the Lord has been very, very gracious. We're so thankful you sent us. You know, Japan's a hard country, second largest unreached people group in the world, the only people group in Asia that actually gospel believing Christians are not growing in number, actually shrinking slightly. Really hard, under half percent gospel believing Christians. So it's hard. The language is very hard. You know, you sent us there, I knew it, I was about average On the um on the test, can you learn another language? You know, it was a fifty first percentile. My wife is like eighty or ninety, and other people on our team were really you know, I was 35 years old going to this is one of the hardest languages in the world for native English speakers to learn. I heard about a missionary. He said he wanted to say Oroste Kudasai to the cab driver, please let me out right here. Instead he said, Kuroshte Kudasai, kill me right here. Another missionary at our church planting institute. He heard we need vision. Our churches need vision. Went back to his little church plant. you know, ten or fifteen people and uh we need vision, we need more vision, you know, but instead of saying vision, bijong in Japanese, he said bijin You know, Beijing means beautiful woman. So he says, We need more Beijing. If we don't have more Beijing in our church, I can't be your pastor, you know. We need more Beijing. And I said, we're not I'm not gonna make mistakes like that. We're gonna be so careful and oh I was so slow, you know. Had to put me in a class all by myself in language school, you know Said I'm in a class all by myself, you know. So I'm not gonna make mistakes. First wedding I did instead of saying, uh, wanna say, Yubiwa no kokan, time to exchange the rings. Just had read in Matthew recently that passage about, uh take my yoke upon you and you know, you download new words and I had them exchange oxyok. Instead of you bewa, I said kubiwa, you know. You know, and and finally our church was growing, God was blessing, and we're getting ready to ordain elders and become a particularized established church. But we didn't have a place. We had two worships by then we needed more space and and couldn't no one would rent to us and found this uh the like the Social Security Administration not too far from from uh from us had a a bi a large auditorium and they let us use it. I went back to our church. Wanted to s I should have said the the uh the the But the Nanking Center is going to rent us their place. We can have a joint worship or name elders and Nankin, you know, but instead I said You know, Carol was about forty-five, learning new words, and uh instead I told them the Kulenki Center. Uh I told them the Menopa Center is gonna lend us is gonna lend us their Weakness, which is really a good introduction to this text Judges 7. Look at it, please. You know, we hate to be weak, don't we? I hate. I hate to be weak. I was a Marine Well, from a mercenary to a missionary. Which do you think is harder? Our last Sunday at Oyamino Church? Retired from the church. We Began to start 28 years ago, born 26 years ago. And uh the last day there are five worships. I preached it, four of those worships, three in Japanese And one that had to kind of work on the sermon, make it half, preach it in English, so that the uh Uh for the translator and did it in our bilingual worship, you know, four times in one Sunday. Which do you think is the hardest to do that in Japanese three times and one time in English Or to come back to our home church and preach this morning to our home church in English. Which do you think is hardest? Today's harder. Also rooted in what in this text the the desire the my power my strength My glory. It's deep in me. Is it deep in you? What others think, you know? And we learn that from Gideon today. It's been God's grace To me and uh and to Carol, being your missionaries in Japan. Remember after a session meeting 32 years ago. How many of you knew Al Bjorkus? Okay, Al elder, I was uh on the session came I would drive him home at night and he said, Dan, you know, you're you're fitting in pretty well here. Maybe you shouldn't go to Japan. Maybe you should stay here in America. America and oh it was so work you know stay with our church it was so tempting. Praise the Lord. I didn't listen to Al Bierkas that night, but I wanted to because becoming weak in Japan, language, culture, struggles that I'll share today. And this is, you know, your pastors ask, uh, could you preach on Judges, uh Gideon? Since that's what doing a series on faith in the Old Testament, and instead of the sermon I was going to do at Mission Sermon, I said, yeah, this is this really fits. This is a a report as well as Looking at the main point of this text, the story of Gideon in Judges 7. This proud Marine becoming weak. You know, becoming sometimes they say in some of the marriage counseling, you know, being married is like pouring miracle growth on your sin. You know. And you see how much you need Jesus, right? You married people, say, Yeah man, man, I you know, I've never fought and struggled with other people, two very strong willed sinners, you know. Uh and in a and but then I I say, you know, being married and going to a foreign country and living all these years and struggling being a missionary is like pouring really double whammy miracle growth on your sin. The stuff comes out, how much, how weak we are, how much we need Jesus. Judges 7 teaches us it's not my strength But God's not my glory, but God's the danger of my strength and the danger of success we learn from Gideon. So part of the summer series With lots of illustration from Japan. Let's read. Hear God's word, Judges 7, 2 to 8, and then 16 to 22. The people with you. The Lord said to Gideon, The people with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel boast over me, saying, My own hand has saved me. Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and trembling, Let him return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead. Then twenty two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained. Then the Lord said to Gideon, The people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and I will test them. For you I'll test them for you there. And anyone of whom I say to you, this one shall go with you, shall go with you. And anyone of whom I say to you, This one shall not go with you, shall not go. So he brought the people down to the water. And the Lord said to Gideon, Every one who laps the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set by himself. Likewise everyone who kneels down to drink, and the number of those who lapped, putting their hands to their mouths, was three hundred men. But all the rest of the people And the Lord said to Gideon, With the three hundred men who lapped, I will save you and give the Midianites into your hand, and let all the others go, every man to his house. So the people took provisions in their hands and their trumpets, and he sent all the rest of Israel, every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men And the camp of Midian was below him in the valley. Jump down to verse sixteen, sixteen to twenty two. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and put trumpets into the hands of all of them in empty jars, with torches inside the jars. And he said to them, Look at me, and do likewise when I come to the outskirts of the camp Do as I do. When I blow the trumpet, and all who are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp and shout for the Lord and for Gideon So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, when they had just set the watch. And they blew the trumpets and smashed the jars that were in their hands. Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the jars. They held in their left hands the torches, and in their right hands the trumpets to blow, and they cried out, A sword for the Lord and for Gideon. Every man stood in his place around the camp And all the army ran. They cried out and fled. When they blew the three hundred trumpets, the Lord set every man's sword against his comrade and against all the army. And the army fled as far as Bestah toward Zerabah, as far as the border of Abel Mahola by Tabeth. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, we pray from this story we know so well, would you teach us again? About our weakness, the danger of strength, and even the danger of success. How much we need you, how weak we are, how much we need your grace, and how much we need our great King The true King. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know when people look at judges, they often say, Judges, why is this in the Bible? It's just a bunch of really bad people doing really bad things, right? Really bad people doing Really bad things, amazing some of the stories. Why is this here if you read through? But we really do see, yes, we see the total depravity. And we see ourselves as we read this, and we see how much we need God's grace, don't we? We see this And we see that I'm a slow learner, just like the people in Judges, over and over. Despicable people, doing all these really bad things. And yet we see God's grace not once, not twice, not three times, but over and over and over again. God sends deliverers over and over Yet these deliverers too are so flawed. You know, Gideon, we go and read chapter 8, and Samson, you know, you read through judges, you see, well, these guys are a mess like me. And like you. And we long for that great deliverer who is promised all through the Old Testament who is coming. The last verse of Judges, repeated many times throughout Judges, says, What? There was no king in Israel, and everyone did what was right in their own eyes, even judges is longing for that true king who has come. Judges seven two, maybe really the verse that is on the PowerPoint to out to to kind of a A key to help us understand this. And the Lord said to Gideon, again verse two, the people with you are too many for me to give the Midianites in the air But wait, we believe in means. Why not? Lots of people, big army? Why? Why? Lest Israel. What Boast over me, saying, my own hand has saved me. That this boast over me can mean glorify themselves. Literally. Uh you know, so this so Gideon. So he goes, there are too many people. So everyone anyone who's afraid, go home, verse three. Anyone who laps the water in those next verses, you know And I remember as a kid here in the Sunday school teacher say, see those who were alert and they lap the water looking to be who g I said, that's not the point of this. You know, that's actually the opposite of the point of this. That those who are ready and stronger and better, you know, that's not what What this is about is to show whose glory, whose strength, to show God's glory, God's strength, how weak we are, how needy we are, and God is gonna make them weak. Verse 7 he says, with only 300, I will save you. In verse 16 and following, we see God does it. God saves them. A lot of times people say in Japan. People have a little knowledge of Christianity. They like Christian ethics. They say so Christianity and the Bible's message is to do, to do God's thing. Is that right? To do God's thing? We would say no from this text and from the whole of Scripture to do God's thing for God's glory in God's strength. I'll think about our catechism and our confession. It does for sure talk about God's glory, to do God's thing for God's glory. and to rejoice in him, but also in God's strength, right? It's it's sin, it's wrong. When we when we don't do and What God calls us to do in his strength. We look to his grace to save us. I look to his grace to save the sinner. I look to his grace to sustain me, help me grow. to walk with my wife, raise my kids, do the ministry in in in Japan. I confess that I need this teaching so much I particular I hate to be weak. It is so strong in me to be weak. I was Marine Infantry. I was actually a recon Marine my last three years. Oh, I love to be strong. We hate weakness. The few, the proud, the Marines used to be the you know, I remember a fifty mile hike uh one time and um And it no problem, been easy for me. I was strong brain, but I had new boots. And I you know people had trouble with their feet. I was a backpacker, I had good feet, never a problem, but I had new boots. And I did not break them in well enough, and my feet were bleeding. I had been Marine Lieutenant, you know, platoon commander, I can't show weakness, you know. And I remember to the end of the 50-mile march, dismissed and walking with great pain back to my hooch, closing the door and screaming, you know, in pain And that's the opposite of the gospel, isn't it? And how God has taught me in part being in Japan, he's taught me that I just am weak. Yeah I like when I ha that my my sermons are much more fluent speaking and listening and uh than reading and writing. The kanji is very difficult. And so I've kind of been making a Romaji English letter Bible. Often Bible passages that are harder to read. I'll take the time to type them out in English letters to do. I used to don't want anyone to know I'm doing that. Now I here hears me. I am so weak. This is how immediate I am. It's part of God's grace to me. That you sent us to Japan to to be especially weak. The gospel's the opposite of the way the world thinks about this, the opposite of the way the Marines think about it. Don't show weakness. I am weak. Verse 2 again, we will not boast, that we will not boast, that we'll not glorify self, but this is our tennis, right? With work, with family, with everything, right? Isn't it yours? So and then to be proud of them when we when we're not measuring up, to be sham ashamed because we're not measuring up, because we're thinking about our effort, our strength We want to save ourselves in our power. My life verse is 2 Corinthians 12, 9. And he has said to me My grace is sufficient for you. For power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly, therefore. Oh, that's hard. Most gladly, therefore I will rather boast about my weakness, that the power of Christ may dwell in me. Another translation, that Christ's power be perfected in us. But the the the my heart of hearts, I hate this. Do you? Don't we want to be capable parents or this or work and find our identity and other things? We don't want to be weak, God's told Gideon. You gotta be weak, idiot. That huge army you're against, 300. And they didn't even have to fight. God did it My grandfather shared with me that he was a proud man. He was a preacher, one of the first early preachers in the PCA. He wrote the the hymn uh spirit of the living God fall fresh on me. And he wrote it as he was a struggling young figure. He realized this pride in me, this I don't want to be weak. I don't want to be broken. And he he wrote the line, Spirit of the Living God, fall fresh on me. Remember it? Break me, melt me, mold me, fill me. Spirit of the living God, fall fresh on me. And a lot of people they started singing it wrong. It's wrong in a lot of hymn books. Instead of break me as the first line, it's Melt me, mold me, fill me, use me. And he didn't write use me. And he would always tell us kids, now you make people sing it right, the cross. Came before Pentecost, you know, it's break me, no be mo me, sue me, don't worry, he'll use you, you know, if you're broken and filled. Okay, that's a good little sermon right there. And it kind of goes with with this text too, and just thinking of, you know, the the break me, Lord, is so hard to pray that, isn't it? We don't want to pray that, Lord, I want to be weak. I want it to be. Your strength. I remember my son, one of my sons, picked that song at a hymn sing. And uh great song. Nothing wrong with picking that song. But I was talking to him afterwards. I said, he's about twelve, I guess, eleven. Uh why did you pick that song? Did you pick it, really? Did you pick it? Was anything in your heart to pick it because your great grandfather wrote it and it says there in the hymn book, Iverson. You know? He said, Dad, I did. How did you know? I said, Michael, I am such an expert. This kind of sin, you know? And aren't you wanting, you know, you know, I remember a guy discipling and you know encourage them in family worship and And they uh began to and they invited me over to their house and they they had family worship, you know, and praise the Lord. Sang a song or two, read scripture and prayed, you know, they were newly growing as Christians. And um remember and afterwards the kids went off and said, uh, brother, that was so wonderful. I pray you keep doing it. But you know, because I was here today, did you think that, you know, is there any pride maybe that you know Dan's here and they're seeing us have family worship? And he said. I said, yes, that was in my heart. How did you know that? I'm an expert. You know, I I know these kind of things we see This story here of Gideon helps us to see this part of us that the theme in the whole Bible. To be weak, not 20,000, not victory by the 10,000. God will do it through 300 people who don't even fight. Yes. Verse 2 that you would not say My hand. Some of the translations say that you will not say my power. Some of them say that you would not say my strength. Isn't that our tendency after victories To say my strength is for me. Is it for you? To think it's in me. I did it. You know? In judges, we learn and see that we revert. Even when we learn this, we revert to it instead of Christ, it's me. So I'd learned this, I thought. About 15 years ago, we had the opportunity to buy an acre of land in Japan. And you guys helped us do it. Some of you may remember that uh fifteen years ago. We had a we had a twelfth of an acre. In Japan is really that twelfth of an acre cost about a million dollars. And we would have, you know, we could fit one time the most we ever had in that building on half of that twelfth of an acre. was a hundred and sixty people, you know, crowded into this building and always prayed, Lord, walk around our town, Lord, give us a half acre. Oh Lord, I know in Japan that's too much Lord, give us a quarter of an acre, please, near a bank where we can use parking at the bank on Sunday. Lord, please, please. Yes, I know, expect great things from God, attempt great things for God. You know, uh William Carey but Lord, uh a quarter of an acre, and God gave us an acre. And you guys were part of that. How many of you remember that? $51,000. Your church. Yeah, you know, you never would suddenly do things. Columbia Presbyterians are Al Harris, discipline, planning, you know. We never suddenly do. Y'all said three weeks, let's pray about it. People put their pledges in the offering. We got the report. Three weeks later that on little pieces of paper. $51,000, almost $52,000, I think. And yeah, praise the Lord. And God gave us this this piece of land that was dropped From two point to over two million dollars to six an acre of land to six hundred thousand dollars. We bought it. There are four buildings on that piece of property now, and it was such a god thing You know, that it was you know, I was so full of thanks and God, you know, provided the money and the building and the zoning that the government was from the government, the tax problem Dropped it to a third of the price. It was clearly God. The building was built, and there's this balcony. It's the biggest building in the Presbyterian church in Japan. It's just a wonderful ministry place. And I was in one day. I reverted. I was we under there's a balcony overlooking really beautiful worship hall. And I started thinking, man, you know I really did do a good job on this. And what passage did I think of immediately? Nebuchadnezzar, right? In Daniel. What is it? He's walking on like a balcony, the roof of his house, and he says, look at this kingdom. That I have built. Praise the Lord. The Spirit showed me that's the way I how I I I knew that. And yet Those thoughts came into me. We forget so easily, don't we? That's why Deuteronomy 8, the same kind of theme. Because we forget, don't forget, remember who saved you Remember who gave you the power to make wealth, he says over and over and over again. Deuteronomy 8, I'd love it. Read it tonight. Just the the chapter Carol and I read on our at our wedding day when we finally were together alone. We want this to remember God's great grace to us. And we see Gideon in chapter 7, he is dependent. He has to be, he has no choice, you know. But then he's successful. You know, I think it's true what a lot of commentators say. We see in chapter 8, he seems proudful. He seems brash. His treatment of other people. Is it that what we see often in Scripture? We see Solomon starts out humble comes proud? Isn't that what we see in so many people around us? You know, godly, humble pastors and leaders who who fall after Success, God uses our weakness, our situation, whatever you're going through, you know, weaknesses, situations you have, sickness, relationships, struggles to count these as grace from him because we need his strength to show us his grace. Thank you for sending us to the hardship of Japan. I think in many ways I'm such a proud person with tendencies that way. I am so thankful that you sent us there. It's been, I think it's been protection on us and our marriage. In many ways. There are so many hard things. You know, one of the verses I love is Paul in 2 Corinthians 1 8. Paul says, I want you to know the affliction we experienced in. Anybody remember where? Asia, he says, okay. I want you to know the experience, what we experienced in Asia, for we were utterly burdened beyond our strength. That we despaired of life itself. Why? Paul says. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death But that was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God. Don't we need that? Don't you need that? You know, and to to look in his sovereignty, the struggles, the things you go through, sickness and Struggle, you know, struggles with kids, struggles with ministry, work. It did, I tell you, four times in Japan, it felt like death About four times, huh honey? That just ready to quit. You know? This is too hard. No fruit the first four years. You know, we came back here. Actually, the very end of the verse for you, the first person came to Christ. It was so slow. We came back to you. Unfruitful missionaries So you'll say, wow, we better find better missionaries. So you cut off our all of our support and said, forget you. No, y'all didn't do that. No, that was a joke. Y'all prayed for us. But that next year, you know, we were so weak, so neat, Lord, would you do all these people we loved and shared the gospel with thirteen people came to Christ and were baptized. The next year church began to grow. And then two worship services and three and daughter churches, you know. And then I see it. Was that dangerous? Who thinks that was dangerous for me? Those years of fruitfulness. Yes Wow, praying for all of us, the same thing, right? Struggle, we lust for success. Have some God give some success or blessing and like the Puritan said, danger, danger. It is It is that our retirement, March 31st from Oyumino Church, I'm now the just only the country director for country leader for MTW I uh really saw my my sin come out there a little bit, you know, that toward the end for saying, thank you, Dansun, thank you, Carol. You guys have loved our city. You've worked so hard here all these years now in Japan. When people compliment you, you say, Yeah, yeah, Nanimo Diki Masan You say, No, I can't do anything. Wife has beautiful feast prepared. You come in, she says, Oh, nanimo goes on I'm sorry, it's nothing, there's nothing here. Kind of a false humility. That's kinda You know, you kind of get that if you live in Japan a long time. People would say I say, oh yeah, Nanimo Dikimo Sendus and no no you haven't done anything. We failed so many ways. But in my heart I found myself thinking You don't know the half of it. How hard. How hard it is for a foreigner to learn this language. I saw, but what a mixture I am. How about you? But to see that, to say, Jesus. My success idols, you dance over me, you sing over me with love because of Christ and His perfect righteousness And I think the root behind that, so much of it, is I really am an approval suck. I really do care far too much what others think of me. I think that's the root of some of the achievement idols, success idols, with with ministry, with work, with family. We um for a while when one of the very hard times we wanted to quit, thought uh the church was gonna split. We came back from home assignment. Things were a real mess, been a lot of problems. Really, gospel-centered gray space hadn't really taken root yet. Japanese culture is very You do the right thing, harsh with each other, perfectionism to incredible degree, really is. And uh so we had a six AM prayer meeting for a couple of years to pray for our church and And over the first six months, God brought us back into unity. And we kept that six day improving, but after a while, uh no one came except me And uh one morning I was there, I faithfully could leave the house quarter to six, get there and sitting there and I was a little self pity. Yeah, so many days I'm the only one here for six a. m. prayer meeting, didn't open my Bible, didn't uh Uh didn't pray, just sitting there, kind of feeling sorry for myself, you know. And all of a sudden I hear someone coming up the stairs, you know. To the room where we have prayer me. About one second before that door opened, I committed the sin of opening my Bible You know the sin of opening your Bible? Why did I open my Bible one second before that person walked in the door? What was why would I do that? A grown man? Why? Carrying far too much Wanting to be weak, wanting to be needy. No, by God's grace, as we prayed together, read the Bible about thirty minutes into it, I said to the brother there who had come in about six ten. Said uh just the two of us. Said uh, you know, I need to ask your forgiveness. To see our sin and say the Holy Spirit works To say, you know, I wasn't reading my Bible, I wasn't praying, and uh I wanted you, you know, what was behind that in that one split second, what's going on in my heart? That whoever comes in that door is gonna think, there's Pastor Dan, nobody's here early in the morning, he's praying for our city, he's praying for our church, you know But that wasn't great. Anybody ever done anything like that? Come on. You don't have to raise your hand. You know? Warning. to look good, that the that that what others think of me, but but weakness and and by God's grace I could confess that to our brother. He said, Well you know I'm the same And we had a hallelujah praise time for the gospel that forgives sinners like us, the Holy Spirit, and the word that shows us we're people like verse two who want to boast it's my right arm, it's my strength. It's my methodology for raising my kids or for doing church or whatever it may be. We're a mess. We need Jesus so much, don't we? The last three years, Carol and I have seen in a new way through a preacher that came to Japan and was talking about Generational sin. And when I've heard a similar message before by the same group of people teaching on this I said, not me. My dad was a pastor. He loved my mother. Loved our kids. We were man, we saw a lot of broken people around us, but not us. In that day, Carol and I were so convicted of our generational sins that we have carried on to our kids and as we were by the time I got home that night Carol was already stiping with our kids this preacher encourage us go to your kids don't just say hey I'm sorry we messed up this Parents, please forgive us, you know. Oh dad, you're great. We love you know, we know you love us, and you know, it's easy. He said, Don't do it, but take time to think Prepare a little message for your kids where you go through some of the things that God is showing you where you failed. This is with adult children especially, you know? This is a little scary, isn't it? Right? Everybody listen into this, you know And by the time I said, I'm not quite ready to do that. I got home, Carol was already skyping with our daughter who was born here when we were when we were here uh thirty-two years ago. And uh and you know, and the Lord, as we began to talk As a family, because how can you do this without grace? That Jesus forgives our sins. Yes, we are weak. God is strong. He's the one that must defeat all the enemies. You know, and with our kids is one of the ways we see this. What parents don't want to be strong as a parent, right? And then I know our two oldest in Japan, one of them got sus got suspended from the uh in high school. We didn't have our school Carol's the principal of yet. And so we sent him two hours away to high school and he'd come back every day really hard Two hours on the train one way. He got suspended for three days, really bad, did some bad stuff. And my first thought was, guess what? What are other missionaries gonna think of me? I'm so sad You should find better missionaries to support, you know? But uh but that was in me, but God got me through that to love him through that time. A second son was uh you know, a Japan we had to pay the we had to he he Did some really bad things, had to go to the police, you know, he got fingerprinted and did, you know, our two oldest missionary kids got in trouble. I want to encourage you that you know those two who got in the most trouble of our nine, they're PCA pastors today. Okay. So I hope that encourages you, you know. That uh that yeah, but how my response, I respond that Longing that we look good in the things we do. This text, this story of Gideon, as the whole Bible teaches us, we are weak. We are needy. We're sinful. We need grace. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved through faith. It is not of yourselves, not a result of works, so that No one can boast. It's all of grace. Coming to know Christ, the people he put in my life, opening my heart to see my sin, that they could make that profession today. It's all of his grace. Then how about our walk after that? As you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so to continue in him. So today we say, This missionary you sent many years ago, my wife Carol, we're both we're a mess. God growing us, yes, part of the growing us is showing us more and more of these kinds of things. As with first Timothy one fifteen. Yes, we are chiefs of sinners. But Jesus Christ came into this world to save sinners That's us, we say, with with with John Newton, the end of my life, end of our thirty, one and a half years in Japan, this there are only two things I know. I am a great sinner. And Jesus is a great Savior for sinners from the penalty of sin, from the power of sin, increasingly. He helps us to grow. Can you save yourself? Can those boys in that cave in Thailand save themselves? When that Navy Thai seal, the first one, right actually I think it was a it was British, came out and found the first one who found him, they said, Oh no, we got this. We we can save ourselves, you can go away. And they and their parents know they need a deliverer, right? And it's still just this captured art because we know they owe And one of them gave his life already, right? As of this morning, was it one? One of those Navy Thai SEALs has given his life to save those boys. Well we we have our great deliverer, don't we? That we praise this morning. Our Lord Jesus Christ, who did give his life on the cross and died for us sinners, enemies, running away from him. And to him we say, Lord, it's hard But we want to be weak. We want to come and say, Your glory, not ours. Let's pray. Jesus, help us to embrace our weakness by your Spirit. We are so. We we really are. We really know that. Our spouses know it. Holy Spirit, show us how much we need your grace. Thank you. That here today we can say, I am a sinner. Jesus, forgive me. My sin, cleanse me of my sin. Thank you for your perfect righteousness we have that you impute to us. It's all of grace. Thank you that the struggles, sickness, problems we have, that you even take those and those those weak things and you show us. How much we need you. And as we fail, you do as we say and you rejoice over us. And we praise you for this good gospel that we celebrate today. In Jesus' name. Amen.