Lord God, you are a global king, a global ruler and redeemer. We offer you praise this morning. I ask specifically now that the words of my mouth and the Meditations of my heart would be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Amen. Well, I look at the uh clock flashing here in front of me to remind me what time it is. And I'm also reminded that I spent a lot of time this week trying to figure out how to take three hours worth of material and condense that down to 30 minutes. And I considered several options. One was simply to go ahead and preach for three hours. And uh the more I looked at Isaiah and the more I looked at uh my notes, the better I thought that idea was. While I was uh taking all that under consideration, I received several threatening notes in the mail. One of them was from my wife. Another was uh from an elder. And uh so I decided that I should go with option B. which is uh simply to skim the surface of what I have and to save the rest for later. And so that's what I've decided to do. You can consider what I have to say this morning as an introduction to a longer series of messages, actually, on the book of Isaiah, perhaps four or five messages. next year. So you can be looking forward to that. This will just whet your appetite for what I have to say later. And I'm also happy to say this morning as I look out across the congregation that I don't know most of you. Actually, many of you have uh started meeting with uh Columbia Presbyterian Church since we left, and we're getting to know you. But it's a sign, of course, that God is at work among us, expanding our body. And uh I praise him for that. And I'm here to uh say that uh God is also at work throughout the world this morning. And after nearly a year in Taiwan, we can say, from personal experience, that God is at work on the other side of the world. realize that Taiwan is almost as far from Washington, D. C. as you can possibly get. And God is at work in Taiwan this morning. And after almost a year in Taiwan, Pat and I have now returned to Europe as zealous uh missionary recruiters. And you will probably find us somewhat annoying and obnoxious in that regard here in the next uh next few months. But before uh I do have some words to say about that this morning, but before you turn me off. and tuck me away in that part of your mind where you put things, and I put things that uh uh promise to be too threatening or might uh cause us to have to change our lifestyle. And incidentally, we can say from our experiences in Taiwan, that's exactly how non Christians react to evangelism. Now before you cut me away and have part of your mind, let me say that my first job as a missionary recruiter will be to talk you out of it. I'm here to talk you out of it because it's just plain too difficult. Your life as a foreign missionary will be one of homesickness and frustration, one of loneliness, one of family strife, not to mention the many physical inconveniences that you'll have to suffer. suffer and living at a lower standard. Now all this is sometimes summed up in the term culture shock, and we can say by God's grace that we uh escape some of the most obvious and most immediate effects of culture Shock, although we did experience some of the longer term effects, and coming back to the United States, we're experiencing even a greater culture shock than we did coming to uh Taiwan. But consider these examples. The A Kansas girlfriend of an American research associate in the biomedical engineering department spent two weeks with us while she was visiting her fiancé to be. And the first four days of those two weeks, she wouldn't set foot outside our apartment. In fact, she was staying in the apartment crying all the time because she couldn't cope with culture shock. For the wife of a Southern Baptist missionary who came with hundreds of others from America on an evangelistic crusade, which was tremendously successful, I might add, in Taiwan on, put herself into a self induced coma because of culture shock right after they arrived, a coma from which she did not emerge during the crusades and for which they had to uh have a doctor come from America to help her out and bring her home safely. Or consider the case of five missionary children from Taiwan in the last six years who have all committed suicide when they have come back to the United States, or two others that were were unsuccessful in their attempts. The daughter of a missionary couple who lived right up the street from us came back to the United States to go to college and told her brother she was going over to the gymnasium to shoot some baskets. And a few minutes later, He heard an ambulance and went over there just in time. See them take the limp body of his sister down to the basketball rim where she had attempted suicide. And she was rescued within moments of uh of death. Ah, but he said, yes, there are disciples. Difficulties and indeed there are. But there are also rewards. And there are, but let me uh disabuse you of some of the illusions that we may have about the rewards. There will be no fame for you as a foreign missionary. There will be no books written about you. We will not all be Hudson Taylor's and William Carey's and Jim Elliott's. There are 70,000 Protestant missionaries in foreign countries in the world today. How many of them can you name? How many of them have you ever heard of? How many of them do you hear about on the evening news or see written up in Time or Newsweek or US News and World Report? And you cannot expect that there will be any fruitfulness in in your ministry. William Carey spent six years in India before he baptized his first convert. Steve and Sei Hai have spent six years working with two small churches in a town in southern Taiwan. And in the words of Steve Haig, both of those churches could evaporate overnight and it would be as if they had never been. So your life as a foreign missionary will be one of hardship, and it will not be one of fame, and it will not be one of the things. Of fruitfulness. But more importantly, I say that I'm going to talk you out of it because it is not, I believe, what God requires for most of us. Peter Wagner, in his book On the Crest of the Wave, which I like. recommend, spends a chapter on this topic and concludes that perhaps one percent of evangelical Christians have been called and gifted to foreign missions. One percent. That would be perhaps two people in our congregation. Today. And we already have several who are going or have gone or are on the field right now. So my uh conclusion from all this is simply that Don't feel guilty. Don't feel guilty if you're not on the foreign field or if you don't have any plans to go in the foreign field. Don't feel guilty. That's probably the easiest application you've ever heard. And I guarantee you that's the easiest application. You'll ever hear from me, especially when we get into the rest of the book of Isaiah. So don't feel guilty. And that's what I have to say, important thing that I have to say to most of us this morning. But there are a few here. today, perhaps one or two, that God is calling and gifting for foreign service, and I'd like to have a part in moving them along the path to foreign service. And of course I also have a lot more to say to the rest of us, including myself. And that is, and I'd like to awaken us to God's global work, what he is doing throughout the whole earth. And that is the uh intention of my message, to speak about God's global purposes and every moment in history and every people. Throughout the whole earth, God is at work. From creation to redemption. God is the king of the whole world. And I'd like to look at that especially, as has been mentioned from the book of Isaiah. If we look at the beginning of Isaiah and I'm going to be looking at a lot of verses very rapidly here this morning and I don't intend that uh you would look all these up with me so don't try. I've already flipped through and marked them out in my Bible so I can do this really quickly. But I have those verses I think marked down for the most part in uh the bulletin insert so you can take them home and look at them later. But if we open to chapter six, we see an experience that Isaiah has early in his ministry. Some have referred to this as his divine commissioning for his work of prophecy. And the vision is one of God seated on a throne. He says, In the year of King Uzziah's death, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne. Lofty and exalted, with the train of his road filling the temple. Seraphim stood above him, each having six wings. With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called out. to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. The whole earth is full of his glory. This is a theme that becomes a significant part of Isaiah 19. It's a theme that's echoed over and over again in the remaining 66 chapters of the book. It's a theme that calls us to expand our understanding of what God is doing and to elevate our knowledge of Him. I'd like to provide, before we jump into that theme, a little backdrop for the book of Isaiah by giving you a quick outline. That is, the book of Isaiah is broken into two halves. The first half is roughly chapters 1 through 35. It speaks of condemnation. The second half is chapters 40 through 66, and it speaks of comfort and blessing. And in between is a short intermission on the life of Hezekiah, King Hezekiah, and his interaction with Isaiah. So in the beginning we find words of condemnation primarily and punishment, the punishment of all the nations of the whole earth. And then in the end we find comfort and blessing for God's chosen people throughout the whole earth. And so I'd like to invite you to quickly look with me this morning at God's globalism through the eyes of Isaiah. Now God is global, first of all, in his creation. And if he is the creator of the earth, then certainly he is the God of the whole earth. Consider, for instance, Isaiah 40, where we just begin, that second half. That half where God speaks of what this He speaks of the second half? Comfort, right? This is the half of comfort. And what is it based on? It's based on God's greatness. And what is God's greatness based on? Consider these words, right? Isaiah 40, beginning in verse 21. Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been declared to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits upon the vault of the earth. And its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tented dwelling. He it is, who reduces rulers to nothing, who makes the judges of the earth meaningless. Scarcely have they been prayed. Planted, scarcely had they been sown, scarcely has their stock taken root in the earth, but he merely blows on them and they wither, and the storm carries them away like stubble. To whom then would you liken me that I should be his equal, says the Holy One? Lift up your eyes on high, and see who has created these stars, the one who leads forth their host by number. He calls them all by name, because of the greatness of his might and the strength of his power. Not one of them is missing. Why do you say, O Jack? Jacob and assert, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and the justice do me escapes the notice of my God. Do you not know? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, the Does not become weary or tired. His understanding is inscrutable. God is the creator of the whole earth, and this is what his words of comfort are based on. This is why he can give words of comfort and blessing to his chosen people. throughout the whole earth because he is the creator of the whole earth. And if he is the creator of the whole earth, then he is certainly the God of the whole earth. And he is not only the Reader of the earth as we see it now is obviously in mind here, but he is allowed to Also the creator of the new. And the closing chapters of Isaiah, we have a description of the new heavens and the new earth. And we find in Isaiah 65, verse 17: Behold, I will create new heavens and new the newer, the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. So God is the creator of the old and the creator of the new, and as such he is certainly global. Now he is global as a creator, but he is global also. also as a ruler. And in the first half of the book where we find words of what do we find in the first half? Words of I didn't hear it. Condemnation. Right. First half we find words of condemned. Chapters thirteen through twenty-six. God is seated on his throne and he designates nation after nation for punishment. And he designates nation after nation to execute that punishment and calls out yet another nation to come and punish the punishers because they go too far. God is certainly global in his rule, but in that capacity, he is also global in his judgment and punishment. As we said, he designates nation after nation, Babylon, Assyria, Philistia, Moab, Damascus, Ethiopia, Egypt, back to Babylon again, Edom, Arabia, Jerusalem, Tyre, and ultimately the whole earth. Designated for punishment. No sinner escapes his notice, and no sin goes unpunished. He is the judge and the executioner of the whole earth, and as such, he is certainly global. And that's why it's so surprising and exciting. To know that he is also global in his redemption. We see this clearly in the picture of God's servant that we find in Isaiah. Isaiah chapters 42 through 53, Isaiah speaks repeatedly of God's servant. And we understand this as a picture of Christ and His work, specifically his work of salvation. And I'd like to read for you two passages that are classical missionary passages, but they're they come from this passage speaking of uh Christ as God's servant. Speaking of Christ, he says in Isaiah 14. I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness. I will also hold you by my hand and watch over you. I will appoint you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations. Or a couple couple. Chapters later in Isaiah 49, verse 6. He says, It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved ones of Israel. I will also make you a light of the nations, so that my salvation Shall reach to the end of the earth. So God is global in his redemption. And this picture of his global redemption culminates toward the end of the book as we find a picture of God's global. Glorified Zion, part of this new creation of the heavens and the earth. And we've just, in fact, sung a song about this. It comes from Isaiah 66. If you notice up in the corner there above that song, the words to the song were taken from Isaiah 66, verse 20. We'll read verses eighteen through twenty. It says, For I know their works and their thoughts, the time is coming to gather all nations in tongues. Notice this is a reference that's picked up in Revelation. talk about men from every tongue and tribe and people and nation. But John is looking back and actually making a quote from Isaiah. And they shall come and see my glory, and I will set a sign among them, and will send survivors. from them to the nations Tarshish, Kut, Lud, Meshech, Rosh, Kuba, and Javan, to the distant coastlands that have never heard have neither rather heard my fame, nor seen my glory, and they will declare my glory among the nations. Then they shall bring all your brethren from all the nations as a grain offering to the Lord, on horses, in chariots, and litters, on mules, and on camels to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, says the Lord. Just as the sons of Israel told me. bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord. This is the picture that we have. God is unveiling to the whole world, His glorified Zion, the church. And as the whole world stands in awe of what God has done, what Of the most striking features of it to them is the international composition of that church. Men from every nation and tongue have been made members of God's church. And this is another aspect of God's globalism, that he is global in his life. He is global in his revelation in in many ways. We won't have time to speak about these all. Isaiah 40, I can't refrain from making reference to Isaiah 40, that passage. We've just read part of it, handle in his Messiah, of course, makes famous for us the first uh few verses there. It says, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people. The whole the theme of that second half of the book. It says, And the glory of the Lord, in verse five, the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh Shall see it together. God's glory shall be revealed to all flesh. Or the verse that we spoke about in Isaiah's commissioning. The whole earth is full of his glory. So God intends to and has worked the work of glory. But one of the most significant parts of that global revelation is the unveiling of his global church. He's saying to his creation, Look at what I have done with my church. He wants everyone to know. everyone to give him praise and that's another important aspect of God's globalism that he will be, he intends that he will be globally praised. King Hezekiah, in that brief intermission that I mentioned earlier, Interacts with Sennacherib, the Assyrian king, who has come through and systematically wiped out all the countries surrounding Jerusalem and has sent one of his messengers Rab Shakab to Jerusalem and says, okay, let's see if we We can get these guys to uh surrender without a battle, it doesn't look like there's much hope for him. And so Rabshaka comes and harasses the people of Jerusalem and harasses uh Hezekiah and sends this uh letter to him and let it then Hezekiah takes this. Letter, lays it before the Lord, and praise this prayer. O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, who art enthroned above the cherubim, thou art the God, thou alone of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth. See, Hezekiah is right in tune with what God is doing. God, you're the global creator. God, you're the global ruler. Incline thine ear, O Lord, and hear. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and see. And listen to all the words of Sanach. Who sent them to reproach the living God? Truly, O Lord, the kings of Assyria have devastated all the countries in their lands and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were not gods, but the work of men's hands wouldn't stone. So they have destroyed them. And now, O Lord our God, deliver us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou alone, Lord, art God. And now, O Lord our God, deliver us from his hand. That what? all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou alone Lord art God. See, Hezekiah sees a clearer picture of what God is doing and what was the result. Of course God sent his angel. And wiped out 185,000 Assyrians in one night. So the attack was turned away. And then in uh again looking at the final chapter. here of Isaiah. In verse 23, we see God seated on his throne, his unveiled church by his side, and says this, and it shall be from new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath. All mankind will come to bow down before me, says the Lord. God will receive that global praise that He has predicted and that He deserves. And we've sung about that already this morning, and that is the most appropriate statement. The most appropriate application that we can make from our message this morning is to simply give God the praise that He deserves. Sit down, I might recommend specifically with Isaiah forty. As we just looked at it's one of the my favorite chapters in the Bible. Sit down and turn Isaiah 40 into a prayer of praise to God. Praise Him that He created the stars. Praise Him that He moves the stars. Go outside one night. I mean this literally. Go outside Look up at the stars and try to count the stars. And after you give up, remember that God has not only counted them, but He's called them all by name. And He moves them forth. They'll be out there again the next night, all in their right place. And not one of them will be. missing. Praise Him that He is the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth. Praise Him that He is the global ruler and He is accomplishing His purposes in the remotest part of the earth. Praise Him that He is the global judge and that as the earth Experiences his judgments, then the inhabitants of the earth learn justice and righteousness. Praise him that he is the global redeemer. And as we mentioned that, we must remember this morning that perhaps not of all of us can and speak of that in personal terms. Perhaps not all of us. There may be some here this morning who have not trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior. And to you I would say the most appropriate thing for you to do is you're praising God vers globalism is to add to that your personal confession of sin and your statement of trust in Jesus Christ alone for your salvation. And then in response to what we hear from Isaiah, we say that we should participate in the work of foreign missions. Now, for most of us, as I've said earlier, this does not mean going abroad. I do not want you to feel guilty about that. That's not my purpose this morning. But for all of us, it does mean elevating our awareness of foreign cultures. And I have a number of suggestions that I'll talk about. in a moment on how to do that. But we have many others. But I want us all to see that we can be involved in foreign missions without being in a foreign land. In Taiwan there are at least two newspapers that are printed in English and can be subscribed to here in America. There is as well a magazine that's printed in English and Chinese. We could Um travel and I encourage you to do so tra do so. Travel to foreign countries. I notice that there's an airline now that's advertising they'll sell you a one way ticket to London for one hundred and fifty nine dollars. And I know my boss just took his wife to um England for two weeks and he claimed that the uh round trip plane ticket plus part of the lodging cost him three hundred dollars per person. So it's becoming less expensive to fly to Europe than it is to fly to the west coast of the country. But it's a it's a fun possibility for some of us and I encourage you to do that if you can, to travel in foreign countries, just on vacation, and so elevate your understanding of uh foreign cultures. It was several trips that um Pat and I made to foreign countries with fellow students of UMBC that helped in elevating our appreciation for foreign cultures and moving us along that road to Taiwan. Open some geography books and just learn about different countries. Or a world almanac. Learn about Christian activity in these countries. I recommend a book called Operation World, which is not really a book that you can sit down and read, but rather it's interesting. information about on a country by country basis how the church is faring in those countries and it gives in the back a calendar for praying through the 225 countries around the world in one year. So I read recommend that you get this book and pray through those countries in uh in one year. Um or you might get the other book that I mentioned already on the crest of the wave. Where there are many others. Today's Tent Makers is another that uh played a big part in uh our thinking about uh tent making in Taiwan. Read missionary letters. Cannot emphasize this enough. And more importantly, write missionary letters. It has no idea I cannot tell you in words what it feels like to receive a letter in the mail from a foreign country. I already mentioned how lonely you can feel in a foreign country, and believe me that a whole day or a whole week may be up or down on the strength of the receipt of a single letter from one person who says, I care about you and I'm praying for you. So let me emphasize that more than anything else, perhaps I'll give you in this list of ways that you can participate. is simply to write letters to missionaries. And when you write letters to missionaries, let me recommend that you do what uh the mother of uh Cheryl Smith did, and it was the most sensitive thing that was written to us the whole time we were in Taiwan, list sentences in her letter went something like this. Don't uh don't write a letter back. I don't expect any response to this letter. Because you do get letters and it uh there's a fair amount of time taken up in responding to those letters individually. So write to missionaries but tell them them specifically that you don't expect a personal response. I suspect that if you write that they probably will write back. But let them know that you do not expect a personal response. And that'll take some of the pressure off them. Write letters as Especially at holidays. Western holidays are not celebrated in foreign countries in general. Thanksgiving and Christmas and Easter were some of the most dismal times for us in Taiwan. Thanksgiving, we got together with the rest of the people. In the mission, we had a good time together. But Christmas and Easter were especially dismal. Write to them at these times. Send packages to missionaries, send food, and send books, send Christian books especially. This book On the crest of the wave was sent to us by Jay and Terry Randall. Um Alan Harris, our pastor, sent to us a book, Operation Grave Digger. And we chewed these things up as soon as we got. So we were just looking for uh um English material to look at we were looking at Christian material, looking for Christian material. Quite often you'll find yourself with a lot of time on your hands that you might not have here in the back here in the States. I have this uh dream that I'm kind of putting together now about buying a uh a frozen turkey, packing it in dry ice, packing it in the styrofoam box and then sending that airmail to the uh mission um right before Thanksgiving. And that we still have that uh that proposal under study. Um But these are some ideas, and we have lots more that we can share with you about what we might do to be personally involved in foreign missions. And then finally, let me say, in response to what we've heard from Isaiah this morning. Um, we should make this application to not be discouraged. Don't be discouraged. Now I've tried to uh explain to you how foreign missionaries are no foreigners to uh discouragement. And let me tell you Friday afternoon when I found out the chair of my Volkswagen was falling through the floor, I was no stranger to discouragement. And I know that we here at Columbia Presbyterian Church are no stranger to discouragement. We've been kicked out of the meeting house and we've been rejected by the Seventh day Adventists and we've been forced to accept the inadequacies of the Stonehouse and that's gonna mean a lot of inconvenience. Uh getting an office for Alan and Deanna and uh A lot of inconvenience about holding Sunday school classes, a lot of confusion. So we are no strangers to discouragement. But let me say that at times like these, when we get discouraged, we should remember that our God is a global God. God. And we should see all our experiences, our defeats and our victories from this perspective that God has given us the privilege of participating in His global work. We have been created By a global God. We are ruled over by a global God. We have been saved by a global God. And He has saved others, men from every tongue and nation. And one day, God will place on global God. global display and unveiled for the whole world to see, his most prized possession, and that is his global church. And in that day we will join with all creation to say, to him who sits on the throne, And to the land be honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we we pray. you because you are greater than all the nations. You are the one who calls the nations to attention and you direct an international drama of global dimensions. You teach the world righteousness by punishing sin globally. We stand in awe and amazement of your global redemption, and we thank you when we consider that we have been adopted into a family that's been gathered from the east and the west and the north and the south. Clerk, help us to grow in our awareness of participation in foreign service. Thank you for people like the Hayes and the Marshalls and the Smiths and Russ Moran and Carol Fibberlike that in particular. in Taiwan right now. We pray that you'd make the Marshall's transition back to Taiwan smooth. Pray that specifically you'd help them to secure the entry visa that they need to stay there on a permanent basis and They would not have to go in on a tourist visa or stay there under a tourist visa. Help Steve and Fay as they adjust to their new life with uh Becky and the family. Help the Smiths as they struggle with that small church that they've been working with for many years in Taichung. We pray for Carolyn Timberlake, as she's in Taiwan now. And we thank you for making the hearts of those that she is working with So receptive to the gospel. Pray for continued success. And that we thank you for this girl, Daphne, that she had a part of leading to you. And we pray for Daphne and others who are young Christians there and are just struggling with what it means to serve you as a Christian. In particular we know some of the battle that goes on between a new Christian and their family and what it will mean to reject the practice of ancestral worship. So we pray specifically for this. That grace would be given as uh new Christians face that issue. And we pray for Carolyn's safe return home, back here with us, and we pray for guidance in her future work. And we think also of Tito Padilla in South Africa. We know how there can be great conflicts between different peoples, even within a country, and we pray that there would be some reconciliation between the people. the different peoples in South Africa. We pray for continued unity among the missionary team there. And for Darrell, a student who has come to Christ, for his growth view. We pray for uh Tito's relationships with people that he's talking to, especially in street evangelism, and for the drama and clown ministry there. And we prayed too, as we prayed for Carolyn, that you would give guidance to Tito in his future ministry. Lord, we pray that you would keep us here safe from discouragement and keep the missionaries abroad safe from discouragement. Help us by reminding us that you are a global God, engaged in your global purposes and ultimately. Ultimately, this will all culminate with the global praise that you richly deserve. Amen.