This morning if you have your Bibles, please turn them to First Peter chapter three, verse seven. If you do not have your Bibles, you will also find it on the screens in front of you. This will be our sole verse for the morning. Over the last number of weeks, we've been in the book of First Peter, going through it verse by verse The first two chapters, really the first chapter and the first half of the second chapter are largely about the gospel. Coming to a group of people scattered throughout was then still the Roman Empire. People who had become Christians, recent converts, but who were facing As the word tells us here, increasing trials and increasing persecution. So the first chapter and the first part of the second chapter really are about what does it mean that the gospel has come to these converts But what does it mean to continue to grow in the gospel in relationship to God Himself and to Christ and to His Spirit in the midst of very difficult situations? And then in chapter 2, after he has gone through what it means to live in relationship to God by the gospel in difficult situations, he then applies the gospel to what it looks like to live out the resurrection. What about the resurrection in our horizontal relationships? We've been looking at the last number of weeks what that looks like in these various relationships. Last week. Pastor Flora led us through what it looks like for husbands in their relation uh wives in relationship to their husbands. This week we now turn to what it looks like for the husband to live in relationship to the wife. Now let me just say by way of introduction before I read the word, I recognize that there are many here this morning who are not married. There are plenty of young men here. There are also single men, and I want you to be aware that this message is also to you. For where you where God will lead, you don't know, but if God so uh calls you into a marriage relationship, this message is for you. Husbands who are married, let me say to you that this word is particularly for you You will note just by a quick glance that there is more than one verse devoted to the discussion of the wife's relationship to the husband. But there is one verse for the husband to the wife. But do not mistake the number for importance. I think it is because he's calling the husband to be a servant husband. And it takes only one verse to take us to the end of ourselves, ultimately to Christ. Let's turn and let's see. First Peter chapter one sorry chapter three verse seven In the same way, husbands, in the same way, be considerate as you live with your wives, and treat them with respect as the weaker partner As heirs with you of the gracious gift of life, so that nothing will hinder your prayers. This is the word of God. Thanks be to you. To God, will you pray with me? God of all grace, by your Holy Spirit, come and make us a people who live out the resurrection But this morning, as with every Sunday morning, as we open the Word together, we pray that your Spirit would open our eyes, that we would see wondrous things in your Your word. mind. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to do something a little different this morning. You'll see in your outline I have two sections, keywords, a challenging message. This morning I want to just simply spend a few brief moments looking at what I think are the three most interesting words in the text. That will give us context so that I can then move us to what I believe to be a very challenging message. So let's consider together then these three words, which you see, and in order that they appear, the word considerate, respect, and weaker. Let's begin by looking at these key words, looking at the word considerate. You'll see in the English translation, at least in the NIV as we have it here, we see husbands in the same way, be considerate as you live with your wives. The word considerate, the problem with the word considerate, and the reason why other translations use a different word is because the word considerate, quite frankly, is a soft word. It's not very helpful. In fact, it's a it's a rather mealy word. It doesn't tell us much. In fact, it feels as though it's like a feeling. Be considerate. In other words, the idea that it brings is one of kindness. Now, certainly the word considerate definitely means kindness, yes. Perhaps it means to be caring, loving. Or to think about. But all of those words, while helpful, do not get at the depth to which the Greek word takes us. And the Greek word, literally translated, would read something like this. Husbands, in the same way, live according to knowledge as you live with your wives. According to knowledge is a far more gripping phrase. I say that because we can take the word knowledge in two different directions, and we ought to take it in two different directions. The word knowledge here that for Peter when he says husbands in the same way, live according to knowledge with your wives, he means that this knowledge is two-pronged. One, the knowledge is to be directed, live with your wives. with a knowledge of who God is in Jesus Christ and His Holy Spirit and what it means to live in according in accordance with God Himself in Christ, that is by faith. You do not do it under your own strength, you do it by the grace of God and a faith that is a trust, that is a gift of God, and not of yourselves. So you live with a knowledge with your wives, with a knowledge of who God is and what he has called you to be. It is with this idea that we compare this with Paul's calling. Husbands love your wives as Christ loves the church. Do you hear the same knowledge there, do you not? Paul calls the husbands there in Ephesians to love their wives with a knowledge of first of how Christ loved the church. The same is here for Peter. Husbands, live with your wives according to knowledge, according to a knowledge of who God is in Jesus Christ, what he has done in Christ, and who his Holy Spirit is. But secondly, live also according to knowledge not just of God, but a knowledge of your wives. That means that this knowledge of your wife must have full extension of who she is. Of her needs, of her nature, of her feelings. Now, if you will for just a moment, pair this then with a knowledge of God. God has made himself known, and he knows all things, according to the word that tells us that he knows the beginning from the end. He searches men's hearts. He knows every thought, as the psalmist writes, he knows every word on my tongue before they're even spoken. He knows my motivations. He knows everything about you. So living according to knowledge of God is a knowledge that God knows you. He knows your need. He knows your nature. He knows your feeling. He knows your actions. He knows your words. And if a knowledge of God, husbands, is a knowledge that tells us that God knows you, therefore, as you live with your wives, it is to be with the same devotion. Of wanting to know. Now let me just say that is a simple phrase according to knowledge. But it is a deep calling. Let's move to the next word. The word respect. Again, the word respect is helpful. The word honor is also one that is often used. Treat them with honor or treat them with respect, but what does that actually mean? This is a word that in the Greek that Peter actually uses earlier on in his letter that he translates as the word preciousness or precious. So what this means is that husbands ought to show respect or to bestow honor, but there is something else, this deeper word. To bestow and to pour out on them a preciousness of value. Something that is precious, something that has a high degree of value. Will be protected by you. It will be cherished by you. It will be looked after by you. You will do what is necessary to care for that which is precious. You will make sure that it is cared for wherever it goes to the best of your ability. And so what it means here is that for the husband, your wife is a precious gift. Now, by that word precious, I don't mean a syrupy, romanticized feel good, I mean that she is, as the text tells us here in just a few words, what does it say? She is an heir with you of the gracious gift of life. Meaning, she is loved by the same God that you are professing to know And that he died for you, and he gave himself for your wife. And he knows her better than you know her. He knows her when she's the best she's ever been, and he knows her when you find it hard. to talk to her on the phone. He knows her. And his face towards her is one of grace and patience. Why? Because she is precious to him as you are precious to the Father. She will receive The great inheritance of Christ and all the promises, all that belongs to Christ will be hers as it is to you. And what I want to tell you is how remarkable. How countercultural, how obscene this would have been to Peter's time He says to these men, regardless of what your cultural background is, regardless of what your family background is, regardless of what your faith background is. Coming to know Christ is recognizing that now in Christ there's neither slave nor free, Jew nor Gentile, male nor female. All are one in Christ, receiving the gracious gift of life. So, husbands, live with your wives in such a way that you pour out an honor and respect because she is precious to you. To you. She is not less , she is equal, loved by the Father The third word is the word respect, or sorry, weaker. Of course, this oftentimes gets a lot of press, does it not? But let me be clear: the simple phrase in the verse where it says airs with you, we recognize that what weaker doesn't mean in this text. Weaker doesn't mean in any way, shape, or form lesser in terms of spirituality, lesser in terms of knowledge or understanding, intellect or ability. It has nothing whatsoever to do with that. It simply has to do with physical strength. Putting all female Olympians aside, who could all take me to the cleaners. In general, women are weaker physically than men. And that means That remember the knowledge, living with them according to knowledge, knowledge of God, and knowledge of them. Consider Christ Who all power and all authority in heaven and on earth have been given to him, and he could simply crush us with the word of his mouth. He could call the hosts of heaven against everyone, and yet he does not use his authority to lord it over our weakness. Rather, he was clothed in weakness that we might know his love. Same is the case for the husband with the wife Recognizing that as the weaker sex, you are not to lord over them your physical prowess. To never use your words, your body language in a manipulative way to therefore assert what it is that you think you deserve. It should not be. Because the example set before us is one of Christ Himself Who became known as a servant. And that is what I believe every husband is called to be. So with these words, live according to knowledge, considerate , showing respect and honor because of the preciousness of your wife and who she is in the eyes. of God the Father. And also recognizing that God has given particular physical attributes to you both, that you're not to use your physical strength as one who lords it over your wife, what then is the message? It is a challenging message. It is to be a servant husband. Let's look at this challenging message then What is the challenge of the call? Is the first thing. The challenge of the call and the call of the cross. Let's look at the challenge of the call. Husbands, in the same way, live according to knowledge as you live with your wives. Treat them with respect and honor as the weaker partner, as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life, so that nothing will hinder your prayers. I believe that what he's calling the husband to be is the servant, the servant in the home. is called to set what? To set something in motion. And that is the reversal of the fall. The challenge of the call, I believe, is most certainly for each husband in his home, as it relates to his wife, and I believe to his children, but here is the directed towards wives. Your life, towards your wife, is to be one To seek by God's grace alone the challenge of reversing the fall, the reverse of the fall we see in chapter three of Genesis When sin enters the world by human volition and human will, what happens to the marriage relationship? It falls apart. Right? We see it right there. When God confronts Adam and Eve in their sin, Eve's first and foremost reaction is to blame Satan, to blame someone else. But then God gives a pronouncement. He says that you have pain and childbearing, but it says also that you will want to be his head. What does that mean? That means, I think, oftentimes the default nature for wives is to want to be the husband, is to call the shots. But ah watch. There's something that happens when God confronts Adam that tells us the default mode of the husband. When God confronts Adam, what does he say? This woman that you, God, put here with me Do you see what he does? He throws her under the bus. What he does in that moment are two things. Not only does he accuse her, even though he was clearly present and heard God's admonition. And by all accounts, he was also there when she was tempted by Satan himself, and yet keeping his clap trap closed. Yet when he was confronted, he dismisses his wife as being weaker and accuses God, well, this weak one you put here with me, it's her fault. Do you see what he does? He dismisses her. And I believe by and large, by and large, most of what I see in Christian marriages. Is not the problem of masculine aggressiveness, but masculine dismissiveness That there is a sense in which husbands grow to knowledge of their wives to such a degree that it becomes Well, it becomes enough to simply make it through the daily routine, the weekly life. And you go through your stuff. She has her role, you have your role, and it's kind of copacetic, right? And we stop knowing. But when everything hits the fan and the difficulty and trial comes, how often when we are confronted, and rightly so, Assuming for a moment, rightly so by our wives, how often husbands, do we not feel the default position in our hearts and our minds? Well, what do you know? And so easily we can be dismissive. The call, the challenge of the call here is to reverse The fall. Do you hear it in his words? Do you hear Peter calling the husband to be a servant of the wife as the one who seeks to reverse the default mode of the fall of the man? And that is to live according to knowledge, her needs, her nature, her feelings, who she is, at the depth of who she is, her history. Her thoughts, her words, you seek them out because she is precious and valuable to you, because she's first and foremost precious to the Father. Do you hear the reversal of the fall? And then when she confronts you, even in a way that is sinful, even in a way that you find difficult to bear, and you feel it rising up within you, this attitude of dismissiveness. This attitude of how dare you, what do you know? Do you know the difficulty I face? You begin to also pray, pray for. Lord, the challenge of the call is not to respond to my wife this way, but the call I need to make is to you that you would show me that you have been gracious and precious and giving and good to me. How do I respond lovingly to my wife? To reverse the fall. Instead of turning to you and grumbling to the car or to the basement This woman you put here with me. It is a call to grow against the fall Dismissiveness. Disrespect. Lording it over. But do you see also the challenge? That the challenge has attached to it something which is so easily to overlook, but we cannot. It is the warning. And the warning is this To do these things so that nothing will hinder your prayers. Husbands, let me say to you That if you are living with your wife, now here I want to speak to those who profess faith in Jesus Christ. If you are not a Christian this morning, much of what I am saying may not make sense to you. But let me get to that in a moment. But to those husbands who profess faith in Jesus Christ, let me say, if you believe That you can go home and treat your wife with disrespect to live with such a surfacy knowledge of who she is And to lord over her your power or presumed authority in such a way and believe that you can then live that way and then go before the Heavenly Father to pray for what you need And those prayers will be heard, you are sorely mistaken. We must take the word at its simple meaning. It isn't that you will fall out of salvation. It isn't that God doesn't love you anymore, but that His love towards you will be one of severe mercy. Your prayers will be hindered. That is a challenging call. If you're like me and you hear this challenging call, you feel incredibly small. But he wants to call every husband in this room, and every husband who will ever listen to this sermon, he wants to call us to the cross. He wants to call you to repentance. Jonathan Edwards is written about by Jack Miller Who had a lot to say about repentance? He writes of one of such stories of Jonathan Edwards during the Second Great Awakening. He had called a prayer meeting, and at this prayer meeting, and 800 men showed up for prayer. While they're at this prayer meeting, A woman came to the meeting with a letter, and she asked that it would be shared with the men and to be prayed for. And the letter went like this. Please pray for my husband, who a man in spiritual pride, has grown cold, insensitive, and harsh even with those he loved. And as Edwards looked at this letter and considered reading it, he began to look at the description. That she wrote of her husband, and he believed that the likelihood that he was present and at that meeting was very high. So he stood up and he read the letter. He then said If this is about you, if you, this man, are here this morning, please raise your hand so that we can pray for you. Three hundred men raised their hands that morning. There is no way that we could ever answer the challenging call to be a servant husband unless we are willing to hear the call of the cross The call of the cross is to come back again and again and again and again every day to two things, that the call of the cross is that God's grace has been poured out. on you. That God in his grace has poured out on the through the cross and in his son everything you need, not just for forgiveness, but to be reunited with your Heavenly Father. in a oneness and intimate relationship, that he cares for you and that he loves you and his message towards you is one of peace, husband And He has poured out His grace on you, but you need to know that that grace, that grace is also not only poured out, it is that grace which is your power to live out the gospel. Do you see? The call of the cross is that it is at the cross through Christ that God's grace has been poured out and also becomes the power out of which we live the gospel with our spouses. We see in this passage, it is that we are called to love, to love as a husband towards our wives has been designed and is designed to follow and to emulate the love of God to us in Jesus Christ God does not love, as I said earlier, at a distance or save at a distance. He did these things knowingly for you with understanding. Husbands. I wrote these words, and so I just want to read them verbatim. Men, we, husbands, we need to look deeply with our own lives Our own minds, our souls, and contemplate just how deeply, how devotedly, how knowingly the Father loves us. And lives for us even in the midst of our sin before our wives And that grace that has been poured out is unconditional, but it is first undeserved. Undeserved. There is nothing you and I can do to receive forgiveness, to be made right. It is unconditional. But men, it is undeserved Therefore, given this grace being poured out and armed with the power of the grace of Jesus Christ. What husband could say to his wife, Well, you don't deserve my love? Because we've never deserved it. There is this, as one writer said There is no pretense in the love of God. It is naked, raw, and powerful, and piercing. He does not need us. He does not need anything. But do you know? He chooses To pour out his grace on you so that through you, your wife would know The undeserving, unconditional, knowing love of Christ That's what he intends. But we must begin by going again to the cross and confessing our need. Men, we need this. There is not one of us, and there are so many men in this room that I hope that when I grow up, I'm like you. But even you know, because I've talked with you, even you know there's not one of us that does not need to go again And again, to seek the renewal and revitalization of God's Spirit by confessing to Him how far short we have fallen, and we need His grace again And because I believe there's so many who say, what will it take to bring revival in the United States of America? Friends, it will never be through a president. It will never be through the through the courts. It'll never be through laws. It'll never be through anything except The repentance of his people. Revival always begins in the church. Men, let us with the mind of Christ and what he has done, seek to love our wives, loving them with a knowledge fueled by the love That never dies nor fails nor gives and gives us strength to love well. We fall short, but his love is never failing. His grace is always enough. We can go to him and get it. And may we begin with repentance, and I believe in so doing, then, that a tide of humility would sweep. Sweep over this congregation and produce a vast harvest of peace and renewal in our marriages. There is a lot of debate in our day on whether marriage will be redefined. culture. There's a lot of debate about whether or not there should be same-sex unions or marriages. And that is a debate, that is a discussion that we all need to be engaged in. But the Word of God is very clear about what marriage is between a man and a woman. But let me say clearly, we cannot, as the body of Christ, point fingers at the culture If we have not first come to a place of repentance ourselves to seek renewal in our marriages. In the Church of Jesus Christ for his glory, that he might bring revival and renewal to this place. May God be praised. Pray with me. Father, come. By your spirit and word, lay heavy on our hearts. The beauty of your grace that calls us to repentance because Christ has died for our sins. And we can know that grace that has not only been poured out, but it can be our power. Lord, I pray for every husband And every husband to be, and every man in this place that you know will be married someday, I pray. Make us the men of God you desire us to be Men of repentance who've been called by the cross, equipped by grace to love. Father, there are marriages that need mending. There are marriages that need renewal. You know them this morning. May you come and bring that renewal. And would you bring a tithe of humility and of revival in this place? For the sake of Jesus Christ and His Church. Amen.