Well, one of the major themes of Christmas is light, isn't it? You know, think of all the lights and all the emphasis on lights at Christmas Uh there's the lights that we decorate on our houses, lights that we put around the bushes and the trees outside last night I took my grandson for the first time, these two, and took him down to Regan Regional Park, where they have six hundred and twenty thousand lights in a garden and animals and somebody ever seen freedom? Well million person, there's a few of you. I'm glad you wouldn't listen it. Yeah you'd go down there. It's it's terrific. I think Kid Buddy died and went to heaven. I mean, we had just, you know, all this. We had eighty foot waterfall of lights and trains and all You know, lights. All the lights that lit up the darkness. And then of course there's our Christmas trees. You know, we gotta have Christmas trees and you know, like this, with lights. You see now this is one that's white lights. You know, and my wife and I every year we had the discussion about white lights versus colored lights. You know, and I don't know if you had that in your family. I won't ask for hands on that one, 'cause that that gets a hot one, you know. I I I s I was in somebody's house this week, I won't say who. 'Cause they're here. And um you know, and I've been live here, there's this nice tree with the white lights, and I say, you know, my wife and I, she likes the white and I like the color and the I see he came up with a white room, you know, one of them likes white and one likes color. I said, so so how did you decide? He said, well, you know, look at the family room And in the family room there's this identical tree, only it's got colored lights, you know. So, you know, but we we love the lights on our trees, you know. And then of course there's candles, you know, and everybody's gotta have candles. You know, sometimes we have over a dozen candles going at once. around our house, you know. There's candles that are the Advent candles, you know, and then Christmas Eve. Now nobody asks. Are you gonna have Christmas candles at the New York at the Christmas Eve service? Because everybody knows you wouldn't dare have a Christmas Eve service without candles, right? I mean never mind that it takes us till June scraping the wax off the chairs, trying to clean things up from the mess. You gotta have have candles on Christmas Eve. Lights is a basic part of Christmas, right? I mean it's just it's just there. Christmas you think of lights And a big part of that, no doubt, is because it's the darkest time of the year. I mean, probably most of you are aware, today is the darkest day of the year So you know, we we know that that's we have Christmas not because Jesus was born on December twenty-fifth. We don't know when he was born Uh but the reason we celebrate it then is because the pagans had their solstice celebrations then, December twenty-fifth. I always used to wonder why the twenty-fifth, not the twenty-first or twenty-second. Then it dawned on me that it's you know, it's it takes you, because it's indiscernible increase of light at this point, takes you a couple of days to kind of figure out that the light's increasing. So probably the twenty fifth was when they first noticed the light was increasing. Celebrated was back. And so that was the time they celebrated. And Christians then took over that celebration and said, No, we want to celebrate the true light that has come into the world. And that's of course why we celebrate it on the twenty fifth. You preach to this congregation, you always gotta watch what you say and say, Well how does that explain to people in the southern hemisphere? Well, you know, ask them. Anyway they do it on June twenty fifth, all right? That's the women they want to celebrate it. The Bible doesn't say when you celebrate it. But the point is that even if a culture has forgotten Christmas, there's a need to celebrate at this time with light. because we just feel the need in the darkness to have light. I still remember uh a family that um one in our congregation was working with who were totally secular. And these people um had no interest in Christmas, no interest in Hanukkah, any of this And so they decided that because they needed to celebrate, they would use the light emphases of the different celebrations, Hanukkah lights, Christmas lights, whatever. and then sing songs to the sun. So they had and maybe still have this pagan explicitly pagan celebration where they take all the gifts and they sing songs about darkness and light and all the rest of that. simply because there's the need to do it. Now, Christians, as we say, celebrate light and we feel like we know why we do it. But have you ever thought, where does the light come from in the Christmas story? Well you know, where is it? Is it like Christmas trees? It's not bare, you just we just kind of imported it into it because we had a need to celebrate light? Or is there something about light that's important in the Christmas story Now, you know, who can tell me? Any of you kids can tell me where light is, where there is reference to light in the Christmas story Anybody just yell it out. The star. Very good. Not why I stood them up, but that's a very good one because it's true. The star is a light that's in the Christmas story And I ha and I have one other idea that something that came before the star that is a light. But that's an absolutely correct answer. What's the other one? What's the one that came right the day the night Jesus was born? The angels. And where'd they come? They came to who? To the shepherds, and they came in light. That's right. Luke chapter two, and I know the rest of you are all looking at your bulletin outlines and saying, I know He's not gonna be pulling something out of the air here, so you know what's the verse on it? Okay, well you got it. Luke two nine, and you see that that says Well let's start with verse eight In Luke verse 2, chapter 2, in verse 8, remember John read that this is right after Jesus' birth, there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. So the story there indicates that there was light that came to the shepherd. What I want to do is to help you in this week when you think about Christmas and the incarnation, not just all the stress of activities that are going on, to give you something to meditate on To point you to Jesus, who is the light that outshall the rest of what's going to happen this week, that you'll find some joy in Him. Three points and with a couple applications from it. First point is that the light has come. The light has come. Very significant. Again, let's read those verses, but let's read them the way every Christian should read any narrative in Scripture, and that is To read it with your imagination, putting yourself in the scene. So, verse 8, there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. Now Put yourself in the scene and imagine that you are one of those shepherds. What's it like? What is the scene? What are you like? What is the the scene that you're in like. Well first of all, if you're a shepherd, you're probably a pretty scruffy character. You're not a person with a very good reputation. In fact your reputation is so bad that you can't sell Lamb goods, whether whole land, mutton, or land products, you can't sell them directly to the public Because the rabbis have told people never buy from shepherds. You're probably buying stolen goods. So you gotta have it approved. If your your reputation for telling the truth is so low that you can't give testimony in any case of law because it's assumed you're a liar This is the kind of person you are. So while you're intensely Jewish, you're probably not very pious. And even though you're watching these sheep that are sheep for the temple They're probably sacrificial sheep. Um you're really not into that very much. You're sitting there with your fellow shepherds on the hill And you're gossiping about the usual stuff, complaining about the Roman government and the depressed price of mutton and all the rest of it, you know. And as you're talking there that night, trying to kind of keep warm and complaining about the usual, all of a sudden Use this brilliant light. And in fact, look at verse 9. It says, an angel came and the glory of the Lord shone around them. That literally means they were surrounded by light. So it may mean that, you know, there weren't even any shadows. They just were diffused in light. And then it says the angel came and he appeared and he spoke. Now we always see on Christmas cards and pages, you know, the angels are always kind of hovering above them with their wings, you know. We don't know that again to them is stand on their own, just like an another human being. But we do know that surrounded by all that light If the angel had a say, the first thing that angels always have to say to human beings when they appear, which is what? Calm down. Yeah, bear not. You know, because these guys are scared out of their wits. I mean, you know, this thing is kind of like one of those movies, you know, with the space aliens and it's real dark, you know. I mean, remember how dark it was there It was so dark because there were no electric lights. So when it got dark, that was it. And unless it was somebody's campfire a couple miles down the road, it was so dark That in that area of the world, when you looked up, you could see as many as ten thousand stars across the sky. So it's dark, and all of a sudden all that darkness has gone, and they are now in light, and they are scared to death. They have never seen or even heard of anything like that ever happening. So the angel says, calm down, you're okay. In fact, I've come to bring you good news. Because this day there has been born to you in the city of David, right there, Bethlehem, that you're right in the town. A Savior. Who is the Messiah? The Lord. And here's how you're going to know when you find him. He's going to be in a feeding trout. I was explaining that to my grandson last night, and I said, you know, they have a they have a big old lab. And I said, you know, it's kind of like putting Jesus, God's son, in Rocky's bowl You know, it's putting him in the animal 's feeding bowl. That's how you're going to find him. And so now just at this point when they're kind of tuning in on that and they're you know their hearts are kind of settling down a little blood pressure and hyperventilating and so on, then all of a sudden there's an army of angels So there they go again, you know, whoa, freak out again. Army of angels. Now whether they were raid up in the sky or down, we don't know. But here's this army of angels, and they all begin to speak. In praise to God, glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace to those with whom God's favor rests. And this just staggers them. And the immediate of course say, let's let's go. See what the Lords told us about. But what I want to do is focus on that light. Why the light? What does that mean? And so uh notice that this light that has come says something to us more than just the kind of portrayed a nice backdrop for Christmas cards and paintings. Of course if you read through Leek It's clear the significance of that light. It doesn't come out of nowhere. Do you remember the the prophecy of Zechariah that John read just before he read that story And you see in Luke chapter 1, in verse 30 78 and 79 , Zechariah , Luke 's got the wrong there. There we go, that looks more like it. In Luke chapter 1, verses 78 and 79, Zechariah is talking about his son. He says, You're going to go before the one that God's sending for our salvation, because of the tender mercy of our God, by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven to shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the path of peace. Now, what Zechariah says doesn't come out of nowhere either Because what's Zechariah doing? He's quoting and applying the prophecy of Isaiah. So if you go back to Isaiah chapter 9, we'll see that up there. You remember Isaiah had said, seven hundred years before this Nevertheless, there will be minimal gloom over those for those who were in distress. In the past he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles, despised Galilee. By the way of the sea along the Jordan, the people walking in darkness have seen a great light When those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. And then remember a few verses later, because to us a child is born, the sun is given, the government's going to be on his shoulders. He's the one that God is sending. So Luke is saying in this clearly that here God's promised light has come in the darkness John says this explicitly. He doesn't give the birth story, but you remember in the beginning of his gospel, John says, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, then verse 5. The light, he is the light, and the light shines in the darkness, but the darkness hasn't understood it or comprehended it or overcome it. And then down in verse 9 This true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. You remember that Jesus himself said, He is the light. In John chapter 8, in verse 12, Jesus spoke and said to the people, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. You remember it was Luke that talked about Jesus with the disciples at one point, they're praying, and then it says suddenly his appearance was transformed. And his clothes became as white as lightning. He is transformed into a glory, a brilliance of light, which we call the transfiguration. Now, what's all that trying to say to us? Well, you get the idea from Luke and Luke 1 and Isaiah 9. The darkness is the shadow of death, its gloom, it is that which is depressing, and the light is the joy of salvation out of that death. Did you ever wonder why Jesus was born at night? You know, could have been born at three o'clock in the afternoon. Why was he born at night? But it's not like anything in the story. There's nothing there that's by chance just happened to be. That's when the labor came. God brought this about in order to say something Something very significant to us. And that is that Jesus, the light, came to invade our darkness. That's very significant, very significant in the scriptures, because you see, the idea of darkness has just by our experience, but in biblical terminology, a lot of significance. Darkness stands for ignorance. Darkness stands for, you know, you talk about I'm in the dark and that means I don't know. Light speaks of knowledge, of truth, of communicating. uh something to to enlighten you, you know, give you an understanding of God, world, life. Darkness speaks of evil. You know, crimes are done at night, they're done in the dark. Light is that which is good. It's able to be seen. It doesn't have to hide. And along with that, the darkness speaks of shame, degradation. You know, you want to hide something. It's in the dark. Light speaks of glory, of that which you want to shine upon it because it's good. You want to highlight it, you want to see it. Darkness speaks of gloom and depression Uh y you know, you speak about a black cloud over your head, you speak about feeling like you're in the dark. Um you ever notice that if something's bothering you Uh do you ever wake up two, three o'clock in the morning and this thing that's been bothering you, it's heavy on your heart, comes immediately to mind and you can't sleep? And what happens? Uh at that time you notice that things look far worse, don't they? I mean it's more depressing. I've had those times you get up, I try to pray, and I just think, you know, this is this is crazy. I just gotta pray and go back to sleep because in the morning It will look better. You'll see it in perspective. Darkness brings a heaviness. The gloom, the depression that is associated with darkness, the fears that are associated with darkness. Imagine yourself being in a woods And uh you're hiking along and dust comes and you're lost, and before you can find your way off this mountain or out of this woods, darkness descends on you. I had that experience just recently. I was uh out praying and I was headed out of this woods and it turned out that a tree had fallen across the only road out and it was just becoming dark. I had nowhere to go. And you know, all of a sudden I just there's this sense I have miles to go to g be able to get out, and it's gonna be pitch dark Now let's suppose you're in that situation and you know that there's wild animals that are in that area. Um you know, I remember camping one spot and you got up and you know there's his big claw marks of a bear on the tree and you say, you know, I kn you know he just let me know that I'm on his territory, you know Uh suppose you know that there's poisonous snakes in the area and it's dark and you can't see anything and you're afraid to walk. I still remember being with some friends up uh in central western Pennsylvania, climbed up this mountain in the dark. It was an area that these guys knew. I didn't know it. We got up there and I was a little naive back then, didn't know much as much about the wilds as I do now. And I didn't know that snakes like to warm themselves on warm rocks, you know. So we're sitting up there and I just put my hand down and I hear flop flop flop, you know. And the guy next to me shines the light down and between the two rocks he sees a snake taking off down there and I thought, Well, I'm glad you went that direction. And, you know, I didn't happen to put my head down hand on his head because it was probably a copper head. It could have been a timber rattler that were there. Who knows? But You know, suppose you're in that situation and it's so dark, so dark that you put your hand in front of your face and you can't even see it. You ever been in that kind of situation? It's disorienting, isn't it? And every noise Sounds sinister, suspicious, hostile. That's the picture that the Bible is giving to us. It says that is what our life is like without Christ. It's full of gloom and fears and terrors, depression, a sense of lostness, a sense of disorientation, and it is into that darkness Jesus Christ came as the light. Now he comes to these shepherds, and the first fruits of that is a patch of light. Just a patch. There's all the darkness there still, but the shepherds, it says, were surrounded by this light, you see. And that was the first image of Jesus coming to dispel, to push back the darkness. He brings light. He is light. He who comes and walks after me will never walk in darkness. You may feel you're in twilight. You may feel like you kids, you girls, especially pioneer girls, you know, my word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. You know, you all memorize that What's that saying? It's saying, I'm walking in darkness, but there's light before me that God leads me in. So the second point is the gospel brings and makes you light. Jesus comes to be your light, and without him you are in darkness. Without him, this holiday season only emphasizes to you the darkness. And that Jesus is the only light that you have to turn to. I pray you'll do that. And not just come here because it's the Sunday before Christmas or come Christmas Eve just because it's a nice thing to do at Christmas time But that you will see that this is a message for your heart, in your gloom, in your darkness, in your depression, that Jesus has come to be your light. And he has come not only to be your light, he has come to make you light. The Bible talks about In first in 2 Corinthians in chapter 6, in verse 4, uh a passage that's uh one verse that's uh worth meditating on for an hour or so. God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, made his light to shine in our hearts, to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The one who created light out of darkness has made light in your heart through Christ so that you can see His glory. So you'd have some sense of the knowledge of his glory and his light, and that becomes the light by which you see everything else. You know, like the old hymn that after Christ, you know, the grass is a deeper green, the sky is a richer blue than Christless eyes have ever seen We see differently because of that light. But God has made us so that we become reflectors of that light. So Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5 You are the light of the world. So let your deeds shine as light in darkness. That means that this week Those that know you should see that you have a different perspective about Christmas from the way the world does. It just as simple as if you're in a store and everybody's beating on the clerk and the people they're trying to serve, you know, and they're not doing it fast enough and the lines are long, you got this and that, and the commuter's down, and all this stuff And everybody's beating on it. And you walk in there and if you are able through the peace of Jesus Christ to say some word of encouragement to that person, they notice a difference I I remember hearing a story about a person who had been witnessed to a number of times, and um somebody was simply nice to them in a store And they shot back, you a Christian? I was like, well, actually yes. I figured that. You know, because they were feeling that God was hemming them in. It was one more step toward their being irrevocably drawn to Jesus Christ just to see the good deeds, to see how Christians operate differently, treat people differently. Things that you may not even notice. But that by the power of Jesus Christ working in you, as you look and the knowledge, the face of Jesus Christ, you treat people differently. Your values this week are different. Let people see that. Don't hide it, Jesus says. Don't put it under a bushel. Let it be displayed to your neighbors, your family, your friends. And then Paul says in Philippians chapter 2, don't be grumbling and complaining like other people do. But he says, shine as stars, luminaries in the world, holding forth the word of life. be that reflection of the light of Christ, the first fruits of that light to come. But of course we're only in that time, the dawn of that, Luke says. The third point, finally, is that the light will come. There's a light that's coming again. Jesus speaks of his return in Luke and chapter 21. Excuse me, chapter 17 and verse 24, Jesus talks about his coming, and he says that coming will be like the lightning from the east to the west. It's going to come in in a blaze of glory, a flash of multisplendored glory, more beautiful than the most spectacular sunset that you have ever seen. whether over the ocean or in the mountains or in whatever situation, the beauty of that. But you know what's even more amazing? Is Matthew in chapter 13 in verse 43 when Jesus talks about that day, he says, you and I are going to be transformed in a twinkling of the of the eye, in that sounding of the cosmic trumpet, you and I will be transformed to become like the sun. You will be rid of all the darkness of your gloom and fears and terrors and pollution. All the sin, all those things that bring darkness into your life, into your heart, Jesus says are going to be eradicated. At that time, Ephesians chapter 5, verse 27 says, We will be that bride that is radiant. It's very interesting that when Revelation speaks of that day, Revelation chapter 19, in verse 8, it speaks of that wedding feast of the Lamb. And it says, Rejoice and be glad. Give him the glory. The wedding of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Fine linen, bright and clean. The word bright there is the same word that's used in Luke chapter 2 verse 9. Shown. That it's shown all about him. The glory of the Lord shown. You and I will be given the robes, the the clothing that will be bright, bright Matthew says, or Jesus says in Matthew, bright is the sun, and we will then see his glory. We will see it in a way we simply can't see it now. That picture is drawn for us by C. S. Lewis in the The Voyage of the Dawn Treader. Do you remember that scene where toward the end of the book the Dawn Treader is moving toward the sun through the sea? And the children drink the sea water, and as they drink the water they find that their eyes become stronger so that they're able to look directly at the sun that they couldn't do before And that's the picture that Lewis is describing there of the capacity that we will have. You know, one of the things to to notice, well I well I'll get back to that. I'll get off my train of thought. You look at the sun, you will have that capacity to see it Like you never had before. And that is part of what Jesus is going to do in that day when He brings light and glory all around to us. I believe that that light should not be understood that it's simply going to be this bright glaring light that we wouldn't be able to see like we would be looking at the sun now and say, well, you know, I can't I can't look at the sun, but I'll have the ability to look at it. Won't that be nice? Well why? Well, yeah, I don't really know. You see, who wants to just look at the sun and penetrate your eyeballs? I think the light of heaven will rather be a light that is a diffused soft light with a luminance and a play in the various colors. Like we have never experienced, maybe only had some sense in looking at a diamond or or sparkling on the water or in glass or crystal to understand the beauty of the imagination of our God in the way he can play with light. Now here I want to say something that will get me in trouble with some people But I'm going to do it anyway. Many of us would think, when I draw that kind of a picture, that heaven's going to be like a Thomas Kincaid painting, right? Thomas Kincaine is a professing Christian artist who says, I paint To explicitly counter the cynicism and anti-romanticism of postmodernism So he is specifically, explicitly seeking to portray an ideal world without sin and without cynicism. But there are some Christians who say his art is not sufficiently Christian. It's sub -Christian for this reason. The picture that you see in Luke is of Jesus coming as light to invade the darkness and to conquer the darkness. You and I live in a time of tension between light and darkness, with the first fruits of the light. In Thomas Kincaid's paintings, the light and the world portrayed is always a world of the past, usually around the turn of the century. A beautiful world. I love some of his paintings. But the way that you deal with the darkness is to go back to a time slightly idealized of light. The gospel says we don't go back for light, you go forward in the hope of the final conquering of Jesus of all darkness. So that in Revelation you have in verse chapter 21 and 22 that final display where there is no night, there is no sun, and the Lamb Himself is our light. And I believe that it could be that in heaven, like it could have been around the shepherds, there will be no shadows. For there will be no light. The light will be a different quality of light than we have ever experienced. So we look forward to the light. Whether your light can cate or not, it's not the point. We look forward to the light, not back to something to escape from the darkness. What's the application? A couple things for you. Number one, first thing is to trust in Christ. He is your only light this Christmas. Not the things you're going to see on the tree, under the tree, all the hopes, all the Things that will let you down, Jesus Christ is your light. First thing to notice in that is that I have told you some of you guys in the past Then I used to do threshold experiments when I was at university. I was involved in a lot of psychophysical experiments. And one of the things we do in these threshold experiments of light is uh in order to do this, I would have to dark adapt, and it took 45 minutes for my eyeballs to open, you know, for my uh irises to open wide enough uh that I was fully what's called dark adapted. Very interesting thing happens when you are in that situation. Your eyes generate their own light. So what I was doing in the experiments was not really by looking at threshold experiments. By the way, you know what the threshold of light is? It's equivalent to seeing a candle a hundred miles away. That's the threshold of light And when I would be looking at those kinds of things, what I was doing was not seeing did I see light, it was distinguishing the light that was really there from the light I myself generated. In Isaiah chapter 50, you have in that second song of the servant, or the third song of the servant, Isaiah warns, he says, if you don't come to the light, you will make your own lights and be cursed. This Christmas, you need to celebrate. You will either celebrate by making your own light To dispel your darkness or to look to Jesus Christ to be your light. I urge you, in Jesus' name, look to him who is the true light. who alone will come to dispel the gloom and the darkness and the death and give you that light of life at the end. And then secondly Holken Christ knows that no matter what the ACLU says about trying to rid any public display of Christian Christmas or the biblical story in any any scene and any crash and any uh display anywhere, whatever we try to do in our day to rid The society of Christmas, you know, Jesus will in fact prevail. The light will prevail over the darkness. He will be the glory in the end. Amen. Now, here's what I asked you to do. Tomorrow morning. But whatever time you get up, notice particularly between seven and seven fifteen. Look toward the east Notice that darkness. You know, even that that point is starting to get light. But you know, look at like quarter of six when it's totally dark and spend some time just meditating with what this says and notice The time when you first see the light, the rising sun, Luke 1 says. Notice that. This morning it was a dot of red. Just a beautiful little dot of red. Notice as that grows. And as that grows, and this is what I wanted to say before uh as that grows, think of that as the display of the glory of Christ. Tonight cannot prevail and hold it back That light is going to come and after a while it's going to dispel all the darkness. And may that be to you a sacrament of the hope The display of the gospel and your hope in Christ that He will in fact rule all nations in his light. And we will have no darkness Nothing will be left. It won't be that he will be the light in the darkness. There will be no darkness in heaven. Then finally then, so reflect that. Be that light. Reflect Christ Be willing to not just know that you have the light, but to let it be known Uh when you think of uh upwards season coming up, we think of the uh testimonies, uh be willing to sign up. Talk to Tim or to Al Edwards or in the back. I don't know if there's anything to sign up yet, but Go back and just say, yeah, put me down. I'll I'll give two, three times, I'll stay. You know, what an opportunity. Hundreds of kids, their parents coming here to play basketball. Many of them don't know Jesus Christ, making their own lights He'd say, hey Lord, I just want to be that light. I want to just in my clumsy way the best I can. I just want to say a few minutes of something. They're always very gracious Be wherever God has placed you, the light that He has made, the first fruits, because one day, one day, even you and I are going to shine like the sun. Let's pray. Ah, Lord Jesus, what a day that will be. We can't imagine a day where there's no shadows and no night, no gloom, no smog Nothing but the softness of a light that captures our imaginations And Lord, we we know that even in this world, uh the the beauty of candlelight, the of light in colored glass and all the things that we see are so Cause us to wonder. Lord, may we worship you this week as we think of you, that true light that has come in our darkness. May no one here miss that. Lord, show yourself as the light to each of us May we see in the knowledge of the face of Jesus Christ the brilliance, the display of all that our heart longs for, and worship you. Amen.