Well it's quite intimidating to preach before this abyss here. I think when they have the uh secret door to Get rid of bad speakers. Usually they don't show it to you. I hope it's not an anticipation. But it is really wonderful to be here with you all. You all know very well Dan Iverson, my boss. I'm here at his bidding. I said yes, sir, and came. And also am very thankful for your love and support for the Colburns and for sending them back to Japan. It's a joy to be able to serve the Lord together with such faithful servants. So I lead a ministry in Japan called Christ Bible Institute, which includes Christ's Bible Seminary. You can learn a little bit more about our ministry. uh at our table uh out in the foyer uh that has a uh brochure and also our uh um MCW's regular uh network magazine and uh we're the featured front cover story for this uh uh edition. So I hope you'll take a uh moment to pick up one of those. um and to learn about the miraculous provision uh that God has uh uh blessed us with. Uh and tomorrow we will be um Receiving keys for a new ministry center, and I'll share a little bit more about that in the next hour. A part of our ministry is called Christ's Bible Seminary. We have a graduate level theological seminary. where we seek to train future leaders for the Japanese church. Our Ministry of Christ Bible Seminary opened in April of 2005. Ten days after the opening of Christ Bible Seminary, my wife Pearl and I were called to the hospital. uh to get the results of our second daughter's uh Michaela, uh her head MRI. We were very thankful to hear that there were no problems with the virus and the seizures that she had had. But then the doctors told us your daughter has a brain tumor. It seems that no matter how hard we try or how much we want, we can't avoid suffering. Invariably, when we suffer, we ask the same questions. Why? God, are you really good? God, do you really love me? And today's Psalm, Psalm 22, I believe, answers these questions. Showing us that God does have a purpose for suffering in our lives, and that the blessings of suffering are not just for us. But for people all around the world. So here's our main theme today. God has been, is, and will be faithful to his people, both individually and corporately in suffering. And through such suffering all the nations will worship him as he is proclaimed by his suffering people. Let me say that again. God has been, is, and will be faithful to his people, both corporately and individually, in suffering. And through such suffering, all the nations will worship him as he is proclaimed by his suffering people. So I invite you to keep your Bibles open this morning. Psalm 22 has, I hopefully you've noticed, two very distinct parts to it. 1 through 21, which we could call the prayer of David, and 22 through 31, which we could call the proclamation. Now trying to cover all of Psalm 22, as you could tell from the long reading, uh all in all of Psalm 22 in one sermon is kind of like trying to eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner in one sitting. I know some of you perhaps are able to do that. But at the same time, trying to preach only a small part of Psalm twenty-two rather than the whole Psalm is kind of like eating only bacon for breakfast, only lettuce for lunch, and only tomato for dinner instead of the whole BLT. So it's going to be a challenge, but let's do our best. Let's try to cover the whole psalm this morning. And let's look first at this first section from one through twenty-one, the prayer of David. One way that we could have kind of a lens to look at this first section of Psalm 22 is to see the painful and the perplexing contradictions. In David's mind, in the midst of his suffering. First, we see in verses one and two this perplexing contrast between David's cries. And God's silence. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? From the words of my groaning, oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer. So David here is complaining about uh the perceived distance and silence of his God. Now one time as a child I remember very distinctly sitting down and my mother serving me lunch and my uh my mother accidentally stealing hot soup on my leg. And I remember crying and crying and crying. But I also remember that it didn't hurt too much But the reason why I cried so much was because that soup was spilled by my mom. I see this guy up here in front nodding. I think maybe the guys can understand this a little bit more, maybe. And in verse one we can hear the pain in David's voice. Not just because he felt forsaken by any God, but by his God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from the words of my groaning, so far from saving me, my God, my God? Now, a second contrast that we can see in David's eyes now is between God's faithfulness to Israel and God's forsaking of him. In verses three through five, we see that David is proclaiming, even reminding God of God's faithfulness to his people in the past. Yet you are holy enthroned on the praises of Israel And you, our fathers, trusted and they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued, and you they trusted and were not put to shame. Now throughout history, God has responded to the suffering and the cries of his people. David knows this and brings this up with God. When Israel trusted in you, you saved them. When they cried to you, you saved them. So David's prayer or honest complaint to his God is When Israel trusted in you, you saved them. When I trust in you, why do you not save me? When Israel cried to you, you rescued them. When I cry to you, why do you not rescue me? So there's this painful disconnect between what David knows of who God is, what God has done. in the past and what God is not doing for David now. Now a third contrast or painful perplexing contradiction in David's Mind is in verses twelve through verse eighteen. David's enemies are near, and God is so far from him. Now David characterizes his his enemies as animals of prey. Long before there were lions and tigers and bears. Okay, not bad. Too bad they're not doing the Wizard of Oz. Long before there were lions and tigers and bears there were bulls, lions, and dogs. Um, I think probably because most of us, perhaps all of us, have never been on the same side of a cage as a lion. We don't we don't understand what it means to fear such animals. We don't understand the language that David is using to describe his enemies. Um a few years ago A young girl, Haley Hildebrand, was having um was taking her high school graduation picture with the tiger, a school tradition. They were taking her picture, she heard something, and lets out a squeal. Panicking, she starts to run just moments before that tiger pounced on her. David's enemies are near, and they are fierce Look at the language, the beautiful language in verses 12 and 13. They encompass him, they surround him, they threaten to tear him apart. with sharp teeth. Verse sixteen, they encompass him, they encircle him, and they pierce him. Hands and feet. His enemies are so near and God seems so far away. Imagine if that teenage girl were crying out to her father as she was being pounced upon and her father just looked on from a distance. That's how David felt. And this section of the Psalm ends in verses 19 to 21 with this final gasp and cry to God before being completely overwhelmed: Lord, be not far off. Come quickly, deliver me, rescue me, save me. And then it's like the curtains fall. To end the first act of this drama. There's such a clear break in this psalm, actually, that some scholars have have have thought these these must be two different psalms. So there's this tremendous shift in the tone of the Psalm from verse 21 to 22 and also in David's attitude. So what happened? We actually don't know. David doesn't tell us. It's almost as if Act Two of this drama were missing and we we skip immediately onto Act Three. So we don't know exactly what David experienced that resulted in the shift from verse 21 to 22, but um uh from the Christian experience in the midst of suffering, as well as from a broader biblical context. Let me suggest three things that David learned and we all can learn in the midst of suffering. And as we consider these three brief points, we'll finish up looking at the second section of the psalm. Number one, God is in control of everything. God is in control of everything. And I think this is usually the first temptation that comes when suffering comes. Maybe God isn't in control. Now, nowhere in this psalm do we see any indication that David sees himself as a victim of random fate. David is clearly giving God all of the credit or perhaps blame for his circumstances Biblical reality is that God is sovereignly working out all that He has sovereignly ordained from eternity past, both in this world and in your life. Including your salvation and your sanctification, a very big part of which includes suffering. And that's a very good thing because, number two, suffering is a part of the good design of God. This is the second temptation, perhaps, when suffering comes. Okay, well, if God is in control and I'm suffering like this, then maybe God isn't good. Or his plans aren't good. So why why is suffering good and also a part of his good plan? First of all Let me suggest to you that suffering was designed for non-Christians. A very strange comment, a very ungracious comment perhaps to make from the pulpit. But before you get off and leave, uh hear me out. Um if you are not a Christian today, I want to suggest to you that suffering functions to teach you of your need for Jesus Christ. There's a little boy in America named Roberto Salazar. And You perhaps might envy him. Um Roberto feels no pain As a baby, he never cried. He never cried because of being hungry or tired or from a wet diaper. He feels no pain. He is incapable of feeling pain. Roberto is one of 17 people in the United States with congenital insensitivity to pain with an anhedrosis. Now this may sound like a dream condition. To have no pain. Perhaps some of your parents are wishing that your child had that condition. But as his parents will tell you, it's not a dream. It's a nightmare. He never feels hunger pain, so he didn't eat. When he started teething, he gnawed on his own tongue, lips, and fingers to the point of mutilation. Pain is a God-given indicator that something is wrong. So pain that you feel in your in life in your life as a whole are a part of God's message to you that something is wrong. And the most significant thing that's wrong is a broken and absent relationship with the God who made you. Now, modernist sentiment would tell us that Japan, as the one of the most advanced societies in the world, should be one of the least pain-filled nations of the world. Biblical perspective, however, affirms and informs the reality and the rationality that Japan as the largest unreached nation in the world is filled effusively. with humanly insolvable pain Why would nine percent of high school girls sell themselves to dirty old businessmen? Because they need three hundred dollars No. They have money and they spend their three hundred dollars on a Gucci wallet the next day. Why would four percent of middle school girls do the same? Because of pain Pain from spiritual emptiness accentuated, aggravated by the pains of life in a fallen world. including absent fathers working hundred hour weeks, sixty percent of whom have paid for a prostitute. Do you think that the wealth of the Japanese make them more happy? Apart from God, their wealth creates more emptiness, more empty promises, more empty hearts. The rich are not to be envied. Those who love their riches are to be pitied. If we allow wealth to be our source of trust, our source of pride, our source of comfort. Wealth can create more emptiness, more empty promises, more empty hearts. Now, of course, poverty And hunger are not blessings in and of themselves. But poverty can be a blessing because it strengthens, it heightens The understanding of the reality of our need for God. Blessed are those who know their emptiness, their need, their hunger. Now God has not blessed Japan with the blessing of poverty, but he has blessed Japan with the gift of the lesson of pain. Sometimes whispering, sometimes shouting, something is wrong But whether for the physically poor of the world or like in Japan, the spiritually poor, Christians must be there To help point out the lessons of pain and to point to the solution to pain in Jesus Christ Now, suffering was also designed for Christians to make us more and more like Christ. And you know, we miss the whole meaning of the Christian faith. When we live our lives seeking to avoid suffering and difficulty. Seeking to be comfortable physically, financially, emotionally, relationally, and spiritually. So many Christians seek to live the pain-free Christian life. And such a life has no impact. Discomfort and suffering Are tools of God's discipleship in our lives, and thus part of the very good plan of God. And then number three, not all suffering is the same. If you look at Scripture, I think you can find at least three types of suffering that I want to address very briefly. One type of suffering is suffering that's a consequence of our own sin. You don't need to be a Buddhist to understand that when we do wrong or fail to do right, there are consequences, sometimes very painful ones. Because of our sins, relationships can be painful. We have problems at home or work. We even have physical, financial, spiritual problems because of our sin when we sin And when you suffer like this, I think it's good to ask ourselves the question that we often ask our children: When does God love you? The answer, thank God, is all the time. There is a grace and love and acceptance from the Father, even in, especially in. These times when you sin and you suffer for it. But, but, brothers, sisters May suffering because of our own sin not be the bulk of our suffering. May suffering because of our own sin Not be the bulk of the suffering that you suffer in your life. Now another type of suffering is what we could call common suffering. And this is suffering that affects people regardless of whether they are Christian or not, similar to what we call common grace. This is not suffering because of sin. It's just a part of life. It includes health problem problems from colds to cancer. Uh hot weather, cold weather, earthquakes, hurricanes. It includes financial struggles, poverty, it includes Death itself. All people want to avoid this suffering, but can't. For ten days after we heard about our daughter Michaela's condition. We didn't know whether she had cancer or not, whether she would live or die. We are thankful that Though uh uh that that her condition is not life-threatening. Um we continue to monitor it with regular MRIs, and her everyday life is not affected at all. And the trust that Christians put in God in the midst of common suffering This can be a tremendous witness of the gospel for those around you who do not know Jesus Christ. And then finally, there's what we could call Christ's sufferings. Christ's sufferings. And this is suffering that is suffered for the single reason of living for Jesus Christ. Um this includes suffering at home or work because of obeying Jesus. This includes persecution from governments or companies or family because of refusing to dishonor Jesus Christ. This includes also common suffering that is that is compounded or suffered because of following Jesus Christ. For example, suffering financially to help the poor, the lost, or for the spread of the gospel, or or suffering poverty or danger to live in the quote unquote bad parts of the city or to live in an unreached nation. Many Christians have rarely or never experienced such suffering. Our lives are so hidden, so innocuous to Satan's work that they don't bother him at all. How about you? What kind of sufferings do you suffer in your life? Mainly because of your own sin? Mainly common suffering that is no different from non-Christians. Again, there is for you in such suffering so much of the gospel and grace to be known and appreciated in such suffering. But I ask you, do you know anything of what it means to suffer? For Jesus Christ. Now of course Tabulating what kind of suffering you have in some chart or something is not the point. The point is about following Christ. and accepting the very real, often difficult, always wonderful consequences of following him Now, David, I believe, learned these lessons, and the result was a completely changed life and attitude. From verses 22 to 31, we see a heart of trust, praise, and exhortation. to others. And look again with me in your Bibles. Let's look at verses twenty two to thirty one. Twenty two to thirty one I think we see the fruit Of endured suffering and faith. We see the fruit of enduring suffering, and the fruit of that suffering endured in faith is proclamation. And we see also that the painful contradictions in the heart of David have found glorious resolution. Now, first in verse 22, we see individual praise. Individual praise. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. Now this is the the doxological instinct. That is basic to the Christian life. The doxological praise instinct that is basic to the Christian life. And for those of you who have known both very painful suffering And also the faithfulness of God in the midst of such suffering, you know, you understand that there is a worship of God in such times like no other. A worship of God that is not just elation and happiness. But a deep, deep joyfulness that flows together with the saltiness of painful tears In verse 23, we see exhortation for others to also praise God, because it's not enough for just me to worship God Verse 23, you who fear the Lord, praise him, all you offspring of Jacob, glorify him and stand in awe of him. Why do God's people praise him? Because he saves. Verse 24: For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. So as God is trusted in, as his faithfulness has testified about, we see next that blessings flow Verses 26 and 29. Rich and poor are blessed. In verse 27, we see the extent of God's blessings and salvation. All the ends of the earth. will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will bow down before him. And here in verse 27, this is a key lesson for the Christian. Yes, God is my God. But The Christian response to the wonderful salvation of Christ should be, May my God be their God May my God be their God. Oh, may all the nations, oh, may all the peoples worship Christ and be able to say to him, My God. And this is the missional instinct that, in addition to the doxological one, should be basic. to the Christian life. Basic. That personal doxology is not enough. That no Christian should be satisfied with Personal worship alone when so many around the world had little or no opportunity to even hear the gospel. or worship the Lord of the universe. God's salvation for us is a part of a great big plan of salvation from eternity past to eternity future for every nation on earth. And God invites us to be a part of that plan. to have global doxological mission. And David here is showing us how by exhorting Christians to worship God and also to call the world to join in that worship. If we say nothing to people, if we don't testify, no one will be saved. And we live in a world where more than two and a half billion people have little or no gospel witness or opportunity. If Jesus Christ being proclaimed and worshipped among all the nations and peoples He has made matters, if this matters, And if it matters to you, won't you get involved? Won't you get involved? To go and suffer or to stay and send and sacrifice As we testify of God's faithfulness in our suffering and in Christ's suffering, my God, our God, will become their God. So, our suffering is not merely for our sanctification. It is to prepare us for proclamation. Proclamation of the difficulty of life in a fallen world But the blessedness of God's grace that speaks into suffering, that sustains us through suffering, and that will ultimately one day rescue us from suffering. And then finally we see in verses 30 and 31 that this generation and future generations will be blessed. From suffering and the faithfulness of God, we will see generational doxology of God. Young, old, future generations will worship Him. In verse thirty one we see generational mission as well. Generational mission Old, young, future generations will not just worship him, they will testify and they will proclaim God's righteousness to all nations. Verse thirty one, they shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it. Worship now will become worshiped forever. As we suffer and rely upon God and testify of his faithfulness and worship him, People are one to Christ. Evangelism and missions happen. Not just that God is faithful in our suffering, or that He has purpose in it for us. But that suffering has missional purpose with global implication. Where you have the suffering of the godly, you have in due time fruit bearing of the gospel. Now throughout the history of the church, we can see that God works his salvation through the suffering and the testimonies of his people, individual by individual. And this is most true in the suffering of Jesus Christ. Jesus echoes the words of verse one on the cross. This psalm shadows the experience of Jesus on the cross. We see his suffering. He is surrounded by his enemies. They mock him. We hear his cries to God. David only thought that God had forsaken him. Every Christian can have complete confidence that God will never leave us nor forsake us. That is his promise. But God turned his face from Christ on the cross and poured out his wrath upon the sins of the world that he bore. You know, we question God, how could you allow me to suffer? How could you allow such suffering to even exist if you are good? And here is one of the most amazing truths of Christianity. God not just allowed, but ordained suffering to exist. Why? Ultimately, the greatest reason why suffering exists is so Christ could suffer. And suffer for us, and display the most amazing love and sacrifice conceivable. Suffering exists because God ordained that Christ would suffer for sinners. But it was a meaningful, purpose-filled, glorious suffering. And from that suffering and from that sacrifice, God will be glorified and worshiped by people throughout time. and to the ends of the earth. God worked his salvation through the suffering of Jesus Christ. How can we complain of our little, little suffering when we know how much Jesus suffered for us Don't run away from suffering. Not only will it be a tool for your own discipleship in Jesus Christ, it will be a part of God's tool. to bring salvation even to the ends of the earth. Do you run towards suffering for the sake of suffering? Of course not But we run towards Christ. And as a consequence of following him, as Christ taught us, we will have tribulation. There is a suffering that will be known because all is not right in this world. But God has a plan, and that plan includes you. And so following him to the cross, we take up our own crosses and experience the pain and joy of denying ourselves. Following him to the lost, we set aside social comfort, political correctness, some of the freedoms of our own private space, time, money, relational preferences Following him in sacrifice, we deny ourselves financial comfort and pleasure that others might have their daily bread, and still others might come to know the bread of life. And for some now, or perhaps among you in the future, following him to the ends of the earth. Suffering the loss of family, friends, language, culture, and comfort, that the worthy name of Jesus might be worshipped That our God might become their God. Let's pray. Lord God Almighty, you who are the creator of all things We pray, O God, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. O God, grant us. Faith, courage, power to be able to live such purpose of life as Jesus taught us to pray Taking up our own crosses, bearing suffering, but not our sin, but having the privilege to suffer, to share in the sufferings of Jesus Christ, to share in such fellowship, O Lord. Would you grant grace to this body, O God, to these your children, to live such a life That was bought at the price of the blood of your Son. Seal this word, O God, in our hearts. Make it real, and may it bear fruit. even to the very ends of the earth and throughout eternity. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.