Bringing attention to this triathlon is because uh a certain person by the name of Lance Armstrong will be competing next week in that uh triathlon and so I'm hoping to send him a tweet and invite him to our eleven o'clock service because he'll be done. with the triathlon well before everybody else. And uh and I will uh definitely be inviting him as I invite all of you. Let me say again, if you're visiting with us, if you've been visiting with us For the last number of weeks or months even, next Sunday after the second service, we'll be having this visitor reception and be an opportunity to enjoy uh very good food. Uh our elders' wives are preparing some of these finger foods and uh I've tasted of their cooking and uh you'll be blessed. So If you are a visitor, please come take an opportunity to meet some of our leaders and our pastoral team so that we can share with you about connecting here at CPC. So the great thing is not only b were we led to uh the teaching of God's Word this morning through a wonderful offertory song, we are also Preceded by a great event that we had here yesterday. The regional gathering of navigators was here yesterday. Navigators is a Christian ministry. targeting everything from teenagers all the way up to ambassadors here stationed in the U. S. in Washington DC So we had over 150 folks who are connected to navigators sitting in these chairs, learning and becoming sharper and more equipped for what does it mean to be sent into the world? Because in these last four weeks we've been talking about just that, looking at the prayer of Jesus Christ, and this prayer is an instruction of Jesus' Praying. It's not an instruction primarily. It was a prayer that he was praying for his disciples and those who would believe on the message that the disciples would preach. Of what his intention was. And his intention would be that they would receive the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they would be transformed by that gospel, that they would realize that Once they become believers in the gospel, that they themselves are equipped with that gospel and with his presence, his spirit. But interestingly, that they are to be sent into the world And so, in many ways, if you will, I've been waiting to preach this sermon. If you don't like it, that's okay. But really, this is what I'm bent on. This is what will be something that I will hammer again and again and again I'll remind us of, I'll remind myself of, until you get tired of me saying it. But central to this prayer. Is this idea? Father, as you have sent me into the world, so I send them into the world That word sent is the word mission. Why is mission so important? It is because of this. I would not be sitting here or standing here. And many of you who profess faith in Jesus Christ, all of you who profess, not just some of you who profess, but not everybody here professes Jesus Christ. There are maybe some here this morning that are quite Either you you've never been inside of a Christian church, or if you have, you're not down with the gospel, you don't get it, but you're here nonetheless. Maybe somebody dragged you here, maybe somebody invited you here, you thought you were going to Starbucks and you ended up here I feel for you. But you're here. But there's not a Christian sitting here this morning that is doing so, and there's not a Christian here who doesn't who professes faith in Jesus Christ. who is professing who would not be unless someone was sent to you. In fact, the the thing that I shared yesterday With this gathering of the navigators was were these words from Romans chapter 10. And this is where uh Paul is reminding the church at Rome of this great saying from Isaiah that says this it says, Blessed are the feet of those who bring the good news. Now, why would he say that? He's saying that they are blessed because unless there are human beings who've been transformed by the gospel. Who are then sent out to bear the name of Jesus in word and in deed. How will people believe? This is his whole argument. He says, He says, how can they, those who don't believe, he says, how can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them? Now don't wrap up in the word preaching, the sort of what I'm doing here. Preaching has a much wider breadth than just a pastor preaching the gospel. It is the sharing of the message of Jesus Christ, regardless of whom it comes through. So he says, and how can they hear without someone preaching to them? And how can they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. The church exists not for itself. It exists to glorify Jesus Christ. And then to make him known. This is our purpose for existence. This is our mission for what we are doing. This is the goal for why we are worshiping together this morning. It is Columbia Presbyterian Church exists to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to our city to Colombia, to the region, and to the world. That is why we are doing this. And we believe that to be able to experience and to be able to extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is best embodied when the church gathers for worship. What it means to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ and what it means to be on mission as a Christian. So this morning we're going to look again What is the mission, but particularly focusing on verse 18 and following? But let's read in context Jesus' words that he is praying to the Father. Here he's praying for his disciples and by extension those who would believe the message that the disciples would preach. John chapter 17, verses 13 to 19. I am coming now to you, but I say these things while I am still in the world. so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Our Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning for the weight of your glory. The weightiness of your glory is seen through the work of Jesus Christ, who came bearing the message in his body, in his flesh. To make known the love of God for the world. May the weight of your glory, may the weightiness and beauty of the gospel Dawn in our minds and souls that we would be a people sent by you Not because of our wisdom, not because of our ability, but because of Jesus and the gospel Open our eyes that we would see wondrous things in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning, I want you to see in these verses again as we look at this prayer. I want you to see that first we are sent, and secondly, a new understanding. Focusing on these few verses 13 through 19, we are sent and a new understanding. As I mentioned earlier, this is a theme that comes up over and over again in the Gospels. It's a theme that comes up in the letters of Paul and of the disciples. It's a matter that comes central to Jesus' prayer. For his disciples and for those who would believe. That they are to receive the gospel of Jesus Christ, and then once they receive it, they are sent out It's what Tim Keller called God as a divine spiritual tornado. That God by his grace coming into the world through the cross and resurrection has announced there's a whole new way of living, there's a whole new way of understanding, and that is Jesus and the message that he brought. And that's what draws us in like a spiritual tornado, but by drawing us in, he then sends us out. So, what does it mean, therefore, to be sent, to be on mission? Well, we notice here when he says in verse 18, as you sent me into the world. I have sent them into the world. Well, first, what it means to be sent is first to all people. You'll see there in your outline, all people I see directly as a direct Derivative from the word world there. He doesn't say, as you sent me into Just the Jewish nation? Or just the Gentile nation? You didn't send me just to the poor, you sent me also to the rich. You didn't send me to the singles, you also sent me to married people. So the idea here is that we are sent to all people, basically, that Jesus and the gospel Calls out, both corporately and individually, people who are caught up in their own echo chamber. Let me explain. What do I mean by echo chamber? That the gospel that Jesus is praying for here, this sending out, means that we are called out of our comfort zones, both corporately. the Church of Jesus Christ, and individually. We're called out of our echo chambers. First, corporately, let me explain what I mean. As a pastor, And as one who recently graduated, relatively speaking, one of our seminaries in the early nineties , mid-90s, then going into church planting, going to a lot of conferences, reading a lot of books about the church. Reading about the latest ideas of what it means to be the church and how we go about reaching the world, what I've seen very subtly, very slowly, is this idea that somehow we ought to target the message of Jesus Christ. to particular people groups. And there what happens unintentionally is our niche churches Maybe to the young professional, or maybe to singles, or maybe to married, maybe to city dwellers, maybe to suburban dwellers, maybe to left-handed blonde-haired, blue-eyed actor types Now, I know that sounds absurd, but it is not infrequent that I have read and have experienced and have heard pastors and have heard people talk about the ministry as if it's going to be a niche group in which we're targeting. The problem is that has nothing to do with the mission of Jesus Christ. That what the Church of Jesus Christ is called into corporately is to be planted in the community where it is, and that by God's grace We need to be praying. Now, Kira, I want to specifically speak to those who are part of CPC, who are members of this body. We ought to be praying that increasingly That as a community which we've been planted into, Columbia, Maryland, which is diverse on various ways, we ought to be praying that this church has a greater reflection of the community in which God has placed us. We are not called to reach just engineers or white people or Asian people or married people or single people. We're called to reach Columbia. Now what this means is not only do we need to avoid niche ecclesiology, niche churches, We also must be careful that our niche doesn't become theology either. Let me explain this. One of my mentors had been praying for his father for 34 years. His father came to Christ two years ago. And while sharing this with one of his elders And sharing the story is his elders said, Well, how do you feel, feel about your father going to that our Arminian church? He said, He said, what did you ask? He said, how do you feel about your father going to that Arminian church? And he said, look For 34 years that I've been praying for my father, my father was on the highway to spending eternity in hell. But now. Through the ministry of a Baptist church that loved him where he was, he will spend eternity with my Savior. We are not about, as I said a few weeks ago, about convincing a group of people to convert from one theological perspective to another theological perspective. We are not here, nor have I been called to preach the gospel to people so that we can create Presbyterians. We want And I want you, regardless of your theological, your ecclesiastical background, to know that there is one faith, one baptism, one Lord, that is Jesus. And he is announced. That you are far more of a sinner than you could ever be willing to imagine, but you are far more loved than you ever dared hope. The reality is the gospel of Jesus Christ is meant for you, and you are welcome here. But we must be careful that we are not expecting Or trying to convince people that being a Presbyterian is the best. Now let me say, I am a convinced and committed Presbyterian. But heaven will be populated by a lot of others. Let us be careful of wanting and creating echo chambers. But then it doesn't just stretch to the corporate body, it stretches also down to the individual. The individual here is called to the world. So let me ask you, if you're a professing Christian, are those with whom you have most conversation Those with whom you talk most about your faith, are they ones that vote like you do, act like you do, look like you do, think like you do, and live where you do? If that is the case, then you've created an echo chamber for yourself. He has called us to the world He has called us. He is sending those who profess faith to get out of the comfort zone of preaching to the choir. If you are here this morning and you do not believe in Jesus Christ and you are agnostic, atheist, or ignorantist. I don't want to make any bones about it. We do believe that the only way to live is to consider the serious Ideas, preaching, person, and work of Jesus Christ. And we believe there is no other way to live except in a relationship with this Savior We are glad that you are here. And much of what I'm going to say this morning sounds odd to you But you need to know that we as a church need this gospel as well. And it calls us out of the comfort zone, though you this morning may be feeling like you're out of your comfort zone. And we believe it's because God got out of his. It is said of Jesus that he did not consider glory with God something to be comprehended, but he became a servant. And gave of himself for you. And that is what our message is. But not only are we sent to all people, the world, we're also given here new resources. Notice what he says. I have given them, verse 14, I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. And then he says again in verse 17: this word that he has given them. Is also the very word that will sanctify them, for your word is truth, he says. These new resources is first the word. And this word is both the written word, but it is also Jesus as word. In other words, it is the gospel. He then goes on to not only tell them that has he equipped them with the word that is the gospel. He also prayed, as we've looked at over these few weeks, in this very same prayer, he says. As you are with me, I am in them. As I am in you, you are in me. So he's talking about his presence As we've looked at, if you have opportunity over these next few hours, later today, this week, go back and read chapter 17 in its context. You'll notice chapter 14, chapter 15, chapter 16 all talk about how Jesus Is saying, I'm going to give you my spirit. That is what Jesus means by I am going to be in you. Meaning he gives us his spirit. So the two resources. That he gives his disciples, that he gives to those who believe, that he gives to the church to take into the world. It is the word and his spirit. Now, why is that important? It is important to remember because So much of oftentimes what the church talks about is a new program. Or we have cool screens, or we have a cool website And I'm all for websites. In fact, I think our website should be considered as another employee of the church. Many people will see our website before they ever darken the doors of this church. Some of you are just like that. But while I think websites are great screens or great programs are wonderful, they are all nothing without these resources, the Word, and the Spirit. And he sends the Christian into the world with this gospel and with this spirit because The world has different resources. And those resources are, as one writer, James Davidson Hunter talks about. In his book to change the world, that the things which the world uses so oftentimes, whether it be technology. Education. All of these things are good, but they are often used to denigrate others, to divide and conquer, to use as power. So he says this, he said, that I believe that so oftentimes people are understood and separated and used by simple virtue of their social class. skin color, ethnic background, nationality, mental or physical capability, age, beliefs, gender, and so on. He then goes on to say that it is the very same world that uses many things to divide people and to understand people through these lenses. Thereby denigrating them, because we're not fully seen as human beings, goes on to say that people are led and predisposed to believe that people are to measure human worth. And are defined personal significance in material possessions, in appearance, in minor celebrity, hello, YouTube, career success As ways of finding emotional stability and meaning. The world has at its disposal very powerful tools. But the reality is, it's not helping. In fact, I I quote this The reality is, there is, according to Hunter, a weightlessness that attends the experience of all manner of speech in the late modern world. Let me illustrate The reason why it is so important to keep the Word and the Spirit together for the Church of Jesus Christ and for the professing Christian to go into the world. It 's because the world is full of a weightless discussion. This past week This past week has seen a great deal of strife in places like Syria. There's a lot of upheaval going on in places like Greece. There's rampant cultural unrest and societal unrest in places like Spain. But if you were to look at the predominant forms of information and conversation on the lips of what is the American voice in our culture. What is so often talked about? Those NFL referees Now, please understand, don't get me wrong, football's great. And I'm actually glad that the NFL referees are back. But if you go back to the beginning on Monday and you look at the conversational, cultural conversation that is going on, From the New York Times to the Washington Post to the Today Show to every other form of discussion on YouTube and Twitter and Facebook. Go back. If you do, go back and look at the conversation that is going on for what for the last just seven days. What is amazing is how weightless it is and how little meaning is actually tied up in it. And it's not changing anything. You see, Karl Marx said, and I disagree, but he said, that religion is the opium of the masses. Well, I believe that really what is the opium of the masses in the late modern world is entertainment and technology. It's distracting us. We're not really talking to one another. We're talking at one another. We're not really having substantive conversations. about why your relationships are profoundly broken and what do you do? What we do is we turn people to the latest book or the latest idea or the latest clip. It's easy to wash our real problems, to wash them away by trying to lose ourselves in sports and entertainment and technology. I love all those things. But I will say for the Church of Jesus Christ, He's given us the weight of glory. And there's profound brokenness next door to your house. And the professing Christian has been equipped with the word and the Spirit to then take that word and sit down with the broken. To sit down with the lonely, to sit down with those who are quite frankly ready to give up and say there is something. But we can't if we don't see that we're called to the world. We must go with the weight of these new resources. Technology is great, programs are great, buildings are great. But as I told these navigators yesterday, at the end of the day, it will always come down to with opening up the Word of God. And saying, let me tell you about a Savior who can speak into what's going on in your life But he tells us not only has he sent us, he also gives us a new understanding This new understanding is this, the relationship for the Christian to the world. He makes a point here in verses 13 through 15 that he's not of the world and his disciples are not of the world. Well, what does that mean? It means he's saying you need to avoid this. And that word of means assimilation. What do I mean by assimilation? In other words, defining who you are, what you are, and your significance and meaning by what can be attained on this earth. Let me illustrate it this way. If you are trying to get affirmation worth From your job, from your relationships, from your hobbies If you are trying to get affirmation from those that you work with because you need it, then you are willingly putting yourself in captivity to other people. You are looking for affirmation. Therefore, you're looking and you have become assimilated. You are agreeing with the world around you That what makes you valuable, what makes you lovable, what makes you respectable is what you have done, and what you are doing has become your new savior. But it is a savior that cannot save. But if you're a Christian And you're afraid to mention your faith in Christ because you believe that you will lose credibility in your workplace or in your neighborhood or in your school. And you're afraid to mention your hope, your trust, because of how you will be treated, then you too have put yourself back into captivity. You're assimilating. And when Jesus says, I am not of the world, he means I'm not looking for its affirmation. I've come to give myself for it. Because who I am, what I am, is with my Father. But notice he also says that he's sending his disciples into a very dangerous situation. So one of the dangers is assimilating to the culture. The other danger is being against it. We try to wall ourselves off from it in hopes of staying pure. Jesus knowingly says, I'm sending them into the world who hate them. In Luke chapter 10, he's telling his disciples, he's sending them out, he says that, by the way, I'm sending lambs out into wolves. Notice, he doesn't say I'm sending lambs to lambs. He's sending Christians into difficult situations. Which means not into a cultural, theological, relational womb where we're protected from the great big bad world. Let me put it this way. I was counseling a young couple as they were going through pre-premarital counseling, and we had gotten to the point where we were talking about finances and where they were going to live. And it came to the decision as I was understanding that they were not going to buy get an apartment in the community that we had planted the church. They wanted to go to another community and I was curious. I was like, well, maybe we know some people, we can connect you to other people. Why why are you looking there? Have you well we're not even looking in this town. I said, well why not? And they said, because it's caught up in materialism, it's caught up in in uh wealth and connection and all and so I I was hearing that and I began to ask them and challenge them as a Christian. So you're saying that those who are caught up in materialism and wealth and affluence don't need Jesus And as we began to talk about it, they began to notice how they were using the gospel as a cover-up for their own prejudice. They were saying, no, we want to go over here and live with these folks who aren't quite as wealthy and quite as connected. And that's great. But what they were doing is not just that. They were beginning to say, yeah, but we're not like them. And I said, yes, but that couple next to you that are trying to climb the corporate ladder need your prayers and they need your witness. We can't go about protecting ourselves and be successful in the mission of witnessing for Jesus Christ. So we must avoid the twin dangers of assimilation and being against the world. So how do we engage it? Jesus says here in one preposition what it looks like. How to engage when he says in verse 18, as you sent me into the world. The word into, I believe, means with. With the world. With those who, in fact, don't look like, act like. Believe like, vote like you do. We are called to go into the world because, again As Keller said, it means that we get out of our comfort zone. But we won't do so and engage with those Who need the gospel, unless we realize that God did far more than get out of his comfort zone. He gave his life And when we engage the world and we are engaging those of you this morning that may not believe. We do so not with our wisdom. It is with the gospel. We engage the world like this. That the gospel in fact gives us, if you have a pen, you can write these down, four quick things. It gives us a new respect, a new hope, a new courage, and a new love. Watch. This new respect. That we engage the world with a new respect because the gospel teaches us. To have deep respect for non-Christians. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches the Christian To have a deep respect for non-Christians. Since we are saved only by grace, we expect even those Who do not know Christ to actually exceed us, to exceed us in wisdom, doing good, and even with insight. A deep new respect. And so we engage others. Engage youth who may not believe with a deep respect. Secondly, it is with a new hope. The gospel teaches us that the greatest hope for non-Christians is the gospel. That there is no person this morning who is here who is beyond the gospel. There is no one, there is no one who is too far away. And wherever it is you come from this morning, you need to hear this. That you are never too far out of reach for the gospel of Jesus Christ because every person who professes Jesus is the product of a miracle. There is no one, no one who is predisposed to accepting the gospel No education, no socioeconomic background, nothing predisposes anyone here to getting it. We are all before a holy God equal. Equally empty. And it is the gospel that reaches, which gives the Christian a profound new hope That what Colombia and the region and the world needs are Christians who love them And who have hope and breathe and speak that hope into their lives. So a new respect, a new hope, but also a new courage The gospel keeps us from overdependence on the approval of others, as I mentioned earlier. It keeps us from an overdependence on the approval of others. It means that the Christian is called to speak clearly and directly with humility. The truth and power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That if Jesus, who got out of heaven gave himself up and is now sending his disciples with that message, the victory over sin and death. That then changes the way you live. If this is what God has done, and He is in you, and you are in Him, there is profound courage. But is to speak directly with humility. So new respect, new hope, new courage, and finally new love The gospel calls the church and the Christian To into the world with the desire to love those that we speak the gospel to. Let me explain. The gospel never calls the Christian or the Christian church into the culture and into the world to win arguments. We are called to witness. And that means we must be free from a defensiveness. And we also must be free from seeking to evangelize others for the sake of evangelizing We are called to share the gospel because we love other human beings. And I will tell you, that is a strong, strong corrective to my own heart. Do I share the gospel with those who do not believe because I love them? Or as a Christian, have I bought into this thing that maybe God will love me more if I can get another notch on my belt if someone accepts Jesus? This gospel love calls me again that Jesus Doesn't see any human being as a project. He sees them as the recipients of his piercing, profound, and powerful love. And he draws them to himself. Therefore, the Christian has a new love. Not to win arguments, but to witness. Because we love those God has put us into relationship with. The reality is we are always going to walk this tension between trying to be affirmed by the world and trying to be against the world. Which is why from the beginning to the end the Church of Jesus Christ is given the gospel because it is where we begin, it is where we live, it is where we will end, and we must come back to these things. But it is the only thing, the only thing that the church is given. And he sends it out. He sends you out because he gave us his son. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, by your Holy Spirit, renew in us The glory of the gospel, and the weight of your glory, that you would equip this body, this people With the only resources that you have promised, the word and spirit, to faithfully witness into the world Father, I ask that you would do this and give us a joy in it. For you are a God who with joy and love Died for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen