The attractive woman that was sitting across from me in my office told me that she was there because the Lord had led her to me. The Holy Spirit had led her to come to me. Yes, she was a follower of Jesus Christ. So I asked, well, what particular congregation do you belong to? She said, Oh, I'm not a member of any church. I just belong to the kingdom. And then she told me her story. We were attending a church in Ellicott City, and uh at one point we decided that the pastor was getting too judgmental. And so I walked out with my husband and I said, We're not Never going back to that place. And then we prayed and we opened up the newspaper and we were led of the Lord to pick a church and we began to get involved there. As we got involved, uh the Lord led us into uh desire for some leadership in the church. But the church said that they required membership before you could be a leader. Well of course, she said, I refuse to do this because, as she said, then I'm afraid that because I love them so much, I would be consumed if I were to make that much of a commitment. And I thought, Lord Jesus, I'm glad that that's not how you felt toward me. Lord Jesus committed himself totally to me and gave his life to me, without fear of being consumed by me. In fact, the Lord was consumed by his love and gave all, because he wasn't afraid to commit himself. of that love. As we talked further, it became clear to me that this person's whole view of life was simply to hang loose, to never really commit herself to anyone. This was reflected in the problems in her marriage. It is reflected in the whole problem of authority. She could never submit herself to any authority that God had appointed in her life. And this was now ruining her marriage. It was affecting her relationship to the Lord, and she was running from church to church. She had two problems, basically. One was a problem with authority and inability To submit herself to God's appointment authority in her life. The second problem, I think, was the fact that she did not understand the nature of the church as the people of God. She didn't understand that when the Lord had called her to himself, he had called her to a commitment not only to himself, but also to his people. You know, in a recent Gallup poll that was taken, seven out of every ten church people in the United States say that a person can be a good Christian without ever attending church. Eight out of ten unchurch people say that The person can be a fine, good Christian without ever attending or being involved in any church. A recent Penn State study confirmed the findings of the Gallup poll and summarized their findings just. They said, but for millions of Americans, believing in Christ is totally divorced from belonging to any organized church. These people aren't saying simply that mu that going to church does not save you. I'm not simply saying that going to a church does not make you a Christian. And I'll realize, I hope, that that's a true statement. And joining a church does not make you any more a Christian than joining a tennis club makes you a tennis ball. It's not joining the church that makes you a Christian, it's the relationship to Jesus Christ. But they're not simply saying that. They're saying beyond that, your identification with the people of God in a local basis. is totally optional, totally separate, separate question entirely from your relationship to Jesus Christ. And currently seven out of ten church people in America have that opinion. It's very different from the New Testament's point of view. We come to this question: why do I need to attend a church? Why do I need to be involved with some local church? Why can't I be just as good a Christian by myself? You take a look at what Peter has has to say in that we see a very different view from what we often hear about us today, with the independent Christians that we all know. Now let me tell you that as we turn to First Peter chapter two for our scripture this morning, this is the last message on 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 9 and 10 for at least some time. So if you haven't memorized verses 4 to 10, or at least verses 9 and 10 by now, this is the one that wraps it up, your last chance. And you hear me cheers on that. But I know what some of them are thinking. Okay. 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 4 to 10. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also like living stones are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in scripture it says, see I lay a stone in Klein, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious, but to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stone stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation , a people belong to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you have not received mercy, But now you have received mercy. I want to draw together the heart of all that we've been saying, from these two verses, into a climax this morning, under this idea of the People of God. That's what we've been dealing with, you remember all these past weeks? Under the identity of the church, this first idea of the church being the people of God. We're going to go on, beginning the next time to consider the church as the body of the body of Christ and what that means and the fellowship of the Spirit, but the basic foundation has now been laid of the church as the people of God. Three times Paul uses that word people, you see there in those two verses. Actually, uh the one in the NIV, you are a chosen people, is a different word. It really in some ways would be better translated, a chosen race. Uh but he says you are people belonging to God. Verse 10, you are not a people. That you now are a people, the people of God. Notice the terms that he's used in this whole section by which he describes the church. Notice up there in uh verse 4 and 5, he talked about the church being a spiritual house, uh a unit of a house related and built together. He's talked about the the church as a chosen race there in verse nine. A race of people. A priesthood, not just a group of priests. uh but a a united priesthood, a fellowship of priests. He's talked about the church as a nation. He talks about the church as a people who belong to God. My contrast that, for instance, with a lot of the other ways that New Testament speaks about Christians, talks about Christians as saints, talks about Christians as God's elect. Peter talks about Christians here as uh aliens, as strangers in the world, uh many other terms you can use to describe Christians. But these are very particular terms because all of them have in mind the relationship of Christians to one another, how we're bound together. Now notice that in these verses nine and ten. I want to focus on three words that Peter has chosen to bring the force of this home to us. Three words, the word race, the word nation, and the word people. Notice how he uses them. First of all, he says, You are chosen race. The word there is genos. That's what you see in the bulletin outline. A chosen race. And that word genos refers to descendants of a common ancestor. That's the basic use of the word. For instance, in Acts seven thirteen the word is used to refer to the family of Joseph. Uh Jacob's genos, uh the whole family of Joseph, uh his father Jacob and their whole genos. Uh the word can refer to a species of uh plants, a species of fish, it's used to refer that way in Greek literature. Whenever you take a group of something and consider it as a whole, whenever you consider what binds those things together, you use this word get up. Paul uses it to refer to kinds of things. For instance, in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and 14, where Paul talks about various kinds of tongues. The word kind there is the same The same word here in verse Peter two nine translated race or people. Various kinds. You're a chosen kind of people, you see. That's what he's talking about. The word used of the Jewish race a number of times in the Bible. Galatians 1. 14, for instance, in Philippians chapter 3, verse 5. In Philippians 3. 5 , for instance, Paul says he was circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, referring to Israel as a nation, as a people, as a race of people. And that word dear people is the word genos. So it refers to people taken as a whole. The interesting thing you see is that the only time this word refers to Christians as a people is in this verse. Of all the times it appears in the Bible, this one time it's used to refer to the church. You see, we miss the distinctive and uh the the shock value almost that that Peter's trying to apply here. We just take it for granted. Yeah, you're a church. race, you know, because we see it and we are fairly familiar with it. What Paul Peter's doing here is he is saying, You're a whole new kind of people. You're a race of people, a new kind of people, a new chosen humanity. In Jesus Christ. You have people that are so distinct, it's like God created a whole new spiritual race. And that race is created in the offspring of David. That's very distinctive use. And the unique use of that is in Revelation chapter. Revelation 22, verse 16. Let's take a look at that. It's a very unusual use of this word. Help us to understand it. Revelation 22, 16, Jesus says, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this. Testimony for the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright morning star. That word offspring there is the same word Genos here used to refer to the chosen people of the church. is a race. And Jesus, as an individual, there is saying, I am a race. The race, the offspring of David. Why is that? Once you see what Jesus is saying. He's saying I am the founder of a whole new race of people. I am the founder of a whole new kind of humanity. A whole new different kind of people are going to be constituted in me. Through Jesus Christ, God has made a new humanity, a new people. A people who are distinct in him and he represents us before God. We're going to see that a little more in a few minutes. But right now the question I want to bring to your attention is this one. Do you ever think of the church as a race of people, as a whole distinctive kind of people? They don't look any different? No physical characteristics. That distinguish us. But do you get God's perspective on the church? You're a different kind of people. So distinct and so different that God describes us as a whole new race of humanity. whole new kind of people in Jesus Christ. Well the second word that he uses here is the word nation. Notice he talks about the Holy Priesthood, but I want to focus on the word nation. The word nation is is the word ethnos. Now that word can refer to a herd of animals, can refer to a swarm of flies, used in that way. The word when referring to people always refers to a People associated together visibly, according to some common experience and common distinctive features, such as their manners, mannerisms, customs, things like this. But did you catch that? It always refers to a people who are associated together visibly. The word ethnos is the word, of course, from which we get our word ethnic. A race or a group of people who are distinguished by some common traits or customs. Now uh do you see what Peter's saying about this? He's saying that Christians are ethnics. And what is that common trait The distinctive character which sets us apart as ethnic. This is right here. We are holy ethnic. The distinctive trait, the only distinguishing character which should set us apart is holiness. Holiness to God. Being set apart to him. Do you ever go into Baltimore or in Philadelphia or New York City? And Baltimore particularly is good for this, how it's divided into various ethnic communities. And you have the Polish community, the Italian community. You can now go to Harbor Place and they have uh ethnic festivals. And you go to the festival and what do you see there? You see all kinds of particular food, craft. Close, you hear the language of that group of people, the native tongue. And all of their ethnic distinctive features are set out there before you. The distinctive features are very obvious as you look at them. a distinctive language, distinctive tastes in various things. You see what Peter's saying here. Peter's saying, so it is with Christians. We all should be able to look at us and by our language and by our tastes There should be things that set us apart as ethnics. We should have a holy ethnicity about us which sets us apart as God's people. We 're the holy ethnic as the Church of God. Jesus Christ. But there's another point here that we can't miss either, and that is that ethnicity binds you together. Now if you're an Italian and you go into uh Little Italy and you walk in There and you're immediately one of us. You're one of us. And those things you see that that are different about you from me are relatively unimportant. Because the thing that binds us together that If I were Italian, you might have guessed I'm not. But the things that would bind us together, you see, if I was an Italian ethnic, are the things or the basic identity of being Italian. And whatever other ethnic group it is. If your ethnicity is prominent and important to you, you can walk into a group and you're immediately accepted because that's what binds you together. What happens with Christians? Babes Larson said Christians are like porcupines a snowstorm. We're driven by the snowstorm to keep warm and get together. But as soon as we get close, we prick each other. Christians, you see, should be drawn to Together by our ethnicity. There should be a conscious sense of our Christian ethnicity, a conscious sense of those spiritual ties that bind us together that are more important than any of differences and differences in doctrine and differences in values and taste and difference of our background difference of personalities culture the Christian ethnicity should override all these things But so often we'll have those pork-powers in a snowstorm. As soon as we begin to get close, we're drawn together to keep warm, we begin to prick each other. And the differences become more important to us than the ethnicity that should bind us together. Peter says, your ethnics. You're a holy ethnic nation. You're a group of people who are bound together in the distinctive trait of holiness in your ethnicity. Finally, the third thing that he says here is that we're the people of God. People of God for his possession. It's a word that's used on many times. times in the Greek translation of the Old Testament and in the New Testament. And it's used in a very special sense. It's almost a technical word, used to refer to the people. The Bible uses that in a way that you could almost simply use it to stand alone. When he speaks of the laos, it is the people. That is, the people of God is the state, set apart from all other peoples on the face of the earth. The people, God's people, the people for his own possession, those who are special to him. This is so true, you know, that the word is never used in the plural to refer to the people of God, never refers to God's people as peoples. It's always the people, one group of people bound together with a common identification, so that their identity as individuals is wrapped up in their identity as a common people of Jesus Christ. A people who belong together. This very sense of their identity includes one another. But what sets this people apart from all other people? You see, he says there in verse 9. You're a people belonging to God. You're his own. own treasured possession. Beyond that he even says in verse ten , once you were not a people. See there was a time when you and I were indistinguishable from everybody else. No difference. Nothing Set us apart, we were not distinct, we were simply part of the peoples of the world. Nothing set us apart beyond what our own national and ethnic heritage and racial heritage determined. And so Peter said, That was the way you were. You were people who in that state uh were not God's people, as Hosea says. You're not my people. You had no mercy. Notice he says there in verse ten. once not received mercy. And in that condition, you and I, as rebels against God, as those who had said basically, God, you run the universe your way and let me live my life my way, had turned against him. And in that position We faced God's curse. In that position we faced as a just God his sure judgment. We faced his wrath because God to maintain his own integrity has to judge sin. And because God has to judge that, you and I face that. And there was no hope for us to do anything to get out of that position. But the Bible says that there was a time when God took us who were just like everybody else, and he made us a people. How did he make us a people? Don't miss this. The one thing that distinguishes you and me from the rest of the people of the earth is mercy. We've received mercy. It's not what we've done. It's not what we've made ourselves. So Peter says, Once you were not a people, and now you are a people. Once you have not received any mercy, and what made you a people was that you received mercy. God was a God of justice. Justice showed himself also as a God of mercy, and he showed mercy on you. You thank Jesus Christ, the representative that we talked about before, the offspring of David, and Jesus Christ was the one who came and he took that punishment. And I deserved. Jesus Christ had no reason to get any punishment from the Father. He was his own son. And yet, in order for God to get a people, the Son became cursed. The Son was cast. And became not his people, not his son. So that you and I would become the people of God and receive that mercy. So you and I are people in Jesus. God has made us to be his own. And if you don't know what that means this morning, if when you think of the people of God, you think of the kind of ethnicity and the kind of corporate identity that I'm speaking of this morning, you don't know anything about that. Then I implore you, perhaps you came here You didn't know why you chose this church to come on this August day. But God's brought you here. And God's brought you here to tell you about Himself, that He's a God of mercy, that He wants you to become part of His people, that He wants you to give your life to Jesus Christ. To recognize your own need for mercy, to recognize that you have no hope for God and His acceptance apart from His mercy in Jesus Christ. If you've never trusted Jesus, if you've never given your life to Him, I beseech you, I work. And I invite you today to come to Jesus Christ, come and see your need for Him. Come and see that He is the only provision that's sufficient to cover your sin. For those of us who have come to the Lord, Jesus Christ, who are part of that people. How do you think of that? When you think of yourself as a Christian, do you think primarily of you and Jesus? And uh where you ask Happen to be associated with lots of other people who call themselves Christians in some kind of a voluntary association which we call the church? Or when you think of yourself as a Christian, is part of your identity, the fact that you're part of a people, God's people. The fact that your commitment is not only to Jesus Christ, but because of that it's also to a people as an essential part of your being, as an essential part of your understanding who you are. a Christian? Or is it rather that uh you sort of have the attitude, you live your life and I'll live my life. I'll pray for you and you pray for me and we'll fellowship together when our paths cross. But when the bottom line comes, it's my privacy and my independence that I'm going to preserve. And you or no one else is going to tell me what to do except the Lord. And I'll decide how he tells me what to do. Or do you look at this , look at one another, and say, You and I are in this together. When God called us, he called us as a people. He doesn't simply call us as a motley collection of individuals. He's bound us together as his people. And so your problems are my problems and your joys are my joys. And what touches your life touches me. And I'm concerned about that. I can't be unless I link wish a certain degree of my privacy and my sense of independence and realize that we're part of the people of God. A very neutral article that I read just recently in the August issue of Psychology Today uh Called the Age of Indifference, talks about the alienation of people from each other today. One of the things that uh Zimbardo, Professor Zimbardo says in this article is a move that from too many people too close. The well tended front lawn is the modern moat that keeps the barbarians at bay. Every occupant in a separate bedroom with a private toilet, personal television, telephone and hi fi reduces the hassles and conflicts. No need to share. How do we see ourselves as a visible community of the people of God? I want to draw out just a couple of the implications of this. I'm not going to have time to go over all these. We'll pursue some of them more as we get into the body of Christ. But I'd like to drive home just a couple points for God to lay hold of us, to realize how we need to perhaps rethink and and To consider further what it means to be the people of God in this this morning. So take a look there on the other side of the implications and the applications of this, what Peter's trying to get across to us to our lives. The first one Regards the sin of American independence and my precious privacy. What I was just talking about. No Americans declared independence from England in 1776. They've been declared. independence from each other ever since. You take the 19th century Maryland preacher Dalton Stone, for an example. Stone was a very powerful preacher, a rugged product of the American pioneer spirit. And Stone preached and declared that all church structures were suspect. There's no name but Christian that he would own. He was only human Jesus and no creed but the Bible. recognized no human authority. All human authorities corrupt and come in between us in Jesus Christ, he said. He reflected the spirit of his age. The individual was preeminent. It was the pioneer year for God or in whatever capacity that is prominent in America. Stowe 's motto was every man for himself and God for us all. Me and Jesus Me and the New Testament and nothing in between. Sort of reminds me of a church that had on its cornerstone these words The Church of Jesus Christ, founded in Jerusalem A D thirty three. Established in Sweetwater, Texas, nineteen twenty eight. See nothing in between. There it is, that's the church, the pure New Testament church. And as some observers have said about Americans, we have a rabid zeal To obliterate everything in between and just try to get back to the original church without any regard of us being the people of God. The fellow who um particularly pointed this out was A Frenchman by the name of Alexis de Tookville. Very interesting character. I'll read something fascinating. He took a tour to the United States in 1840. And then he wrote a book that's become a classic. As an observer, looking at the American spirit. What characterizes Americans? This new nation, now you see, in 1840. The main thing that struck Tocteville in that book was the spirit of American individualism. He coined the word to write that. The spirit of individualism. It's hard for us to believe. That wasn't even a word before that. He took knowledge that Americans have a uh terrific, powerful sense of of their own independence and of their own um ability to run their own lives and nobody's telling them what to do. And he said that Americans have taken the concept of society that has existed for thousands of years in which our A part of a people, and for an American, his values and his rights all originate in the individual. The society exists for the individual rather than the individual as part of the society and existing for the society. Society. Do you ever start to realize that America is unique in this kind of thing? Now I think, you know, as Americans is very hard for us to appreciate this, we're so wrapped up in it. In America, you know, there was never an American church. Never from the beginning was there ever an American church. Church. From the very beginning America was pluralistic in its churches. All kinds of churches came from all kinds of countries to establish different denominations in America. He goes to the average rural town in America if there's four corners on me. There's four churches, one on each corner. Maybe they get more churches in it, they can get more quarters. I never saw a third or fourth Baptist church, you know. First Baptist Church. I don't know whatever happened in third of the Firstlands on Dominic. I've heard of Cape Presbyterian, but that's another matter. I've never heard of any any others. But we have in America this this concept that we gather with people For uh to build a church which is a kind of a voluntary association, a fellowship to help me in my walk with Jesus Christ. My own independence. And so in America you have in the 19th century the rise of independent missions. agencies. You had the rise of many parachurch movements in the United States. And how do many of these originate? God called me to start something. And God has called me and given me a vision to build his kingdom. very often in total isolation from any concept of being part of the body of Jesus Christ in submission to that body. God's given me a vision, I'm going to go one off and do it. And everybody that I can influence to follow me in doing that, I will do so. And so you have in America the whole concept of the great leader, the person who gathers people around him to follow him as the individual who sees God, with very little emphasis on the people of God working together as a corporate identity as a people who are bound together in submission and in commitment to one another as a covenant community. So much so that today you have over 250 denominations professing to be Christians. Christian in the United States. Why is this? Of course I'm not saying at all that we ever should compromise on important issues of doctrine. of the things you would want to assail us as a denomination or probably me as an individual was wanting to do. But on the other hand, isn't it true that so often we can make big issues and go our own ways and separate from our brothers and sisters because of our precious convictions. And we rationalize a desire for independence and a desire for privacy under the guise Of conviction. It's simply the American spirit. It says that the people of God is a voluntary association of Christians. That's what's primary. I often in my Bible Peter says, You're a nation, you're a people, you're a race that is bound visibly together and that must be expressed in a common commitment to one another. That must be given expression in the way you treat one another, in the way you love one another. in the way you associate together as the people of God. I think of uh how we as Christians have this concept of God leading us, which is so individualistic. Uh just as Greek, I don't know if you noticed but I got a haircut, but usually when I get one it calls for comments and attentions for some reason. So I went to a barber, that's even more unusual. As I sat in a barber's chair, uh we got into a conversation about an herb. And I was talking to Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. Well that was a little startling to me since he had just said before that the whole solution to man's problems was just that we love one another and express this. And I said, uh well really and uh he said, Yes, he says, God speaks to me all the time. time. I said, great, you read the Bible. No, I don't read the Bible. God speaks to me, you see. I'm not associated with the people of God. Condest is a Christian. God speaks to him as an individual. God shows him how to lead his life. And in this independent spirit we keep each other apart what about you and me are you holding off are you maintaining as as important to you beyond your relationship with the people of God Your own independence, your own precious privacy. I find that this is something that really challenges me as a Christian, more than many other things. I don't want to give up my privacy to become part of the people of God. God. But if you and I are going to mean business in following Jesus Christ, every one of us has got to recognize this tendency in us, whether it is slight or whether it is marked or whether it is overwhelming, and we've got to confess it before God. We've got to ask God to read out from us. That zeal to maintain our own privacy and independence, and to refuse to submit to and identify and commit ourselves to a visible body of Jesus Christ, to become part of his people in a way that's visible and has given meaningful experience. Expression in our experience. This attitude that we've got to deal with, as I look in my own life, I found it's rather scary. I don't want to give up my privacy. But I want to experience in some ways what it really means to be a visible community. Because that threatens me. It threatens my privacy. And yet Jesus Christ is that's what he's called his people to be. And God says to become back. kind of a people is to experience a blessing that you and I could never know any other way. Not only do we see this kind of independence in our own um desire for privacy, but just one other thing I want to touch on. And that is this consumer mentality. This consumer mentality toward the Church of Jesus Christ. You see, this attitude of independence and privacy combines with a lot of other factors to produce this kind of a consumer mentality toward the church. The pluralism in America means basically competition. You see, you've got all these different groups, and all these different groups are showing how they're following the Lord. Come and join us, because we are on the right track in following Jesus Christ. Kind of an entrepreneurial spirit, you see. May the best man win. I remember once when I was serving on university staff at Syracuse University , there was a group there that had been a Christian group for many, many years Years. One Christian group. Another group came on campus, just simply decided because they had prayed in another state, had never visited Syracuse University, and they decided God had called them to start an alternate group at Syracuse University without ever having to They came and they started another group. And as they did this, of course, it presented conflict for the students. They began to take some of our students and want to train them to be position of leaders for their group. And concerned for this, I went to the head staff of the other group and I But I'm concerned because there's becoming a competitive spirit among the Christians here. Because the Christians are confused and they don't know how to handle this. What are we going to do? And his response to me was, Well, we both have our programs. best man wins. That striking you see is a peculiar American way of dealing with the people of God. Uh you have a program, you see, and may the best man win. You go as a Christian and you see all about Christian seminars, Christian conferences. Are they all drawing for your attention? You look around you and you see Christian literature, you see Christian media, you can have alternate different different Christian TV stations that you can watch. And all this kind of thing produces in us a consumer mentality as Christians. I shop around for what's going to help me grow in the Lord. So you move to an area and what do you do? You shop around. You can talk about that. Shop around for churches. Yeah, some of you are shopping around here now, I don't know. But there's nothing wrong when we go to an area to look around at various alternatives for churches that God wants us to be part of. But is the mentality like picking a doctor, you know, go look around, find a church that helps us ministers to us the best, can help us to go with the Lord the best, and then we'll buy into it. And if it doesn't meet our needs or somehow the return on the investment doesn't seem to be sufficient, it just goes somewhere else. That's totally contrary to what Peter's talking about. Father, I should go into that situation. I want to say, Lord, where is a manifestation of the people of God here that you want me to identify with, commit myself to, and serve? Where can I best serve you as part of the people of God in this community? Ask you. times you hear that kind of an attitude if people look around. And that's not only in ourselves. We see it in people all about us. The church is simply a voluntary organization. For me to associate with or not as It's me the best. Every one of us know of people who name the name of Jesus Christ and have no association with the visible people of God. But you and I this morning deal with this attitude in our own lives and whether we're willing to really commit ourselves and see ourselves as part of the visible people of God as a covenant community, become committed to his people and be identified with his people, we also have to consider The funds and the people that we love and know who have no concern for this. That we teach them, that we instruct them, that we pray for them, that we leave them in the scriptures to see what the people of God means. But what will happen if we don't? God may have to increase the snowstorm. God may have to make it a desert. These words written in 1 Peter were written to a church in persecution. And that church in persecution means that it's not a good thing. To be a chosen race, a holy nation, and a people of God. And through the history of the church, God has had to time and again use persecution to drive the people of God together so that The prickliness is not nearly so important as keeping warm. And God may need to do that again in our day. Unless we listen. Let's pray. As we pray this morning, I'm going to lead us. In prayer and then after we're going to conclude praying together. Prayer the Christians have prayed together for two thousand years, the Lord's Prayer. Let's pray. Our Lord our God. We confess before you how little it seems that we understand of what it means to be the people of God. We have a glimpse of it, we see a little sense of it, Lord, that we praise you that in our day Now there's a greater stress on meaningful fellowship. Father, we've seen uh a lot of this in our under shepherd groups. Uh we've seen how you've begun to give us a sense of this identity. But Lord, we realize that we're fighting our whole cultural trend, a trend of isolation, privacy, and independence that goes very deep into our beings. And Lord, we realize that this is not simply the way we are, but it's counter to the way you'd have us to be. It's not simply a cultural or personality issue. It's a spiritual issue. My Lord our God, how we pray that you would enable each of us to recognize that desire for independence would be a very good idea. That desire to not associate in a commitment with the people of God because I want to walk with you and get my direction only from you directly, and to adore the rest of the people of God in my submission. Father this goes to the very grain of our being which resists authority, uh which resists commitment in the sense of a covenant community. Powerful father in dealing with that. Oh Father, we we praise you that you who are the God of mercy have made us who once were not a people to become the people of God. Father, if there's one or more with you this morning who has never experienced that mercy, we pray. My father, that you would make apparent to them their need, their desperate need, to bow before Jesus Christ and confess their sin , their rebellion against you, and confess with the Lord Jesus in his provision on the cross. only means of our being acceptable to you. Father, we pray that you would do that that we might together become the people of God. We pray, Father, for those of our people who are not here but are traveling, of your friends and with family, Father, we We pray that even as they're there you will give them a sense of being the people of God in the places that they are. For many of us, the opportunity of travel that gives us a broader sense of being the people of God. And that we can walk into a strange congregation, strange church, and when we hear your word preached and we see people praising you, we realize that deeper than any earthly ethnicity this binds us together as your people. Father, we pray that we might grow in our sense of Christian ethnicity. That you might believe God on us as Christians here in Columbia, in Howard County, in this area of Maryland. Father, we thank you that you have called us to yourself and made us your people. And Father, that you are continuing to work in us as your people. Thank you, Father, for your mercy that's new to us each day. We think of the sin that we've committed this past week. We think, Father, of our own weakness. We think of our blindness and our own double mindedness. Father, we've said that we love you and we've said that we want to serve you, and yet this week again and again, we have been double minded. We've had one foot in this world and the other foot in your kingdom. And Father, so many powers we shifted back and forth in our priorities, in our love, in our concern. We've denied you at various points. We have turned away from you. We've been selfish. We've been thoughtless. How we thank you for your mercy. Father, thank you that you continue to love us. We pray, Father, for those who are discouraged this morning right here. That you would lift them up in their discouragement and turn them to Jesus. Father, that you would turn them to see his provision which is so free and free. Determine to see that his arms are open to them and that the Lord Jesus has never has or could reject us as his people. Father, help us to run to you when we're discouraged and when we're down. Father, we Pray also for that church, this part of us as a people, the church in San Francisco. As there's been the news of this appeal now, Father, of the gay rights advocates, we pray, Lord, that you would strengthen them We pray, Father, that uh if this goes to the Supreme Court, that you would bring from that a decision that would vindicate the right of the church to discipline its members, that you would get honor from this whole process and that you would provide for them the money. They need for the little fees, and that the image of Jesus Christ would not be tarnished in all of these proceedings. They would handle themselves wisely before you. Father, we pray also around the world for brothers and sisters who We think of the strife and turmoil in Ethiopia. We think of the Somalian refugees, uh so many who have had to leave homes, so many the mothers and old people who have crossed the border into Somalia. And who are without any home. Father, we pray that you would uh bring an end to that uh strife, to the warfare in Ethiopia, that those people would be able to return to their homes. Father, we pray for rain to come. there in so many parts of Africa, but particularly in that part now that uh threatens uh another total crop failure and all that will go on there in that. Father we pray that you would show your mercy. Uh you would give right and withhold it. Uh that they would give We pray for rain in our own land where there is drought, not only for ourselves, but so that we would have food.