Acts chapter 1. We'll be reading some verses from from the first chapter, several different places. We do believe in our church that the Bible is the Word of God. The only rule of faith and practice. So let's give careful attention to it. Acts chapter one, beginning with verse six. So when they met together, they asked him, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the the kingdom to Israel. He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. In all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. In verse 12. And when they returned to Jerusalem, in the hill called Mount Olives, a Sabbath day's walk from the city, when they arrived, they went upstairs to the room. And where they were sta where they were staying. Those present were Peter, John, James, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James, the son of Alpheus, and Simon. And Judas, son of James. They all join together constantly in prayer, along with the women, and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. Let's pray. Lord, we rejoice that we can come this morning as your people to worship you, and that one of the things that you desire from us is to pray to you, our God. And Lord, if we examine your word this morning, we do pray that your spirit would cause us to see the connection between advancing your kingdom, living holy lives, all of the things that we want to see happen, and our being a praying people. Lord, uh, teach us something new and fresh this morning. morning as we look at your word. Come, Holy Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's hard to preach a series because especially in the summer when you have different people here every week, people going on vacation. So I just want to take a minute, for those of you that may not have been here last week, to see where we're going as we take these five five themes from Acts. Last week we looked at the certainty and the scope of Christ's kingdom advancing. And we saw a theme verse for Acts is Acts 18. You see uh the you see the promise back in Isaiah two that says All the Lord will go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And then we see Jesus. We read it this morning. Spirit, as power will come on them, he tells them to wait. And then he says, You shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem. And we saw that. Acts one through seven. We see the gospel advancing uh from Jerusalem. Then we see in Acts eight through nine into Judea and Samaria. It's like he promises in Acts 1. 8. And then in the last chapters of Acts, into the remotest parts of the earth. And we saw last week the certainty of that happening. That it will happen as the gospel advances all around the earth. And numbers of people come to Christ. And that because Jesus Jesus is King, that's certain to happen. Well this is a uh might seem a little contradictory with what we're gonna look at today. Last week the uh the kingdom strikes back. This week the kingdom's secret weapon, prayer. And we say it's necessary to hear people preach on it, how prayer is so essential for the Church of Christ to advance. We have to be a praying people. And you wonder, is this contradictory? Last week we say it's certain to happen. And this week we say it depends on prayer. Is it certain to happen? I appreciate praying with Gwyn. We uh last year until he skipped out and moved on us, uh and he did live next door to us. We would get together Friday morning Friday mornings and we'd pray. And we pray for the world and we'd run together and uh And one of the things when he'd pray that I appreciated, he he'd thank the Lord that we can participate in what he is doing. This here, turn that off. We can participate in what he's doing. God has not only ordained the end What we saw there and what he's promised will happen, but he's also ordained the means. And one of those means is prayer. We see in the book of Acts a church that prays together, they're devoted to prayer. Uh I I can't exactly put that together. God is going to accomplish his purposes with us or without us. He will accomplish his purposes. It's sort of like uh if I'm trying to get to the bank and there's a rope and I'm in a boat and I'm pulling, I'm working hard, and I get to the bank. I've made progress, but it wasn't the bank that moved, it was me. And some of the some people say that's sort of what it's like in prayer. It's not God so much that moves, it's us. It's that we need to be a praying people. I'm going to look at that this morning in some of the passages from the book of Acts. And how we see that they are people that were fervent in prayer and devoted to prayer. Now, how can we say that we must be devoted to prayer? How can I explain that to you? See in your bulletin outline, fervent in prayer, devoted to prayer. Think of something like so many things. Easier to describe than to give a definition for I knew a preacher in New York, New Jersey, labored in the inner city for twenty five years, started the church for nothing and and God really blessed them. And one lady was visiting in the hospital with an older lady and uh she she was getting ready to die. and she said, Pastor Wilcox, please pray for my son. That he would come to Christ. He had professed faith in Christ when he was a little boy and uh he had gotten away and been away for years. He was older, forties or fifties, and uh she had just about lost hope. And Robert Wilcox uh prayed for for him and put him on his list and prayed for him consistently. Twenty years later, he was in a lunchonette with my father. He had started lunchonette across from a high school as a ministry to to get the kids that were troubled in the inner city. And they were there gonna have a prayer meeting that day for the work. And the little work house was there and this and this man came in with my father and uh said, This is John Siri, Rover. Uh I want you to meet him. He's just come come to the Lord about a few months ago and he is uh studying he wants to go on and serve the Lord in some kind of ministry here. He wants to work with us here in the lunch night with the kids. And tears came to Grover's eyes. And he said, John Search He said, twenty John was fifty five or so now, he said, Twenty years ago I met your mom when she was dying in the hospital uh down in South Newark. And I have been praying for you ever since. Never met him and He had been praying for this man, didn't know where he was, who he was. And God honored the tenacity of that man. He held on like a bulldog and kept on praying. God honored that and brought him to himself. That is fervently in prayer. And that's the picture that we see in the book of Acts. Look at 114, our main text for today. We look at a couple verses. But uh 114, these were all with one mind, were continually devoting themselves to prayer, says in the NASB. NIV says constantly devoting themselves. them in. You pick those two constantly diverted and you see kind of both sides of this weak word here. That one angle of it is time, steadfastness. And it does take time. Time that we put into things do show our parties, whether it's T V or sports or our kids or uh wives, whatever the time the amount of time we put into something does reflect the priorities that we have. But that's not all. It's more than that. It's also the intensity. And there's that side of this word here, an intensity to their prayer, which we see in the book of Acts. In Acts two forty two, turn over there and make this a a page or two. We see the same word again used, the same Greek word in Acts two forty two. They were continually debating themselves through those four things, the apostles teaching, the fellowship the breaking of dead and to prayer. It was something the early church was devoted to. When over in Acts 6, verse 4, and here's one that uh has been very convicted to me. Acts 6 verse 4. The elders and the leaders are getting caught up in too many administrative duties and other sorts of things. And look where they put their priorities. We will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the world. Prayer. First. They list it first. It's going to be one of the two things that will be most important to the leaders of the early church. Here's what we ought to be doing, they say, and that's what they give the concept. One of the uh members of our church, he's a one of our high-tech scientists this a few weeks ago uh asked me, what do you do all the time? What do you spend your forty hours a week doing? Uh I'm kind of suspect when someone uh you know asked that and if he was between the lines saying It must be nice to uh work one day a week, you know, as a with a preacher. Uh I don't think that was his intent. But what do you do here, forty hours? Uh I didn't punch him, I didn't uh uh I didn't tell him Carol wishes it was forty hours or anything like that, but we got talking about it. wondered, he's a high-tech scientist. I often wonder, you know, what do those guys do all day? Sit around thinking how they're But here in Acts 6. 4 is what we ought to be doing as the leaders of our church. I appreciate Al so much. Now he does make that a priority to and he's helped me in learning that to set aside lots of time to these people that are devoted to prayer, not just it's not just for the leaders. We see it here with all the people devoted to prayer, making it a priority all through the history of the church. See that great Christians, men and women, have been people of prayer. You heard probably Luther's great statement. I have so much to do today. I need to spend three hours in prayer. I've appreciated Ian bound so much. If you never read his uh devotional literature on prayer. You know, it's hard to pray. Sometimes we're hot, sometimes we're cold. It's difficult. He has really helped me with looking on prayer. E and bounds. Here's this is some things. Uh here's a quote he uses from Will DeForce, the great busy parliamentary uh leader in in Britain that early last century, very instrumental in abolishing the slave trade. He was a key man, and here's what he wrote back in his journal. This perpetual hurry of business and company ruins me and soul. if not embodied. More solitude in earlier hours. I suspect that I've been allotting habitually too little time to religious exercises, as private devotions, and religious meditation, scripture reading. Hence I am really and cold hard. I had better a lot two hours or an hour, half a half a day periodically. I've been keeping two late hours and hence have had but a hurried half hour in the morning to myself. Surely the experience of all good men confirms the proposition that without a due measure of private devotions, the soul will grow lean. But all may be done through prayer, almighty prayer, I am ready to say, and why not? Oh then, pray, pray, pray. You know, down dead, our devotions are not measured by the clock. But time is of the essence. It's important. Short devotions are obeined to deep piety. Short devotions deplete spiritual vigor, arrest spiritual progress, sap spiritual things. foundations. They blight the root and blooms of spiritual life. They're the prolific source of bachelor, the sheer indication of a superficial sciences. He goes on, you know you read this stuff, it can make you really feel guilty. You know, you read a hesitate to use it because it's just you can't go. grasp it but you know at uh David Brainerd lying face down in the snow praying for the salvation of the Indians and and then getting up soaking wet and you know from from sweat because of meeting with God. You know, I don't know anything about that. I'm happy that God's beginning to teach me something about prayer. But uh you know, it's so easy. I I hesitate even to to use some examples like that because it's so easy for us to feel guilty, oh I need to pray more, you know. And so you know we hear a sermon on prayer and we say, I gotta pray more, we run over here, we s here someone out witnessing, we run over here, I gotta witness more and we're strung out. But how we really need to examine our priorities by the word of God and say, Are we a people that's devoted to prayer? Are we learning to be a people of prayer? Yes I I Don't want to put hit upon us and say we're not doing what we should Who of this is doing what we should do? At the conference we went to two weeks ago, um they passed out a little survey. These are all missionaries. I had the little uh little prayer uh survey and one of the questions was, how much time do you spend in prayer? You see all the missionaries and other buildings out over here because none of us feels like we spend as much time in prayer. So I would ask you not to say I need to be like David Brain or not to compare yourself to someone else, but just before God, say, Am I going in prayer? And am I willing to to take some time to examine what I'm doing in my prayer life and what it means to be fervent in prayer. You know, it's exciting to pray. I it's hard to do and you know I'm uh kinda got me into his schedule of then and I found it exciting to take lots of time to pray and meet with God. A a missionary shared conference I was at, the pastors he was working with in his country, he kept telling, You know, you it's great to take a day of prayer every few months and to spend time with God at all. Clear's your mind and you really can uh can get away from the forest so you can really see, or get away from the trees so you can see the forest. And they say, Oh, we're too busy, we don't have time, too much work to do and uh we never do it. Finally after a year and a half they agreed six pastors a day. agreed to do it with him and they had to take a train way out in the country where they were gonna go for their day of prayer. And uh he got out there and there they were all gathered, okay, what do we do? And he said, Well just take your Bibles and let's go out and go find a private place. We'll meet back here in two hours. Just pause a little Lord and and uh they came back in two hours. They came back different people. He said the the joy on their faces just from having that time, they said, Hey, this is good. They prayed together for an hour, then they uh went out again and focused in on their ministries and said us and you know the last hour they came back a couple of times and then at uh three o'clock he said, Oh let's go out and we'll commit this to God in s a particular need and let's be back here at four to get the train back to uh back to town. Well four o'clock rolls around and they came back in and they Oh, there are more things we need to think about. And they said, Let's let's take a five o'clock train. So uh they prayed together for a longer time and getting close to five and said , We need more time. Let's pray together some more. They ended up taking the eight o'clock train back. Now I'm not saying go try that and it'll happen necessarily, but I if you've never taken an hour in prayer, you might try that sometimes. Just take an hour with the Lord. Or take some time, special time, to get back and to think and to see what he might teach you. Maybe to set goals as you look at the New Year. No, we really begin the new year in September. It's something to think about. But we not only see the church devoted in prayer, but we see the church united in prayer as you see on your outline. The NIV uses the word together in each of these passages that are listed there. Uh one thirteen is a good one, we'll just uh look at that. They were all with one mind. New American standards says one mind, NIV says together. NIV picks up the side of the word that shows the physical togetherness of it. Acts two forty six it's the same thing. 424 is the same thing. But the two translations again, this is why it's so good to use two translations and look at it. Either without knowing Greek or Hebrew, you can really get the sense of words as you as you look at your English Bible. They work physically together. You know how some people say, Well, we'll be with Well I get tired of hearing that sometimes. It's great to be together and you see the early church gathering together as God's people and praying together over and over and over again. In Acts twelve, when Peter's in prison, it doesn't use this word in that case. That's why I didn't I don't think I didn't list it on your bullets in that mind. So is is even if put in prison, the church gathers to pray. Not just call them up on the phone. That's great. Pray for this. They gather together physically to pray. That's good. There's something about praying together. It pleases the Lord when those people gather and they pray together to him. Uh Matthew eighteen, eighteen and nineteen are classic verses on that. Three of you or three about anything on earth it would be good. for you by my father who is in heaven. Jesus promises that. And the next verse, what two or three is added in my name, there I am in the midst. I don't understand it, but there's something there that pleases God about his people gathering together physically to pray together. There's something there. Uh another reason I think it helps us concentrate to pray together. I used to think it was bad that you know I pray and my mind wonders and goes away and then when Glenn and I pray together, my mind is much better at focusing. But uh I wonder, is that bad? I used to think it was bad. It shows my pride. You know, I can pray with Glenn, but you know to talk to God isn't good enough. You know, I need Glenn there to help me or or someone else. But God in his mercy condescends to our weakness and he encourages us to pray with other people because it does help us. And it pleases him when we do that. He is pleased in that. But not only does it help us and is it good and pleasing God to pray together, which we see in the book of Acts, but to pray together. And that's the deeper meaning of the word. And the NIV It really doesn't pick it up very well. But like the New American Standard and some of the other translations, they were with one mind in 114, not just together. Their hearts were together. It's the same word used all through the book of Acts when you see there of one accord, they're together. Together, uh their minds were united, a lot of different words. It comes from a word which means united in a particular cause. It's the same word used in Acts seven fifty seven. Not for a good thing, but remember after Stephen preached his sermon? And it said But uh they rushed even with one impulse. It's the same word. There was passion, there was anger. It says their hearts were torn. unity and a good sense to God. But we see in the book of Acts is God's people pray together, either united in a cause, related in themselves. Sort of like the countries in in uh El Salvador. They uh two different groups they hate each other, they're fighting each other before, but now they're united against the Sandinistas in a much greater and better way, bad illustration. But when we as got people gathered together, you know we're different about all sorts of things. We have uh different views about many things in our church. Diversity and that's good. We'll talk about that in a couple weeks when we look at the unity of the body of Christ in Acts. But when people gather together to pray, we have a single thought. And that's to honor Christ. I I have never seen people that that really pray together, that that that don't love each other. That's the beauty of praying together in marriage, isn't it? that that there's a unity there. Uh un we're united and you know that togetherness of being of one mind have the Holy Spirit is great in the body, but how about as husbands and wives There is no place that there's greater unity of being one flesh. And yet, when you look about the Christian church, there's there's few things I find more prevalent as I struggle in my own life praying together between husbands and wives. It's something that that few people do and with the kind of intensity we see in it. Most people don't do it at all. I was in a prayer group at seminary that it was uh really something we all held ourselves accountable on that. It was a seemed to be a universal thing that these people studying to be pastors that we were all struggling with Yet what is joy to be united together as husbands and wives and to pray to God with that one mind That same common foster I see it's that church for the matters of concerns. We can pray with others. We certainly should be able to pray with our wives And for CPC, more people it seems in our church here seem to be saying we as a people need to learn to pray. It's coming from all different sorts of people here. So there's been a lack of united prayer as a people. I say we're going to see more things next year. But opportunities already in your bullets and new things and new opportunities to gather together as a people to pray. Jonathan Edwards in his great treatise on prayer and revival he He shows how without sisters it has been united prayer with people of God gather together where God has really brought to life. United prayer. But not only do we see united prayer in the book of Acts, we see them and uh that's not a gimmick there, that blank, you know, the uh people leave a blank so you have to fill it in and you and I did it out on I wasn't sure of what word to use for what I'm trying to tell you. So I'll tell you, and you can maybe help me in some other one. We see in especially in Acts 4, that's listed as part of a text. I'll go ahead and and read that now. Acts 4, the story there. Peter and John have been released. And notice what happens when they come back. After being released. Acts 4, verse 23, and following. And when they had been released, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. And when they heard this, they lifted their voice to God with one accord, there's that unity again, and said, O Lord, it is thou who dost make the heavens and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them, who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of Our father David, thy servant, did say, Why did the Gentiles rage and the peoples devise feudal things? Verse 26. The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly, in this city They were gathered together against thy holy servant Jesus, whom thou dost anoint, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever thy hand and thy purpose predestined to occur. O Lord, take note of their threats, and grant thy bondservants that they grant but grant that thy bondservants may speak thy word with all confidence, while thou dost extend thy hand to heal, and signs and wonders take place through the name of thy holy servant Jesus. And when they have prayed, the place where they had gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak the word of God with boldness. There is a notable absence in the book of Acts as you go through it. look at their prayers. They're praying for what I call bless me prayers. You know, bless me Lord, help me. You would almost expect Peter and John come back They've been maybe flogged in chapter 5 they were flogged and hurt and they were warned they were threatened. You know, threats no light thing. They're probably afraid these people, no what they did to Jesus, and here they come at it And in Acts 29, they say, Now Lord, take note of their threats, and you almost expect them, if it was us prayer, we say, Please protect us, Lord, what do they have into us? And they say, grants. Lord, that thy bondservants may speak thy word with all confidence. There's a notable absence, an act, of praying for so many things that dominate my prayer life so often I know We don't see that. We see him praying for the advancement of the kingdom. That's the sort of thing that they really major on in their prayers. We see in the first part of this passage, they're pr the first thing they do is they praise God. Verse 23 and 24 They don't quite go through the acts, you know, adoration, confession, uh, thanksgiving, supplication. They do get for their supplication at the end, but it's not for the sort of things you might think they would petition and and have supplication for. They don't ask for protection. They asked that God would use them to speak the word boldly. When they prayed for healing in action , God gives a miracle Every case of healing is connected with the advancement of the kingdom. When Peter prays, the one time you see them praying, it might be two, but one of the three times when they pray for healing, they would Tabbit us. It's connected to many people believing that it's not just so that person might be healed, it's so that the kingdom of Christ might be validated in advance. It was a pretty incredible claim they had, wasn't it? That this Jesus had risen from the dead and that God gave these early apostles the ability to heal and do miraculous things in a way that has never happened in church history since. Yes, God is a God that can do anything and still is. But the way he works of the apostles was unique to all of church history. Raising people from the dead, doing things by praying and saying it would be done. And God validated and used that to build his church. I've never seen that connection as clear as I this time study next. The connection is there. That was what we're clear. They were I guess if you had to throw in the blank it it might be something like strategic praying, although I haven't I'm not satisfied with that or or kingdom oriented praying. Uh yes they They pray for guidance, they pray for boldness, for deacons, uh, for the Holy Spirit, they pray for Paul and Barnabas before they go off in Acts thirteen. But there is a intensity in praying for kingdom advancement. Carolyn Timberley started at prayer meetings just. do that. The focus stands on taking the gospel around the world, starting this Friday night at her house. Not only though do we see them uh praying whatever you throw in the black, uh, but we see them very dependent in their prayer. Notice in chapter four, verse twenty-nine here. Now Lord take note of their threats and grant. Grant. Enable. They're looking to God to be the one to do it. You know I like acts. Because I'm an activist. I'm a doer. I better do something and be chained to a desk anyway, any day. And I like that. You know, I'm just prone that way. And this is the part of acts I don't like. It's hard for me to make myself pray. I'd rather get out and do it. But in Acts we see that these people who were activists saw that as as Luther and others have said, your greatest work is to pray. You can do some work after you pray, but in so you prayed you can't work. At first other people have prayed. And it's hard for me because I'm trying to double my efforts instead of doubling my knees and getting on my knees. And this is a little slide here. You know, we don't pray on our knees. I think I'd be episcopal or Lutheran in how I design churches. Because it's in the book of Acts. We see it three times when praying on their knees. I know we've got to be careful, it's not just the form of it. And I I don't know if you all remember when Al was ordained. The only time I see anybody praying on their knees in this church is when I was up here on this hard floor, I had these bad wrestlers' knees, in pain. When he prayed the longest prayer I've ever heard him pray. If we ever do that, we ought to have padded ones like the Episcopal and the uh Lutherans do. But there's something about praying on the knees that's connected to this point. It's kind of showing prayer showing. dependency. I mean you're not doing anything. You're saying, God, do it. You're not working, you're not ordering events. You're dependent upon God to do it. And if they get on your knees to pray, it's like bowing before the Lord saying, Lord, we need you. We can't do it ourselves. Not only am I prone to activity, I'm prone to depend on myself. This is con Christianity is contrary to everything else in my opinion. You know, you come to Christ by grace, you say, Lord, nothing in my hands I bring, only through that cross I bring. It's nothing in us that we come. And the same as Christians when we pray, we're saying, Lord, by prayer, we're saying there's nothing I can do. It's you, Lord, that must do it. And we pray dependently on him, we see that and act, saying, Lord, you do it. Fasting and acts. The same thing. It's a sign of supremacy. Lord, we need you. What does fasting accomplish? There's nothing magic in it. Just saying, Lord, there's something completely apart from what we're asking you to do, and we ask you to do it. Please, Lord, do these things. This dependency. I do struggle with I'm so prone to be dependent on myself. To think and we see it all through the Bible don't depend on your strong right arm, but on the Lord God Almighty. All the stories in the Old Testament, all the passages in the Bible Last night uh I didn't feel good about the sermon. I I was uh just didn't seem to fall in place the way you know you want a sermon so as you wrestle through it and and uh and sure enough last night some company came over unexpectedly, some old friends and couldn't run them off and they stayed over an hour and I really wanted that time to study and the work and so got up early this morning to to spend more time and I'm so prone, even though I know otherwise, to put the time and study. Instead of dating what we do in prayer, I'm so prone to do that and and uh it's hard to take the time and say, No, prayer comes first. It doesn't matter if a sermon or anything we do, if our Sunday school, if it's well organized, if it's eloquent or you know, all the activities of our church, if they're not bathed in prayer, and if they're not in dependency upon God, it's worthless. People may go away and say, well, then I could. But it's the Holy Spirit that works in our hearts. It's God who is the one that must changes and make things happen. Al in the newsletter article for September, which he wrote already for East Discussion. He does everything so far ahead of time. You know, with me it's uh you know me Jan's typing the you know she's typing it I'm handing her uh the letter. Not quite, but but in that article he says this, that he fears for our congregation, that God is blessing us and that he is, you know, attendance is increasing at rates better than any year recently. There are usually summer, last summer is eighty four one day during the summer. And uh you know, there are many things, not just dependent, but many things God's blessing us. He says I fear for our church that we would be dependent on ourselves because there's a notable appetite of at least corporate prayer together to things, to pray to God. And uh which one discussion is sought to implement some things that we'll see in the fall with more opportunities to pray and gather as God 's people. It helps us to be dependent not on our but on the Lord. Love I I hate it and I love it. Second Corinthians twelve, where Paul says Power is perfected in weakness. My power is perfected in weakness. The Lord tells Paul. Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weakness, that the power of Christ may dwell in me. Why aren't we so prone to depend on ourselves? Our programs, you know, we're a high-tech church, right? You know, we do things in the organized manner. It's so uh easy to depend on those things. And how as a people of God we need to depend on him and the best way we do that is to pray to him. As we start the new year, pioneer girls, boys days, Sunday school, all the activities we're going to have. But as a people we bathe them in prayer and say , Lord, this is worthless. The flesh profits nothing, Jesus said. Only the Spirit gives life. And we need to be dependent upon prayer. But also we see in Acts, not only are they dependent on all those other things on your outline, but we see them very expectant in prayer. I love the quote by William Carey, the great missionary in India. India. He said, attempt great things for God. Expect great things from God. I know a pastor in uh Atlanta, Randy Potum, and uh he went to Atlanta to start a church from nothing, didn't have any people there. just went to Atlanta to start the church. I'd had a seminar at twenty five years old and his motto, he took this and kinda changed it, was to print something for God so great that unless he's in it, it's doomed to failure. And that's the motto of his church down here, which is now a thousand people. Seven years ago. He went there and he told her , went to the bank to open up his bank account and he walks in there and the uh the lady, he and his wife were there together and the lady says, Uh, what's what do you do? says, Well, I'm a pastor. she says, Oh, what's the uh uh what is your what is the address of your church? He said, Well, uh we don't have a church building said, uh, well uh uh what's the name of your church? Well uh we don't have a name. Yeah, our church. But he and then she says, Well, how many people do you have in your church? I said, Well, we don't have any people in the church We kinda sheepishly left the place. But he went on and a few months later they had some people and uh they needed a place to gather to worship. And so he went in to uh he was praying about Lord where can we find a place to work didn't have any money, didn't have you know had just a few people and they wanted to start worship services Sunday morning. And uh so he went to this he just prayed about This big guy that uh owned a big company in Atlanta. He said, I'm gonna go see him and ask him I forget the name, Mr. Jones we'll call him. Uh told his wife, I'm gonna go ask him to give us a room in his big hotel there to to meet for our worship. His wife said, You And he said , Ask and you shall receive we'll uh we'll someone go do it. He they prayed together and he went and the secretary uh conveniently was out and he just kind of walked right through and the door was cracked and he speaked in there a little Mr. Jones, I forget. his name. Uh uh can I talk to you just for a minute? And I'm Randy Pope, I'm starting a church in in the town. And I like just just five minutes of your time. And the guy said, Well I can't right now. I have somebody coming in right now but I'll talk to you in thirty minutes. So he went outside and waited Then the secretary came back and she said, What are you doing here? I'm here to see Mr. Jones. She said, Oh, you can't see him. You need an appointment. So I've already been talking to Mr. Jones. So, oh you know Mr. Jones? Yes, we've met. thirty minutes later and he told them what they're trying to do and he said, Yeah, go downstairs and uh and you can uh talk to so and so. He goes down, he looks at the room and one of his subordinates, shows him around the room, beautiful room, fit perfect, hold about forty or fifty people and uh Uh and Randy says, This'll be great. Guy says, Okay, you want it? So then you put out the bill, figures out the bill and I forget the cost, but a thousand or something a month or fifteen hundred a month and Andy says, Hmm. Not sure about that. And he kept it to himself and and the guy said, Let me call up to Mr. Jones and he called up and he comes back scratching his head and says , Says you can have it for fifty dollars a month And Randy said, Praise the Lord. Great things from God as you pray. You know, I heard that story and I stopped thinking about our land and we're praying for land and told some of the people in our small group, uh, Well, I wish I had the faith to go ask these several people that own some of these out parcels and poly. And to pray that God you know, to c ask some people to fast and pray about that. And to go ask. And I got thinking how we how weak our faith is. You know, we read stories about it. I know this guy, this happened to us. see in my own life as I pray and and we take little bitty steps of faith and we see God answer and do things. But how how afra I was afraid to share it 'cause I thought, what if it doesn't work? I think sometimes we think we have to kind of prop up God, you know. Uh some some friends uh share with me is they pray with their kids. They keep a journal and they have the the verses and the promises they're claiming. And they say, uh but they said that they're thinking things it'll probably happen. You know, so that the kids will the faith will grow that God really does answer prayer. I thought that's good you're keeping the journal, but the more I thought about it, we need the prop of God. And you know, pray that the sun will come up tomorrow morning with our kids and things like that. Let's let's teach our children to pray expectantly. And in the Look at Acts. We see the church placed expectantly because of what we talked about last week. Why was there a certainty that the gospel would go to the end of the earth? We had a couple reasons. You know, God's working in people's hearts, the certainty of the gospel going forth, but the last one was because Jesus Christ is King. And he rules. And when God's people gather to pray to him, we're not praying to an important God, we're praying to the King. And we see it here in Acts chapter four. It comes out so clearly Peter comes back. And in verse 24, they lift their voice with one accord and they say, Oh Lord, that's the first place we see it. And the word there is not curios, the usual word for Lord, it's despite. Now what word do we get from that? Despite. And that turns some people off. But when we pray to Jesus the King, we pray to the despot, the ruler of the earth. Like we saw back in Acts two, where it says You know, he will make his enemies a footstool for their feet, because he is now at the right hand of the Father. I see the kingship of Christ. It shouts from the book of Acts. And we look further down, you know, we see it uh he goes on down and he talks about verse twenty eight. Oh I'm sorry, first twenty five and twenty six they quote as they pray Psal two, where it talks about the light of the Gentiles rage, you see there, and the people 's devised feudal things. Where are the feudal things? Head and all the uh in the in and Pilate and all the Jews, uh the Jewish leaders plotting against Jesus. And they say, The kings of the earth took their stand and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. The Old Testament word there, the Old Testament passages, Meshiach, Messiah. And then you see in verse twenty seven and twenty eight they give a commentary on that. Say this for several of those passages, these rulers who are so powerful plotting against Jesus that they say it's ridiculous. But look at verse twenty eight. But Lord, you're the one that you Do whatever thy hand and thy purpose predestined to occur. God never took his hand off what was happening. He was in control the whole time. And when the people in Acts gathered to pray, they prayed to the Lord Jesus Christ who had been. has risen, who is ascended, who is sovereign, who is the despotate, who rules. And that when we go as God's people to pray for land or for pioneer girls or for people that we know to be converted as we gather and pray that way, we know that that's the kind of rule that he is. I I wish they had quoted the rest of Psalm too. Maybe they did and Luke just didn't record it because the next verses say he sits in the heaven and he asked at those who were plotting all this against him. So we see the the strong hand of God and they're using that read Psalm two and think about this passage. It's powerful. And yet at the end we see the good news. Where even though God is going to bring his enemies to trouble, they say Kiss the son, lest he be angry at the end of Psalm, so there still is that olive branch held out. So you can experience his forgiveness also, and you can come and believe in him and follow him. I pray that God will make us a people who is the who are expectant as we pray and really do uh come to God asking him to do great things. You notice there was an application part of your bulletin. You know and I've seen people there that have a sermon and they have you throw something out and they even you put it in the offering plate and you know really make a commitment to God and I'm not sure about that. I've done it several times and God's used that in my life when I've been challenged. Like I said I'm hesitant on a I was almost afraid to preach on this because it's so easy for us to feel guilty. We don't want that. But we do want to honestly examine our lives before God as a church and as individuals. Maybe there is something that as you think about You like them. Yeah, you don't need to be like uh David Rayner, you know, lying in the snow, sweating, crying. You know, I I don't like I said, I don't know anything about that yet. I'm just growing. We may not be uh satisfied with we are but we may be pleased and groaning. But ask the Lord, is there something, maybe a car meet, maybe in my husband me and my spouse, that we need to commit ourselves more to the prayer. And you know, as you hear different sermons, it's so easy like I said, to just run over and do and run over and do that. But I would ask you to think about this in in your own prayer before God and participation corporately with God's people here in our church. That we would be more a people of prayer. So consider that this week. Maybe take time in your quiet time, in your devotion. Maybe there's a husband and wife. What would God have me do this year in terms of prayer in our church? One other thing on expectancy is because uh you know the story of um the lion in C. S. Lewis's best room, the line of witch. the wardrobe. How Lucy, I think it's Lucy, she's the first one to see the lion. Is it Lucy? The littlest one I think. She sees the lion. And the lion is Aslon, the Lord. The others don't see the lion. She says, I think I see And the more she steps out in faith, says, Yeah, he's there, let's follow him. And they say, Let's not follow him. And then they say, Okay, we'll follow him. And then all of a sudden one of them that starts to believe says, Yeah, I do see him. And then the more they follow, and the more they believe the clearer they seem until all of them say, you know, finally what to get which of the boys is the last one, or the final Oh yeah, I finally see 'em. And that is so true with us with God as we step out and expect it safe. That the more we follow and we risk and we pray for things and we take chances, God help us not presumptuously, but in faith. Without faith it's impossible to please God. As true as we come to Christ, right but as we see God, we step out of faith and we see Him more clearly. As true as Christians, as we follow Him. May you help us as a church. Let's pray. Oh Lord, do make us a people of prayer. Thank you that we can come to you in prayer because Jesus Christ has paid the penalty for our sin. He has given us new life. And Lord, we rejoice. You make us more people, Lord. Make me more a man of Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's agree with Dan by singing hymn number 531. Come, my soul, thy shooting desire. Suit is a word that we don't use in this uh context very often. It's like a lawsuit or petition. Come, my soul, thy suit prepared. Jesus loves to answer prayer. He himself has bid thee pray. Therefore, will not say thee nay. Therefore, will not say thee nay. Consider especially the second verse. Thou art coming to a king, large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power such, none can ever ask too much. None can ever ask too much.