Good morning. And uh Happy New Year. It's uh great to be with you and um I don't know why I brought this up here. Um so this morning um I've been blessed to work uh with Rick Belavo and uh He has helped me make it through the service with still having a voice. So I've had this sinus thing for two weeks, and uh when this happens to me, usually once a year it goes straight to my voice box So uh my voice is on the edge, uh so we'll see how we do. Uh we also had a middle hour class, Sunday school class, and so I'm I'm feeling good and uh And I hope the sermon makes sense in that having to prepare for today. But it's a I seem to have picked the day when both Pastor Halley and Pastor Flora are on vacation. So here we are. So uh let's work together. I'll do my best to keep it short and uh sweet or otherwise I'll run out of voice. Uh we are beginning a new series this week uh and this series will take us to the beginning of March. And this series is Proverbs, the Path of Wisdom. Never had the opportunity to preach in or through Proverbs So I'm certainly looking forward to it. We as a pastoral team decided in December where did we want to go in the new year. And so we decided that we'll spend eight weeks in the book of Proverbs And then, beginning of March, leading us to Easter, we will go through the book of Ruth. So we look forward to hearing what God has to say to us from the Gospel of Jesus Christ. from the Old Testament. And so I trust and hope that this will be a blessing to you because I will say it uh preparing for the series and preparing uh for this Sunday. Um It has been a delight and very rich. So this morning we'll begin, of course, in Proverbs chapter 1. And in Proverbs chapter 1, we'll be looking at verses 1 through 6. So you'll begin reading with me if you have your Bibles. If you don't, we will provide uh you will see the scriptures provided for you on the screens. Proverbs chapter one, verses one through six. The Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, King of Israel. For attaining wisdom and discipline, for understanding words of insight, for acquiring a disciplined and prudent life, doing what is right and just and fair. For giving prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the young. Let the wise listen and add to their learning, and let the discerning get guidance. For understanding proverbs and parables, the sayings and riddles of the wise, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, or beginning of knowledge For fools despise wisdom and discipline. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Father, we thank you for this portion of your word this morning. We pray that by your Holy Spirit you would open our eyes, our minds, and our hearts to the wisdom from your word. To show us how we are to live and to live wise lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. I don't know that I've ever begun a sermon this way, so here you go. Let me just ask for a brief moment of testimony. Of why this series and this book are very important to me. I came to know the Lord Jesus Christ when I was 16 years old. I've now known the Lord longer than when I didn't know him. And yet, no matter how long I have known the Lord, and I believe the case it will be the case until I pass away, that a week will not go by, that I don't remember what it was like not to believe. I believe I came to an age of discretion, if you will, beginning to pay attention to the world around me in a sort of deliberate way, in a responsive way, in a way that I was forming my own identity. When I was maybe nine or ten, and then I went into middle school. But I will tell you the time between I was ten and the time that I came to know the Lord Jesus Christ. I will say to you that as I look back on them, I feel an appropriate, deep, and abiding shame. Shame in the sense of not that I'm embarrassed by it, but that it chills me because I remember just how foolish I was. I remember the things that came out of my mouth towards others. I remember the things that I said to my parents. I remember the things that I did at the expense of others. I see the ways in which foolishness to me was like honey. I didn't want anyone else telling me how to live my life. Yet my parents desired and sought to give me wisdom, to show me how to live life, to give me pieces of Southern advice as a southerner, but more than that, biblical advice as well. But I absolutely rebelled against it. But when I came to know the Lord Jesus Christ, I believed by God's appointment and spirit, what weighed so heavily on my soul. Was the need to pray for wisdom. And I prayed, and I think I've continued to pray certainly very frequently every year. But an abiding prayer of mine is because when I see just how incredibly foolish my decisions, my actions, my words I see the absolute need for me to have wisdom. That is precisely what the Lord wants for you The Lord desires for you to live the good life Now I want to take that phrase, the good life, and I want to take it back from a culture that has attached, and I used to agree with it, that the good life is defined by what one has. Or the hobbies that one does, or the kind of job you have, or success. But that is not what the Bible understands as the good life. The Bible understands the good life, as we will see in this text, is to live wisely. And so this morning I want to look at these few verses by asking three questions. Why is Proverbs important? What is wisdom? And how do we get wisdom? So, why is Proverbs important? Now let me say at the outset that this book Was written to an original audience, and that original audience was a young male. Now, does that mean that there's no value here to females or to mothers and daughters? Or is it just fathers and sons? Well, what you will see is if you have an understanding of Scripture, as you take time to read through the Bible and even the New Testament, Paul was very adamant about this. That when he said that God's people are sons of the living God, he incorporated women into that moniker of the sons of the living God. Because the Bible understands that men and women before a holy God are absolutely equal. That all of us, men and women, boys and girls, all need the same wisdom and all need the same advice to live wisely. So I want to say that though the original audience was to be a young male, verses chapters 1 through 9 certainly outline that, and this is a father's message to his young son. You need to also recognize that there is also deep and profound wisdom for mothers and daughters, for women and girls. So I don't want that to be lost. But I also don't want it to be lost on us for its original context And so that will explain a little bit as we go through the number of weeks. As we go through, you'll see understand that wisdom is called a female, that she is to be attractive to this young male, versus the woman who is folly. who is to be rejected by this young man. So in all of that, I want you to be aware, but I don't want you to fall off and think that it doesn't have value. Sorry, I just wanted to mention that. Okay. Why is Proverbs important? I believe there are two things that this uh opening passage gives us as to why Proverbs is important. First, it is outlining for us And then the chapters 1 through 9 really unpack it as we will look at next week even in more detail. That is, there are two paths. So Proverbs is important because it's laying out for us that there are two paths in life: there's a path of wisdom, and there is a path of folly. And this life and this path of wisdom leads to a good life. It leads to reward. It leads to success. And by those things, let's not attach to it what our modern day often attaches to those words. But a biblical understanding, however. Would still have incorporated this idea that when the Proverbs and through this father tells his son that if you work hard, success will come to you Well that is true. That if you want to have food on your table, if you want to be able to provide a roof over your head, that if you work hard You will be able to do those things. That is the life of wisdom. It doesn't tell you what kind of house, it doesn't tell you what kind of meal. The point is, if you work hard, success and reward will come to you. So is the opposite side. There's the other path, which is folly. And folly is if you're lazy or a sluggard, as the text calls it, then you will eventually be poor. If you tell the truth, then you have freedom in your relationships. There's an inter -integrity, not just in what you say, but how you live. And there's an integrity between the two. There's a wholeness. And with that, there's freedom. But if you lie, those lies will catch up to you. Do you see the two paths? Proverbs is important because it is laying out to us there's a path of wisdom and a path of folly So therefore, there is also this. There is also two ends, and that is life and death. Now what's interesting is the life which is talked about here in verse 3, it says the reason why we read Proverbs is for attaining wisdom and discipline, for understanding words of insight, for acquiring a disciplined and prudent life. Doing what is right and just and fair. So that is a way that leads to life. The first and foremost idea that the writer of Proverbs would want us to understand is life here and now. In other words, if you seek wisdom and you seek to apply it, then what will happen is you will have a life that is characterized by goodness Justice, fairness, righteousness, you will be disciplined, you'll be thorough. These are things which the scriptures say are respectable But there's another way that leads to not life, but leads to death. And that is fools despise wisdom and discipline. Verse 7. And in that, what we learn is that the idea of that the fool who despises wisdom and despises discipline, what will happen? What will happen is your actions will catch up to you. Now here's a funny little thing about wisdom literature. And about the Bible. If you've ever read the Psalms, you find the same case. And that is, in the short run, it seems as though that those who are foolish seem to have it all. They seem to be successful, they seem to be having enough money in their pockets, they seem to be well-liked, they're honored, people want to gather around them, people seek them out for wisdom and so forth. But eventually, in the long run, what their actions and their foolishness is all about will catch up to them, and they will be left impoverished. An example of this is Bernie Madoff. Bernie Madoff, the famous hedge fund manager. He's guilty of stealing billions of dollars, the largest amount ever in American history. Now think about it for just a moment. In the short run, Bernie Madoff had it made. Had everything. People sought him out for wisdom. People sought him out to put him on their boards to then consult how they should be investing. People sought his advice on all sorts of things: interviews, CNBC, Business Week, the whole thing. Bernie Maynoff was the man. But then when it all came burning down, what was left? His lies caught up to him. And now he has nothing. That is what death on earth looks like. But do not be lost in this. That these two paths, wisdom or folly, which lead to life or death. Has in view our present life, but it also has the long view, and that is life after death. And that is, you will either know death, separation from God, as a result of foolishness. Because you will stand before a God who judges fairly, or a life of wisdom will yield itself life with God That's a telescope to that last verse. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But these two paths Wisdom and folly, these two ends, life and death, is that which Proverbs is wanting to lay out for us. It is an incredibly practical book. And you'll see after these first couple of weeks of introduction, Pastor Flor is going to be looking at a couple of different themes, broad things, everything from relationships to speech to working. All these things have a very practical place within wisdom literature and in Proverbs, and Proverbs wants us To therefore take these things and learn how to apply them. But here is the incredibly good news. Now follow this. No matter what your educational background is. No matter what your IQ is, no matter your age, no matter your background, wisdom is not about intelligence. It's not about degrees. It's not about having a list of things that you've memorized or to know. Not that those things are unhelpful, but that is a very different thing than wisdom. I can say to you that you could go home and memorize all the Proverbs, but that doesn't make you wise. It just makes you full of knowledge. Wisdom is the application of that knowledge. So this is for everyone, and these paths are laid out for us all. Now there's a couple of things that we need to address as well, outside of why Proverbs are important, before I get to what is wisdom. And these are two things that I want you to keep in your mind as we go through these portions of Proverbs. It's this, number one. Proverbs are not absolute always the case. Meaning this You've heard it said that a gentle answer turns away wrath. Well, the Proverbs are to be understood as general truths. The way things ought to be or the way things are. But that doesn't mean that in every place where you give a gentle answer to someone who's angry at you, doesn't therefore mean that they're just going to sort of pipe down. If someone has a gun pointed towards you and you're just talking really nice to them, doesn't mean they're not going to rob you. Doesn't mean they won't shoot you. If someone is really angry and persecuting you because of your faith, if you're a Christian Just giving a gentle answer for why you believe doesn't therefore mean that they're just gonna somehow, oh, okay. I'm I'm not against you anymore. So let's be careful in how we apply these proverbs. They are not always true in every circumstance. Which leads me to my second point. Context is king. To Proverbs. Context, and this is the wisdom part, that learning how to live is learning how to apply these Proverbs and these pieces of wisdom in the right context. Let me give you an example. We just finished the holiday season. And uh perhaps some of your homes are are like mine uh that I grew up in uh and that my wife grew up in, where on uh on these holidays um the the mom is usually the the hands that put all these meals together And you've perhaps heard your mother say, Too many cooks spoil the broth. Something like that. Something along those lines, right? Too many cooks in the kitchen, that kind of thing. Well, what she's saying is, leave me alone. Don't touch that, don't pour that, I've got it covered. But after dinner, you've also heard it said, many hands make for light work. So before the meal, get out of my kitchen. After the meal, get me out of my kitchen So the point is, common wisdom, proverbs, are to be applied to the right context. This is central. central to Proverbs because we hear in Proverbs chapter 26 verse 7 and 9. See if you can make sense of this. Proverbs chapter 26 verses 7 and 9. It says this. Verse 7, like a lame man's leg that hang limp is a proverb in the mouth of a fool. Verse nine. Like a thorn bush in a drunkard's hand is a proverb in the mouth of a fool. What it's saying is, a fool may know many proverbs, but he has no idea how to apply them, and when he does, he will hurt himself and hurt others and be of no value. Knowing Proverbs does not make you wise. Proverbs, and applied correctly in the right context, leads to wisdom and not folly, leads to life and not death. Okay. So those are that's why we're studying Proverbs. We need wisdom. We were built to learn how to live the good, wise life. But what is wisdom? I cannot perfect on this definition, and so I'm just going to read it verbatim. Wisdom is a rich concept. Wisdom is the skill of living. It is a practical knowledge that helps one know how to act, how to speak in different situations. Wisdom entails the ability to avoid problems and the skill to handle them when they present themselves. Wisdom also includes the ability to interpret other people's speech Wisdom. Now let's shorten that long definition up into a short one. Wisdom is skillful living. It's the art of living well. You hear it in these opening verses when it says these words. These Proverbs are written for attaining wisdom and discipline. Discipline is learning how to apply the wisdom. Goes on for acquiring a disciplined and prudent life, doing what is right or righteous, just, seeking justice, fairness and equity, for giving prudence to the simple. Knowledge and discretion to the young. Let the wise listen and add to their learning. And let the discerning get guidance. Notice wisdom Isn't just the storing up of knowledge. That isn't learning. Learning is not amassing information. Learning is applying it and living by it. So therefore, it is also to be this for understanding Proverbs and Parables, the sayings and riddles of the wise, learning how to read wisdom literature. And then seek to gain from it nuggets of general truths. And what you're going to see in the book of Proverbs as we go through it, you're going to see two things that it does in different ways. One Proverbs pronounces how life ought to be. Also, it will talk about how life is. An example of this is one of its most famous portions, is where the writer of Proverbs points to ants as embodying wisdom. They know what to do by instinct. They don't have a commander. They don't have a ruler. They just go about their work and they work hard. They carry multiple times their weight. But they do so to provide for themselves and provide for their their ant kingdom. And so that's saying that's how life is. So Proverbs takes a statement like ants carry and work really hard to provide for themselves. how life is reality and then says, okay, so here's the wisdom nugget. Work hard and reward will come to you. Do you see how that works? And then also in these opening verses, it's telling us not how life is, it's telling us how life ought to be, and that is That Proverbs are for the purpose of wisdom and discipline. It doesn't mean that you're automatically going to get it. It ought to be the person who is wise is a person who is disciplined. So this wisdom, this art of skillful living, is for Proverbs central. And so many times, whether it's by speech or by decision, I cannot begin to tell you this morning. How many hours and how many minutes have been spent in conversation as a pastor with folks who are simply seeking wisdom? Learning how to go back and deal with words that were spoken in foolishness Having to suffer the consequences of foolish behavior and foolish decisions, but learning how to be wise and learn from that failure and to walk in wisdom. In other words, there is not one person here, there is not one of us that doesn't need greater wisdom. And we are called to pray for it. One of the passages that have always gripped me It's where we learn this phrase. If you anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask for it. And the Father will give it. And so I encourage you To pray to the Lord, Lord, give me wisdom beyond my years. Wider than my narrow experience. And I'm here to tell you as a testimony Not that any of you would think I'm wise, but you didn't know me then. I will say to you, by God's grace and by his power, you don't realize how wise I am compared to what I used to be to be. And I am grateful for that. But we must grow. Fathers Sons, mothers, and daughters. If you have children still in your home You get to expend and invest your life by taking these words and praying that God would make them true of you. But then our job is to turn to our children and to turn to the children of this church through children's ministry, children's church, youth ministry. And to say, know this. The world wants to tell you what wisdom is, but the Bible is the only source. Follow this and you will live Follow these ways, and the Lord will give blessing. Because as I said to our junior high students on Friday night, and I want to say that we must not lose this. Jesus came that we might have life through his death and resurrection, that we might have salvation, that we would receive the gift of eternal life. But that life, that new life, begins today, not in the hereafter. And that is, Jesus and God the Father wants and desires for you to live wisely today. He's concerned about how you live. So, therefore, in books like James, books like Ecclesiastes, books like Proverbs, and even many of the Psalms, are there for us to teach us That to know this Lord of salvation is to learn how we ought to live and how we ought not to live. What leads to life and what leads to death. In other words, knowing Him has an obligation to pursue wisdom. Young people. I cannot give you any greater advice than to seek the gospel of grace in the wisdom of God's Word. It will lead you to freedom and free you from shame. It is there for you as a feast. And we're gonna be unpacking it through the next few weeks, but I need to move on. My final point, how do we get wisdom? You see here in verse 7 It says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Now the word knowledge is is synonymous with wisdom, because remember The Bible doesn't understand that knowledge that isn't applied. So when it speaks of knowledge, it assumes that you're applying it. Therefore, wisdom So you're going to see these used interchangeably. But the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom or the beginning of knowledge. What in the world is that meaning? Two things. First, it's telling us That the Lord is first the source of wisdom. Know this, that you can go through the Proverbs And then you can look at the various other religions in the world and you're going to find very similar sentences, very similar statements of wisdom and general advice. So Christianity is not alone in having these kinds of words, these kinds of you're going to see it. The differences, and what distinguishes Christianity from every other religion, is because it is meant And comes from the ultimate source of wisdom, which is the person of the triune God And so when it says here, fear, the fear of the Lord, meaning the Lord there is Yahweh. It isn't anything else. It's not Moses, it's not Abraham. It is not Muhammad, though all those folks in all religions will find very similar statements of wisdom that are similar to Proverbs. The difference is It only comes from one, according to the scriptures, Yahweh. The one who knows all things, the one who has created all things the one who knows the beginning from the end and the end from the beginning. The one who gives life, the one who judges, the one who gives redemption and salvation. And Proverbs is telling us that the only source is the Lord Yahweh Now here's what's interesting. It uses this word, fear. And isn't it so tempting within our day to take the word fear and to say that it means reverence or awe? It does mean that. But that's not all that it means. Today we must not be afraid from the scriptures to say the word of God says To fear the Lord. And by fear I mean to recognize that we are nothing in comparison to his awful, terrible. Incredible, unattainable glory. And that we, according to the scriptures, Will answer to this God, this Yahweh, the triune God, according to his holiness, according to his wisdom. So the fear of the Lord as being the beginning of wisdom, the beginning of knowledge, is not just recognizing that the Lord is the source, he is its foundation. And we get wisdom by recognizing that there is. A God, the triune God, who's created all things from nothing, who has given his Son, who's come in redemption And gives us life and salvation. But he will come again. And when he comes, he will come, as we spoke earlier, to judge the living and the dead. The fear of the Lord, recognizing his sovereignty, recognizing his authority, recognizing his person is where the person begins in their heart to get off the throne themselves and to get onto their knees. Now, in case you think I'm leapfrogging to the New Testament by talking about Jesus, I need to tell you a little secret about Proverbs. Proverbs never uses the word redemption. It never uses the word salvation. It doesn't talk about compassion and mercy and forgiveness of the Most High God. What it says seventeen times is fear Yahweh, trust Yahweh What does that mean for us? How does the gospel connect with that? Well, very quickly, you need to be aware of what the New Testament teaches us about Yahweh. The one we are to fear in Jude, that very short book. And after studying it this week, I'm very tempted. We need to preach through Jude. Have you ever heard of Sermons through Jude? I've never heard Sermons through Jude. We may think about doing Jude, but here's what's interesting about Jude. It actually says, Jesus , go look it up. English Standard Version, ESD, translates to Greek exactly right. The oldest and most reliable manuscripts that we have of the Bible says this in Jude. Jesus led Israel out of Egypt. Something else it says. Hebrews. Hebrews chapter eleven talks about Moses and the glory that Moses Saw and had. It teaches us that it was the glory of Jesus that he saw. Hmm, interesting. Well, if you go back to those texts in the Old Testament, what does it refer to? It refers to Yahweh. Do you see where I'm going? Yahweh, according to the New Testament, is Jesus. Let's go further. First Corinthians tells us this. In speaking about the people of Israel in the desert, receiving water from the rock, what it says is the rock was Jesus. Hmm. So Jesus, who had not taken on a human uh human nature yet, was with the with God in all of his glory and was the one through whom God manifested Water for his people from the rock. That rock is in fact Jesus. Second Corinthians chapter 3. If you go back and read that chapter this afternoon, you will see what was the glory What was the glory that Moses reflected in his face that he then had to have veiled so everybody who looked at him wasn't blinded? If you go and read that chapter, it will tell you that glory was the glory of Jesus Christ. And then one other. The Gospel of John, verse chapter twelve, says these words. Even after Jesus had done all these miracles, miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe in him. This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet. So here you hear people, they're not believing in Jesus, they're not following in his ways, and then he quotes Isaiah the prophet. The Lord Yahweh Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For this reason they could not believe, because, as Isaiah says elsewhere, he has blinded their eyes and deadened their hearts. so that they can neither see with their eyes nor understand with their hearts, nor turn, and I would heal them. And then verse 41, Isaiah said these things because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke about him. Now I challenge any of you. Go back to the book of Isaiah and see if you find the name Jesus there. You will not find it. But you will find the name Yahweh. You will find the glory of the Lord. Go back to Exodus. See if you find the name Jesus. See if you hear of Moses talking about Jesus. You won't. But you will see a rock. You'll see a burning bush. You'll see God giving guidance in the cloud. What you will see is that Yahweh manifests himself through the glory of Jesus Christ. That was throughout the Old Testament, but would reach its fulfillment at just the right time. Born of a virgin as a child, but born a king. Now, where in the world am I going with this? Stick with me. When it says fear the Lord, I want to tell you he's saying fear Jesus. The fear of Jesus is the beginning of knowledge. It's the beginning of wisdom. Proverbs 3, verse 5 Trust in the Lord, it says. Well, trust in Yahweh. Trust in Jesus with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. Now let me say to you, we need to fear Jesus Because our experience of Jesus, when He comes and returns, as He has promised that He will, we, none of us in this room, will ever experience Jesus like they did in the Gospels. We will not experience him as an infant. We will not experience him as a teenager learning how to be a carpenter. We will not experience him as a man dressed in common clothes, going around Judea, teaching and doing miraculous things, some believing, some not. We will not experience him as one who's nailed on a cross. We will not experience one who is from coming out of the grave, resurrected, and yet unrecognizable to those who knew him best. We will not experience him as one who we look to and wonder, what is he going to do as the disciples did at Pentecost when Jesus ascended up into heaven and yet they stood there wondering, Well, now what? We will not experience Jesus that way. We will experience Jesus in the mighty way that Revelation describes him. He is the God man, who will return and bring with him in his hands both salvation and judgment. He will say, as the first question I ever received in my ordination exam, it says at the end of Matthew 7, There will be on that day those who will say, We prophesied in your name, we performed miraculous things in your name, but Jesus will, I will say to them on that day, Away from me, I never knew you. I was asked that question because the askers was projecting in what will happen on that day. That the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords will return again, not meek and mild, but mighty and authoritative And he will say , Come into my rest. Or he will say, Apart from me, I never knew you The fear of Jesus is the beginning of knowledge. Do you fear him? Do you know him? He invites you by the wisdom of God, which seems foolishness to men He invites you to himself to know life and to know it abundantly. Because on that day, every knee will bow. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Let's pray. Father, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for any here this morning that do not believe. Father, I remember I was lost No wisdom, in rebellion, strong willed, but so lost But by your grace and according to your wisdom, you open the door. Open the door to any who are lost this morning. And show them the wisdom of your grace, the wisdom of your love, through your Son Jesus Christ, that they may learn how to finally live. For those who profess faith, Father, I ask, give wisdom beyond our experience, beyond our years. That we may learn how to live life and to live the good life full of wisdom, discipline, and knowledge Knowledge of you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.