Psalm one hundred ten The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will extend your mighty scepter from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies Your troops will be willing on your day of battle. Arrayed in holy majesty, from the womb of the dawn you will receive the dew of your youth. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He will crush kings on the day of his wrath. He will judge the nations, keeping up the dead and crushing the rulers of the whole earth. He will drink from a brook beside the way. Therefore, he will lift up his head. Let's look to our God for a moment as we consider his word. All Lord, we have here some very rich thoughts. I am lifted up and be tread upon holy ground We pray that any familiarity we have with these words will not prevent us from seeing How wondrous are the thoughts that are expressed here, and what joy and comfort they should be to us. Teach us, Holy Spirit, open our hearts and our minds. That we may behold wonderful things out of your law. Work in us. Produce your fruit in our lives through Jesus Christ. Psalm a hundred and ten has been called the crown of all the songs. Martin Luther once wrote that this psalm was worthy to be overlaid with precious jewels. Do you know Psalm 110 is the most quoted And the most referred to of all the Psalms by the New Testament writers. Over twenty-five times this psalm is quoted or referred to in the New Testament. It's a portrait of the king, priest, Messiah. And it holds a very significant place in the prophecies of the coming of Jesus Christ. The most quoted of any prophecy. It divides itself into three parts. You see there in verses 1 to 3, a portrait of the king enthroned. And then in verse 4, you have the picture of the priest forever. And then in verses 5 to 7, you have a picture of the king at war. These thoughts are all so rich that I've decided to spend three weeks considering this psalm to take a look at each of these parts and spend one week on each of these sections as we see a picture here of Jesus Christ. Lift it up in a way that will produce, I hope, in us a fresh sense of worship of Him, comfort in our own lives, whatever our situations might be, and whatever needs we have. May the Lord minister to us richly from the thoughts of this picture uniquely displayed here of Jesus. First of all, this morning, then I want to look at these first three verses Of the king enthroned. And I want to look at two things about these verses. First of all, I want to notice who is prominent. In the beginning of this, we see three characters. And then secondly, to take a look at what it is that's going on. You see a command and a promise. First of all, then who is it that we have here? Three prominent characters. First of all, who is it that's speaking? Who is it that's speaking? Well, it's Jehovah. You see there the large J J WH WH Uh those are the Hebrew letters, sometimes told called the tetragrammaton, four Hebrew letters, which if you spelled it out and put some vowels in it would be pronounced uh in a way nobody really knows, but is traditionally pronounced either Jehovah or Yahweh. And nobody really knows because the name was seen as so sacred that the Hebrews didn't pronounce it And so we don't really know how originally it was pronounced, but it's the word which in your English Bible is described by a large L and then small caps, O R D. So if you see that a large L and then in small caps, O R D, that is Jehovah. You notice that's distinguished from the way you see the word Lord there at the end of that line. There it is in large L and lowercase O-R-D. That's a different word. But wherever you see the large L, small cats, O-R-D, that's Jehovah, the covenant name for God. That's his exalted name as the one who keeps covenant, the one who declared to Moses, I am the self-determining God. I am who I am. And the Psalm begins by telling us this is the one that's speaking. The Lord, Jehovah, is speaking. So when Jehovah listens, we speak. When he speaks, we listen. We listen not just to obey, but we listen to find out what's going on, because the Lord speaks uniquely. The Lord speaks efficaciously. That's a big word. It simply means that his word accomplishes whatever it says. To give you an understanding of that, but let's suppose I say to my kids, sit down to the dinner table. Well now They can choose to obey that or not. Now, I may enforce the consequences of disobedience by a paint stirrer on the posterior But they still ultimately decide whether they're going to sit down at the dinner table. But when the Lord says, sit at my right hand , his word accomplishes what he says. So when we listen to the Lord say that, we know what's going on. We know that exactly that will happen. Whoever he's speaking to is going to sit at his right hand. Because the Lord's word accomplishes what it says. We see that when the Lord speaks, exactly that happens, for there's no possibility of his word ever failing. Now, who's he speaking to? Who's listening in this psalm? Well, the one listening is that second word, Lord. And that's the Hebrew word Adonai, a totally different word from when you see Lord with a small caps. So if you were to read this in mixing up a little Hebrew and English here, it would be, Jehovah says to my Adonai. Jehovah says to my Adonai. Now what does Adonai mean? Adonai is a Hebrew word which means Lord or master. It's one who has control over something. It's a word which really is most accurately translated Lord. We just don't know many Lords anymore. You know, living in a democratic society, everybody's got a word to say about something. You know, even if you if you're a union or if you're the government, you know. Everybody thinks they've got the final say. Got all kinds of contests going on with uh Padco and everybody else now. But back in these days, a Lord spoke, and that was the end of it. There was no contest And this is the word that's translated. This is the word Adonai. It's a word that's used generally in the Bible to refer to God. In Deuteronomy, for instance, chapter 10, verse 17. We read that Jehovah your God, that's a different word, your Elohim, Jehovah your God is a God of God and Adonai of Adonis. He's Lord of Lords. That is, of all the powers there are on earth, he's the master of them all. He's the Adonai, the ultimate master. The same word is used in verse 5, you notice, of the Psalm 110. For there it says, The Lord is at your right hand, again giving that thought, and he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. You see that power, that ultimate sovereign control. Same word is used in Psalm 114, just a couple pages over. Where you see in verse 7, tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord. There again, you notice it's small letters. Tremble, O earth, at the presence of Adonai, at the presence of the God of Jacob. So it's a word that clearly refers to God, to the Lord. And yet, you see, in this verse, it's distinguished from Jehovah. So here you have in the Old Testament The Lord speaking to himself, two different persons. Jehovah is speaking to Adonai, the one who's going to crush all the kings on the day of his wrath. A very interesting situation. But the Adonai is preceded by that little word my. You notice? The Lord says to my Adonai. Jehovah says to my Adonai. That my makes it very personal. Personal to whom? Well, that's the third character. Who is it that's speaking? To see who's speaking, we've got to go to verse 0. Now, verse 0, you must realize, is part of this psalm. We don't usually hear messages on verse 0 of Psalms, but verse 0 in the Hebrew text is part of verse 1. Now where you see there at the top, you see that heading in Psalm 110, it says, of David a Psalm, or perhaps it says a psalm of David. That's not the headings, you know, that the translators put in there to help you know what's going on, give you a little uh clue to what's happening in the psalm. That's part of the text Now, nobody knows whether it went back to the original text or not. Apparently it didn't. But it was introduced so early That generally it is credited with final or near-final authority. And in this case, we know that it's with absolute final authority because Jesus himself quotes verse 0 when he refers to this psalm. See, to him it was verse one. Jesus talked about who wrote this psalm as being very, very significant, because the one writing was King David. And King David's the one that said, Jehovah says to my Adonai, sit at my right hand Now, of all the Psalms written, 150 of them, David wrote only 73, just under half. Some people think David wrote all the Psalms. He didn't write quite half of them But the fact that he wrote this psalm is very significant. Because look what Jesus says about that in Matthew 22. In Matthew 22, Jesus, after he's been questioned by the Pharisees again and again to try and trap him, turns another question around on them. In Matthew 22 and verse 41, we read that while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, What do you think about the Messiah, the Christ? Whose son is he? Son of David, they replied. Everybody knew that. He says to them, How is it then that David speaking by the Spirit, that is inspired, speaking infallibly? David calls him Adonai, calls him Lord. For he says, and then he quotes from Psalm 110: the Lord said to my Lord, Jehovah said to my Adonai Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. , If David then calls him Lord, a title clearly designating a superior , How can he be his son? You don't go around calling your sons Lord. No one could say a word in reply. From that day on, nobody dared ask him any more questions. But uh it's better to just keep your mouth shut when you're around him. You're gonna get in trouble. If you don't want to believe what he says. But Jesus here is making a very powerful point. That this one who's spoken of in this psalm is a supernatural being. Because he is the son of David. And yet he is David's superior, even to the extent that David can give to him a divine title: My Lord, my master, the one who crushes the kings of the earth. And so Jesus is saying, the Messiah is clearly more than human. And in these words, you and I are given a peek into the councils of eternity. We're given a peek here into a conversation between the Father and the Son. As the Father is speaking his will to the Son, you and I, as mortals, are allowed to eavesdrop on what God was saying. Isn't that wonderful? But the Lord led us in to his counsels in these verses. And what is it that the Father is saying to the Son? Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will extend your mighty scepter from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your troops will be willing on the day, on your day of battle. Arene, Holy Majesty, from the womb of the dawn you will receive the dew of your youth. You see in those verses both a command and a promise. A command, sit at my right hand. And then a promise that follows for the rest of verse 1 through verse 3 concerning the rule and the victory that this one, this Adonai the Lord, is going to have. I want us to notice two things about this command and this promise this morning. First of all, notice the degree of the exaltation of Messiah. And then secondly notice his function in his exaltation. First of all, notice the degree of the exaltation of the Messiah, the Christ here. Sit at my right hand. The Messiah is to be seated at the right hand of God. Now, the Bible makes quite a point of that. The New Testament is so fond of quoting this, you see it again and again and again. Just a couple examples in Colossians 3, verse 1, when Paul is instructing us as believers. How does he refer to Christ? Since you have been raised with Christ, set your heart on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Quoting from Psalm 110. Hebrews chapter 8, verse 1. The point of what we're saying is this: we do have such a high priest who sat down. at the right hand of the throne of majesty in heaven, and serves in the sanctuary the true tabernacle set up by the Lord, not by man. When we're told to look to Jesus, to consider him. How are we told to look to him? Hebrews 12, verse 1. Since we're surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let's throw off everything that hinders us and the sin that so easily entangles and one with Perseverance, the race marked out before us, and fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy before him us. endured the cross, scorning its shame. And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Again and again, in other places too, the New Testament Speaks of this as the primary characteristic of Jesus now, in his place. So if anybody ever asks you, where is Jesus now? Now don't hem and horn and say, well, no, I guess he, you know, he buy his own The Bible's very clear. Jesus is at the right hand of power. He's at the right hand of the throne of God, and that's very important for you and me. He's just not any old place. He is on the throne. He is reigning. He's at the right hand of power. He's exalted above David. Hey, notice that Jesus had said himself, David called him Lord Adonai. Peter made a point of this in his first sermon at Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. Peter there referring to David says, beginning with verse 32, that God has raised this Jesus to life, and we're all witnesses of that fact. Exalted to the right hand of God. He's received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and poured out what you now see and hear. It's the basis of your receiving the Holy Spirit, the fact that Jesus is at the right hand of power. For David didn't ascend to heaven. It wasn't David that did that. He never did anything like that. This Messiah is greater than David. And yet he said, The Lord said to him, My Lord, sit at my right hand until my make your enemies a foot stove for your feet, quoting all of verse one of Psalm 110 Jesus is at the right hand of God. He's above David, the king. Not only that, but Hebrews tells us that he's above angels. Again, it refers to the same psalm. And you look in Hebrews in chapter 1, and uh we see there that The sun is the radiance of God's glory, the exact representation of his being, sustaining all things by his powerful word. After he had provided purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of majesty in heaven. You ever realize they'd said that so many times? Sat down at the right hand of the majesty of heaven. And so he became as much superior to the angels as the name that he has inherited is superior to theirs. And then in verse 13. To which of the angels did God ever say, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? That Jesus is far above the mighty angels, above Gabriel, above Michael, in his power and sitting at the right hand of the throne of God. But you know, even beyond that, Jesus at the right hand of power shows us that he's been exalted far above all power and every name in the entire universe Now that's Paul's point, where Paul speaking in Ephesians chapter 1, describing his power It says in verse 19, that power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, far above all power and dominion. far above every title that could ever be given. Not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet, appointed him, Jesus, to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. In every way. Hallelujah. Jesus is above all names, all power, all authority, because he's at the right hand of the throne of God. Now let's be very careful here and not confuse something. He is not on that throne because he is God. I think we make a con we have an error here if we think that Jesus is on this throne because he is God. He is God. That's not why he's on this throne. Why is he on it He's on it because he is the Messiah, sent by God, to do the work that only Messiah could do. And therefore, because of his humiliation, he's exalted to that throne. You see, as God, Jesus has ruled from all eternity. And as God, Jesus was sovereign. And there's no question the second person of the Trinity, the Word, was sovereign on the throne. But as sovereign on that throne, all he could do in ruling you and me was to judge us and to condemn us. But the Bible says that the one who was sovereign on the throne. Became man, became humbled, became humiliated, took even upon himself the cross And bore the punishment due for sinners. And it's because of that humiliation that he's been exalted to that throne. Notice Psalm 110. This is not something that happened in eternity. It is a coronation picture. The Lord says to my Lord, sit That is, come up and sit, it means. Ascend. Come and take the throne. It's not a throne that he's always had. Come and sit on my right hand. Peter made a point of this, you see, in the book of Acts. You know, back in Acts in uh chapter two, we just quoted from before. In verse 22, we read that as in uh excuse me, in Acts chapter 2, verse 22, men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles. Wonders, signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. You notice the emphasis on him being man. Says it again, this man, humiliation Was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. And you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death , railing him to the cross. Now the contrast, but God has raised him from the dead freeing him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to hold him and keep his hold. So verse 32, God has raised this Jesus to life, and we're all witnesses of this fact. Exalted, you see the emphasis, humbled, exalted. Because he was humbled, now he's exalted. He's exalted to the right hand of God. Received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit. He's poured out what you now see and hear. Chapter five, verse thirty. Again, uh Peter When he's preaching to the to the other apostles, they're giving their answer to the Sanhedrin. We've got to obey God rather than men. What do they say about him? Verse 30 of chapter 5: The God of our fathers raised Jesus from the dead. Whom you had killed by hanging him on a tree. Now Peter realizes that that statement, you hung him on a tree, is a very powerful statement. It's saying you've heaped upon him the greatest humiliation possible The Romans wouldn't even allow this to happen to one of their own citizens. You didn't have the power to do this. But you heaped upon him the greatest of all insults. You humiliated him to the lowest depth. You hung him on a tree. So verse 31, but God exalted him to his own right hand as prince and savior, that he might give repentance and forgiveness of sins to Israel. You see the point? Why is Jesus on that throne? Because he came and suffered and died for you. And now Jesus sits on a throne of his people. Jesus sits on a throne of new humanity to rule and to reign a people that he's bought for himself. To rule and to reign as the Messiah, a new kingdom that he has set up. A purchased kingdom, kingdom that he bought with his own blood. Jesus is exalted because he was humiliated. And Psalm 110 does not have reference to him reigning simply because he is God, but being exalted because he was humiliated for us. Never forget that. As you read those references of his being at the right hand of the Father, he bought that with his own blood. And it's because of that, Peter says that we can now preach repentance and forgiveness of sins. Have you ever come to Jesus for repentance? Turning your mind around, saying that you can't make it on your own anymore, coming, realizing your need for forgiveness Realizing that you have disobeyed and dishonored God in your life, you have not honored Him as king, that you're guilty for that, and that you face His throne one day as a throne of judgment for you. Jesus says he's exalted here. Because he paid for your sin. He invites you to come and to receive that payment. That he has made for everyone and turns and trust him. If you've never done that, I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ, the King exalted. Would you come this morning for forgiveness? Come to the King. Come and place him on the throne of your life. It's the only one who can save you. Having seen that, let's notice a little more about his function in his exaltation. He has two functions that we're told about here. One is to sit, and the other is to rule. He's to sit at the right hand of God, and that indicates that his work is finished. His sacrifice is finished. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Hebrews spells out the meaning of that in chapter 10. For in chapter 10 of Hebrews, we see a contrast. The author of Hebrews there, in chapter 10, beginning with verse 11, says, day after day every priest in the Old Testament stands. And performs his religious duties. Again and again, he offers the same sacrifices, the morning sacrifice, the evening sacrifice. The weekly sacrifice, the burnt offerings, the peace offerings, the blood offerings of sin , the blood offerings of iniquity And then the sin offerings that were offered annually, the Day of Atonement, day after day, year after year, the same sacrifices, which in themselves can never take away sins. But When this priest had offered for all time one sacrifice, he sat down. See that contrast? Verse 11, every priest stands. Jesus sat down. And his sitting down is the demonstration that he's not like any other priest. His work is finished He sat down at the right hand of God. And since that time he waits for his enemies to be made his footstool, because by one sacrifice he's made perfect forever those who are being made holy. His work is accomplished. We saw last week in chapter nine, verse twelve. He didn't enter by the means of the blood of goats and calves, but he entered the most holy place once for all by his own blood, having obtained an eternal redemption. Whatever you see in the Bible, that phrase that Jesus is sitting at the right hand of the throne of God, you've got to stop right there and praise God and rejoice. Because that's saying to you that your salvation is secure and history is on its right course. See, the fact that Jesus is sitting down shows that things are in control. He's sitting down because your salvation is secure. It's done. There's nothing else to add to it. And you and I run around trying to do all kinds of things, and Jesus is sitting down. Then you see, and we need to look at him and realize he's sitting, because there's nothing more that we too can do or need to do. Add to our salvation, to make it more perfect. To add to our relationship with God. Jesus Himself is sitting down. How dare you and I try to work for it. When you look at it, realize the security of that. Rejoice. Things are in control. They haven't gone awry. Because Jesus is sitting down at the right hand of God until his enemies be made his footstool, waiting until that time. Now you notice as he's sitting there, he's not sitting passively. He's ruling. He's ruling. He's ruling at the right hand. And that rule is spelled out a little bit more in the next couple verses. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will extend your mighty scepter from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your troops will be willing on your day of battle Arrayed in holy majesty from the womb of the dawn, you will receive the do of your needs. Now there's two groups of people that he's ruling, we're told First of all, he's ruling his enemies. And secondly, he's ruling his people. Notice that in each case. Verse 2, he's ruling his enemies. The Lord's going to extend your scepter from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. You say, well, Satan, I thought, was defeated at the cross. What's happening now? Well, the Bible tells us, of course, that though he was defeated at the cross, he's still very active and very alive. In his death throes, but very much alive. And Jesus is in the process now of subduing Satan's kingdom and extending the kingdom that he's bought. And we're in the midst of a battle. There's a battle going on. A fierce, raging battle, a spiritual battle. And in that battle, we see a great deal of bloodshed. See a great deal of party, a great deal of work going on. Jesus is ruling in the midst of his enemies. You look at the history of the church and you see that the norm for the church is persecution. I've just been looking at the Psalms of David as I realized that the 73 Psalms that David wrote, 45 of them. Forty-four or forty-five, at least forty-four of his Psalms, were written in persecution, written in times when he was fleeing from enemies. You look at world events and you see that politically the world is extremely unstable. More and more talk about the possibility of nuclear war, instability in the Mideast. All kinds of problems that could make your blood curdle. And we see that Jesus is ruling in the midst of enemies. That are not yet subdued. We see injustice and oppression against weakness. We see uh violence against the helpless in our world, and we realize That his enemies are not yet subdued. We look and we see people curse by his name, use his name as trash. The big movie of the summer, Raiders of the Lost Ark, looks at the Ark as an occultic curiosity. The man who goes after the Ark himself calls the god of the Ark of the Covenant, a boogeyman And Jesus has not yet subdued his enemies. But one day, all of those who speak so flippantly and so glibly of King Jesus Will become a footstool for his feet. One day his feet will be on their neck, not because he delights in tyranny. But because of his justice he puts down oppression and cursing and vileness and all things that are arrayed against him in his power. Isn't it wonderful to realize that you go around people who can care less about Jesus Christ and sometimes it seems like Christians are so weak and the church seems so powerless To remember and never forget, Jesus isn't grasping for the throne. He didn't slip off it somehow, and he's trying to climb back up on the mountain and gain control again. Remember it and never forget it. Jesus isn't grasping for the throne. He's on the throne It's simply a matter of time till all those enemies are subdued, until all things in the universe are placed in their right perspective. With his feet on the necks of his enemies, with all unbelief and blasphemy, the beast and the dragon of Revelation put down And Jesus ruling. The word rule there in verse 2 is a very stern word. It means to rule by force. Jesus will one day rule, and there will be no resistance. Hallelujah. Think of that, thank God. Finally, the last picture we have here is the picture of Jesus ruling his people. You see that in verse 3. In contrast to the ruling of the enemies, he says, Your troops, your people, literally, your people will be willing on your day of battle, arrayed in holy majesty, from the womb of the dawn, you will receive the do of your needs. Notice first of all that contrast between the word rule and the word willing. The word rule, as I said, is a stern word that speaks of force. Literally, verse 3 says, Your people will be free will offerings. It's the word that's used in the Old Testament of a free will offering, one that was not commanded by the law. But when a person wanted to come and simply out of gratitude for what God had done presented an offering at the temple, this is the word that was used: a free-will offering. It's an anticipation, you see, of what Paul said in Romans 12. That when you consider the mercies of God, I beseech you to present your bodies a living sacrifice, a free will offering Because of gratitude for his grace, you see. You see, this is a picture of grace. Your people are not going to be controlled by law. The law will no longer have dominion over them, but they're going to be free will offerings. Those who serve you by grace and gratitude. Sure, it's a hard thing to serve Jesus. Sure, the struggle seems long and sometimes the setbacks seem overwhelming. But would you have it any other way? Would you rather serve any other master than King Jesus? Surely your service of him is a willing service, a delighted service Because you're a free will author, bought by grace, by the blood of the Lamb. You notice secondly that this is an army that you raid in holy majesty. Literally, that means that we are arrayed in the majesty of holiness. Holiness, you see, gives us beauty. We don't hear much about holiness anymore. But the Bible places a great emphasis upon the beauty that our holiness, lives that are being transformed into the likeness of Jesus, give to us as his army of people Arrayed as a majestic army in the beauty of its holiness. And finally, the third thing that we're told here is that we are as the dew of the morning to him. Oh, what a beautiful picture. We are the dew of the morning to Jesus. That's a very difficult phrase in the Hebrew. And if you read it in the Hebrew, it's really hard to make sense out of it, just as it is. In fact, if you were literally to read it in the Hebrew, it says, From the womb of the dawn is to you the dew of your youth. You know, well, whose youth, what is it? But most commentators understand that this is a picture continuing on of God's people and what they are to Jesus. Jesus' people are as the dew of the morning to him. Have you walked in dew lately? Have you looked and dew much this summer that you've walked out in the morning? Were you in too much of a rush? Did you take off for work? To notice do. Do is a beautiful thing. Do is a refreshing thing. It's a clean thing. And it's a valuable thing. Dew is clean. It washes all that it falls upon, all the dust it lays down. And we're clean. Cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ. And so we're clean to him as dew. Dew is a beautiful thing. Well, one of my favorite pictures that I've ever taken was in my garden in Syracuse when the dew was on the roses. And I took a close-up of a rose covered with drops of dew as it was just beginning to open in the early light of the morning. Do gives beauty to whatever it's placed upon. And God's telling us here that we're beautiful to Him. He says, you're like dew to me, and I see you and I and I cherish your beauty that I've placed upon you. Dew 's a refreshing thing It comes in in the coolness of the morning. And it refreshes all that it falls apart. You know, the Bible's telling us here that we're due to God, we're refreshing to Him. He looks at us and He's refreshed. He says you are a blood what people and I delight in you. I love to look at you. It's refreshing to see you. God looks at me and he's disgusted He looks at me, he said, Oh no, you again, you know, coming back to me for that forgiveness of that same old sin. That's not what the Bible says The Bible says who is the dew of the morning to him. He wants to commune with you. He wants to talk with you. You're refreshing to him. And you're also valuable to it. This is part of the picture it's easy for us to miss, you know. Where you have lots of humidity and rain like we do in the summer. Dew is nice. But this picture wasn't written in Maryland. This picture was written in the east. And in the east, where there's very little, and perhaps in some cases, no rain in the dry season. Dew isn't just pretty, it's not just refreshing, it's not just nice to look at, it's invaluable because it's absolutely necessary for the sustenance of the plants It's the moisture that they receive. And so when we look at this, we're not looking at something that's just nice to have around. God is saying, you are valuable to me. You are as the dew of the mourning to me, as I ascend my throne and I rule my people, and my enemies are about at the point to be subdued and have my feet upon their necks, and I look at my people as free will offerings. Who love me, who serve me, and are being conformed to my image and the beauty of holiness, and I look at them as doom. God Himself is refreshed. God Himself places that value upon us and delights in us as his people. Which of these truths do you need to consider most this morning? Jesus. Seated at the throne of the right hand of power, waiting till his enemies be made his footstool, ruling in the midst of his enemies, delighting in his people. As the dew of the Lord. Let's pray. And let's each of us speak back to God. The things that He by His Spirit has been speaking to us about this morning.