And I went, who is that? And uh what a what a funny looking bunch of people back then. We all were, isn't that right? My my purpose this morning is to direct your attention uh to One passage of Scripture, one verse of Scripture that is truly remarkable. And if we could uh if we could wrap our hearts, or in submission to the Spirit, allow the Lord Jesus to wrap our hearts around this one verse. our lives, our churches would be radically different. We are desperate to know and to love and to walk with this Lord. And a great roadblock, I think, in being able to walk more effectively and powerfully as his witnesses Is understanding the heart of God and his heart for us and his heart for the work of the gospel. I want to read just two verses then in Luke chapter 10. I invite you to turn with me to that passage. Uh this uh uh this verse in particular uh verse 21, which we'll be focusing on, is really uh Jesus' summation statement, his prayer um at the conclusion of the missionary journey of the uh Of the seventy-two who were sent out, who Jesus sent out to spread the gospel. And this then is his heart, the heart of God. Listen to his prayer. At that time, Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit, said, I praise you. Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned And revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this was your good pleasure. All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father. And no one knows who the Father is except the Son, and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things. From the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father. For that is your good pleasure. Would you pray with me? Father, we are thankful that your heart is for your people. And that you purpose even during these moments to reveal yourself to us. We continue to be little children. We continue to be desperate to know you and to follow you. We have already confessed that our hearts are cold and self-preoccupied. And we pray that you would ignite us with the message of grace this morning. Ignite us with your glorious gospel. We pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. Perhaps no little passage of Scripture opens up the heart of God. with greater clarity and winsomeness than our text this morning. As far as I know, this is the only place in the Bible where each of the three persons in the Trinity is said To be happy, to rejoice. Jesus is thrilled with joy And it is joy that is in the Holy Spirit, joy that is energized and intensified by the Spirit Himself, and it is the Father's good pleasure. The Father's joy also that is in view here. That God is well pleased in fulfilling all of his desires. God is perceived, is presented in this passage as happy. Now we don't mean roller coaster happy or cotton candy happy, but we mean that God is deeply satisfied. That his glory is being portrayed and magnified in the world. He finds unfettered joy When he is glorified. This, we might say, is no plan B world, and your life is no plan B life God is working his purposes for his glory. He is not frustrated. He is never late. He is happy to fulfill his purposes. Now, when I say that this passage is the only one in all of Scripture that describes the triune God as happy. And I trust that you'll understand when I use that word happy this morning. God's unfettered joy at the explosion of his glory, the manifesting of his glory. There certainly are other times in Scripture where God is well pleased to do things, and he is satisfied in his work. We think certainly of creation, where God Himself spoke through the eternal word, Jesus. Jesus, where the Spirit is described as hovering over the deep. And at the end of each workday, God declares, He pronounces that it is good. except for the end of the sixth day when he pronounces that it is very good, for man has been created. God was well satisfied with his work of creation, and well he should be When we consider the scope, the majesty of this universe in which we live. Now, just one little peek into that that amazes me. We understand that the size of our earth is tiny compared to the size of our sun. In fact, if you put if you strung together a number of earths on a string to To reach the uh to go across the diameter, uh diameter of the sun, guess how many earths you would need to reach from one interior diameter to the other side of the sun? You would need 100 earths. To fill up the center of the sun straight across. And I have read that our sun is tiny uh compared to other stars in the universe. And that in fact there is one star that there is one star that has been has been identified that is as big, as wide as across in diameter as the distance between our planet and our sun. A star a billion miles across Now, why do I cite this? God is satisfied in his creative genius Simply for the fact that he had such a wonderful drama of redemption to unfold that he needed, he needed a stage just that glorious. We see that God is also happy in redemption. He's happy in the redemption sought and worked by his son. We read in Isaiah that the Lord was pleased to crush his son. God is pleased in creation. God is pleased in the accomplishment of redemption. But here, in this little verse, God is described with unfettered joy. Jesus bubbles over with joy. Father, this is what we've been waiting for. The news has gone out. The reports are coming back. Those for whom I will die are coming to know me and trust in me. They are being saved and Satan has fallen like lightning from the sky. God, it is happening just the way we've landed. It is wonderful. The gospel of grace is being revealed. Now, does that rattle your view of God even just a little bit? I if you're anything like me, I I guess my my um uh default mode is to view God in more deistic terms than this. do honor, recognize him as creator. But in terms of of his the intimacy of his involvement and the pleasure of his involvement in the spread of the gospel, that's something that is A bit more remote to me than I wish that it were. We understand, and this affects the way we pray, doesn't it? We understand, or we believe often, that God is at least mildly interested in what's going on here. And we are also looking for the next great event when we suspect that God will finally be exasperated enough with this world that He will send Jesus back. And usher end the new heavens and the new earth. But God is happy now to reveal. And to conceal. And what is that, how does that impact your life as a congregation? How does that impact my life as a pastor? Consider what makes you happy as a church. If you had to say there are two or three things that would really make you happy as a church, what might that be? I ask these things because even these things that we long for to make us happy can become obstacles that block our sharing of God's joy. For some of you, it simply might be to be comfortable finally someplace. To find friends, perhaps in your cell groups or in other Bible studies, to find friends where you are comfortable enough, to be real, to be authentic. And to experience Jesus in that context. You are comfortable. The preaching is usually pretty good. And you enjoy that. It's pleasant. And life is good. Or or maybe maybe what seems to drive you is a sense of self-satisfaction. Perhaps leaders especially in the church can become self-satisfied. I know at New Hope when we meet the budget, I mean that is a cause for celebration. Praise God. Life is good. We met our budget. It's exciting to be involved in a church that is growing. Sometimes we quiet that nagging voice behind us that recognizes that a higher percentage of our growth is from reshuffling the deck than we'd like to believe, but we're self-satisfied. We're growing Some of you might sit here and say happy. I am too overstressed to even think about being happy. I gave that up quite a while ago. With information overload, with the troubles, the trials of work, you've given up trying to be happy, even desiring that. And you're content simply to show up for worship. Your prayers, such as they are, don't really connect with God's joy. But hey, life is busy. To these attitudes, Jesus offers us something truly phenomenal here It is an invitation to be happy in the things that make God happy. That is, in the revelation of his gospel To be joyful in partnership with God. God is happy also to reveal, specifically to reveal and to conceal Jesus. You remember that the reports had come back with mixed reviews. Some had trusted in Jesus, the disciples' report, and man, we were casting out demons and there were fireworks, and it was amazing. While at other times whole cities rejected you. And at that point, Jesus begins his prayer. I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth. I praise you, Father, my Father, you are Lord over all things, and you are pleased with the prosecution of the gospel, the spread of the gospel. And I am happy with you, Father, in your electing love. As you hide Jesus. From some and reveal him to the humble. Think with me for a moment of what it means for Jesus to be revealed to little children. It's for the glory of the cross, Jesus is revealed to little children. A child comes up to a parent and and simply raises arms like this, stands up on tiptoes. and acknowledges you have everything I need and want. I have nothing. I'm so totally dependent upon you. And that glorifies The parent puts the parent in the position of being the giver of everything that child needs. And so it is when Jesus says he reveals the gospel to little children. He is revealing the gospel to people who realize that all of their exits have been cut off. They have nowhere else that they can turn to. And they delight to know that God alone, through Jesus, provides what they need. The gospel glorifies our desperate position And it glorifies the heart of God to provide what we need. I have uh I've been doing some work in a prison recently And it is amazing to me to go into that place and to see little children. Little children. Who now deal with the shameful memory of having killed. But now they are little children and they love their Savior. They have come to the point of absolute dependence upon him. And they worship, they glorify the cross of Christ. I love the hymn that says, Well might something like this. This is just from memory, but well might the sun. Refuse to shine and let its glories in. At the death of Jesus, of course, the light of the sun is going to be cut off. Well might the sun refuse to shine and let its glory in. For God, the mighty Maker, died. For man, the creatures set. The sun had no choice But to shut down in the face of far greater glory, God Himself suffering on the cross for rebellious men. Are you a child today? As you sit here, perhaps new to this thing called church. But you know that you know that you know that you don't really have anything to offer God that will impress him. And you've been wondering about this one Jesus. I'm here to tell you, friends, that he is who he says he is, the glorious Son of God, who is revealed and displayed and honored as the one who does for you what you cannot do yourself. absorbing all of God's wrath and justice on the cross. For little children who simply can come to him now in dependence and say, Help! I need mercy. I've got nothing I can offer the Lord. Wonderful, wonderful that the parallel passage in Matthew is this verse, Jesus full of joy. says, Father, I thank you that you have revealed yourself to G to children. In in in Matthew's gospel, the very next verse. is the one that we know so well. Come, you who are weary. Come, you who are burdened. Be a little child. Recognize. Recognize your need for Jesus and his provision. Well, we can understand God's joy Jesus joy in revealing himself. But it's a little baffling perhaps for us to consider what possible joy God might have in concealing Jesus. He hides Jesus from the wise, the worldly wise, the self-satisfied. And I think the reason is this, that you cannot at the same time be wise in your own eyes. and love Jesus, or even tolerate him. You cannot at the same time be both proud, self-reliant, and love the cross. Because the cross says clearly how how how evil I am. And that's what I deserve. And not only that, I know that there's nothing I can do about it. That it had to be done by Jesus. The cross humbles and for the proud and the self-reliant. The cross is anathema. My daughter is in her first year at the local public high school where we live in Walkersville. And one of her assignments this past week was to bring, along with everyone else in the class, to bring a song that has meant a lot to her. And it would be played, and then they would have an opportunity to share just something about that song that has so significantly changed their life. And when it began, when it was my daughter's turn, she brought a song. I think the group was Cutlass, and I'd never heard of them. I did read the lyrics, and it had to do with glorifying Jesus as the one, just like we were singing this morning, to glorify Jesus as the one who satisfies our souls. That we come in desperate need uh of his grace and his death for us. And and that was played in the public high school And it was so interesting to me his reaction, the reaction of the teacher in response to her song In all the other cases, he would not only play it, but he would go through the lyrics and unfold them and seek to draw people to connect with them to identify with the person who had brought it in. But in this case, very cavalierly and quickly, just brushing over it and saying, religion, not mentioning, cannot mention the name of Jesus, religion. seems to make some people happy and oh well whatever floats your boat. Do you see that it is unthinkable For someone to be in heaven who is not madly in love with Jesus and isn't taken by the cross of Christ. Maybe, maybe God is giving you a glimpse today Of the pride in your own heart and the tendency to self-reliance that you and I deal with. And maybe even today, he is showing you the beauty of Jesus to undermine, to uh take down a peg or two That self-reliance that we so often, so often relate to God with. Jesus, full of joy in the Holy Spirit, said, Father, I praise you. Lord of heaven and earth, because you have revealed these things to little children, even as you have concealed them from the wise. Now is God still interested in doing that work today? Is that still God's heart? And if so, how does he get the job done How do you reach a cynical population with this old message? How do you speak of an invisible God And a remote eternity to a society that is numbed by entertainment. How can churches more effectively reveal Christ in a postmodern world? It is simply by being a community that is saturated with grace, a community that has been awakened by grace. I believe there is evidence both in Scripture and right in front of our noses that God happily joyfully reveals Jesus through a gospel-soaked community Charles Spurgeon was arguably the greatest English-speaking preacher of any day, and was an unbelievable instrument of God. We oftentimes think of the huge congregations that would gather to hear him, and we might even view them as passive recipients. God is doing a wonderful work through Spurgeon. And there the people are sitting in the pews, just soaking up the message of grace. In the foreword of his book, Soul Winning, Helmut Tellech says that the gospel preaching um caused the congregation to become a source of life. The gospel preaching brought them to spiritual maturity, and the issue, the mighty factor in that church. was not that C. H. Spurgeon was a pulpit star, but rather that there was an unbelievable teamwork that went on between pastor and congregation. And then he makes this statement, the true preacher is not the preacher himself. It is the living and spiritually awakened congregation. Do you believe that? Could you see that? In Charles Spurgeon's congregation, let me read it again. The true preacher is not the preacher himself, it is the living and spiritually awakened congregation. They have become a team of missionaries. I want you to turn with me to if Isaiah chapter 32. Isaiah chapter 32. Let me read a couple of verses from the beginning of that chapter. Isaiah 32, see a king will reign in righteousness, and rulers will rule with justice. Each man will be like a shelter from the wind and a refuge from the storm, like streams of water in the desert. And the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land. Do you see what this is saying? Each of these descriptions really is pointing to the saving power and the satisfying power that comes. The healing power through Jesus. For He is our shelter, He is our refuge. He is for us the stream of living water, and He is the shadow that protects us. like a great rock in a thirsty land. But this passage is saying that you, as the believers, the followers of Jesus, as the citizens in his kingdom, you are the ones that have become A shadow for those who are being blinded and burned up by the light even of their own sin and rebellion. That you are becoming a shelter for those who are being buffeted by the wind of people doing just what they want to do and reaping the consequences in their own bodies. And you become a stream of water in the desert. You become a refuge in the storm. The congregation that is awakened by the gospel becomes itself a vehicle for feeding its community. A letter uh came across my desk a while back that um I I wanted to read. Um it just describes clearly what I'm talking about. This is from a a woman who is a member at a particul a local church, and she says this in the words to her to her pastor. I don't know how to put into words how grateful I am to God for placing me at this church, but I will try. In my 14 years of being a Christian, I have never heard what I hear every Sunday at this church, and that is the gospel preached in its fullness. Every Sunday I leave this church realizing that I am a freed sinner, robed in the righteousness of Christ and loved with an everlasting love by the Father. The encouragement I receive from the truths of Scripture and the gospel-powered messages gives me the desire to look into the gospel, gives me the desire to look into my sinful heart. And be honest with myself and to give and to and and to God for what I find, because I know I'm secure in Christ. I can serve joyfully, love freely, witness with a new excitement, and grow more and more in love with Jesus. That's what we want. People changed, ignited, empowered by the gospel. And this woman is still a little child coming to the Lord desperate every day. I need and receive grace from heaven. I w I want to conclude with four qualities That, and I'm sure there are others, but four qualities that you might observe in an awakened congregation A congregation that is tasting of Jesus in this way. First of all, in your congregation, you are learning to pray like Jesus. Jesus has unfettered joy in this prayer. I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, we can make those same words outright. For you have concealed the gospel. From the wise and the learned, but you are revealing that gospel to little children. Yes, Father, for that is your good pleasure. Now, why could Jesus pray that with such confidence and assurance? It is simply because he knew that the wounds that he would bear in his hands, the wound that he would bear in his side, was absolutely adequate To achieve everything that God required in order for the explosion of the gospel to wash over the world. He knew that in his death everything was being done that had to be done. And you and I can have exactly the same confidence as we look to Jesus and in faith see that He has done everything. Praise God for His wounds. Praise God for the crown of thorns pressed upon his head. Praise God that this one who died, the mighty Maker, died for man, the creature sins. And we can pray with confidence that there is nothing that will hold back the hand of God from fulfilling his purposes. We pray with expectancy. We pray with compassion on the lost. I want to uh I I want to lay before you a challenge. Um I guess I guess Alan has the right to uh to nix this if he wants to next week. But I'm going to just lay this challenge before you. And just see what God does with this. I want to encourage you to make this your prayer for the next 30 days. And I'm going to read it in just a moment. I urge you, I challenge you, with this passage in mind, Luke 10, 21, as a backdrop, to make this your prayer every day. for the coming for the coming month. This is a prayer that was uh given to me by an old friend who was also a former university uh staff worker. Alan may even know this for I don't know, could be in the notebooks that they get as Ivy staff workers. But this is the prayer. Here I am, Lord. Please heal me. Strengthen me. Introduce me to the people you want me to love, and please give me opportunities to share with them about you. Amen. Here I am, Lord. Please heal me. I'm broken. I'm wounded. I'm weak. I'm scared. I don't have the gift of evangelism. My gift is fear. Strengthen me. Introduce me to the people you want me to love. And please give me opportunities to share with them about you. And then next month's Lord's Supper, the 1st of November, I just want to make a suggestion that you allow time during that Lord's Supper service for people to give testimonies to how God answered this prayer. And I can make that as a suggestion and even urge that upon you for the simple reason that God is far more committed to answering that prayer than you are even right now from praying it. God is happy to answer that prayer. Watch Him work. Pray it. And then in November. Hear stories of what God has done in opening up doors to be able to minister the gospel. Four qualities of an awakened community. You're learning to pray, first of all, like Jesus. Secondly, you are sharing Jesus out of your weakness. An awakened congregation is sharing Jesus out of its weakness. Do you realize how many, how, how uh tired many non-Christians are of being witness to? I mean, it is so old and it is so insulting for so many. The gospel sounds so condescending the way it is offered up by many believers. I made the right choice, you need to make the right choice too. That is an offensive message I I had uh the occasion of being at a wedding on Martha's Vineyard last weekend, and it truly was the best that this world has to offer. Scenery, uh accommodations, food, I mean it was top of the line, and there was a lot of money. there in the wedding party itself. And uh it was filled with wealthy, self-assured people. And um and I was looking around all weekend. Hanging around a little bit more with the Christians than with the non-Christians. And finally on the ferry, on the way back to the mainland, I prayed this prayer. And I saw a friend, a person that I had known for 25 years, an avowed homosexual, a despiser of the gospel. And I said, Lord, here I am. My mouth has been shut far too much. I'm going to be available, though. If you give me an opening, I'll take it. And in the course of our discussion, this person and a relative of his said to me, you know, it was amazing just to see your mom. um eighty-eight years old and how well she has traveled and how well she relates to people. It was really neat to see her again. And I said, yeah, it is really pretty amazing. And your mom, too. Uh it was good to see her again, and she really looks nice. She really looks good. And the atmosphere on on that ferry was so brittle. That you could have cut that saw there with a knife. And I'm thinking, whoa, what is this about? And the next comment was, growing up, we had rules about being nice. Of course, she's nice. Every day on the way to church in the car, no matter what went on, when the ignition is turned off and we open the doors in the parking lot and we head in the building. Everybody, put on your nice smile. We're going to church. And this man had grown up in a solid evangelical community. And he had never experienced the gospel in such a way that it could get traction in the negative emotions of life, and it had substance in the problems of life. Don't deal with that stuff. Just be happy. Of course, he rejected the gospel. And I was able. God gave me words at that moment. Said, I can understand how absolutely frustrating that must have been. That is a tragic abuse, abuse of the gospel. And I said to him, you know, I'm a minister. He knew that. I'm a minister. And I've been in this business for 20 years. And I said, you know, it was only about 10 years ago, 15 now I guess, but ten or fifteen years ago, that it began to dawn on me that the best way to honor Jesus. is to be honest with him about all of your garbage. And I know that's counterintuitive, but that's the message of the gospel. I can understand if you didn't hear that. That you have no use for Christianity. Just think about it. Jesus came for your garbage, not for you to hide it from him. Now, I don't know what God's going to do with that. But the words were there. And love for this guy was there, not because I'm a great evangelist, because I'm not. But because God delights, delights to reveal Jesus to those who will be humbled by his Spirit to be little children. You know, I don't know how long things are supposed to go here when you have these two services. I got two little quick how much time do we have? Are we already passed? Just just real real quickly, real quickly. Four qualities of an awakened community. You learn to pray like Jesus, you learn to share Jesus out of your weakness, and you learn to display Jesus in your gathered in your gathered worship. You know, sometimes we come into church and we are so detached, we are so critical, we are unmoved by the ministry of the gospel, by the singing. I mean we remain critics to the end. And we think we've gone to worship, we think we've met God. The awakened community has become self-forgetful. It has lost its self-consciousness before the glory of the cross. It is unashamed to raise hands, to pray, to be moved by this message of grace for sinners. The awakened congregation is willing to be emotionally affection having affections engaged by the gospel of Christ. And the awakened congregation also expects God to show up. The awakened congregation expects that God is going to be in the business today to reveal Jesus. And the awakened congregation, therefore, is willing to say to friends and neighbors, Come with me today, and you will be surprised at what you will find. Because you know that God is revealing Jesus. Worship becomes the most precious hour of your week. And then finally, you learn also how to display Christ in the church scattered. You have learned to take the church to your friends through your cell groups, through your small group outreach activities, or whatever else they might be. You have learned. And I think this is a growing edge. In many places in the church across the world today, you have learned the value of meeting together in fellowship. With dropping dropping your guard, inviting unbelievers into your home, going through a brief a brief Bible study, the Person of Jesus study, or something like that. We're simply studying some passage of scripture and doing it in the context of we are meeting with a person. And I love this person. And this person is changing me. And you, you too, you don't even have to say it, but you too can can find the grace and the encouragement, the blessing. Of knowing this Jesus, if you're willing to be like me and just be a little child, needing, needing this one. Friends, and with this I will close. God loves to reveal Jesus. Don't allow any obstacles to keep you from partnering with him in that joy. Let us pray together. Oh God of mercy, God of grace, how we praise you, how we praise you That you reveal yourself to little children, and may we not stop being little children. Glorify the gospel in this place. May this congregation be awakened by grace, be a gospel-saturated congregation. That Jesus, that Jesus would be glorified. And may this be a happy place, joining with our happy God. In this great, this great opportunity, displaying Jesus to this community. In the name of Christ, we pray.