Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 1. This is going to be an experiment for me, sitting here still on a stool. First of all, as I get up here, I want to thank all of you for your cards, your encouragement, for your support, for those of you who brought meals. For those of you who called, for those of you who carried my burdens, literally in some cases, running back and forth to the office, those who have uh shown the grace of the Lord Jesus through this time, I really appreciate it, and I appreciate your friendship. I also appreciate the way that God has used you in powerful ways to minister to me and to my family. And I'm very grateful. God has been very good to us. Getting the uh I hate to have something higher than me here. There we go Having the surgery done has taught me a number of things, and one of the things that it's done is it's brought back to my memory much more freshly the actual accident 17 years ago that uh was the cause of all this. And there's one particular thing as I was looking at the passage for this morning, 1 Samuel 1, that God brought back to my memory It was a a situation where I had been very fortunately cared for by a trauma surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon in Southern California right after the trauma centers had been put together I was on the freeways of Southern California as they picked me up and carried me via act uh ambulance back to the hospital, but I was covered by an HMO. And so as soon as the initial care was dealt with, there was all of the rigor moral and paperwork of dealing with who was going to pay for what and what wasn't going to be covered. So after the surgery, I had a Hoffman brace. For those of you who are medically oriented, you'll know that that's one of these monstrous metal things that sits on your bones that holds them together and is a wonderful tool for making sure that your leg or your arm or whatever has been broken gets back together. After the Hoffman brace, I had a cast for about three weeks, and then I had what was called a PTB, a patellar tendon bearing brace, which was also an experimental procedure. And if you're familiar with HMOs, One of the things that you'll realize is that HMOs have an anathema for experimental procedures. Now, the typical thing that would have been done was to go through cast after cast after cast Which would have prevented me from walking, putting weight on the leg and making sure the bone healed well, and it would have cost ten times more than the PTB brace would have. But the PT base was experimental, and CAS would not have been. So the HMO in its in its um all-powerful wisdom decided they weren't going to pay the $360. So I found out that there was a particular surgeon up in another part of Southern California that was my case officer who had the authority to say, yes, we'll pay. So in my audacity, I went and I set an appointment to talk with this man, and I went up and I visited him and I sat in his office and I said, Doctor, I'm ready to save you 90% of what you would have paid to have me in casts. And he looked at me and said, Well, I'm ready to save me 100%. And so we talked for a while, and he said, yes, this is probably a better medical procedure for you, but it's not covered by the insurance And I said, well, Doctor, could you authorize this? And he said, yes, I could, but then I'd have to authorize, I'd have to explain that to my superiors. And I said, so what you're really saying is you can do this, but you won't. He said, that's exactly what I'm saying. By the way, if you want to, you can take us to Small Flames Court and I give you a 90% chance of winning, but then it's not on my record. The reason I bring that story up is because when we're in times of trial and difficulty, we want to find someone special. We want to find that person who can make a difference. Not only the one who can make the difference, though, we want to find the one who will make that difference. So we're looking for somebody with two particular traits. the authority, the power, and the care. This morning this passage is going to address that issue It's going to address our hunger in times of trenching, in times of trial, in times of suffering for the one who can and will make that difference. But as we go to the word, let's begin with prayer. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you have given us the freedom to come as brothers and sisters to this place this morning. The spiritual and the physical freedom. Lord, that we can be here. That we're not prevented by an absence of a building. We're not prevented by laws that say we can't assemble. We're not prevented by An unwillingness to come because we have no reason to be here. Lord, you've called us as your children, and you've called us to each other. And this morning you called us here to worship, to praise you, to acknowledge your greatness and your love. And to hear from you. Lord, as we hear from you from your word, we pray that you would open our ears and our hearts. And that as we hear your truth, we would be transformed. Lord, do your work in us by your Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to read to us from 1 Samuel chapter 1, verses 1 through 18. And it may not be immediately obvious how this fits, but I ask you to bear with me because it does. There was a certain man from Ramathiam, a Zupite from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah. Son of Jeroam, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, the son of Zuf, an Ephraimite. He had two wives. One was called Hannah, and the other Panina. Phonina had children, but Hannah had none. Year after year this man went up from his town to worship and sacrifice to the Lord Almighty at Shiloh, where Hophni and Phineas, the two sons of Eli, were priests of the Lord. Whenever the day came for Elkanah to sacrifice, he would give portions of the meat to his wife Panina, and to all her sons and daughters. But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her. And the Lord had closed her womb. And because the Lord had closed her womb, her rival kept provoking her in order to irritate her. This went on year after year. Whenever Hannah went up to the house of the Lord, her rival provoked her till she wept and would not eat. O Canna, her husband, would say, Hannah. Why are you weeping? Why don't you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons? Once when they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. Now Eli the priest was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the Lord's temple. In bitterness of soul, Hannah wept much and prayed to the Lord. And she made a vow, saying, O Lord Almighty, if you will only look on your servant's misery and remember me. And not forget your servant, but give to her a son, then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head. As she kept praying to the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. Eli thought she was drunk and said to her, How long will you keep on getting drunk? Get rid of your wine. So, my lord, Hannah replied, I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer. I was pouring out my soul to the Lord. Do not take your servant for a wicked woman. I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief. Eli answered, Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked of him. She said, May your servant find favor in your eyes. And she went her way to eat and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. In this passage, one of the things that we need to see, even as we begin to look at the context of what's taking place Is that God is speaking of His power in the books of 1 and 2 Samuel? There actually should be two blanks in that line because the is there, but books is not. So you can either take out the or put in books. But the point there is that God is speaking of his power. It may not seem like that's clear, but as you look at this book, as you look at the history of 1 and 2 Samuel and 1st and 2 Kings, God is doing an incredible thing. God is taking a small tribal confederation that has been led by judges only as crises arise and the leadership is needed. In the book of 1 Samuel that begins with a tribe that's in confusion. Priests who do not honor the Lord In the end of 1 Kings, actually the beginning of 1 Kings, in the middle of the story, God has raised up a kingdom under Solomon that is the greatest world power of its time. Now in your outline you see a number of dashes there that begin to explain the works God has done. I want you to write God before that dash on each of those, except for the last one, because it's already there. God selects Samuel as a leader and guides him. Chapter 3, verses 18 through 21, God is clearly saying to Samuel through the dream, You are my chosen man. It's important to note that as God chooses Samuel, the thing that he does is he makes him a covenant mediator. Moses is the first covenant mediator who serves as a prophet, a priest, and a king. Samuel is the last recorded covenant mediator because now the kings are going to be they're going to be ordained, anointed, and in place. So no longer can one person have the role of prophet, priest, and king, because no longer can a Levite be king. No longer can he serve as the ruler, because now it is the line of Judah who takes the kingly function. So Samuel stands as a pointer to us in a number of ways. Because the next covenant mediator is Jesus. Jesus is the next one to fulfill all three offices of prophet, priest, and king. And Samuel is a type. He is a pointer to Jesus. And that again is even in a more subtle way showing the incredible power of God as He works to create redemption. Not only a kingdom on this earth, but redemption. But God also establishes two powerful kings in these books. In chapter 10, verse 24, God clearly chooses Saul. God sends Samuel, the last covenant mediator, to anoint a king. God chooses that king, he chooses Saul. And even more clearly in chapter 16, in verses 1, 7, and 12 through 13, Samuel is sent again after Saul's failure, and he sent to anoint a new king. And in this particular passage, God makes it even clearer because God says to Samuel, You're looking on the outside. You've seen all of the sons of Jesse but one, and you're already ready to choose. You look on the outside and you see these strong men who will be willing to be good leaders because they have strength. I want the man who has a heart after me. And you can't see that, so I choose David. He continues to build Israel as the most powerful kingdom under David and under Solomon. And so one of the things that you have to recognize in the books of 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, is that it is God's powerful work that is the theme. Those books exist to show God's work in building his people. But not only is God showing his power in this passage, God does it in an unusual way. Because instead of beginning this book. You can really look at 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings as one historical account, one book. Instead of beginning this book with a statement of God's power and glory, what does he do? He demonstrates his commitment to the individuals. He demonstrates his individual his commitment to the individuals, his caring. His compassionate caring is the next blank for individuals by telling the story through the lives of individuals And as you look at that chart on the bottom third of your page, you'll see that there are various historical periods from creation, patriarchs, exodus, conquest, judges, and monarchy. And in each of those, there's a name or a series of names underneath that historical period because those are the ones that God has told his story through. God tells the story of creation both through his own power, but as soon as Adam is created, God begins to tell the story of creation through the life of Adam. Because you see, God works in the lives of individuals, and he accomplishes his plans through the lives of individuals. In the history of the patriarchs, beginning in Genesis 12 and carrying through the end of the book of Genesis, chapter 50, God's telling the story of the creation of a nation. Through the lives of four men. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. He's telling it through the lives of individuals In the story of the Exodus, that historical period that covers the rest of the first five books of the Bible, God is telling the story through the life of Moses. He begins by speaking of Moses' birth, and he carries the story of the Exodus through to the end of Moses' life. As Moses looks in on the land that will be taken by the Israelites, but can't enter. And then in the conquest, God tells that story through the life of Joshua. Certainly there are a number of historical accounts that deal with grand battles, but it's the life of Joshua that's the focus. As he is the leader of God's people, leads them into the land. In the book of Judges, we deal in the history of the judges, we deal with the issue of the various leaders that God raises up because God is the king. That God needs people to serve him and to redeem his people. And so he works through Gideon, Samson, Deborah, and Samuel, and several others But it is through the lives of these individuals that God is revealing his work and accomplishing that work. In the monarchy, we see Saul, David, Solomon, and the kings that follow. You see, God is telling the story, in this case, in a unique way to the life of a woman. And God is pointing out that He is the unique being, the unique person that we have to seek. He is the one who combines that power and care. Now I want you to recognize a couple things about the story of Hannah as we move into that, because you might think, well, this is just the story of people, and God's going to accomplish some great things through that, but really it's God that's the focus. I want to argue that it's not God that's the focus here, it's Hannah. It's not El Kanah that's the focus here, it's Hannah. It's not Panina, it's Han Because it is telling the story of Hannah in ways that can only be understood as her perspective It speaks of the actions taken against her and her response. We can assume what Panaina's response was, we can assume what Elkanah's response was, but it's Hannah that we see. And it's so clearly Hannah. That, as we'll see in a little bit, there are things that we hear in this story that could only have been revealed by Hannah herself. were by God without mediator. Because the only two people who knew what Hannah had prayed was God and Hannah Now, God in a number of ways has a particular pattern of teaching through story and summing up through a didactic or a teaching example. In the book of Ezekiel, we see God teaching what he's going to do. In the book of Daniel, we see God explaining how it was done. Many times God will combine both a narrative, which is what we have here in 1 Samuel, with an explanation. And as we read this morning, we read Psalm 113, and I believe Psalm 113 is an explanation of what God's trying to say here in chapter 1. Let me read it for you again, but I want to draw your attention to the three things that take place in Psalm 113. If you could turn there while I'm talking about it, it would help because I want you to see this. This passage begins with a command and it ends with a command. The command is praise the Lord. The same words are used as the very beginning words and the very ending words, but in between there are three paragraphs or three thoughts that are established The first is a command to praise. It builds on that opening command. It says, praise the Lord. And then the first series says, Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Let the name of the Lord be praised, both now and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to the place where it sets, the name of the Lord is to be praised. So God is commanding his people to worship him. He's due that worship. Other passages like Psalm 96, it says, He's worthy of this, therefore give it to him. But God goes then and explains some of his power. And he says in the next section: the Lord is exalted over all the nations. His glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God? The one who sits enthroned on high, who stoops down to look on the heavens? And the earth. See, God is saying, this is my power. This is who I am. This is what I want you to know of me because I am the Creator. I create out of nothing. There is no one greater than me. The passage there says, who is like the Lord our God? There is no one like the Lord our God. It's a rhetorical question because there can be no one who is his peer. And so it's pointing out the power and the person of God. But in direct contrast to that transcendent God that we cannot approach, he then continues by saying, He raises the poor from the dust. And lifts the needy from the ash heap. He seats them with princes, with the princes of their people. Now listen to this. He settles the barren woman in her home. As a happy mother of children. What a parallel to this passage. You see, God is saying in Hannah, here is how I do it. Here is how I show you in an individual way so that you can experience my compassionate care vicariously. But he says in Psalm 113, I want you to understand, this was no accident. This isn't something subtle I want you to miss. I want you to understand that I am powerful enough to act. And I care enough to act. See, God is that person that we seek. He is the one who can and will act to meet our needs. God is also demonstrating his compassionate care and his commitment to the individual through the rich detail that he reveals in hand of the story. And I want us to look particularly at the passage now, looking particularly at verses six and seven as we begin, at the story of how Hannah was fully presenting her emotions in her relationship with Peninah. There's a couple of things that you need to understand as you look at this. I used to read this passage and think, okay, so this woman had a bad day. She got upset. She really lost her coolness, so she decided now it's really time to pray. And that is about as wrong as you can get. I want you to understand the dynamics here because Hannah most likely was the first wife And so after a period of her barrenness, where after years of trying for children she couldn't bear, her husband, Elkana, takes another wife. Now we don't want to get into the issue of whether that was wise or stupid. We're going to get into the fact that it took place. Right now we're simply looking at the issue of how long did Hannah suffer? And and and I will admit to all of you women out there that we men are really not prepared to understand the emotional issues of infertility. We can understand the fact that we don't have kids. We cannot understand the identity issues that are tied with the issue of infertility. And so we're not even going to try and touch that. It is beyond my ability to explain that. But Hannah was not only barren. Hannah had a rival. If you look at the verse here in verse 6, it says, her rival It doesn't save her fellow wife. It doesn't save her sister. It says her rival. So Hannah's suffering begins with the lack of ability to bear a child. It continues because her husband chooses another in order to carry on his line. It continues with that because she's successful. Now, the period of time that's in scope here is years. Because, first of all, the barrenness has to be determined. Secondly, we see in this passage that in In verse 5, I believe it is, it speaks no in verse 4, Panina and to all her sons and daughters. She has at least four children by this point. That takes time. None of them are listed as twins. There are twins in the Bible that are related, but I think it's most likely that there's at least four or five years' time. Where Hannah has had to live with a rival wife who is successful in bearing children. And not only is this one a rival, but she provokes Hannah every year Now I think the reason that happens is because Kenna is the first wife. Not only in chronology, but in affection. Because it says in the passage, if you look, To Hannah he gave in verse 5. But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her. And the Lord had closed her wound. Panainah got one portion for Panina and one portion for each of her kids. Al Canna made an issue of giving Hannah a double portion. So it's not only Hannah who's suffering here, but it's also Panina. That's not the focus of the morning. Food for thought is to the issue of multiple affections. The Bible says you can't serve two masters, or three or four. The thing I want you to see here is that in the story of how Hannah relates to Panina, Hannah describes herself and is described by the author as provoked Until she wept and would not eat in verse 7. She's tormented. Panina's presence is a torment. Her children's presence is a torment. And Pheninah also went out of her way to torment Hannah. And she did it for years. So this is a woman who, when she speaks of herself as being in great bitterness of soul, isn't exaggerating. She's not a woman who can't understand your suffering this morning. And she's not able to say that this is just a short-term issue. This is her life, for a large part of her life. Let's move on to see how she relates to Elkanah and how that also expresses her suffering. In verse 8, El Cannah her husband would say to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? Why don't you weep? Why are you so downhearted? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons? Elkanah is telling us how she felt. El Khan is also expressing to us his frustration because he can't make it better. I'm sure all of you know people who are going through difficult times, and one of the lessons we're going to look at next week and the week following is What's our role and where do we go? When someone is suffering, is there something we're to do? And is there enough that we can do? Here the story is clear. Elkanah is insufficient to meet Hannah's needs He's already given her his love. It says in verse 4 that he gave her double portion because he loved her. It says in verse 8 that he's asking, Am I not enough? And Hannah's continued weeping is obvious. No, you're not. You can't meet my need. She speaks to the Lord in verses 10 and 11. You need to understand the power of these terms that she uses. The Hebrew is much clearer It's almost as if as she speaks to the Lord, she's describing her state as so sad that she feels as weak, as weary, and as abandoned as a slave. She has nothing. It says, in bitterness of soul. Hannah wept much. In the Hebrew, it's weeping with great weeping. And prayed to the Lord. And she made a vow, saying, O Lord Almighty, if you will only look upon your servant's misery and remember me. And not forget your servant, but give to her a son. Then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head. She is as low as you could possibly imagine. And part of that is because she's been this low for years. She has felt abandoned. She has recognized the absolute impossibility of anybody meeting her needs. There is no human being who can accomplish for her what she needs. To top it off, we have the story of how she expresses herself to Eli, verses 15 and 16. Eli just condemns her because he sees this woman talking without speaking. He knows that his sons have a habit of involving themselves with the women who become drunk and stay at the outer doors of the temple. And as Eli looks at Hannah in her great pain and in her silent prayer, he assumes that she, like these other women, has come to be involved with his sons. In his anger, he comes to her and he says, Woman, get away! Stop drinking. And Hannah responds to him by saying, Not so, my lord, Hannah replied. I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking beer or wine. I was pouring out my soul to the Lord. Do not take your servant for a wicked woman. I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief. The reason I'm taking the time to try and point out how clear God is presenting the suffering of Hannah It's because I don't want us to make the same mistake that I've made in the past in thinking that this is a short-term response to a particular setting. This is her life. This is the consuming focus of her life. This is all that Hannah sees of herself as a woman in great anguish. And God presents to us details of the life of a woman that would have been lost. You see, God is making it clear that even though this book was written at least a century after the life of Hannah, He intends for us to recognize that he is at work in her life. Not because she is a unique woman, not because she is a particular point of focus. I believe a large part of why God has included the story of Canaan in this Bible is because he wants us to know that while he is the God of power, he's also the God of compassionate care in the lives of individuals. One of the things that has typically been been used in evangelistic experiences is people will talk about Jesus died for all, but Jesus died for each And the question that I would pose you is, did Jesus die only because all of us merited in that balance of scales his death? Or did Jesus die because you individually are so important to him? That if you alone had sinned, he would have died for you. It's difficult for us to think that God loves me. But the point of this passage is that God loves each and every one of his children individually. He doesn't love us because we're Columbia Presbyterian Church. He doesn't love us because we're in a particular cell or small group. He doesn't love us because we participate. Well, because we participate in a particular ministry, he loves us because of we are his children, each and individually. But I want you to recognize how God went so far out of his way to preserve this story. You see, even in 1st and 2 Samuel, too many S's in this story. 1 and 2 Samuel, God is already relating things that take place only after the death of Solomon. Because after the death of Solomon we find that the northern and the southern kingdom divide under Jeroboam in the north and Rehobam in the south. Ten tribes go to the north and worship God in Bethel and Dan, and two tribes say faithful Dan in Jerusalem. But in 1 Samuel 27, verse 6, and in 2 Samuel 24, verse 9, God is already referring in these books to the divided kingdom. It had to be written after Solomon. Probably close to a hundred years after Hannah. And yet God reveals to us things that would have been difficult to have been written, even as Samuel had written the book. Because things that were not said to Eli are revealed to us in verses 12 and 13. See, before Eli even sees that her mouth is moving, but her words are not coming, God tells us what Hannah prayed. Verse 12, as she kept on praying to the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard, and Eli thought she was drunk. Verses 10 and 11, we've already read it. We hear what Hannah says in verse 11. O Lord Almighty, if you will only look upon your servant's misery and remember me, and not forget your servant, but give her a son. Then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head We know what Eli didn't know. We know what El Kanah didn't know. God preserved that so that we would know Hannah's heart. And that we would know his heart for her and for us. You see, what God is saying to us in this passage is that he deeply, deeply understands Hannah's hurt. And he deeply understands her needs. He has not abandoned her. He has not left her alone in her pain. See, God didn't ignore her pain for those years that she was bearing. God has not ignored you in your pain, whether it's days, weeks, months, years, decades. God knows your pain God was preparing to do a great thing through Hannah. A thing that required the pain that she had gone through. So that she would come to the point where she would dedicate the child she so deeply longed for to the Lord. And that in that dedication he would become the covenant mediator, who would be the last covenant mediator to lead Israel until Jesus comes. God was preparing for wonderful things. And he accomplished those things through her life. In spite of the fact that to all outward appearances he seemed indifferent. If God is seeming indifferent in your pain this morning, I want you to recognize this last point that God cares for individuals today. If you're looking at suffering in your life and you're saying, it has gone on too long. It has gone on so long that God cannot have a purpose in its extension. If it continues, it's because God does not care. I want you to look at Hannah. I want you to look at what God did for her and through her. I want you to recognize The length of suffering does not determine the care of God. I know people in this congregation who are suffering health problems, chronic pain. I'm still debating whether I'm out of that camp of chronic pain, but I don't have joint pain yet. I'm just waiting for the muscles to heal. Infertility? Loneliness? Financial instability, tension in their marriage, problems with their kids. I understand that there is suffering going on in this congregation. I understand that it's not a congregational issue, it's an individual issue But I want you to understand it is not done in isolation. God has not forgotten you. God has not ignored your pain. God has not left you to face this alone. The thing that you need to cling to is his love for you. And even though you don't see it all, take confidence from Hannah. Do you have a need for one who can and who will care for you? I've had the opportunity through this surgery to learn some lessons I don't want to learn. God has taught me more about my sin. There is a annotated file on my computer under three different passwords kept on a floppy, hidden in some location you'll never find, because God is teaching me important lessons about me. And I hope that you'll see changes because the lessons can't be left simply as cognitive lessons. They're not lessons of the head, they're lessons of the life. God has taught me a number of things about himself, and one of the things that he has taught me is that it's not an issue of circumstances. For a period of time I felt really low because I had a long recovery. For those of you who've heard me moan and complain, you know that I really thought that I'd be up and walking fairly soon after the surgery. Foolish man that I am. I've heard from several of you doctors that you knew it was going to be harder on me than I knew it was going to be, and you didn't say a word. I'm not sure whether to bless you or curse you yet. But God has taught me a number of things. One of the days when I was feeling particularly low about the fact that I couldn't drive, and I'll have you know that I drove today. That I couldn't walk, that I couldn't do much of anything, that I had to have people carry things for me and bring my food to me. And I felt like an invalid because to be honest I was. God introduced me to a man who had had a hip replacement 18 years ago at 29 years old, who hadn't had it replaced for 18 years, not because it was still functional and infective and was still doing a great job for him, but because he didn't want to go in and have another surgery. And not only did he need the hip that had been replaced, replaced, he needed the other hip replaced because he has degenerative arthritis. And every step is agony. Every movement of his arm is pain. To simply get up in the morning means that he's been up several times through the night because the pain has woken him up. I can relate to that. Not now, but in the past. But you see, God reminded me that I have one joint that's bad. And I have a body that's in good shape, that functions well. The hip that's been replaced isn't going to degenerate again quickly because there are forces that work in my body to destroy it. And that I don't have to worry about the other joints. God pointed out to me in a rude and uncomfortable way, as he so frequently can, that I had lost perspective on his mercy to me. And that was wrong. More than wrong, and it was sin. Do you need the one who can and who will care for you? Anna learns that that is God. That is only God. God can and will take care of all of your needs. We go to Him taking the needs that we recognize. Hannah went taking the need of a child. But that's not her deepest need. We'll see that in the next two messages. God didn't simply settle for meeting her desires, he met her needs. God is not going to simply settle for meeting your desires. He will meet your needs. He won't do it in your time. He'll do it in his. He won't do it in your ways. He'll do it in his. But the lesson that you need to remember from this morning, from this passage, every time you read this passage, Is that God is not one to abandon his people. God is the one who can and who cares. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful that you not only accomplish your purposes, but you speak to us of them. You have preserved this passage, and in this passage you have preserved things that only you could have revealed. Lord, we want to know you more We want to grow in our intimacy with you. We want to grow in our contentment because you are enough. Lord, teach us. Show yourself to us. Heal us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.