We only hear a lot at this time of year about the real meaning of Christmas. Christmas is scaring Christmas is believing. Christmas is hope. Christmas is peace on earth and goodwill toward men. All of these are ideas. We throw in that, then all miss the point. Because Christmas is not an idea Christmas is about a person without whom all of these ideas would simply mock it as a Lucius ideal. Christmas you think is about the incarnation of God Himself, the incarnation of Jesus Christ. What does incarnation mean? What is the significance of incarnation? Incarnation of Christmas means three things that God be holes, which he never was before. Three things that I want to examine this morning, in which God changed. You say God never changed. How could God change? Now surely it's true that God doesn't change in his character. But on Christmas morning, the day that Jesus Christ was born into this world, God Himself came in three significant ways and is never the same again. I want to take a look at these by looking at three verses in Scripture that describe the three steps of God's closing as a result of the inclination The first is the one you see we follow along in the outline, that God became life. Turn with me to John chapter one, verse fourteen. Read in John 1 verse 14, that the word became flesh, and he lived for a while among us. We assume this glory, the glory of the one and only Son, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. To understand the impact of that, let's back up to the first verse and see who this word is to become flesh. John begins his epistle, his gospel by saying, In the beginning was the Word. In the absolute beginning. And the Word was with God. And the word was God. He was with God in this absolute beginning. Through him, this word, all things were made, and without him nothing was made that has been made. In this word was light, and that light was the light of men. And then we see in verse 14, with this word became flesh. And live for a while among us. Paul tells us in Galatians that in the fullness of time God sent forth his son to be made of a woman, born. Under the law. Luke tells us more about the process where the angel describes to Mary in Luke 135, that the Holy Spirit would come upon her And as the Holy Spirit came upon her in his power, that that baby that he was going to bear would be himself the very son of God As he contemplates this God born a human being, we see in this the greatest of mysteries Imagine being able to look at God in a cradle. Imagine This was a new experience for God Himself. God Himself had never before laid in a cradle. But on that first Christmas morning, that's what the Lord Himself said. The nature of God now fused together with the nature of man. Think about it, Mr. Mr. It took four centuries for the church to try and to come to some sort of a definitive statement as to what that meant. The Christians would argue about that. They would uh fight and and it's hard for us to enter into the amount of intensity that went into the discussion about how could God become man In fact, uh in the fifth century, Pope Leo was thrown out of Rome because some powerful bishops disagreed with him over the nature of Christ and they had him tossed out of Rome. Well But they didn't know what they were reckoning with when they threw out a guy like Leo. Leo was not the kind of fellow to take something like that laying down, particularly where there was a principal at stake And so Leo called together a council that turned out to be the largest council that had been held up until that time in the city of Chalcedon. It's been known to this day as the Council of Chalcedon. And that council that met in 451 hammered out a statement that's been to this day that is a definitive statement Concerning how God could become man and maintain both the nature of God and the nature of man And we have that, and it's important enough that I uh took the essence of that, I took the the most relevant portion of that tree, and I put it on a bulletin insert for you. And so get that out. We'll be using that in worship a little later on. But what I'd like to read for you now is the sections that seek to get a hold of this mystery Of God becoming man. Notice down there in that third section, where he is declared to be the one and same Christ, Lord, only begotten in human agents. Inconfusibly, immutably, and unchanging, indivisibly, insufferably. The distinction of nature being by no means taken away by the humans, but rather the peculiarity of each nature being preserved and concurring in one person And one substance, not parted or separated into two persons, is not somehow an amalgamation of of God and man in some way that's separate and sort of joined together But in one and the same Son and only begotten, the Divine Word, the Lord Jesus Christ. What a Satan. What a Satan to think of the mystery of God, the infinite joy with man, the finite How can we join the infinite or the finite? I can't understand that. All you and I can do is to come and to humbly bow at the manger. As you see God in a fraternity and worship and adores in silence and in wonders, you say I can't figure that out, I can't explain it, I can't sum its death. But I know that here is a mystery beyond anything that I can understand. God, the word, became life. Not only is that the greatest mystery, it's also the greatest sacrifice. The word became flesh and lived for a while among us. And we beheld his glory, the glorious of the one and the only Son who came from the Father. Filipare. Imagine if you walking along see a pack of rats in a barbecue sheep about to be destroyed And for some reason you take great compassion on that pack of rats and you want to save it from the imminent destruction. And you know that if you approach these rats, they will either scatter or attack you The only way that you can save them is to you yourself become a life and to somehow be able to enter into their society to deliver them Now, let's suppose that for some strange reason you had a great deal of love for these rats. Think about what would be involved in the sacrifice of becoming a rat. You might think, uh , I was looking forward to going home this afternoon and listening to my story. I'll never be able to listen and appreciate music anymore. I was going home looking forward to a nice meal. I'll never have that kind of a diet anymore. I don't know of a rat that uh enjoys milkshakes and uh hamburgers and steaks I will give up my home itself. I won't live in the home that I'm used to. All of that will have to go. And my family won't be my family anymore in the same way. I will not be able to communicate with them when the level of dialogue that we have now will be greatly restricted In fact, my thigh itself will be greatly restricted. To say nothing of my appearance, I haven't been too thrilled with how I've looked up until now and might change a few things here and there, but to become a rat somehow seems uh vastly less appealing to me. And I think of all the things that are involved in this. And if you begin to think about that You realize that that's just a clear reflection of what it makes for the words to become flash To deeds to live leads the eternal courts of heaven, the intimacy of the fellowship that he had with the Father and with the Spirit, to become a man and to live a moral life. To understand that he who was created became created. That he who sustained all things from eternity now grows weak and tired and has to cease. But he who owned the cattle on a thousand hills, who is the possessor of all things, now becomes poor because it even said the foxes have holes and the birds have nests. But the Son of Man doesn't have any place to lay his hand to call it God. He who is rich for our sakes became poor, that we who have poverty might become rich The King of Kings has become the servant of servants. He who made the cattle surrounding Bethlehem and the trees that were used to create their manger now has to borrow that manger and scare their shed. In order to be born. Jesus, the Son of God, who 's the bread of life, becomes holy. He who is omnipresent becomes confined to one place , in Duse and Hill, in one spot, in one planet, in one corner of his universe. He who is omnipotent has become weak. He who is omniscient doesn't even know the time of his own time. This is what we can buy. We Jesus move humble. The word becomes light. You know why? Because we love Jesus. Because he loves me. And that's what was necessary to save us. Did you know something else? That wasn't done because of 33 news. I think often we have this idea that Jesus simply became flesh, became man, and he did this for a few years, but you know, what's a few years in the light of eternity, and now he's back to where he was. Not so Certain of these restrictions that Jesus, the Son of God, the Word Himself, took upon Himself at that moment in history will never change. How will you and I see Jesus in all eternity? This is the Lamb flame with the nail point still in his hand, and in his feet, and the spirit flesh still in his thigh. Jesus from that point for all eternity continues in the form of man, even though he descended to his glory Even though certain of the limitations that were upon him now had been removed in terms of his understanding, his knowledge, and various other things. Nevertheless Certain of those restrictions that he took upon himself for the infinitely great sacrifice for you and to meet upon himself. Man, God being in the body of a man He will have taken on himself forever. Eternity. Because we love me. And we love humans. And that's what was necessary to say this. Not only does incarnation then mean that God became flesh, but secondly, it means that God became in the likeness of sinful flesh Turn to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. In verse 3, Paul tells us this for what the law was powerless to do me that it was weakened by this information. God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin also You see, he doesn't simply say there that God sent his own son as a man. But he says God sent his own son in the likeness of a sinful man. In order to become a sin also. I can still remember the words of John knowing in the past and systematic theology that I took. When we turn to this text and he said, gentlemen , these words, God is telling us that he sent his own sons In such a manner that brought him into the closest relations to sin and sinful humanity possible without he himself becoming sinful. Jesus Christ did not become flesh in a sinless universe. Jesus Christ became flesh in the likeness of sinful flesh to live in sin. Now if it's something for us to imagine what it's like for God to become flesh Imagine what it's like for God to become in the likeness of sin for flesh. First of all, it means that he beheld sin at the closest possible range. Think of Uh I think of a person that I heard of once who accidentally fell into a cesspool. The cesspool was so deep the person couldn't get any footing And soon found themselves up to their necks in the toilet vessel, as repulsive was, to think of how repulsive it was For God who is sin who is without sin and undefiled, to come into the festival of human iniquity and to swill in it But to walk in it and be immersed in for the Jesus Himself rub soldiers to sinner Subsoldiers with prostitutes, with publicans, with hypocrites , those who despise his nature Those who are set against his word and his law. Did Jesus say to live in this? Then to be part of it, yeah, or You just take a ride through some large city and find yourself in the slum district. You go through that uh city and you step on the grass a little faster. You want to get through it because the surroundings are a little threatening and they're very unpleasant Then you ask yourself, what would it be like to uh get out of the car and walk to you? What would it be like to work here? What would it be like to move here That's what Jesus did. He came to the slum of our simple humanity and Jesus lived. And he took up his boat. He didn't he didn't pass through it quickly. He lived his life here. Jesus became part of that. Jesus identified with sinners. Jesus moved among sinners, and he didn't cast them off. Jesus loves things like you and me. Jesus moves in our midst. And he was in the likeness of sin for flesh. Not only do we behold since the closest possible range You know, in another way, very unlike us, Jesus would never be sanctified by thy sin. We watch television and you watch most of the programs anymore and pretty soon you begin to think that all adultery is not such an awful thing, at least it's between a man and a woman. And we become desensitized to adultery. We become desensitized to sin by seeing it over and over and over and over. He becomes a sensitized to broken families, to divorce one faithfulness, by hearing of it again and again and again and again. Jesus was never desensitized. The thousandth time that Jesus beheld one sinner hurt another sinner and wronged them. Jesus felt that deafness seemed at the very first time he saw it. Jesus and his nature was never desensitized to the sin that he beheld, but he watched it at the closest possible range because he was in the likeness of sinful flesh. Not only did he behold it, but he was also grieved by it in the most personal way. He wasn't an objective bystander Jesus was sinned against. And Jesus felt the effects of sin in his own being despised and rejected by those that he cared for. plotted against by the people that he came to save. He called the people that he saw a sheep without a shepherd hard saved, and they lost him and abandoned him. So that he even turned to his own disciples and he said at one point Are you gonna leave me too? And ultimately they did. And in his darkest hour, his own friends, even the very closest to him, abandoned him and fled. Jesus felt the effective sin in the most personal way possible. He rehearsed in his sensitive nature, in the most rugged way we can imagine. And that's what it was like for him, to walk, in simple faith. It's not anything to behold it or if we grieve God, but even beyond that Jesus was tempted by sin in the most powerful way possible. Imagine what it was like for Jesus With the abhorrence of him, that was the very essence of his nature, to find to his own very horror that he would be pensive by, to find it attractive To find that sin that would separate him from his father who in love from all eternity to be something to consider in his own breast Imagine what it was like for God to be tempted by sin. For Jesus to be assaulted by sin. You said, well, he wasn't real, you know. How could Jesus really be tempted by sin? Well, I read in my Bible in Hebrews chapter two and verse eighteen that that because Jesus suffered when he was tempted He is able to help those who are being tempted. And I read in Hebrews chapter four, in verse fifteen. That we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. We have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are Does that mean he looked at it and it had no power? It had no power of attraction to him. That's not the way it is to me. If I read in my Bible that Jesus was tempted by sin in every way, just as we are, in every way with one exception. Because he was without sin. Never knew the sin. But the very experience of being tempted by it It must have been a horror to his fault, for God Himself to be tempted. So far we've talked only about the sacrifice of Jesus. They'll consider the sacrifice of the Father, descended, of the Father's love begotten , where the world began to be He was the Alpha and Omega, he the source, the ending he? He was the one who was sent from that father into this world? What would it be like for you to send your son and your daughter from Columbia? To go live in the gay community of San Francisco. To go and live there to help the people there know that your person your own son or daughter will be accosted and molested We live in that community. When the trials were going on concerning the San Francisco Church, Chuck Mack landing the past, he sent me a picture, he told me something what was going on there. It was a poster, an ad. It was publicly displayed. In full vivid detail, a picture of a man and an animal having sex. Did you send your son and your daughter into that kind of a community? Or maybe send them to Forty Second Street in New York City where the pimps and the pro prostitutes won't succeed because they could help in that area Do you think they'll be accosted? And they'll be molested and they may be beaten. How could I send my own son or my daughter into such a situation? It would raise my heart to them. You and I have such feelings. You ever imagine what it is to the heart of the Father to send his own son into this world? Knowing what it would cost him and what it would do to him, how it would affect his own pure and holy nature, and the suffering that that would produce in the heart of his family. Do you ever consider in Christmas time the sacrifice of the Father who sending his son? And finally, the third step, in the significance of incarnation, God becoming flesh, we see that he not only became flesh, and not only in the likeness of the faithful flesh Finally, that God became him itself. Those are words that I would never dare to utter if it wasn't expressly supported and stated by Scripture itself. Turn to me to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 we have this amazing stages. Paul says After saying that we are Christ's ambassadors and imploring the people here in him on Christ's behalf to be reconciled to God, he says in 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God made him evil. Who had no sin, to be sin, to become sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. What human beings can understand the horror of the statement? God became sin. To use those two words in the same sentence and to associate God with sin, let alone to say that God before sin to cause everything in us to recoil. But God's word tells us. God recoils from it. He who recoiled from came to embody it A very common nightmare is for a person who recoils from slate to dream of being in a pit where the snakes are all around and begin to crawl up the person's body and then swine around their legs and around their arms. Perhaps you've had such a dream or had such uh horrible kinds of thoughts And what does that compare to the word , the son? He recoiled from these serpents And found the very nature of that serpent coiling around him and embodying him so that he himself took on that nature. The Jesus became sin. The Jesus became foul with sin. Jesus became odious with sin. The deed was become despicable and rotten in the Father's sight because of his sins. And the Father said, I have to curse you because you have sin itself. What did it do to the Son who comes soon? We say all the Jesus to say, Father Father, but you realize of course this isn't my sin. It's it's the sin of my people that I'm taking on here. I'm just the substitute, Father. You know that it's really not me this son there The Father says, I'll earth, son. So at this point you take full responsibility for that sin. That sin is yours And you are now foul in my sight. And I now curse you because of the sin that is yours. Jesus cities become like the sinner. So often as Christians we we back off of this He didn't become like a sinner. Jesus became a sinner. In fact, he became the greatest sinner that there ever was. And because of that bore the greatest curse that there ever could be, Jesus became sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That was meaning of incarnation. That was because he loved me. Because he loved me. But I have a question to ask you personally. Was that sacrifice affected in your own life? Or was it in vain? You think of what God accomplished, in becoming flesh, in the likeness of sinful flesh, and becoming sin itself. So that we may become the righteousness of God in Him. You and I must ask ourselves first all, what is for me? Was that effective in my life? Have you given your sins, your guilt, and your life to Jesus Christ personally? And take on him as your own Lord and Savior, so that what he sacrificed is a sacrifice to you If it is, then that sacrifice is something for you and for me, please my friend. The Father and the Son did that in willingly And to stand in amazement and wonder they're lost to us. To know that you can change your life, and he can change my life Because of what he's done, and because of the sacrifice that he's made, we can rejoice in the forgiveness that we can fully receive of God who can save What will God do to the person who despises that sacrifice? To the person who considers what it costs him to send his son to become flesh, in the likeness of sinful flesh in itself and says, but I don't need that right now. That's not things I want to do I've got a life that I want on earth on my own. I've got some things that I want to do for me first. I don't want to turn that down. No, someday I'd like to have that. But not right now. What will God do to the person who despises his sacrifice? So greater horrors can be imagined. And if there's somebody here who's known the gospel of Jesus Christ. Good perfect. But if found that for one reason or for another in your own life, you have never capitulated. You've never turned from yourself and said, I need that reason. And I'm in the man. I pray for you that God will work on you today, before another day goes by , the claim to Jesus Christ. He might lose those of us who have failed him in guns and receiving that. Secondly, I hope that you see that all of this. The present privilege that we have of being able to take all of our burdens to God and know that we understand Give it the fact that God doesn't really understand what you're going through. Look in the bulletin there in the application point two Take comfort in Jesus' total ability to empathize with you. That word in Hebrews 2. 18 that we're able to find help in him because he became man The word help there means to run to the cry of someone is in trouble. The word is used of a mother who would run to her child when that mother calls, Muhammad, unheard of Jesus is able to understand your hurt and my hurts. And we can never say, Lord, if you don't understand this is the unfurther Who would bear to say that we just feel greater humbling, misunderstanding of sacrifice in Jesus' name, in becoming smart, in the likeness of simple slightness From sin itself. But all take comfort, Christian. Take comfort. No matter what it is, you and I can bring it to him, which we and we can know that he understands. You don't have to have a verse in the Bible that describes your situation or my situation and says, Now God understands that. But I can know from what he has said here that he understands perfectly. But that he pays when I cry to him, when I pour out my heart to him, when I angry before him, I know that he fears and I know that he understands Because incarnation means that Jesus understands and gives. Finally, the last thing, since you and I would worship and adore it. As God becomes blessed. Worship and adoring with our lips. Take some time, can't be me As we 've done this corporately this morning, to tell the Lord what it means to you, what you think of his sacrifice to you But perhaps God's speaking to you now in some powerful way. I know who to means, with many of you, to understand the sacrifice of Jesus. But don't let that just pass as an emotion and lose you. Rekindle those thoughts and spend some time with the Lord this afternoon in worshiping him, in telling him what you think of his lost years. And what he's done to you because of that love. Sometimes telling you living a lot, maybe a situation , father himself. Tell them not only with your lips, but tell them with eyes.