We turn this morning to the Gospel of Matthew, uh, the twenty-first chapter. Tim, I'll get this to you. That's where I 'm To the twenty-first chapter of Matthew as we uh continued in this series on the parables. And this morning, this parable comes in the middle of a chapter Where Jesus' authority is being questioned by the religious leaders of his day. Jesus was speaking to the church of his day. He was speaking to the leaders of Israel. In Jerusalem. And in teaching this, he is challenging them. They they were trying to challenge him. In fact, they were trying to trap him. designed, they believed a question that could say, well, by what authority are you doing these things in hopes that they would catch Jesus in a trap But Jesus is very wise and doesn't answer their question directly. He answers their question by turning it back on them and doing it in the form of parable. The meaning and the conclusion of that was not lost on them. But the question is: do we see our place in the parable? And so that's what we want to discover this morning. And so let's do that together. Matthew, the 21st chapter, verses 33 to 46. Here another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it. and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went in to another country When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit. And the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another. Again, he sent other servants more than the first, and they did the same to them. Finally, he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the sun, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? They said to him, He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to people producing its fruits. And the one who falls on this stone will be broken into pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. When the chief priest and the Pharisees heard his parable, they perceived that he was speaking about them. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be a prophet. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Lord, open our eyes that we may see wondrous things in your word. That we may see down deep to the very center of our hearts and our beings to see what you have done We thank you and we praise you, and may you receive all the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning, what I want to do is to walk us through this passage, and you will see in your outline that it is meant to do just that. You'll see that Jesus first gives a history lesson, verses 33 to 36. Secondly, he gives us the zenith of sin in verses 37 to 39. And then he demonstrates the victorious stone. And then finally, the paradox of divine power. So let's look together at the history lesson that Jesus gives in this parable in verses 33 to 36. And I want you to see that we need to first understand the first level of meaning. The first level of meaning are the people to whom Jesus was speaking, the religious leaders of his day. And then secondly, I want you to see that in fact what Jesus is doing is not just giving a history lesson for this particular group of people. He's giving a history lesson to all of us. In fact, he unpacks something that says a truth about every human heart. So see if you can see that with me Verses thirty three to thirty six. What Jesus does in these verses, he says he has this parable, because he's saying to them, to their question, By what authority is he doing these things? And so what he does is Jesus tells about a relationship between an owner of a vineyard and tenants to whom he leased the land. And that's the first level of meaning. Now, very early on in the parable, the religious leaders would have understood exactly what Jesus was talking about because The phrases that he uses where he says, There was a master of a house that planted a vineyard, put a fence around it, dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. That set of verses is specifically borrowed from Isaiah 5, verses 1 and following. And in those verses, what we learn is that God is saying to the prophet Isaiah that the vineyard is the nation of Israel. That the tenants, the ones who are to care for this vineyard, are the religious leaders. They were called on to care for These vines, the people of God, and at due season they were to produce beautiful fruit, beautiful grapes But in fact, if you go back to Isaiah chapter 5, verses 1 through 7, it tells, and using this very same language, that in fact what happens is that bitter fruit is produced, not good fruit. And therefore the tenants are judged. So here Jesus is going back and he's unpacking For these religious leaders, guess what? I'm coming in and I'm giving you a parable. You've asked me by what authority am I doing these things? Let me tell you a story, and you may be familiar with it. In fact, it's the history of all of Israel. And that history is, God has made you a vineyard. And I have given you leaders who are tenants who are to care for you. To produce good fruit. As in Isaiah, so Jesus means to bring it here. Instead of finding beautiful fruit that pleases the owner, What he finds is bitter fruit. And in Isaiah we learn, in fact, that what has caused the bitter fruit is the sin of idolatry, the replacing of God as the only one to be worshipped with false gods. Now Jesus continues on in the parable. In fact, he unpacks it. He says, in verse 34, when the season of fruit drew near, he sent his servants and the tenants to get his fruit, and the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another. He sent other servants more, and what did they do? They did the same thing to them. So what Jesus is doing there, it's say, guess what? I've been doing this since the foundation of Israel. I called you out as a nation unto myself, which by the way, where we get the word church from is from the Greek word ekklesia, meaning the called out ones. Well, that's what Israel was. He called them out. But they refused to follow the Lord. They continued through a cycle of obedience to idolatry. And God would rescue them. And the means by which He would rescue them is that He sent to them messengers. He sent to them servants. Those servants were the prophets, like Isaiah, like Jeremiah. But what did they do to the prophets? They ignored the prophets. They they like to listen to it. In fact, at times they would hear it, but it wouldn't go down deep to their hearts, and what it would end up is they would disregard the prophets, they would take their lies, they would throw them out, they would Do whatever they could to avoid the message. This is the history of Israel given to us in the Old Testament. In fact, One famous place that I found in preparation for this Sunday was Ezekiel chapter 33, where God is speaking to Ezekiel, and he actually calls Ezekiel son of man. Because all the prophets were a type of prophet that would ultimately point to the prophet Jesus Christ. the Son of Man. But here we see it in the Old Testament form, in seed form, where God says to Ezekiel these words. Ezekiel 33 verse 30 As for you, Son of Man, your countrymen are talking together about you by the walls. at the doors of the houses, saying to each other, Come, hear the message that has come from the Lord. But then God says to Ezekiel these words. With their mouths they express devotion, but their hearts are greedy for unjust gain. Indeed, to them you are nothing more than one who sings love songs with a beautiful voice and plays an instrument well, for they hear your words, but do not put them into practice. This is how they treated the prophets. In fact What it would lead to is exactly how they treated Jesus. Many were following Jesus. Many said on that day when he entered into Jerusalem, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest. They had words of devotion, but the very same people who would say, Hosan, Hosean the highest, and lay down palm branches, would be a part of the same crowd that would say, Crucify him. Jesus is giving a history lesson. And that history lesson demonstrates the long-suffering patience and mercy of God. that every time that his people would fall away from him, he would send forth messengers. And yet their response over and over again was to listen to them for a time, may be interested in their words, give words of devotion, but their hearts never practiced. what the prophets called them to. And so Jesus is saying, this is what you've done. Now that's the first level of meaning. That's the first audience. He's saying this. They all they asked him was, by what authority are you doing this? He turns it right back on them and says, I have the authority, not you. Why? Because here's the deal. They thought Jesus was trampling on their territory. Let's go back. The people of Israel, the leaders during the Old Testament, the problem was even though God was sending forth messengers, they forgot they were just to be tenants. They were not the owners. You see, the issue is those who were called to be tenants to care for the vineyard of the Lord, to give him the fruit, according to his purposes, according to his ways. Said, nope, we'll do our way. We'll walk according to our own understanding. This I will tell you is the first meaning in the parable. But there's a deeper meaning yet because now we, with 2020 hindsight vision, see the finishing of the scriptures. We can now look back and say, guess what? That's been a biblical theme ever since the foundation of the world. For God created man and woman, and he gave them a creation mandate. To care for the ground, to take fruit, to be fruitful and multiply, to worship him, to be his people. And yet Adam and Eve We're tempted into thinking they are more than just tenants. In fact, they are owners. I want to be like God. And they began to believe the lie. Did God surely say? You see, while this history lesson was first and foremost for the leaders of Israel, it is actually a message to all of humanity. At the very heart of all of our issues. Of all the brokenness is this issue. God said, It is mine, and you are to care for it. And we have said, no, it's mine. And this is what would lead Jesus to then tell them about the zenith of sin. And here's what he says. Verse 37, finally he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, This is the heir, come, let us kill him, and have his inheritance. Now what in the world gave them the thinking, the logic that I know what we'll do, we'll kill the air. Maybe it's because remember the text tells us that the owner went off into another country. Maybe they thought the owner would never come back again. We don't have to worry about him again. The only thing standing between us and absolutely being able to say, mine, is to kill the sun. Kill the only living heir. And that's what they did. And what I want to tell you is now Jesus is still very much alive when he's telling the parable, but he's prophesying about what's getting ready to happen. But Jesus is telling us something deeper. He's telling us, first of all, to these religious leaders, you're rejecting me. You're about to do this to me. But yet there's a deeper level for us as well. That Jesus is teaching us something very deep about the nature of sin. I'll illustrate it this way. Ask anybody a definition of sin. Whether they've ever darkened the door of a church, ask them what sin is. Many will tell you. Oh, don't lie, don't murder, don't commit adultery, don't covet somewhere in the back of their minds, they've heard this somewhere. And we think of sin as being the Ten Commandments, the breaking of God's righteous laws, and sin is that. But I mean to tell you that I believe that actually that sin is the low-hanging fruit. What do I mean by that? I mean low-hanging fruit is the easiest thing to see and to pick. Yes Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not lie, do not covet. Those are the things that we all just it's so easy to run to. We get it. And so we think that that's sin, but in fact that's not The sin that is underneath all of that sin. The sin that is underneath all of that sin is indeed this. I don't need you as God. You are not the owner of this heart. I am This is not your life. This is my life. And from the very beginning, since the fall. Man 's mind towards God is one of deep and abiding hostility, deep and abiding anger. And we suppress the truth of God to support our anger. We suppress that truth by trying to ignore God. Now please remember. He's talking to the religious people. Because here's the kicker. The kicker is they were using their righteousness. Their obedience to do what? To stand on it But the deeper sin is they stood on their righteousness to say, I don't need you, Jesus. Flannery O'Connor once wrote, the way to avoid sin is to avoid Jesus. If I can avoid him, if I can reject him, then sin is not my problem. But the problem is it's deep and abiding hostility. And they were trying to use their obedience to avoid Jesus. But he won't let them. And you see, if you don't believe me, Paul says in Romans chapter 1 that we suppress the truth and unrighteousness, even though we know God exists. We know that all of this is his, but we suppress that truth for the truth that we really want to nurture. Mine. And Paul then says in Romans chapter 8, he says these words in verse 6 and following. The mind of sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the Spirit is life and peace. And then he says these words. The sinful mind is hostile to God. Notice he doesn't say the mind of sinful man has hostility towards God. He says the mind of sinful man is hostile to God. The zenith of sin isn't the breaking of the particular discrete commandments. It's the whispering in our hearts and telling ourselves, if we kill the air, it's ours. It's mine. And there's, I will tell you, there is something about anger that is so luscious And yet so poisonous we fail to see its power. Frederick Giegner writes in one of his many books, a Christian writer, fabulous writer. Here's what he says about anger. One of the seven deadly sins, anger, is possibly the most fun. To lick your wounds, to smack your lips over grievances long past To roll over your tongue the prospect of bitter confrontations still come, to savor to the last toothsome morsel, both the pain you are given and the pain you're ready to give back. In many ways, anger is a feast fit for a king. The chief drawback is that what you are wolfing down is yourself. The skeleton upon which you feast is you, Jesus Is trying to expose the zenith of sin. The problem is You 're angry. You're angry at me. You're angry at my father. And you are trying. In fact, you will. You're going to kill me And I will tell you, we must all come to grips with the hostility and the anger that so very much is a part of our bloodstream. That is very much a part of our nature. It infects everything. Our relationship Our response to our circumstances, our response to ourselves. Why Because it's been there since the beginning. And Jesus here is challenging them to see it. But they won't. In fact, the the text tells us their response. He he says, okay, well When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes back, what will they do to these tenants? And they respond, they said to him, Well, he will put those wretches to a miserable death, let out the vineyard to other tenants. who will give him the fruits in their seasons. I don't know if you see it, but this is an exact replication of what David The King David's response was to Nathan. When Nathan came to confront David for his sin of adultery, he gives David a parable, if you will. And he says, what do you think should happen to this man? And David says, this is what should happen to that man. And he looks at David and says, you are that man. And Jesus paints this parable, this history lesson. He says, What do you think the owner should do? He says, This is what they should do. And then he looks at me and he says, Just next, guess what? Have you not read the scriptures? And then he quotes for them one of the most oft-quoted passages of the Psalms, Psalm 118. And here we hear of the victorious stone. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. This is what Jesus just told them. He just said That they are the builders. They're the builders. They're the priests of the and the teachers of the nation of Israel. They're the builders. And he's saying I'm coming as the stone, and you have taken me like a like a builder wood, a pile of bricks, building his house And you come on this stone and you go, you know, I don't need this, and I'm going to throw it out. And what would they do? They throw it out onto a pile of bricks that they don't need. You see, Jesus is prophesying. This is exactly what you're doing and what you're about to do. This is why the writer of Hebrews says in his letter Chapter thirteen, verse verse twelve and thirteen he says this and so Jesus also suffered outside the city gate to make the people holy through his own blood. Let us go then to him outside the camp Bearing the disgrace he bore. He's saying, This is what you're going to do to me. But in your rejection, my Father will take your rejection and turn it into a gracious gift. The victorious stone, he tells us, though the stone was rejected, people will stumble on it, and those who refuse to receive it Will be crushed. That means the stone isn't utterly thrown out. It becomes the cornerstone. How does Jesus become the cornerstone? By the cross. And the cross will either be a stumbling block or it will crush because Jesus is saying, I am the cornerstone of God's house that He is building. Will you come in? Will you come into my house? And he claims this for himself. The reasons for their security then are now being overturned. The rug under their righteousness is being pulled out from under them. They thought the way to get into God's building, to get into his temple, just to be in the kingdom, was by their obedience But Jesus is saying, absolutely not. There is only one way in, and that is through me. They thought their entrance was based on their obedience and holiness. Jesus says, no, it's hinging on where you are in relationship to me. The victorious stone. And only through him is their life But here is the paradox of divine power. What happens next is the text tells us, and he says, when the chief priests And the Pharisees heard this, his parable, they perceived that he was speaking about them, and although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be a prophet. There's hope here because the crushing has not happened. The rejection that they have now opened the door to is actually going to open a door to their salvation Not their judgment. Why? Because there's the paradox of divine power. God has all the power at this moment through his son to completely decimate everyone. Only He is righteous and holy can he judge them right there in that place. Only God has the wrath and the holiness together to be able to pour out a righteous anger. But what do you and I do with our anger? How do we deal with it? Here's how we deal with it Um Miroslav Wolf, an other writer who writes about the issue of anger and how we deal with each other in forgiveness, he writes this. He says, Forgiveness flounders because I exclude my enemy from the community of humans. Even as I exclude myself from the community of sinners, here's what we do with anger and our enemies. We call our enemies not human beings, we call them monsters. And at the same time we call them monsters, we remove ourselves from the possibility of being in a community of sinners. We make them out to be monsters and us to be righteous, and we daydream about ways to get even. Back to Biegner We lick our lips and we salivate over the possibility of getting justice That's our way. That's what anger does. But God, in his anger, which should have been poured out on us, does something very different. Instead of pouring out his wrath on his enemies, he makes his son the enemy. 2 Corinthians 5. Jesus became sin so that we might become the righteousness of God. God hates sin, he cannot look on it, therefore he makes his son bear our sin All of it, all of our anger, all of the sin underneath the sin, and lays it upon his son, and makes his son an enemy that we might be called his children. He puts Jesus out that we can be brought in. That is completely opposite of the way you and I utilize anger and righteousness. But that is exactly what Jesus wants to demonstrate for us. Biblically speaking, the only way to defeat an enemy Is through killing them with kindness. There is that which we must understand The only way we can be freed from our anger with each other, anger about ourselves, anger towards God, is to allow this fact to finally, truly seep in. That a father who owns a vineyard looks at us as tenants, and in our anger we say, No, we don't need you. We're the owners. And instead of looking at us and pouring out his wrath, Righteously, he pours it on the righteousness of his son, that we would be brought in. Not just so that we can be reconciled to our Father. Not just so that we can be forgiven. But so that we can then turn and be forgivers. Do you see the only way we can become a conduit for the grace of God is to allow the grace of God to do it in us first? A Christian is not one who pretends they no longer are angry at God. No, but they recognize now what it exactly is. It is anger towards God, that all sin. It's ultimately whispering to God, I will kill the son. But who then turns from it in confession. And to receive the grace that was poured out on us because of the wrath that was poured out on him. And the righteous stone. Which was raised on the third day has now become the capstone, the cornerstone, the righteousness of God, the one through whom and only through whom we can receive mercy. And the only way true reconciliation can happen between us as human beings horizontally, and the only way there can be peace between us and our Father. That he would turn by God's grace through the work of Christ our daydreaming, to turn our daydreaming about vengeance into daydreaming about how we can bless and love our enemies. That will be impossible And a daydream, unless you begin with Christ first. He became sin, that we might become the righteousness of God. And I will say to you, I know there are a lot of angry people here. Maybe you're afraid to speak of it. Maybe you're afraid to call your sin what it is. Anger towards God. Maybe you're afraid of what could happen if the grace of God brought reconciliation between you and another person in this room or in this church. But I will tell you who can resist, who can resist a father looking at you And in your anger, holding up your fists at him who takes your fists into his caring hands. Because he did what he needed to do with his son. Who can resist such grace? So that we then can become channels Of that grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we've already this morning sung of a great truth. That all the sin I have committed was placed upon your righteous son, and now you see me through his perfection as if I'd never done any wrong. Always forgiven, always accepted, no fear of judgment before your throne. Lord, that is the gospel By your Holy Spirit, help us to see the anger that is in us the anger that is beneath every sin. And may you enable us to receive the power of your goodness. That we would finally become ambassadors of reconciliation. Because only through Christ is there life. In the mighty name of Jesus we pray. Amen.