Ephesians chapter one , verse one through fourteen Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world. to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us to be adopted as sons through Jesus Christ In accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his right glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace. That he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. He made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he purposed in Christ to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head. Christ. In him we were chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in a in conformity with his purpose with the purpose of his will, in order that we, who were the first to hope in Christ, might be for the praise of his glory. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal. The promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of His glory. Amen. I'd like to speak to you this morning on the topic of the ministry of the Holy Spirit to the believers. My takeoff verse is here verse thirteen and fourteen. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal. the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory. Here Paul reminds the Ephesians what God has done through Jesus Christ by the work of the Holy Spirit. He reminds them that they have come to believe in Jesus, they have accepted the gospel. When they accepted the gospel, at that moment, the promised Holy Spirit seemed to In fact, he catalogued for them all the blessings that God has given them in Christ. Christ. He outlined from verse 3 on until verse 14 what God has done, having predestined them way back in eternity. And then through uh light he uh brought the gospel to them and he forgave their sins and gave them wisdom and understanding and insight into God's plan and purpose purposes. And finally he tells them, when you believed in the gospel everything came into into effect. And that effect was affected by the Holy Spirit What put it all together was that seal of the Holy Spirit. That Holy Spirit not only made what the present reality of the Holy the blessing of the Salvation was in their lives, but also he guaranteed what is yet to come. So he calls it the seal of the Holy Spirit. We need to understand what this means When you think of a seal in ordinary document, the purpose of a seal is to verify the authenticity of that document. The document that comes from a court, the clerk puts the seal of the court to make it authentic, to verify that particular document is indeed from that particular court and authority, and it is indeed true to its claim. When Paul said, you have been sealed by the Holy Spirit, not only is he indicating we are possessed by God, we belong to him. But he's also telling us that there is a mark, there is a visible sign to verify the fact that God has claimed. Thus to verify the fact that all these blessings that he has stated here are also ours, and that is uh proven and demonstrated by the seal. We must understand, however, the analogy of a document seal and the seal of the Holy Spirit breaks down. And where it breaks down is this. When a document from a court comes, a messenger comes to you or mail uh through the mail you receive that document. What makes you sure the document is authentic is the sign and the seal on the document However, if the judge himself, who is well known in the community, actually came to you, told you in his own words, this is the case You don't need a a mark now, do you? The mark is only an artificial sign that that judge whom you don't see has authorized the statement So the seal on that paper is simply an indication to you that judge who is absent has signified on this document that is dead. said what he said. But in the case of the Holy Spirit, he's not absent. He's there. The blessings are there, and yet it's called a seal The reason it's called the seal is because it signifies everything that has been said about you, everything that God said he will do for you, he has done it. The proof is the presence of God And because of what that presence indicates, as a seal indicates authenticity and reality, so does the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life. So it's not some kind of detached sign that God has given you to be the seal. It is the presence of the very Spirit of God In your life. God in you through the power of the Holy Spirit, through the person of the Holy Spirit. You have been sealed, which means the Spirit has come to dwell in within you permanently. The presence of the Holy Spirit in your life is the Crown of all the blessings that God has given you and the means through which you experience all the blessings that God has bestowed. upon me. So when you think of the seal, you must understand it is the presence of the Holy Spirit. He became the pledge for the inheritance to come. He became the actuator of the blessings that we already possess. So this seal then indicates not only the blessings have become ours, but also guarantees what is to come. What are the blessings that are given to us? Who identifies them here? The forgiveness of our sins The wisdom and understanding, and also in the future, our inheritance. What is our inheritance? You can be vague about it and say heavenly glory in the future, but I think Paul has a specific thing in mind. As God has renewed our spirits and our hearts. And we have come to know him personally in our own hearts by the work of the Holy Spirit, which is really present salvation, to have communion and fellowship with with the living God. That is salvation. Also the future salvation is the renewal of our bodies, the resurrection. Because right now what is happening to us is even though we have been reconciled with God, our sins are forgiven. We have been given the power of the Holy Spirit to live a life that pleases him, and yet we struggle with temptation. We struggle with weaknesses, we struggle with all the curses that surround this present life, that characterize this present life. The death, the sickness, the misery, the disappointments. But you see, this is temporary. All this will be over when God sends the Lord Jesus back again to complete the work it's begun. And that will come to conclusion when he gives us our resurrected body. Our resurrected body will have a heavenly realm to live in, a new heaven and a new earth. Because the resurrected body cannot live in this world where there is curse, where nature itself has been worked because of man's sin and God's curse. But at the resurrection everything will be new. Everything will be renewed. Creation itself will come once again into harmony with man to praise. God with the leadership and the priesthood of man, all of creation will praise him in unison without the disharmony that stands in. And that's what Paul is talking about in Romans eight. This present situation as we look at it, we those who have us who have The first fruit of the Spirit, which means the new fruit of the new kingdom, which we have tasted now, we wait for the adoption of our our bodies, for the resurrection of our bodies, so does creation. Creation is also waiting for God to come through Jesus Christ and redeem. That is guaranteed to us by the very presence of the Holy Spirit. As sure as Christ has done the work on the cross, he died and he rose again from the grave, he also Send the Holy Spirit through his people to make sure what he has done on the cross will be actually possessed by the elect as they hear the gospel in time. And it becomes theirs. As sure as he has done all this work, he will bring it to conclusion when he comes back again. And the Holy Spirit will never leave you Until he brings that work to conclusion. Isn't that a great comfort to us? We walk in life, there are many ups and downs But that feel, that mark in your life, that presence of the Holy Spirit will never depart from you. He always remains with you. You have been Forever. Owned by God. And He has made sure. Didn't send his servant, some angels to guard you around. No. He himself within you to make sure that you possess what he promised you. We talk about guardian angels guarding you for God, protecting you. That is true. I don't deny that. But what is more marvelous for the Christian is the very Spirit of God has come to dwell within you. You have become his house. Become his temple. That is what we mean by the seal of the Holy Spirit. He has come to dwell within us. This present this ministry of the Holy Spirit, when it's labeled seal, it has other words that have that describes it. And I think it is good to avoid confusion among Christians to sort of survey what are some of the words that we use to describe the activity of the Holy Spirit. See the Holy Spirit is one person who dwells within us and he's the one that does all the uh the The uh the sanctifying and the comforting, the strengthening in our lives, and that is called in one sense it is called a a ceiling. In another sense it is called also an an indwelling. Of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit dwells within us, so it's called an indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So all believers have received the seal. When you heard the gospel and when you believed, then you were sealed by the Holy Spirit. That Holy Spirit sealing is the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit dwells within us. He is there. So you see, it is just a perspective, isn't it? The two words are simply giving us that one fact, the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives, the ceiling it's called, it is also called indwelling. It's not you have the ceiling, but are you sure if you have the indwelling? If you understand what ceiling is, you have the indwelling as well. You see? It is One fact, just looked at from different windows. So the Holy Spirit dwelt within us. We are his temple. The Holy Spirit sealed us, we are his possession. The Holy Spirit dwells within us, we are his temple. It is the richness of the salvation that gives us different words to describe describe the one reality from various angles. But there's another word that has also been an occasion of confusion and division among Christians, and that is baptism Baptism, the baptism of the Holy Spirit. That first time when you heard the gospel When he came to dwell within you, what he has done at that moment also is he united you with Christ. He made you one with Christ, not in person. That your personality merged into the personality of Christ. No. You maintain your identity, so does Christ. However, your fate, your lot, your your whole future Your uh uh inheritance has been identified with Christ. You have become his children, you have become his people, you have become Christians You have become Christ-like. And that act of the Holy Spirit that identified you with Christ, that made you one with Christ, that bound you with the person of Christ. That act of the Holy Spirit is called baptism. It's not a repeated act because how many times can you be united with Christ? And when did you become a Christian? When did you uh possess all the blessings of God? When the Holy Spirit came to your heart When you heard the gospel and when you believed in the gospel, when he gave you new life, how did he give you new life? He gave you new life by uniting you with the resurrected Christ. The life that you have within your soul is a life of the resurrected Christ. And that came to you because you have been united with Christ. And that is called baptism. So this is another perspective on the Holy Spirit To work in your life. When you think of the Holy Spirit guaranteeing your possession, you call it the seal of the Holy Spirit. When you think of the Holy Spirit dwelling within you, you call it the Holy Spirit is in uh dwelling within me. When you think of he is the one who lives within us, we are his temple, then indwelling is the word we use. When we think of the Holy Spirit united means with Christ. I have become one with him. In his death and resurrection. There are many passages we talk about that talk about this reality. That is also then called Baptism. It is baptism because it is a once-for-all act. And essentially in the Christian terminology, the word baptism at heart means means union, identification. The illustration for that is when Paul talks about the Israelites when they went through the the river When they went through the Red Sea, Paul said they have been united with Moses by being baptized into Moses. So there you have union and in Romans six Paul clearly talks about if you have been baptized into Christ, which means if you have been united with Christ, then you have also been united then with his death and Resurrection. So that baptism is union with Christ and with one another. That's what makes the Christian bond so strong. Stronger than the physical relationship that we have with our sisters and brothers. If you turn to First Corinthians twelve, Paul defines and describes And tells us the effect of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. First Corinthians twelve, verse twelve and thirteen. The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts, and though all its parts are many, they form one body, so it is with Christ. For we were all baptized by one Spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slave or free, and we are all given the same the one one spirit to drink. So you have here the baptism of the Holy Spirit clearly in the context of union with Christ and with one another. You cannot be a Christian unless you are baptism. With the Holy Spirit. And if you are truly a Christian, then you have been baptized with the with the Holy Spirit. Because that means you have been united with Christ. You cannot be a Christian unless you have been united with Christ Christ. That union with Christ is the work of the Holy Spirit, and we call it baptism. Now, this leads us to another point. And and that is to the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Unlike the baptism of the Holy Spirit, the fullness of the Holy Spirit is a repeated That it must be maintained by the means that God has given us, the means of grace that is provided. By doing those things, by making ourselves available, we are filled with the Holy Spirit from From a smaller measure to a greater measure, from a less consistent way to a more consistent way, to be more and more controlled and overwhelmed by the presence of the Holy Spirit. And that is called the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Paul talks about in Galatians five how we We should walk in the Spirit, how we should be uh filled with the Holy Spirit. He also talks about uh in uh Ephesians uh how when you are filled with the Holy Spirit, there are the fruits of the Spirit that to be uh evident in your lives that God love, peace, joy. And it is expressed by singing songs to one another, to the Lord, with one another. We encourage one another. We talk to each other about the Lord in song spiritual songs. And that is the demonstration of the fullness of the Holy Spirit. When was the first time a believer is filled with the Holy Spirit? Well, the first time you've come into contact with the Spirit of Christ is when you are saved. Having heard the gospel of your salvation. You have been sealed with the Holy Spirit. First time. When you came into contact with Christ through the Word of God, then you come into contact with the Spirit Spirit. When you came into contact with the Spirit, he baptized you and made you one with him. That is baptism. Did he feel you at that time? What do you feel Well, if we carefully read the verse that I just read for you, I think we'll get the answer. Look at uh Again, uh first Corinthians chapter twelve, uh verse thirteen. For We were all baptized by the by one spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slave or free, and we have all Given, and we were all given the one spirit to drink. Drinking That word, we always miss it, it seems to me, when we read this verse, it comes at the end, we sort of ignore it and forget about it. But here you have drinking of the Holy Spirit and being baptized linked together. When you drink something, you are filled with it, right? Here we have the Holy Spirit baptized us and made us one with Christ and with one another, and we have been given that same spirit to drink. Which means we have been filled with. These are all language and words that are taken from the physical realm, applied to the spiritual reality. There's analogy here. Uh the analogy breaks down at one at at some point, but I think that's the language of the scriptures, so we can understand what the spiritual reality is What does it mean to drink the Holy Spirit? It means to be saturated with humanity. To have your um being uh being animated by the Holy Spirit, because what What you drink is what sustains your life, what enables you to move around. So in your spiritual life then you drink the Holy Spirit But in the physical life you drink once and that's it? No. You drink and continue to drink. And so the Holy Spirit becomes then the source of your life. You continue to drink. You continue to drink the spirit. And in case you have some question as to I am stretching this word drink to mean fullness, I don't think I am. Because what you drink feels you. It doesn't say taste, it doesn't say sip, it says drink. So it talks to I think it is though it the the idea is being filled with it. But in case you have some doubt, I'd like you to turn to um Titus three Where you cannot escape the fact that Christians are when they come to know the Lord, the first time they come to Him, they have been filled with the Holy Spirit. Titus three, five and six He saved us, not because of righteousness, righteous things we had done But because of his mercy, he saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior. Renewing of the spirit, which is being born again, the first time you have life with Christ. And then he says, the same spirit has been poured upon us Generously. So the fullness of the Holy Spirit is another perspective on the work of the Spirit when He has control of all our being, our thinking, our actions. Everything is controlled by him. He becomes the source of our life, daily sustenance, and it's also a repeated action. It should be repeated because the believers that are filled on the day of Pentecost, it says in future chapters later they were also filled with the Holy Spirit again and again. And also the verb in Ephesians when it says be filled with the Holy Spirit, it is A continuous action, continue to be filled with the Holy Spirit. So it is something that continues to happen to us. And how does that happen? Well, when you come to church. When you hear his praises, when you fellowship with your with the people of God, when you hear the reading of the word of God, when you hear the preaching of the word, you're changed, aren't you? You got brought brought brought closer to the to the Lord. You your spiritual awareness becomes more intense. You are more aware of God's presence in God's You are not as easily tempted to sin when you are in church worshiping God and singing his praise. Because the presence of the Holy Spirit is more intense So the more you do this, the more you're filled with the Holy Spirit. In your own private life, when you kneel down before the Lord at the beginning of the day and pray to you. the to the Lord. Read your scriptures. You are closer to the Lord. The Holy Spirit feels you at that point. When you are working, your mind is turned toward God And you begin to talk to him in your spirit, communicate, commune with him. The Holy Spirit fills you. And these are the means through which God has established for us so we can continue to be Before I close, I really would like to share with you a powerful passage from Ezekiel chapter 47. In Ezekiel chapter 47, there is an amazing picture and a rich picture of the life of the believer. Being filled with the Holy Spirit. A believer who should be always in the fullness of the Spirit and that should be growing and expanding. Turn to Ezekiel chapter 47. It's an extended passage from verse 1 through 12. I'd like to read that to you and just say a few things about it and then bring my sermon to a conclusion. Ezekiel 47 verse 1 through 12 The man brought me back to the entrance of the temple, and I saw water coming out from under the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the temple faced east. The water was coming down from under the south side of the temple, south of the altar. He then brought me out through the north gate and led me around the outside to the outer gate, facing east And the water was flowing from the south side. As the man went eastward with a measuring line in his hand, and then led me through water through the water The water was ankle deep. He measured off another thousand cubits, led me through the water that was knee deep. He measured off another thousand and led me through water that was up He measured off another thousand, and now it was a river that I could not cross because the water had risen and was deep enough to swim in. A river that no one could cross. He asked me, Son of man, do you see this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river Then I wa then I arrived there. I saw a great number of trees on each side of the river. He said to me, This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah. Where it enters the sea. When it empties into the sea, the water there becomes fresh. Swarms of living creatures will live whatever uh The river flows. There will be large numbers of fish because this water flows there and makes the salt water fresh. So where the river flows, everything will live. Fishermen will stand along the shore from Ingedi to the Iglame. There will be places for spreading nets. The fish will be m there will be many kinds. Like the fish of the great sea, but the swamps and marshes will not become fresh. They will be left for salt. the river. Their leaves will not wither, nor will their fruit fail fail. Every month they will bear, because the water from the sanctuary flows to them. Their fruit will serve for food and their leaves for killing. That's a powerful picture, as I said, of the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Jesus in John chapter 7, 37 and 39, talked about the Holy Spirit coming on believers. He said As the scriptures say, He who is thirsty, let him come to me. And I will give him living water. And out of his inner being will flow rivers of living water. You can search everywhere in the scriptures. Jesus was quoting, summarizing a scripture. I believe this is the passage he was referring to. This is a picture of the believer who is united with Christ, the source and the head of the temple, from whom the spirit flows into his life. And that life of the believer becomes a river of the path of the Holy Spirit. And through the believer, the Holy Spirit flows. And around the believer, there's going to be life. And he's going to be a healing means in the decaying community around him. You heard this morning about the ministry to uh emergency pregnant situation. That's the healing ministry of believers bringing into a situation that is broken. And we stand for righteousness, mercy, and love and compassion. That's the ministry of the Holy Spirit. As the church is filled with the Spirit, in a wilderness of around us, we become the source. But the interesting thing that I would like to point out to you from this passage is that it increases in its depth without tribulation Rivers. There's only one source. As the river continues to flow, the volume of the water increases. And if it comes from ankle deep to knee deep to waist and all the way to a river that you have you can only swim. That is the depth of the foot Of the Spirit in your life. You are filled when you are ankle deep. You are just as filled with the Holy Spirit as you would be when you are a new believer. But the depth, the maturity, and the value of the control and the blessing of the Holy Spirit is not as much. of But you grow in Christ. Your capacity to have the Spirit presence in your life, in activity, in in service, in growth and maturity, growth. Your capacity grows to handle more and more of the work of the Holy Spirit in your life. And that is pictured for us by this rebirth. So continue to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Grow into the full Fullness of the spirit. Where are you in your spiritual growth? I don't think you can find your ankle deep or knee deep or waist deep, whatever. But it is an invitation to all of us That will never exhaust the fullness of the Spirit. We will never be filled with those spirits to the point we'll say we don't need it anymore. We need more and more. more to the point where our surroundings will be healed, will be a means of influence for righteousness and for comfort and encouragement around us. Do you appreciate the ministry of the Holy Spirit in your life? Do you appreciate and find comfort in the fact that He has sealed you? You have you have become His possession? Do you appreciate the fact that He dwells within you. You have become his house. He's at home in your life. Do you appreciate the fact that the Holy Spirit has baptized you, united you with would fight forever. Never be to be separated. And with your fellow believers in the bond of the Spirit, do you appreciate the fact that the Holy Spirit is your source of life? must drink and as much as you physically need to drink to survive, so you need to drink the spirit to be filled from glory The glory from measure to make greater measure. May God invite you to the greater depth of the fullness of the Spirit. May He grant each one of us that depth of the fullness fullness of the spirit so we can be mighty influence in this decaying and broken world. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the blessed Holy Spirit whom you have given to us. We pray as we walk in life we'll have clear awareness of his presence. So we'll honor him. We 'll love him. And commune with him. Fill us with him, all of control our lives. May we not grieve you by our sins, but may you continue to be compassionate and merciful to us and forgiving our sins and continuing to fill our hearts with your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen