This morning, we begin a series in the Gospel of Mark that will take us through the spring as we look to the Lord and what he will teach us through this uh action-packed gospel, the shortest of the synoptic gospels, but one that has its own flavor. What is that flavor? It was written, according to all estimates, sometime between 60 and 70 A. D. That's crucial to know because of what was taking place. to in the recipients' lives, and that was this. He was writing to Christians who were in Rome. The greatest uh Roman historian is Tacitus, and we learn a number of things from Tacitus about those years. The Roman leader was Nero. Nero had largely led a very despotic leadership up until the mid-60s. He was particularly vicious towards the wealthy. He taxed heavily. He largely didn't pay attention, however, to many of the religious sects that were within the city borders of Rome. However, something happened in the summer of 64 A. D. that would change history. In fact, it would change the entire future of Rome. And that was a great fire. Even to this day, Rome can be found to be a city that is made up into different districts. There were 14 districts in all. The fire was so massive. and had uh two times uh re-uh-engulfed itself and they were unable to stop it. It destroyed all but four of those districts. Level the place. And that provided an enormous problem for Nero because many believed that this was actually an act. An official act that Nero ordered because many reported that even while they were trying to put out the fire in many districts, That they were viciously attacked for trying to do that. They were hooligans were seen throughout different districts throwing uh flames or you know lit torches into these burning buildings, keeping them aflame. So one of the things that Nero tried to do is he tried to quell any criticism. He made all these vast promises that he was going to rebuild the streets of Rome, make them wider, rebuild the buildings, make sure that they were fireproof, which meant they were gonna have to be brick. But he was not able to fully quell the criticism. So in the summer of 64 A. D. , he decided that he would do one thing. He would find a scapegoat. And that scapegoat was the Christian community. Tacitus writes this. To suppress the many rumors, Nero fabricated scapegoats and punished with every refinement known to man. to notoriously attack the depraved Christians, as they were popularly known. First, Nero had self-acknowledged Christians arrested. Then, on their information, large numbers of others were condemned, not so much for starting fires But for their quote unquote anti-social tendencies, their deaths were made farcical Dressed in wild animal skins, they were torn to pieces by dogs, crucified, and made into human torches to be ignited after dark as substitutes for daylight. Nero provided in his gardens for the spectacle of many, and exhibited displays in the Circus Maximus, at which he mingled in the crowd, or stood in a chariot dressed as a charioteer. Despite their guilt as Christians, the ruthless punishment it deserved, the victims were pitied. For it was felt that they were being sacrificed to one man's brutality rather than to the national interest. He went on a completely erratic method of trying to get rid of Christians. It was exactly this audience to whom the Gospel of Mark is addressed. To a group of Christians facing immense suffering. So, what would they hear? Mark chapter one is our text this morning, verses one through thirteen. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the River Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. And he preached, saying, After me comes he who is mightier than I. the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, he immediately saw the heavens being torn open. And the spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness, and he was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan, and he was with wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Please, will you pray with me? Now I ask on behalf of your church, Lord Jesus, by your Holy Spirit, may you help us to see a word of hope May you help us to see a picture of the glorious nature of King Jesus and the kingdom that he brings in and the gospel of his kingdom. That you might encourage us, strengthen us to walk with you in this day For those who do not know you, I pray specifically by your Holy Spirit that you might open their eyes, that they might see wondrous things in the person of Jesus. We give you thanks and praise. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. Forgive me, it's that one time of year where my sinuses are getting to my voice. In the movie Gravity, Sandra Bullock is in the wilderness of space, spiraling away in her ship. Taken to the end of herself, she finds a desire to hear a voice from somewhere, someone who can help her. If you've seen the film, you know what happens next. She's trying to tune in a radio, and what she begins to hear is the faint voice. Of a male voice talking to an infant. And that infant begins to cry. And the cry of that child enters into that space thing that she's in, and she begins to weep. Because for her it was a sign of maybe new birth, of life, a glimmer of hope. As I'm sure she was reflecting on her own life, and the suffering and the difficulties that she had just faced. The nation of Israel was in a wilderness. Now, not a wilderness of trees, a wilderness that is really known by very barren place. And they were in a wilderness because wilderness is not just known because it's a a physical geolog geographical kind of space, it is also represents a space of suffering and trial and judgment. Israel was in that place At the beginning of the ministry of John the Baptist, in fact, for 300 plus years, not a single prophet had spoken in the nation of Israel. Not one. Yet they knew that there would be one who would come, as Isaiah had proclaimed, that there would be a messenger who would come to prepare the way. This Is what John the Baptist was doing. He was the first prophet to speak to Israel in over 300 years. I think they were waiting for a sign of hope. And a cry came from the wilderness. And we're going to see the introduction of John the Baptist and Jesus. In the outline you have before you, preparing the way out of the water into the wilderness. Preparing the way out of the water into the wilderness. Preparing the way. This text shows us and demonstrates to us after we hear the proclamation that Mark gives. Tying it directly to Isaiah, we hear the one of the one, John the Baptist, born to Elizabeth, cousin of Mary. That John appeared baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. So what this means is that John the Baptist As a man was a prophet, and he dressed himself as one who was of the wilderness. Mark tells us the description of his outfit. And this sash, this leather sash around his waist is to call out a in many ways, a parallel with Elijah. And so what he's doing is he's outside Jerusalem's walls, in the wilderness, on the barren plain. And what's interesting is He's calling the people of God, people of Israel, out of the city, but to come into the wilderness. This is interesting. Why would he call them into the wilderness? Because wilderness was a place of judgment. In a place of trial and suffering. John demonstrating by his lifestyle he's not living in an abundant or enriched way. But he is a man who lives off the land, and as a prophet of God, he's calling the people of God into the wilderness. But what is he doing? As a prophet, as a man called by God, he's calling Israel to a time of repentance. And there's no greater place, at least thematically, from the Old Testament to the New Testament, that is a place of repentance than going out into the wilderness. And so he's calling them out into repentance. But John the Baptist is a man of profound humility. He does not see God's, all of God's hopes, all summed up in what he is. He simply sees himself as a servant preparing the way of the Lord. What's also interesting is what he says about Jesus. He says. And he preached, saying, and he, and after me comes he who is mightier than I. Well, how mighty is it? He says, the strap whose sandals I am unworthy to stoop down and untie. Now that doesn't translate very well to us. Well, that is a prof something that would have hit to the heart of everyone who heard it. Slaves in the nation of Israel during this time were spared. The humiliating role of untying the sandals of their homeowners. Even they would not untie the sandals. So, what John the Baptist is doing, he's not saying, I am great, look at me. He's saying, I am simply a servant, proclaiming one who has come, who is so mighty. Who is so worthy, who is so glorious that I am unworthy, even if I were asked to remove his sandals. John the Baptist is laying himself out to the nation of Israel, saying, Do not look to me, but look to the one who have I've been called to proclaim, to prepare the way. Jesus Christ, who is mighty and who is glory, and that is bound up in his message. His message is one of repentance that leads to forgiveness. This, again, is a profoundly important word for the nation of Israel. Because again, it's beautiful, yes, the wilderness was a place of repentance because it was a place of judgment. So in coming, calling them out to the wilderness, he's saying to them, to do that which they understood the word repentance to mean, to turn from their idolatry and self-sufficiency, and trusting in themselves, and turn to the Lord. And by turning from those things in repentance and confession, the wilderness is miracle Transformed as a place not of judgment, but a place where they can now find renewing grace. Because of the new covenant, because of the good news, the gospel, which John the Baptist was called to preach. That why yes he was calling them to familiar things, out to the wilderness to repair the way, calling them to repentance that leads to forgiveness. He's saying that because of this gospel that he's been called to preach, which is a person that is Jesus, that God is now saying the wilderness will become a place of renewal. It will become a place of salvation, which is why he was baptizing them with water. Unique to John. But they understood what water meant: that they were being cleansed. It's a new word, new news, good news. That is already on the route to renewal, transforming the wilderness from a place of judgment to a place of salvation. This was his message. Come and let go of trusting in yourselves and anything other than God Himself. And confess and turn to this one I am proclaiming to you. And who is this one that He is Proclaiming. We learn of it in the passage when it says, In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, Immediately he saw the heavens being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. This is the one that John was saying, I baptize with water, but the one who is coming will baptize with water with the Spirit. They understood what the Spirit meant because they understood as God's people that the Spirit was present at creation, that when the Spirit is present, he brings new life. He empowers. He is the blessed presence of God. We've already heard God proclaim through the mouth of Isaiah. The voice of the one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. God is saying through John, the Father is saying through John, The one is coming. Now John is saying that the one who's coming will baptize with the Spirit. Something is happening. Something is being proclaimed about the one who is coming out of the water. And that is, the one who's coming out of the water is God's glorious Son. When he comes out of the water, Something very unusual happens, and we only see it in a few places. In the New Testament, this is one of them. The other place is that Christ's crucifixion The heavens are torn open. Now I don't know what this would have been like while if someone was there. But it was very clear a demonstration that this isn't something that John was doing. This is something that God the Father is doing in recognizing the glory of the one who is coming out of the water. And Jesus is going before the people of Israel, though he is without sin, though he does not require cleansing, as God's Son, as a man, he's coming as one in our place. He goes into the water and he comes out. And God descends on him by his Holy Spirit by this dove. And there we see the glory being revealed That there's great revelation in Christ as He's coming out of the water. This is important for us not to miss For the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in this very moment are actually adoring one another. Jesus is obeying the Father, becoming incarnate, being baptized. We see the Father proclaiming the glory of the Son by acknowledging him, this is my Son in whom I am well pleased. What a fabulous proclamation. And the presence of the living God by the Holy Spirit descends upon Christ. And we see, you are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not pass over it, even though it is a brief description. And it is this. This is what theologians call perichoraasis. I know it's a long word. It's an important word. It means That the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, the Godhead, are not commingled, but are three persons. And yet simultaneously they recognize and call out the beauty of one another. They are intimately dwelling with one another. They are acknowledging one another. They are praising one another. This is what is happening in this moment, what is being revealed is the triune God. Is the word Trinity here? No. Is the Father speaking? Yes. Is the Spirit present? Yes. Is the Son being revealed as God's blessed Son, the one who is coming to proclaim salvation? Yes. What we are seeing here is glory revealed. It's important for us because C. S. Lewis says this when he writes about this very reality. He says, in Christianity, God is not a static thing. But a dynamic, pulsating activity, a life, an almost kind of drama. And that is exactly what this is. This is a drama. A pulsating reality. When I read over this passage as I reflect on it, what I am reminded of, what I am called to in my prayers, in my hope. Is that yes, God is providential? God knows the beginning from the end, but God is not predictable. God is dynamic. He is eternal. He is powerful. And he wants to make himself known to us. And he does so through the proclamation of his word. With the power of the Holy Spirit to draw us out of ourselves. Can you imagine those who are suffering in Rome? How they needed to hear of the glorious presence of the Godhead. That Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is our salvation. Jesus is our victory. Do you need to hear that this morning Are your circumstances tempting you to further self-trust? Are your circumstances frustrating you to a degree that you're erupting in anger because everything's out of your control? Are you patting yourself on the back because of your accomplishments? Are you trying to protect what you have? Are you in fear of losing what you have? Whatever it may be, the Lord calls to each and every one of us, regardless of our circumstances, to say, we will not always see the power of God through our circumstances. Because our circumstances are transcended by someone who is greater. And what we most need is the presence of the living glory of God. But then something happens with such s quick pace Is that once this takes place, Mark rushes to do something that might surprise us. You'll see in verse 12, he says, the Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And he was in the wilderness. 40 days being tempted by Satan, and he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. The beauty of God's inspired word, and the writer of the word, here, Mark. God uses the circumstances in which he is writing and his own personality. That's why you see differences in the Gospels. And Mark was writing to Christians in Rome who were facing great suffering. Is it any surprise then that after recognizing the revealed glory of Christ, he now says, but watch what happens next? The Spirit of God drives him out into the wilderness. We see immediately the suffering of Christ. Is God's Son Perfect and righteous and without sin, submitted himself to being tempted in every single way that you and I are. It is calling us to greater dependence on ourselves, using whatever gifts and talents we have at our disposal to magnify ourselves. To use God for our own ends. This is what is bound up in the temptations of Christ. And yet Christ willingly submitted Himself to this suffering. So that at the center of the Christian faith is a man, is a God. Who understands every single way in which you and I are tempted? He is not far off from that temptation. He empathizes with it. He understands its power. And yet, in the midst of that temptation, Jesus, who has gone before us into the wilderness, To face a suffering that you and I cannot even begin to imagine. In fact, all we can do is imagine it. Facing direct onslaught and attack from Satan himself, that Jesus withstood the test. And called on God's word, just as you and I are called to do in the midst of temptation. I believe this is precisely what the Christians at Rome needed to hear. And what else is in this, he says that he drove him out and he was with wild beasts. In the middle of Rome, there's still the Colosseum, where Christians were dragged to then be attacked by wild animals. And notice what he says. And the angels were ministering to him. I believe Mark knew exactly what he was doing. He was writing about the willing submission of Christ. To temptation, but also to face the suffering, even as they are facing that suffering while being attacked by wild animals and persecution. And it says, And yet the angels were ministering to him. You see, it's not just a proclamation of Christ's suffering, it's a proclamation of his victory. For Christ made it out of those 40 days, withstood the test. And obeyed perfectly. So as we're called to faith in Jesus Christ, regardless of our circumstances, we see A Savior who knows us. He knows our motivations, he knows our thoughts, he knows our temptations. And he's right there with us. And he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No temptation has seized you except that which is common to man. But by prayer and supplication, Jesus, God will provide a way out so that you may stand up under it. 1 Corinthians 10:13, paraphrased by me. It was the first verse I ever memorized as a Christian. Because I saw a Savior who was not far off from my temptation as I was I was taught, but one I could call out to in the midst of it. And as Christ was able to persevere, so by his spirit and word we can persevere. Though sin still remains within us. Christ's victory, as we trust in Him by faith, is also meant to be experienced by you and me. Change is the inevitable impact of the gospel. Because Christ was victorious as the king who is coming with his kingdom. The good news of the gospel isn't just that we see our sin and know we need forgiveness. But that Jesus comes to make us a people who can walk also in victory even today. Do you believe that? Or do you have you believed the lie, the deceit that says that we're just all broken and there's no hope for change? That is a lie from the pit of hell. God's Spirit today, by His Word, may not give you 100% obedience. Absolutely not until Christ returns. But I will tell you, He can give you the ability to walk away from temptation by finding the prayers and community of those believers around you. You can call against the deceit and the lies of temptation from God's word when you are tempted to lust. to anger, to divisiveness, to anxiety, to control, self-trust All of these things can be experienced and are being experienced by a whole vast group of us. But the gospel isn't very good news if all it gives us is forgiveness, but we can't expect change. I say to you, if you are a Christian in the Lord Jesus Christ today, as you come to the table to celebrate the body and blood of Jesus Christ, I tell you, there is grace sufficient for victory today. And church, please understand, I'm not suggesting that we will not fall tomorrow and fall prey to temptation. I'm simply suggesting that we are not bound up solely by the power of sin. We, if we are believers, we are bound up by faith, united with Christ, and his victory. His death on the cross for forgiveness of sins, but the victory of the grave. This is the gospel. This is the good news. This is your king. May the Lord equip us and give us hope as we go through this gospel, written to a people experiencing suffering, but who were given a word of hope. There's plenty of doubt in this book, but there's plenty of hope. And that hope is in Jesus Christ, the one who is the gospel. He is the good news. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we now pray that you would feed us by your word and by your spirit I pray, Father, that you would equip us with the grace and the faith in Jesus Christ. To walk in Him this day, to know forgiveness of sins, but also new obedience. This is good news. This is what you can do. Will you do it in our midst? Now prepare us to celebrate this meal, the Lord's Supper, that you might give us food to eat And a drink of the work of Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.