The break from the book of Ephesians for a bit. This past Tuesday we had our cell leader training meeting and I asked the leaders to turn to the book of Ephesians and I heard somebody, don't know who it was, but I heard somebody mutter, is there any other book Uh let me assure you there are sixty-five of them. And uh this last year at the during the holiday season I mentioned that in this series on messianic prophecies in the Old Testament I'm dealing with fifty different texts I mentioned at that time I was preaching on the 17th last year, did three messages on that, and I said at the current rate that I was moving at about one text per year, I would finish that series when I was 85 years old. Max Dilke saw me right after that service and he said, but Al, the question is, what series are you going to do after that? To which I responded, No problem, Max, I'll just start it over again. Who's going to remember messages from fifty years ago? Well, last year I also began going through Matthew's gospel. in his account in the New Testament of the first uh Christmas, the birth of the Lord Jesus. And as I was meditating on Matthew chapter 1 I noticed a particular emphasis that Matthew makes in the beginning of his account. If you haven't turned to it and you have your Bibles, please turn to Matthew chapter 1. And notice as I read these verses , the one word that is repeated in each verse. In Matthew chapter 1, the very first verse, a record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. The son of David, the son of Abraham. He then goes down through that genealogy from Abraham on down, ending in verse 16. And Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ Verse seventeen, thus there were fourteen generations in all, from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Christ. Verse 18. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. Now who can tell me what's the one word that's repeated in all those four verses? Great. Good. Sandy gave you a little bit of a clue there, but that's good. You got it. Interesting, that's the only time that term appears in Matthew. It's in those four places introducing Jesus as the Christ. Now it's important that you always keep in mind that Christ is not Jesus' last name. We sometimes can confuse that. Christ is actually a title. It's Jesus the Christ. And the word Christ, the term Christ is Christos in the Greek, which is the Greek term for the Hebrew word Meshiach or Messiah. So whenever you see Christ, you're reading the word Messiah. Jesus Messiah. Keep that in mind. Whenever you read in the New Bi in the New Testament of your Bible, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ is Jesus the Messiah, Jesus the Messiah. And then it occurred to me as I was thinking about this last year I thought, you know, I could go through fifty years of preaching on the messianic prophecies. I could have covered years on the names and titles of God and never hit the name Christ or the title. So I thought, could I possibly do that in my career? And immediately I thought, no way. So, for some of you, you may think of this as the final end to the Names of God series Or it is a break between Messianic prophecy number 17 and 18 this year. But we are going to look during this holiday season coming. At the term Messiah and the meaning of that term. In order to understand what it is that Jesus as Messiah came to be and to do, and to see how perfectly Jesus fulfilled all the concepts and the prophecies in the Old Testament of who Messiah was to be and what he was to do. In order to understand that if Jesus is not the world's Messiah, the world could never have a Messiah. Only Jesus could have ever fulfilled the Old Testament concepts and prophecies about Messiah. Now maybe you're thinking to yourself now, why are we starting this before Thanksgiving? I mean, you know You kinda like the stores, you kind of rush the holidays, you know, haven't even gotten to Thanksgiving yet and already this guy's right out there like all the rest of the stores and he's got his trimmings up here and it's November and you know we're just not meddling into this Let me tell you a very good reason why we are beginning this two Sundays before Thanksgiving. The reason is that when I was preparing this last year, I thought there were five Sundays between Thanksgiving and Christmas this year. I didn't bother to look at my calendar. That's the straight out honest answer, alright? So I had an option. Either I could finish this series the Sunday after Christmas and have the climactic Christmas message at New Year's, and I thought I figured how that would go over Or I could do it the Sunday before Thanksgiving, but I was persuaded by a few people that everybody wants to hear about Thanksgiving the Sunday before Thanksgiving So the only other option was to begin it this Sunday. We'll take a break next Sunday for Thanksgiving, and then we will look in the following three Sundays at the three ideas, three main ideas of Messiah. Because Messiah, there were three people, three kinds of persons who were anointed in the Old Testament as Messiahs. They were, as you see in your bullet and outline, the prophets, the priests, and the kings. And what we will be doing in these next three Sundays after Thanksgiving Is looking at each of those offices and how Jesus fulfilled perfectly the messianic idea of prophet, the messianic idea of priest, and the messianic idea of king. So, one of the most fascinating things, I think, is when you come to the opening pages of the New Testament To see how the rabbis and the scribes, with all their detailed study of the Old Testament prophecies of Messiah, who he was and what he was to be and what he was to do, and all the detailed descriptions of this. And they go on pages and chapters and hundreds of pages detailing and arguing what Messiah would be. The one thing they never seemed to grasp is that there were three offices that were back that were anointed into as Messiahs in the Old Testament: the prophets, the priests, and the kings. And therefore, the simplest way to look at who Messiah was to be is he would be the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. And they missed that. It's a classic example. of missing the trees, missing the forest for the trees. They saw all the particular trees and they missed the forest Because of their detailed descriptions. And so what we want to do is to just for our own edification look at Jesus. To just in these weeks focus on him as we prepare to celebrate his birth. Well, let me just start. And this today is just starting with the idea of the meaning of anointing. That's what I want to look at this morning. And first of all, it's probably worth observing how a person was anointed. You know, you read this all the time, the Christ, the anointed one, what happened? Well, uh In Exodus chapter 30, you have the recipe for anointing oil. Now, this is important enough to God that he spent twelve verses Telling us exactly what anointing oil was composed of. You don't need to look at it now, but what let me just sum it up by telling you that it was an olive oil-based fragrant perfume. It had cinnamon and myrrh and all these kinds of things in it, and the idea that is pictured there is that this was immensely, sensually fragrant. In fact, this was so special, so fragrant, that God says at the end of the recipe, this is a holy anointing oil. It is never to be used when you take a bath. It's never to be used for cosmetic purposes. If anyone were to grab this recipe, And say, wow, this stuff really smells great. I'm going to use this in my bath. He would be cut off from Israel. God says there is only one time you are ever to smell the beautiful fragrance of this oil. It is when one with the proper authority takes it from the flask and pours it on the head of my anointed. Whether that be to make him prophet or priest or king. When you smell that fragrance, it reminds you of the presence and the power of God. Coming upon a person to do four things to that person. That's what I want to look at with you now. Four purposes. For anointing. First of all, anointing oil designated the person and set them apart. That's the first blank, the D. The first purpose was to designate them. An example of this is in the life of David. Do you remember how after Saul was declared by Samuel no longer fit to be the king of Israel because of his disobedience? The question, of course, to Samuel was, well Lord, who is going to be your anointed? I've anointed Saul and set him apart as king, and now you're saying he's no longer qualified. Who then is going to be the king? God says, well, Samuel, take a trip over to Bethlehem. And I want you to go to the household of Jesse And after you go there, he's got eight sons, and I want you to just uh take a look at those guys. And I'll tell you which one's going to be the one And so he goes to Jesse's house, and Jesse 's got his seven sons standing around, and he calls them in, and one after the other, from the oldest to the youngest, they come through and There is no signal to Samuel about any of these. And he says to Jesse, is this all? You sure we didn't miss one? And Jesse says, Well, you know, there's the run of the litter. This guy David, he's out there with a sheep. I didn't think it was worth calling him in because we knew he wasn't the one Samuel says, We're not going a step further until you bring that guy in. He doesn't know anything, he's just waiting. And as soon as David comes in bewildered, and what you know, what are you calling me for? What's the problem? What do I got to do? Immediately the Spirit of God impresses upon Samuel. That's the one. And he takes his flask and he anoints him with a special perfumed anointing oil. And from that day forward, David is a marked man. From that day forward, David no longer has the option to choose his career. David no longer has the option to decide what he would like to do for his vocation, where he would like to live. From that day on, he is designated as the anointed one, God's Messiah. And God is the one who will then determine by that choice exactly what David will do. And from then on, even though he may have to wait for years for it to happen, he is designated as the king by God's own choosing. In Isaiah chapter 42, verse 1, God says, of Jesus, This is my chosen one, my beloved, in whom I delight. Jesus was chosen, the Messiah, designated from before the foundation of the world when God made covenant with Him that you and I would have only one opportunity. To be rescued from God's wrath. It was as he, the chosen one, would be designated to leave heaven. And to come in the form of a body, to come as the chosen one, the only eligible one, to take your place and my place at the cross to bear our sins. Jesus grew up. Think of it as a man. As a young boy. He grew up knowing that his life was unique and special from any other life. Whatever he played with the kids, whenever he did whatever he did growing up as an apprentice to a carpenter in Nazareth, he was always as the chosen one, the designated one, who would be the Lamb of God to take away the sins of the world. Jesus' life was marked from his very birth as unique and special. Not only did anointing designate a person, but secondly it also consecrated them. It consecrated them. That is, it set them apart as holy. You read in Exodus chapter 40, and we'll be looking at this. More later in this series, but in Exodus chapter 40, you have the description of the tabernacle and all its furnishings. All those things were made for worship. But it's clear in Exodus 40 that it was only the anointing oil that made them holy. It was the anointing of these articles of furniture and the tabernacle itself by this special oil that consecrated it to the use of worship. It was the same thing with the priests. They were designated by God, but it was only the oil that actually set them apart as holy for service to God. There was a special bond created between the person who was anointed and God Himself. And that bond not only made that person holy sanctified, set apart from all other people to God, but there was also involved in that a special protection. Do you remember that when Saul was hounding David through the wilderness those many years? On two occasions, God delivered Saul, David's enemy, who was persecuting him, who wanted to kill him. God delivered Saul on two occasions into David's hand. Do you remember one time while he was sitting and relieving himself in a cave, and another time while he was sleeping out in the open, David was able to sneak up on him And his soldiers were urging him on. God has given your enemy into your hand. Now's your chance. Take his life And you, who God has Himself chosen to be king, Saul's disqualified. Simply do what God intends anyway. You remember David's response on those two occasions? It was, I cannot lift my hand against the Lord's anointed. When God anoints a person, God's own protection surrounds that person. And so when that Amalekite comes after Saul's death to bring the good news he supposes to David, Saul's dead, and you're now the king. And David says, How do you know he's dead? He says, Well, because he was dying, and I'm the one that finished him off. And David says to his soldiers, strike him down. And this one who seems like he's bringing to David the relief of all these years of running and hiding and being a refugee David, in return for this good news, kills the man who brings the message. Why? Because he said he did not fear to raise his hand against the Lord's anointed. When God anoints a person, they're sacred to him, and no one dare touch them. And so when Jesus was born in Bethlehem and Herod determined that he was going to rid Bethlehem of all the babies who would be rivals, possibly for his throne. The angel came and Jesus was delivered. And when they tried to cast him off a cliff at Nazareth, Jesus walked through the crowd and he was delivered. Jesus was delivered and sacred and untouchable in every circumstance. Until he laid down his own life for you and for me, because he was the Lord's anointed, and no one could touch him Not only did anointing designate a person as God's chosen, and consecrate him as sacred and holy to God. But anointing oil also bestowed authority upon that person. The anointing oil bestowed authority Only a prophet has authority to say, thus says the Lord, because he's been anointed to that office as God's spokesperson. Only the priest could offer sacrifices that were acceptable to God because he had been anointed and given the authority to do that. Do you remember on one hand, on one occasion, a king of Israel determined to make the sacrifice himself, and God turned his hand To leprosy for his usurping what was not his own authority. Only a king who is anointed Can rule God's people because the anointing oil gave him the authority to do that He did not rule in his own authority. This was a basic principle, basic understanding of authority that came out of the Reformation against that whole idea of inherent right and authority. Whether of England or of any other monarch of Europe, authority is bestowed by God And Messiah means one who has been given the authority by God, whether it is in prophet, priest, or in the position of king, given that authority to rule by God. He's a servant given authority to rule and to shepherd God's people. So Jesus comes into the Gospels and what's the most prominent thing, just a cursory reading of the Gospels, particularly Mark makes a particular point of emphasizing this. You look at Jesus, and again and again and again, you're impressed that here is one with authority. He speaks with authority. All the other rabbis said, Well, Rabbi so-and-so says this, and I base my argument on that, and this rabbi says that, and I base my argument on that. Jesus said, You've heard it said, but I say to you. And the people were amazed because he spoke with definitive authority. When Jesus speaks, you listen. Because he's anointed to speak with authority. And only Jesus had the authority of the priest, who came as one anointed to offer himself. As that perfect sacrifice to take away sin. Jesus alone had the authority to do that. No one else could have offered themselves as a sin offering on behalf of you for your sin. It wouldn't have worked. All they would be doing is dying for their own sin. Jesus alone was anointed with authority to die for your sin. And Jesus alone was anointed with the authority to rule your life. He alone has the authority to tell you what to do. He alone calls you to open his word day by day that you might see what it is that he's telling you about your values and how you ought to live this week. Jesus alone is bestowed without authority. Not only does the anointing oil designate and consecrate and bestow authority, but lastly, the anointing oil also equips the person for that. Those of you who love to follow the letters of this, you'll notice that A, B, C, and D go A, B, C, D, and E. You got all five letters there. I didn't notice that until after I did it, but they're not in the order of that. But if you re forget any of them, you see you just gotta go A, B, C, D, and E. Final one is that it equips. It equips the person for their office. You see, it's clear in the Old Testament that none of these people inherently were gifted. and equipped to fulfill their function. Nobody simply knows the Word of God. No one is equipped to be to carry out the office of priest and all that involves besides sacrificing. No one is equipped inherently to rule a nation. But when a person was anointed with that oil and that fragrant oil came down upon their head God said, with that oil, he was pouring out his spirit to empower them. You see that? He was anointing them with his spirit. The oil is the symbol of the Holy Spirit. And so that person from that day forward no longer ministered in their own strength and power. They ministered in the power of the Spirit. That is part of what David has in mind in Psalm 51 when he prays, take not your spirit from me. I have been anointed To rule as king by the power of your spirit. O God, take not that spirit from me as you did from Saul. Anointing indicates the empowering of the Spirit. Jesus, though he was perfect. Do you remember when he was baptized in the Jordan by John? When John baptized him with water, the Spirit descended, the Gospels say, upon Jesus in the form of a dove And the Father said, This is my son, my beloved, in whom I am well pleased. And the Spirit came upon Jesus for ministry at that point. Amazing thing you see is that Jesus ministered in the power of the same Spirit that abides upon you and me to minister today. It is the same Spirit who equipped Jesus who equips you. Anointing bestows the Spirit of God upon the person for ministry. Now that leads us finally then to the second question, conclusion of this whole matter, and is this question: Is anyone then today, in the New Testament age, anointed since Jesus? What's the answer? Well, let me tell you. The answer on that next blank is yes With an exclamation mark, a bold, large caps, yes. You that's the next blank, you are anointed Do you realize that you are Messiahs if you are walking in Jesus Christ this morning? Do you realize that? You are a Messiah. You are little Christ. That may seem blasphemous for some of you to hear me say that, but I'll prove it to you. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 1. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Paul writing to the Corinthians. Telling them about their privileges. Let's begin at verse 18. He's speaking of God's faithfulness to us in what He's given in Christ. And he says, As surely as God is faithful, Our message to you is not yes and no. In other words, it's not ambivalent, it's not maybe, it's not well on the one hand, on the other hand. The message is clear for the Son of God, Jesus, Messiah. who was preached among you by me and by Silas and Timothy was not yes and no. He wasn't ambivalent, never wishy-washy. There was nothing on the one hand and on the other hand about him. But in him it has always been yes Definitive. For no matter how many promises God has made, they are yes in Christ, all fulfilled in him And so through him the Amen, that confirmation. When you say Amen, if anybody ever does it in my messages, you say you're at the end of a prayer, what you're saying is you're confirming it. You're saying, yes, that's true. Through him, the Amen is spoken by us to the glory of God. And now, it is God who makes both you, us, and you stand firm in Christ. He anointed us. It's the same word, the verb form of Mashiach. He anointed us. Set his seal of ownership on us and put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit guaranteeing what is to come. And do you see what Paul's done there? He has not only told you that you are Messiahs, that you are anointed in Christ. But he has even spelled out the meaning of it right there. Look what he says. He says, you are chosen, the first thing there. That's the C. Instead of designated, chosen. You are chosen by God as his own. Look at there, verse 22 again. He set his seal of ownership upon us. He has said, You're mine. I've chosen you. Do you remember how we've looked in Ephesians from chapter 1, right on through chapter 1, verse 13, he talks about him setting the Spirit upon us as the seal of his ownership. Why? Because in chapter 1 and verse 4 he said, he chose us to be holy and blameless in him. He's chosen you. If you have responded to Jesus Christ and seeing your need of a Savior, of one who would die for your sin and give you a new life, he's chosen you to be holy and blameless in Christ. You're not an accident. You didn't choose him independently on your own. God has chosen you. He has set his heart upon you. From all eternity. He has anointed you. Your baptism was the sign that God had chosen you. The baptism was the anointing with the water after the image of that anointing with oil. To set you aside is chosen in Jesus Christ. You belong to Him. Brother and sister, every morning you wake up this week and every other week. Wake up with a sense, I have been chosen. By God to be holy and blameless in Him. I know the outcome of my life. Whatever happens to me this day, this week, this month, I am chosen by God as His very own. Amen. Confirm it, you see. That's the witness of your spirit confirming it. Not only are you chosen in him, you are consecrated to him. Verse 22. Again, notice he set his seal of ownership on us, and he's put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit to guarantee what has come. The Spirit is the Holy Spirit to set you aside. is holy to Jesus Christ. He's chosen you to be holy and blameless in Him. You are not your own, brothers and sisters. You've been bought with a price. You've been set aside as holy. You don't have the option to do what the people that you work with and go to school with do Because you don't belong to yourself. You belong to Jesus. And there's that special bond of protection and ownership. That has been placed upon you because you're anointed in Jesus. And like the Messiah in Jesus, is that Messiah That notion, that idea, that concept of messiahship in which you share because of your union with Him, you are also holy. Therefore, live as those who are holy, who belong to Jesus, whose lives are controlled and directed by Him. You are not only under his authority, but C is you also have authority. You've been chosen and consecrated and given authority You see what he says? This is the whole drift of this message. He's talking about how Christ is not ambivalent. And then he goes in verse 21 and he says, now it's God who makes both us and you to stand firm in him. You have the authority of Christ, you see. You have his promises to claim. You stand in those promises. There is nothing ambivalent about your life. And so you have the authority to speak as an ambassador of Christ as a prophet to declare him to your family and to your friends. And when you move in this holiday season, whether Thanksgiving or Christmas or any other time, and you move into situations, whether it's at work or it's at home, and you're the only Christian there, you represent Jesus. And he's given you authority to bear his name into that situation, to speak truth and reality in the midst of conversations of nonsense and foolishness. So pray for wisdom. Lord, I speak as one who represents you. Give to me your spirit to speak with a humble authority. And you have the authority to intercede for those people as a priest, because the priest's job was to intercede. And when you speak and claim the promises of Christ, you intercede with an authority. For those people, whether it is kids in your home who have the sign of the covenant upon them to claim that before God, or it is any other thing that you ask for God to do in fulfillment of his promises. And as King, you have the authority to demolish strongholds and to bring every thought captive to Jesus Christ. In whatever arena you operate in, you bring Christ's presence into that arena. In order to bring sanity, in order to bring light, in order to bring the preservation of salt into that situation, you have the authority of the king to represent him in that And finally, you don't do that on your own. Because when he anointed you to do this, he also equipped you to do it. He equipped you with his spirit, verse 22. He's brought you into this and he's set his seal of ownership upon us and put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit, guaranteeing what's to come. He has equipped you. With his Spirit in your hearts, granting you the gifts that are necessary to exercise on behalf of the risen Christ. One of the things we'll be looking at. As we come back to Ephesians, you see saying this guy just can't get away from this thing. But you'll see there's a very close tie in if we look at Ephesians chapter 4. For in verse 7, Paul talks there about the fact that you have been given gifts. according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Then he goes on for three verses to talk about who it is that gave you those gifts. It is the risen Christ. And he quotes from a psalm that speaks of the victorious ascended God. And so you have been given gifts by the risen Christ. This week, as you enter into the world and the relationships that God's called you into, He's equipped you. You don't go in your own strength. You go in the strength of Messiah, whose presence you bear because he's anointed you as his own. Let's pray. Lord God, we pray you would give to us this morning a deeper awareness of who we are and what has happened to us because you, Lord Jesus, were anointed It's a prophet, priest, and king, with all that holiness and authority, the equipment given to you to do that. And Lord, we have been given the same equipment. Hallelujah. We do not go alone. We do not go unequipped into this week For we bear your presence. Make us aware. In Jesus' name. Amen.