Now we are back to Ephesians. Now I get a lot of ribbing on Ephesians, but I want you to know I haven't preached on Ephesians since February 16th. We are coming back to Ephesians now. You're probably glad it doesn't have 14 chapters, as Tom started to indicate. It only has six chapters, and we are on the fourth chapter We are now coming to what I consider to be the heart of Paul's plan for the church and how a local church should function. A very crucial passage. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 7 to 16. This, I believe, is God's definitive plan for church growth. Why is so much attention spent on Ephesians chapter 4, verses 7 to 16? You hear that a lot today. You hear a lot of reference to these verses as being particularly significant for how a church should function? Are we putting too much weight on these verses? After all, this is just ten verses out of the whole New Testament. Why don't we look at other verses? Why don't we look at a lot of other passages in Scripture to be able to say, well, you know, these are have as much weight as the ones that we see here in Ephesians 4? I believe that this passage is distinctively unique. And here's why, here's why I think that this passage is the most definitive passage for God's statement of how the church should function in the New Testament age. If the church at Ephesus was the church that Paul not only planted, but pastored. Paul was the pastor of this church for three years, from 53 to 55 A. D. Paul established this church by preaching the gospel for three months. He gathered a group of disciples. For two years in a rented facility, the Hall of Tyrannus, he trained these disciples. Every day he was training them in the principles of how the church should function. He then took them out and he did evangelism with them. After three years, after even two years, that was so successful. that he was able to say that all the Jews and the Greeks in the entire province have heard the gospel. Now we can't say that after being here 18-19 years in Colombia that every person, every Jew and every Gentile in Colombia has heard the gospel because of Columbia Presbyterian. This was Paul's statement of how the church should function. He's left that church. It's now five, six years later. He has taken what was probably his most personal disciple, the person he invested the most time in, Timothy. And Timothy has been placed as pastor of the church at Ephesus. He writes two letters, 1 and 2 Timothy, to instruct Timothy on how to pastor the church at Ephesus. He now writes this letter five, six years later, after he has left his pastoring there. Writes this letter. It is not occasioned by a problem. It's not occasioned by some heresy. It's a very organized letter in which Paul states the Christian life and body life in that context. So I submit to you that if you were to look at any letter, any writing in the New Testament to see what is the one that is most definitive. That states Paul's philosophy of ministry, and therefore God's philosophy of how the church should function, how it should grow, how it should operate until the Lord Jesus comes again. It is the letter to the church at Ephesus. And in these ten verses, Paul distills in just these few verses what he sees as the very heart of how the church should function. Therefore, we will be spending some time, brothers and sisters, on these ten verses. What I'd like to do today is to give an overview of all ten verses. Alright, so this is one of those messages where if you come after this, you know, you gotta get the tape and come back and listen to this one, get everything else in context. But everything I'll be saying after this for the next weeks that we'll be looking at this will be fitting into the scheme of that I'm laying out today. So you don't have an outline, you've got two charts. And that's to help you to see where we're going. Alright. Now having said that, let us read so you simply hear from God's Word, just the regular ordinary reading of Scripture. that we're going to have here for God to speak to us. This is his word. Let's give him our best attention. Ephesians chapter 4. Begin at verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you've received. Bring your life into equilibrium with that calling that you've received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But to each one of us grace has been given, as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says: when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers to prepare God's people for works of service. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature. attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning. and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him, the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. If you read those verses, you're immediately struck if you think about it, reflect on it for a moment, of what a different world. That statement of how the church should function is from much of what you see in the contemporary evangelical church. John MacArthur wrote a brief article for Table Talk magazine, in which he said, much of the church today entertains to build up and to produce growth. Uh so much of the church, the contemporary church, is coming on Sunday morning for a show, for entertainment. You have um The kind of situation uh John Isaac referred to last week where you don't do much singing, you simply watch other people up on a stage sing and perform and drama and various things like this. Special music, dramatic readings, I don't think are inappropriate. We use them ourselves, but there's a fine line between that which is calling us to enter into worship and that which is simply spectatorism, entertainment. One church had ten pastoral staff, and to make a point, uh they had the staff trained by a professional wrestler. And then they uh took the pastoral staff on the stage and they conducted a wrestling match in which they threw each other's bodies around on the stage, you know. Uh they took lessons to know how to do that without breaking bones, you know, and you know, everybody really uh got a rise out of whatever the point was, you know, I mean something about wrestling I guess with evil, but uh, you know Can the point sort of get lost in the making of the point? Or I think of one church that spent a half a million dollars to install a special effect system When the pastor speaks on hell, they can have smoke and fire and sparks. They have laser lights of all kinds of special effects. In fact, one day he preached on the resurrection, the ascension, and uh invisible wires carried him right up into the rafters there, you know. Of course I heard of one guy that did that and they had had the guy do it and then they had a stand in that was heavier than him and he s went up and came right back down again be the guy wires weren't heavy enough. But um you know, all kinds of special effects. For what purpose? Well you see Uh we say it's to make the point, to be effective in communication, but there's a fine line, and so much of the church today seems to be bent on entertaining people who come. To be entertained, making spectators rather than disciples. The other side of that is that many churches today evangelize the congregation in order to grow I believe that that's also a mistake. Giving the basic, simple gospel message and a seeker-oriented, not necessarily a seeker-sensitive, I think is fine We try to be that, but the idea of every week you just hear about coming to Christ and bring your life to Him and make a commitment to Him. The church should be taking you beyond that. You should be being prepared to go out with that. There's so many churches. Some of the churches I was familiar with growing up every m every Sunday as kind of a an altar call, commitment statement, in order to grow, in order to produce church growth Where the other side of that, uh the other extreme, is the churches that uh don't necessarily just entertain the people or evangelize the people, but they their whole purpose is to educate the people. Church on Sunday morning is like a mini seminary. You take classes and everybody is being um taught about the distinctives, whether the doctrinal distinctives or that local church's distinctives In order to be able to speak the right language, in order to be able to all agree on everything that we can sign on to that makes us different from all the other people who don't have the inside truth that we do and understand all the things that that make a Christian mature. Nothing wrong with educating the saints. Needs to be done But if the emphasis is simply on the mental and what I can agree to, what I assent to mentally in education, this idea of mental cognitive education, that's not what Paul's talking about here. Well what's Paul talking about? If he's not talking about entertainment and just evangelism of the church and the education of the church, well he's talking about equipping the church. You knew it had a BNE, right? He's talking about equipping the church. Ephesians 4 and verse 12. Very heart of this is what Paul's talking about here. The word that you have in the NIV is to prepare. But the word really is the word equip, and we'll be looking at that word in some detail later on, but it is that God, the Lord Jesus, gave Those particular offices of which we have today, pastors and teachers, in order to equip God's people for works of service or works of ministry The equipping is for you to do ministry. You've heard me say it a number of times. How many ministers do we have at Columbia Presbyterian? If you say two, we put you in solitary confinement in the storage room with it written on the wall to meditate for about a half hour. We do not have two ministers at Columbia Presbyterian. We have about 500 ministers at Columbia Presbyterian. Amen? That's the ministers, you see. You all said that. You just ordained yourselves by agreeing to that. How many reverends do we have at Columbia Presbyterian? Two? No, right? We have nearly 500 reverends. Why? Because verse 12 says that the Pastor teachers, the elders are to equip the saints. What are saints? They're the holy ones, the reverends, those that are set apart, you see. That's the idea So the whole point, the genius of New Testament church teaching is that it is our job as elders to equip you. That you do the ministry, and that's the means by which God, empowering you, builds his people and reaches those without the Lord Jesus in our community. Now, what I want to do is to give you the big picture of this this morning. Spend just a few minutes looking now at the context of this to see the flow of the thought, because you get bogged down into particular words and verses and you can lose the connection. So just for a few minutes with me, look at the whole picture here, these verses 7 to 16, in the light of the whole scheme of the book of Ephesians. The key verse, remember, we said was chapter 4, verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you that you live a life worthy, that you bring your life into equilibrium with a calling you've received. The picture, you remember, is that of a scale. And he's saying, on the one hand, you have three chapters of weight, uh this vast weight of the calling that you have in Christ. Chapter 1, verse 18. I pray the eyes of your heart will be enlightened. that you will know the hope of your calling, the riches of God's inheritance in you and for you. Your calling in Jesus Christ, that he has been raised from the dead. Chapters 1 and 2 speak of your being reconciled to God. You have been made his sons. You have been forgiven. You have been given a new standing in Jesus Christ, eternal life. You have Jesus-owned record. Nothing to add to that. You are seated with Him. We talked about those whole first three chapters. The idea is learning how to sit in Christ, to rest in Him in His finished work. Chapters 1 and 2, reconciled to God. Chapters 2 and 3, you are reconciled to each other. You have been made a new humanity, a new family, a new kingdom, a new nation, a new temple, living stones joined together for God's praise. That's who you are. Nothing in chapters 1 to 3 that you do. You simply learn how to sit in that and how to kneel in asking God to make that true in your life. Then in chapter 4 verse 1 he says, now I urge you, I beseech you, bring your life, your daily experience into the balance. Bring that scale down. that you begin by faith to appropriate the new life that you have in Jesus Christ individually and corporately. Then he begins that by saying in verses 2 to 6 That you have the unity of Christ by God's saving grace. That's that first blank. You are now brought together as the body of Christ. He doesn't begin with your quiet time. He doesn't begin with all the other particular private pious things that we do as Christians. He talks about your body life. He begins with that. He says you are joined together with your brothers and sisters in this new life in Christ. You are now to experience the unity of the body in God's saving grace. And so verses 2 to 6 speak of the fact that we have one body, one spirit. A one hope which you are called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all The whole point is that you need to work, he says in verse 3, make every effort to maintain, to guard, to preserve this unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace It is that which we work at. We don't simply say, well, you know, hey, the Christians are easy to get along with. We know better than that, right? You've been around Christians for a while? It's something that by faith you work at. But God has brought you together with that other Christian who may seem impossible to get along with. And so God says, I want you to experience my power in seeing that you share a common life, a new life in the Lord Jesus. After all of that, he talks about that and how we talked about how we should experience that on different levels in our small groups, ourselves. How you experience that as a congregation, that God joins us together, that we experience a unity as a congregation. We talked about how he does that in terms of our Presbytery, joined with other churches and a regional church, the church of this area, which is too large. We're trying to uh make it into smaller area, but uh you know, in our particular case goes from Maryland down to the um northern edge of uh North Carolina But we are one together. We joined together. Just this weekend we brought to conclusion that which I talked to you about in the last time I preached on Ephesians and the the uh Uh the fact that as a Presbyterian we were uh caring for a church, our mother church, that had uh disunity, had difficulty, charges being brought against the pastor. And I'm delighted to be able to say that our Presbytery meeting on Friday night, there were probably 75 to 100 people who came from that congregation to hear, what will the church of this region say about this matter? We had formed a committee. I was on that committee since February 16th when I last talked about this. I would estimate I've I've put in about 55 hours. in meetings with that committee just to work on this problem with this other church to help them out. And we were able to state publicly in the strongest possible terms that the pastor had been vindicated against any of those charges. and publicly to call those who had brought the charges to repentance and to bring unity and peace to that body. There was tremendous celebration Someone had come from the outside and had stated what they could not state and solve as a congregation themselves because of the unity of the Spirit that we join in together. And so we're able to see God put to peace what's been going on in that congregation for them to pick up and to go on with the gospel. Somebody say amen to that. That's been a real blessing, I'll tell you. Tremendous relief to me, too, to see God working that. We've seen also with Bob Davis coming here to speak, how we join together as congregations with those who are not within our own denomination, but others like the long-reached Church of God. Different denominations, different racial predominance within the congregation, but joining together with one spirit. In order to serve the Lord Jesus together, to demonstrate, as God grants us grace, racial reconciliation within the body of Christ in Howard County. We're still hoping that Thursday, May the 8th, I've heard that it's still a go. Check next week to make sure That we are going to be joining with our brothers and sisters that Thursday evening, in joint evening of praise and worship together, demonstrating the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now, having stated all that, What I want you to see is look at verse 7. In chapter 4, verse 7, what's the first word? But Here's a contrast. Don't miss it. Paul has talked from verses 2 to 6 about the unity of the body in God's saving grace. In verse 7, he now contrasts that and speaks of the diversity of Christ's body in serving grace. So, on the one hand, there is the unity of the body in his saving grace, but Christians are not clones. They're not like cults. We're all supposed to look the same, speak the same, and act the same. The beauty of the body of Christ is its diversity. But, verse 7, to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. And then he speaks about the diversity of that grace. It's the diversity of his serving grace Which is different from the saving grace from the same Lord. But this he carries on all the way to verse 16. And so He begins to break this down, and I broke it down, you see on the back now. If you're looking, I hope you're looking on that back to see Uh break this down into what I call the three P's, alright, the Roman one, two, and three. As you're building up from the base here in chapters one to three, builds on that the length, then the unity of the body in saving grace, diversity of the body, and serving grace. First P, Roman numeral one, is that the power of this is from the source of grace, the risen Messiah. It takes four verses to make that point. He's only got ten verses to state the in his philosophy of ministry for the church for so far two thousand years, and he takes four of those verses to talk about the power of the risen Christ. From whom these gifts come. We often talk of them as spiritual gifts. They are also gifts that are given by Christ. They're not just from the Spirit These verses talk about how Jesus gave you the gifts that you are given, your unique gifts to serve the body. Those ways that God has equipped you to build up Columbia Presbyterian and your brothers and sisters From that power, we'll look at that more as I say later, he then talks about in verse 11 the preparers. There's first of all the power from the source of grace. Then he speaks of the preparers who are the channels of grace. The preparers are the apostles, the prophets. the evangelist, and then the word that is joined together the pastor teachers. The pastor teachers are the elders. The elders are pastor teachers. And so he is speaking here, particularly now in our time. Of the evangelists who teach us how to reach out and to share the gospel with others and prepare us for that, but also the uh elders who are pastor teachers who Who do what he says then in verse 12? They prepare us for what? Verse 12, they equip us Equipping the saints or preparing the saints for works of ministry. So Roman numeral 3 is the purpose of these gifts of grace. And the purpose of the gifts of grace, he then elaborates under three more points. It's like a flower. If you see this flower, you know, there's this little bud, and then you begin to see this bloom opens up out of that. And then out of that opens up another bloom, and out of that opens up another bloom. And that's what Paul does from verses 12 to 16. Look what he does. He says, first of all The purpose of these who are the leaders of the church, the elders of the church, their purpose is to equip the saints. But it doesn't just end there. Equip them for what? Equip them for ministry. Ministry to do what? Well, ministry to edify the body. Again, look at verse 12, to prepare, to equip God's people for works of service, works of ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up So you are equipped to edify. The end of verse 12. But what's the purpose of your edifying? Building up. Edify just means to build up. Building up to what? Well, he states the conclusion of that in verse 13. Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. What he's speaking about here, you see point C there then, is to mature to the fullness of Christ in three ways. Your knowledge, your relationships, and your character. Talking about knowledge of the faith, all of what it means to be a Christian, but then particularly your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Your knowledge of him, and then your likeness to him, not simply something that is uh you know mystical private experience it is becoming like him in your character. That's what verse thirteen is about. He then contrasts that just to sharpen it. He's talking about maturity Verse 14 he says, in contrast with the unstableness of immaturity, that is vulnerable to false teachings, to getting you off the track. to bringing great harm in your life by imbalanced teaching, by improper teaching. All the various cults and all the various aberrations of biblical Christianity that are afield will be looking at that. But you see how he then states this, this immaturity in contrast to the maturity, and then he wraps it up with, well now how do you become mature? So verse 15 speaks about how the word speaking the truth in love is literally in the Greek truthing in love It's a verb, truthing, and it means both to speak and to live, or to hold, or to hang on to. It just means to to do what you do in truth, to be speaking and living according to the truth. That's what he's talking about, to one another in love, in contrast to the immaturity of verse 14. That's the way you grow up, with who involved, then he wraps it up once again, coming back to the who, verse 16, every single one of you. He's saying this isn't something to watch, gang. It's not something to look at what's going on a stage. It's not something for the super saints. In order for the church to function as a healthy church, every single part of it is involved in it. Every single ligament, every single cell of the church is functioning in order to build one another up in love. Do you see how that functions? How Jesus has put it together so that you are involved in the very heart of the action. It's not the action that's going on in the stage or in the meetings or among the staff. We exist as your servants in order to equip you to be involved in the front lines of the action of extending Christ's kingdom. Somebody say amen. You see that? What an exciting thing. Now, let me finish this morning by having you flip over to see just in a brief anticipation of how we view this working out Paul is speaking of the body of Christ. The body is a living organism. It functions in the way that he's just described. Each cell, each ligament, each part. Functioning together by the power of the risen Christ, which God has given to you. You may not feel it. The power of Jesus Christ is in you to minister to your brothers and sisters. The body is made up of systems. The systems are made up of organs. And the organs are made up of what? Cells. Cells are simply the basic unit of growth in the body. So when we talk about cells Sometimes we use the term cell groups. More properly, it would be more accurate biblically to think in terms of simply cells, not cell groups, because the cell is the basic unit of growth. We're not talking about jail cells, we're not talking about communist cells, we're not talking about any other kind of cell. When we use the word cell at Columbia Presbyterian, we're talking about the basic unit of growth. and multiplication in the body in which believers join together to practice this speaking the truth in love to one another to build one another up in growing in Christ. That's all we're talking about. Now in order to give some structure to it, I want to be very clear at this point. I am not saying that the structure of this triangle The particular way that we structure cells is the necessary and only way that you can apply Ephesians chapter four. What I am saying is that if you are working as a leader of a church, you must have a structure. You've got to have some structure. And this is the structure that we are right now using as the Spirit of God is teaching us and helping us to understand how to do it better, how to form a gospel-shaped community in a better way than what we've seen. And what he is teaching us is to form cells, these basic units of growth, that have three characteristics. You see in the triangle here. They are characterized by intimate community. That's verses 2 to 6. Making every effort to preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace, experiencing the oneness of the body, being open to one another so that you can speak the truth in love, experiencing that sense that we belong to one another. The joy of seeing one another and knowing that's a refreshment. I'm with my brothers and sisters now, or I'm intimate in I'm developing the relationships with them intimate community, secondly of gifted ministry, that you realize that you have all the gifts within that cell, within that unit of that small group For the living Christ to meet you in that group and to do his work of ministry in your lives. You don't need a pastor there, you don't need an elder there, you don't need somebody that's got seminary training there. Jesus Christ is meeting in your midst, equipping you with the gifts that He has given as the risen Christ for you to minister to one another. Now we're going to hear a testimony of how God has done that in a few minutes. But you need to see this is what Jesus is doing. And you see the excitement when you realize I'm part of that. I'm not looking at it, I am part of it. That's what we're trying to get at here. To equip you to be able to do that. And then finally, that there is a harvest mentality. When he gave apostles and evangelists who down through the ages shared the gospel with a person who shared it with a person, who shared it with a person, who finally shared it with a person who shared it with you. His intention was not that those 2,000 years were just to bring you to the Lord Jesus, and that's all it was. It stopped right there. Finally it got to you. He's completed his purpose That's it. No more needed. No. There's another generation or more or whoever until the Lord comes for you to continue that. God is continuing to call people to Himself. Do you realize that in the last Discoverist class we had over here in the library, we had three professions of faith within the class. Now God is continuing to work. And so this is what the Lord is calling us to be part of. I finish with three questions. First of all, is this purpose Of becoming like and knowing the Lord Jesus. Your purpose in life. Is that your overarching purpose? Are you lined up With God's purpose in your life. If you are not, none of the rest of this is going to make any sense. It's going to be irrelevant to you. Why do I want to get involved in the community and take all the time and the energy to meet with sinners and do all this? If my purpose isn't to become like and love and know the Lord Jesus more. You gotta ask yourself that. Is that what you do you understand the saving grace of Christ by which you who were dead in sins Have become alive in him, that you are seated with him, that you will spend eternity with him, and therefore he is reshaping you right now to become more like him. Is everything else in your life subservient to that? If not, none of the rest is going to make sense, and your whole life is off track. I challenge you. To face the claims of Jesus Christ and to bring your life in line with the purposes that He intends for you. Secondly, are you in line with the process that He's established? When you hear this, do you say, that's, I see that and how I fit into that? That excites me. It scares me. It scares me sometimes. To try to be that open, that vulnerable with other sinners, to invest that kind of time. But when you see that process, are you willing to say, I open myself up to God's process to use me To find out, to discover my gifts, to learn what it means to speak and to receive the truth and love from other people, to help me to grow, to become more like Jesus. And finally, the last question is: do you have persons specifically that you're engaged and committed to to accomplish that? Are there particular people that you can name? These are the people that I know and love and am committed to. I am committed to forming the image of Christ in this other guy, in this other woman. I am committed to them, and they are committed to me. And by God's grace, we're going to see Him form a gospel-shaped community in our midst to discover more of what that means and let the power of Christ be demonstrated in us. Let's pray. Lord, uh it's just been a lot of information Not a lot of illustrations and things to hang on to, but Lord, I pray that your word will come to us in power this morning. We might see the big picture and open up the horizons of our small thinking. I pray for each of us that we would give our lives to something that is worth giving it to. Deliver us from our small ambitions, our petty goals. Open us up to that which is upon your heart. And we might see your purposes becoming like Jesus. And to see you fulfilling in us, and that intimate community, and that expression of gifted ministry, that fulfillment of the great commission that you intend in your people. Lord, make us available to you in Jesus' name. Amen.