Question What has roots? But grows by being built and shows that it's healthy by overflowing? The answer? A Christian. As you see in Colossians chapter. 2 verse 6 and 7. Colossians chapter 2, verse 6 and 7. This is God's word that I'm reading now. Tells us, so then, just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live in him, would it And build up in him, strengthened in the faith as you were taught, and overflowing with thankfulness. The Christian there is described in verse seven through four participles. Do you remember what a participle is? Those of you who review back in your English classes now will remember that a participle is a verb used as an adjective. I won't ask how many have gotten that, but that's what it is. I had to look it up myself. Quite as simple as a verb used as an adjective. Well there are four verbs used as an adjective, as used as adjectives to describe the Christian in this verse. Now why do I want to speak on Colossians 2, 6 and 7 this morning? Is it because the We have two seven discipleship groups, and I figure it's about time we took a look at Colossians two seven and found out what that verse is talking about anyway. Well that might be a reasonable thing to do, and there'd be a lot of merit to that. But it's not the main reason why I want to look at Colossians two six and seventy. The main reason has to do with timing. If you recall that a couple weeks ago, I cautioned you about going into the fall schedule and becoming over busy and not finding your rest in Jesus Christ who invites you to come to him for rest and reflection. freshman. But filling your life with things to look busy, to be busy, and then missing that dress that the Lord intends for us. Last week we took a look at uh trying to get a perspective on our objective as a church for this year and I tried to give some help and seeing uh taking a look and trying to understand what the Holy Spirit is doing with us as a people. I personally find that exciting just to think about that. I don't know about you, but to think that God is a personal God and that He deals with us us as people and as a body of people that he is working with personally so that we can understand that there's an interaction going on there with the Holy Spirit, that he is trying to do something with us. And that if we look at his word, we can try to understand that. And so last week we tried to understand what he might be trying to do with us this year, and concluded based on some things that we considered then, that it may be that the Lord wants us now to enter into a greater experience of understanding his Incomparably great power, particularly as we would seek to proclaim his word prophetically and evangelistically to our community. Now, this morning, then, I want for us to take a look at the opportunities that we as a Church will be providing this year to help you grow as a Christian and to be able to look at a principle in God's Word as we make decisions and choices about what things that we will want to be involved in. See, we're coming to that time when in two weeks there will begin two elective Sunday school classes. Uh one of them will be taught by Dan Iverson on how to profitably study the Bible. I assure you you heard about it before this moment. Uh the second one Is going to be taught by Gordon Calvert. There's some video on God's principles of money management. There's a course on newcomers, you've heard about that. There's the small groups and all of the various kinds of groups, the area fellowship groups. There's the discipleship groups, the task forces, the Bible studies. There's the Lord's Supper that we have once a month. There are the hidden sings and the music ministry times that we'll be having probably once a month this year. There's the picture. That we'll be having. There's all kinds of facets of our congregational life. And we're at a point now where we have to decide what am I going to be involved in. And in the context of the things that I said before, we have to come to some points of decision now. And so I want to remind us from God's word a principle that struck me recently and that pertains to making those choices and how that principle is illustrated in the lives of two men. So let's take a look at Colossians 2, 6 and 7. Consider God's word then And what it has to say for us as we look at the opportunities available. So then, just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live in him, rooted and built up in him, strengthened in the faith that you were taught and. Overflowing with thankfulness. There are two principles here that you see in your bulletin outline. First of all, the only way to live is by grace. And then secondly, the only way to grow is by the means of grace. First of all, then, verse 6: the only way to live is by grace. As you have received Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live in him. I believe there's two sides here to what Paul says. is trying to get at with us. The first side is that whatever secret or key that you hear for living the Christian life must be consistent with the gospel by which you came. To Christ. That's so important that I've written it out, and I want you to understand that. Let me repeat it. Whatever secret or key that you hear for living the Christian life must be consistent with the gospel by which you came to Christ, as you received Christ Jesus as Lord, so continue to live or to walk literally in Him or with Him. See we have such a tendency, don't we, to begin In the gospel in the Christian life by grace, no question. But then as we go on to in subtle ways seek to add to that our own little self-righteousness. Our only ways by which we seek to earn God's acceptance of us. And it's it's couched in all kinds of formatives. We begin with Jesus as Savior, but we go on to the deeper life of total yieldedness, absolute surrender, the second blessing, a crisis experience, emptying of yourself, mortifying the self, dying to self, whatever else it is said to be, something by which we go on and something that we do that will have God lift us up to a closer relationship with him is based on our own efforts. And Paul's saying here, how did you receive Jesus? Do you remember it? It was that time when you realized that God had an absolute standard by which to live. You knew that right was right and wrong was wrong. And as you saw that and you looked at your own life, you despaired of ever living according to the Lord. To a standard. You saw what a standard was, and you saw that you could never live in a way that would be acceptable to God according to the standard He had set forth of absolute perfect righteousness. And as you saw that, you saw that you were a helpful. You saw that you didn't have a hope of pleasing God in what you could do. And then you saw Jesus. You saw Jesus, the God-man, who had come and had lived that perfect life in your place. So you saw him there lifted up on the cross and all All of a sudden, you realized that Jesus was absolutely necessary for you to have any hope of being reconciled to God and forgiven. And so you saw Jesus as necessary in his death and in his resurrection. And when you saw him as necessary, You turned to him in absolute, utter helplessness, and you cast yourself upon him. And then you saw that he was not only necessary, but you saw that he was sufficient. You saw that there not only is a need to have Jesus. In your life, but you didn't need to have anything besides Jesus in order to make you acceptable to God. And you saw that his word was sufficient for all of the righteousness by which you would need to stand before a holy God. And as you saw Jesus, Jesus is necessary and sufficient, you saw that what was offered to you came as you placed your faith in him by grace, a grace by which he worked in you that life that he was given to you. And so you came by grace. You came, having no hope or confidence in anything that you could do, utterly demolished of self-confidence. But then as you walk on with Jesus Christ, you begin to add those little ways by which You say, if I have consistent quiet times, if I do this, if I do that, then God is going to be more pleased, I will become more righteous, and I will become more acceptable, and his love will come upon me in greater measure. Not simply that I'll be more usable. Rather than I'll be more acceptable. And Paul says, no, no, no. As you've received Christ Jesus utterly helplessly, so continue to walk in him. And if this morning you find the You're crippled with guilt that plagues you. You have uh despair as you try to get rid of that guilt, I try to pull before you, Jesus Christ. And I say, Receive Him. Cast your guilt on Him and let Him come and take you. And remove that guilt. guilt because of what he has done, not what you could ever do. But there's another side to what Paul's saying here. As you received Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live in Him also means that that initial receiving of Jesus Christ simply opens the door to a life of growing in Him. you receive Jesus how? Well look at the verse. As you receive Christ Jesus, how? As Lord. So you continue to walk in Him. You see you don't say, Lord Jesus, I've got all this guilt and Lord I've got all these problems. And I've got all these burdens and I come to you to take them. And I want you to deliver me from hell. But now I want to run my life. And Lord, I really appreciate that help you give me when I'm in trouble. But Lord, I know better what makes me happy than you do. And so I I want you to let me manage things. But to receive him as Lord means that you take your hands off the right of ownership, the right to control them. And so as you received him as Lord, capitulating your will to him and saying, Lord Jesus, take So you continue to grow in understanding the implications of what it means to have Jesus in control of your life. But how do you do that? That's where verse 7 comes in. And so he gives four descriptions of how how you grow in working out that coming to Jesus Christ. Notice what those four words, those four participles, those four words used as adjectives that we see there in verse 7. And that brings us to the second principle. A second principle Is that the only way to grow is by the means that God has appointed for that growth. The means of grace in your life. Notice that the first one is in the perfect task, the other three are in the present tense. That's significant. The first one is that you are rooted in him. Verse 7. Rooted. Literally, if you were to try and translate that and capture the tense of the Greek, it would be you are in the present state of having been Once for all rooted in Jesus Christ. You are now in the state of having been rooted in Jesus Christ. It's past, it's done, it's been accomplished. There once was a time when you thought that your life was self-sufficient, that you had life in yourself. And as you came to that point of hopelessness and self-despair that we described a few minutes ago, you came to realize that there was no life apart from Christ. And so you placed your roots down into Jesus Christ that He would be That he, the blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in him. Because he'll be like a tree planted, rooted by the water, that sends out its roots by the stream. It doesn't fear what he comes. comes or drought, its leaves are always green. It has no worries in a year of drought and never fails to bear fruit. Why? Because it's rooted in soil that has nourished and is kept moist by the stream. And your life is rooted once for all planted in Jesus Christ. That's done. And so for those of you in two seven groups, as you think about the term that is used about that we are rooted and grounded in Christ. Just to be more biblically accurate, we shouldn't speak of being rooted. Because the Bible speaks of our having been rooted. What we are being is built. Up and strengthen, but we're not rooted. We're not being rooted. Our life is in Christ. You can no longer change that, that a tree can lift up its roots and decide I'd like to go up to another meadow that looks a little green again. You are rooted. And Jesus is your life and you can never leave it. You are rooted in him. But then there are two things that happen to you now, progressively. You're being built up and you're being strengthened. Those are the next two descriptions. Build up in Christ. Rooted and built up in him. It reminds us of the description in Ephesians chapter 2 that describes the church as a body that is being built together, as we are joined together, growing up as a building whose foundation is on the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone. And we're being built up. How are we built up? Well chapter 4 then goes on to tell us about Jesus who when he rose from the dead gave gifts to men and those gifts that he gave to his people were evangelists, prophets. Uh apostles, pastors, and teachers, in order to what? To equip the saints for the building up of the body. And he then goes on to describe how that's done in verse 16, and he tells us, from the whole body. Joined and held together by every supporting ligament, it grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. In chapter 3 of Colossians, in verse 16, he describes scribes are teaching and admonishing one another to build each other up in the Lord. And so you see, being built up is something that doesn't happen alone. It's not something that's just between you and Jesus. The New Testament constantly uses The word built up as something that we do to one another. It is something that is a body function. We are being built up by one another as each part of the body does its part, being equipped by Jesus Christ that we might serve one another in building each other up. It's a joint effort. It's a cooperative fellowship activity. You can't build yourself up. You are filled up in the body. Then he goes on to the third description, being strengthened. Being strengthened as you were taught. Notice that Strengthened in the faith as you were taught. You're strengthened by teaching. Again, Ephesians 4. 11 spoke of pastors and teachers to equip the saints for the building up of the body. So Jesus has supplied teachers to the body so that the body would be built up and not be tossed about with every wind and wave of doctrine. How sad it is to see a Christian, and I'm sure you've seen him just as I have, a person who just wants to be. Who simply gets carried away by the latest speaker that they've heard or the latest book that they've read. It may totally contradict the one that they heard before, but they have no discernment in that They simply hear one thing and it sounds good and it's refreshing, and they live what I call the vicarious Christian life. Living their Christian experience through the lives of others who talk about their victories and their keys and their secrets, and they simply waffle back and forth. Having no foundation. Not being strengthened in the faith as they were taught because they have their discernment. They're simply getting experiences. And so Paul says here that God's intention for us is that we are strengthened as we grow. We are being established as we grow, as we hear the teaching about Jesus Christ. Not teaching about my experience. But Paul says in Colossians 3, verse 16, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and with all and as you sing Psalms in wisdom. hymns and spiritual songs with gratitude in their hearts to God. And so we teach God's word. And we learn more about Jesus. And that encourages us as we hear what Jesus is like and how he lived and how he treated people and what he did. And we learn about the God of the Old Testament, the God of the Old Covenant, who said, I will be your God and you'll be my people, and I'll take you to a people to be mine. And we see how God faithfully and tenderly led those people, and how God showed his nature in the way that he was. dealt with it. And we're strengthened and we're established as we see what God's like. And then when we have the difficult times, we're not resting on somebody's experience. We're not resting simply on how we feel about the matter. We're strengthened. We'll build up as we were taught God's word and as we hear about what Jesus is like. And we have our confidence in Him, not just whether the last speaker was reliable. And so Paul says that as you grow, as you walk in Jesus, continually as you've received Him, you're to be built up and you are to be strengthened, and that that issues forth in the fourth description of your overflowing with Thanksgiving. See, that's got to be attitude, because I know a lot of Christians who have been in a lot of fellowship and they have been taught the Bible backwards and forwards. They know all kinds of theology, they know how to teach the scripture, they know the scriptures thoroughly, but they're immature as Christians. Why? Because they have never cultivated a thankful heart. Because they're problem-oriented. Rather than trust-oriented. Because they look at life in terms of difficulties rather than in terms of praise. Paul says here that as you walk with Jesus Christ, rooted in him, being built up in strengthened, then he says that issue's forward as you reflect that in consciously, willingly, giving thanks to God and expressing that to one another. To encourage one another in the gratitude and the thanksgiving. that we hear, that you see God's grace in your life, and I see it in mine. You know, I challenged you last week to write me a letter about dreams. And as I challenge you, I'll tell you I got one in. I don't know, there may be some more coming. I'll Remind me again, if you thought you'd like to do that, uh, well, you know, just consciously not a deadline on that. You can still write to me about your dreams of what God's going to do in your life and how we as a body fit into that. But the one thing that struck me about the person who Who wrote was the overflowing Thanksgiving in their dreams. And that really ministered to my heart. Because I saw, yeah, God really is a good God in what He's done. Thanksgiving is contagious, just as criticism. And it's part of our program. Process as a body together in growing up in Jesus Christ. And so, what does that say to you and to me here at September? The beginning of another year as we look at the cycle of our activities at Columbia Presbyterian. First of all, it reminds us, as you see on the back of the bulletin, to cling to Christ as central to your Christian life. seek to go beyond him. Never seek to having established your life in Christ as you received him. Then I want to continue on, adding to that, a better righteousness. I'm convinced as I go on as a Christian that a significant part of sanctification is simply an increase of awareness of my need for justification. An increasing sense of my dependence upon all that Jesus has done for me, outside of me, in order to make me thoroughly and totally acceptable to God. That I know his smile. that I know that he receives me when I come to, because Jesus has died, and it's settled. And I cling to him and I don't go beyond him ever to try and establish a different, a superior kind of righteousness that's more acceptable. It will somehow supplement that. Secondly, it means that we seek to make the most of the opportunities available to us to be built up and strengthened in the faith as we are taught. the scriptures. It means, for instance, when you think about worship, you don't think about morning worship as, well, you know, that's worship. Now then for the advanced degree, you know, for extra credit, they come to the Lord's Supper. You know, that that's the one that, you know, if you got the time and sixty minutes doesn't look too interesting that night, well, you know, then you come to the Lord's Supper once a month because, you know, it's that's festivity But the Lord's Supper is a means of strengthening us as we focus on Christ and we see more concentratedly than any other time in our body life together. What Jesus has done for us. It's at that time we don't receive any more instruction about what we do to live as Christians. We simply focus on what Jesus has done for us. And we are strengthened and built up. Will that be a priority to you as you think about using the opportunities God's giving you for growth this year? But what about fellowship? As I mentioned before, we've got various kinds of small groups. We realize people have different needs or at different levels and stages in their Christian life. Some of the groups, area fellowship groups are highly relationally oriented. That's a commitment to one another to grow as a family, as a body. There are discipleship groups with a bit more structure to help you to become built up and strengthened in the faith as you walk with Jesus Christ at various levels. There are the task forces where people have a particular zeal for a kind of ministry. They want to join with others with that same kind of vision and desire, and they join in a group that they might accomplish that and fellowship together in the process. There are Bible studies. There are various kinds of groups. But let me tell you this again, you will not be built up alone. You are built up that you will make yourself vulnerable to submit yourself to your brothers and sisters and say, I need other Christians to help me. To build me up, to strengthen me, as we look into the scripture together. And we become vulnerable and say, here's my problems and here's the scripture and write me off right there. I don't see how the two of them relate I just can't apply the scripture to this problem and see God's solution until I'm confused. And we work on that together. And we build each other up as we see what God's doing in one person's life. And we see examples in the work of the spirit. And we see God help us as we Struggle together. Then there's the teaching. Strengthen as you were taught. That refers to training, the teaching that we offer as a church. film series this evening, teaching on how a Christian looks at money and material resources. To become strengthened in your faith as you're taught, to choose among the two electives or the newcomers class in two weeks from this Sunday. Maybe you're having some discouragement, difficulty in your quiet time, and you're saying, you know, Frankie, I look at the Bible and I don't get a whole lot out of it as I read it. I used to get something and I just now seem like I'm in a dry period. I need to have somebody that's going to help me to how to know how to get more out of it. of the scripture, so that I look forward to that time each day, rather than as a bird or something I've just got to do. Even worse than that, perhaps, as something superstitious that I better not do, unless God's at me But how can I feed myself profitably to choose to be built up and strengthened in that class? It will be built up and strengthened if you continue to examine the principles of money management according to the scriptures and looking at your heart. Whole life, life management, in terms of being a steward under Jesus Christ. We're taking a look at the various things that we'll be considering as an introduction to Christianity, Presbyterianism, and Columbia Presbyterian in particular, choosing from those things. It's still not closed who will go out with Dan Iverson to get evangelism explosion training An opportunity to be strengthened as you're taught. And if you're interested now, you don't have to just tell me. In order to pass it on to them, you can tell him directly. You're interested in getting that training, that teaching, that experience, to be able to see God use you in that You say, well, these are all good things, but uh you know, I just don't have the sign. It's nice, but I just can't work it into my stick. Recently, I was struck by the example of two men in the way that they illustrate the principle here in Colossians two, six and seven. One of these two men, well both of them have a number of things in common. They're both very intense men, men who are brilliant, very articulate, extremely articulate and forceful writers, and both extremely political. A lot of things in common in those ways. A lot of differences. One of them started out his career entirely within the system. And Charles Paulson rose to the ranks of working directly with Richard Nixon in his administration, as close to power at the very top as you can get. without being president. Eldridge Cleaver on the other hand worked entirely outside of the system. In one of his writings, I've been recently, just this week, I reread his writings, read reread Sol on Ice and Eldridge Cleaver and some of the other things he had written in the 60s, a whole different world than the kind of things you're reading now. One of his writings he curses Rama Grady, who was governor at that time in California, totally alienated from the system, totally outside of the system, just as political as coastal. In the mid-1970s, both these men claimed to receive Jesus Christ almost about the same time. Both of these men claimed to receive Jesus Christ as Lord, and therefore claimed to be rooted in him, and were obliged to continue in him. And as they as they trans how their lives transformed, there was at that point An utter difference. Colson received Christ and went to prison. Cleaver received Christ in prison and then came out of prison. Both of them were showing tremendous potential. Cleaver was an extremely articulate critique of racist America, and I've been again really stunned and impressed with the articulateness. of his writing to feel the hurt of a black person growing up in this country. Both showed tremendous potential. But at that point it was an utter difference. Charles Coulson took advantage humbly of every opportunity that was offered to him to be built up and strengthened in the faith. He met with prayer for prayer with his political arch enemy, Senator Harold Hughes, because he was a Christian and they formed a fellowship together in Jesus Christ. He got involved in Fellowship House in DC and the International And the uh Center for Learning, Doug Coesbrook, and the fellowship network of those who are on Capitol Hill and care and pray for one another. He was nurtured, he was discipled. He began to get involved in all of the conversations. Conferences that were held. He got involved in the local church. He began to read voraciously. He began to read all of the writings of Francis Schaefer. He began to read and listen to tapes by Dr. R. C. Sprohl, who will be available this next weekend. And he says he owes a great debt to those men as they established him and obeyed as he was taught. And the result of that? He produced the book Born Again. He's established the ministry, prison fellowship that's having a major impact on this country. And he has recently written the book Loving God that is a masterpiece of devotional literature showing amazing insight for a man who's Less than ten years older than the Lord. What about Aldred Cleaver? Just shortly after Cleaver had become a Christian, Bill Grant visited him in prison Then God went to him and he said, Eldridge, you're a big thing. And the tendency is going to be for the Christian public to exploit you and to want abuse you before you've gotten established in the faith. Resist it. Stay here, be built up, be strengthened, study, get established in the faith. What happened? Lever got out of jail. He began to go around giving his testimony everywhere. He never got established in any particular group by which he was discipled or read consistently to become firmly rooted. And so he began to get involved with the movies, the Unification Church for a while. And then for another period of time he began to dabble in combining Christianity and Islam. Did you know what he's doing now? And just a few months ago he joined the Mormon Church. Right now he's running for U. S. House of Representatives, an ultra-conservative He makes Ronald Reagan look liberal in his views on communism. He says, Reagan's soft. He says, man, you guys don't know what the communists are going to do. And so now you have Paulson moving outside of the system, beginning to become more prophetic and speaking to it. Sick and you have Eldridge Cleaver totally inside the system. In an interview with some of his friends, he was asked what has happened to Eldridge. This is why I needed that Christianity today article. Quote, those close to Cleaver say that he was probably exploited, but that he's done some exploiting of his own. They maintain high respect for his intelligence and believe his Christian conversion was genuine. But they say he never matured spiritually. Because he rejected opportunities to become grounded in the faith. And you and I don't have the gifts Or perhaps the potential or the articulateness of Charles Colson and Aldridge Cleveland. But there's one thing we have precisely in common with them. God has made you as an image bearer of His, and that means you have choices. And you can choose to take advantage of opportunities that will build you up and strengthen you in the faith as you talk. Or you can choose to say, no, I don't need that stuff I'll just go on my own and I'll get involved with Christians as it's convenient. But I'm not going to submit and become accountable to some group of people to which I'm going to commit myself and let them build me up and strengthen me. Because I recognize that I need them. The choice is yours. But I urge you to think about Colson and Cleveland as you make those choices. And the principles of Colossians 2, 6 and 7. But Jesus Christ, who has rooted you to himself, so wants to demonstrate to you more of what he's like. And show you his faithfulness as he uses his people to build you up, to strengthen you, that you might become over. The both of them still As we consider these two men, Chuck Colson and Eldridge Cleaver Lord, we see a pattern there, a pattern of two attitudes toward the body. Two attitudes toward fellowship, two attitudes toward accountability, two attitudes toward the training that's available to us Lord, we pray for these two men. We pray for Clark Colson that you would continue to build him up and strengthen him. We pray, Father, that you would use his insight, his maturity, and his servant heart in great allegiance toward your people as a mighty one that you have raised up at this time to do your work. Protestant cleaner too, Lord, of the tremendous potential that there is in that man, of the profession of faith that he made in Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that you would lead him out of the Mormon Church, that you would establish him in a group of believers to which he committed himself. That he would become strengthened and built up in the faith, that he might overflow the praise to Jesus Christ. And that you would use those rich gifts in a way that will honor and serve you. We pray for each one of us, Lord. We pray for us that you would give us that attitude, close To seize and to use the opportunities and training and fellowships that are offered. Because we love you and we want to know you better. We want to become more prepared and equipped to serve you. So that as we have received you, Lord Jesus, as our Lord, we might continue to walk. We might serve you that our lives might help for you. We pray for each one as they make these choices. About the various opportunities here, that you would guide and direct them. Give them open and teachable hearts. Give us each willingness, Lord. To be involved in what you want us to be involved in. To say no to what you want us to say no to. To be willing to say yes to those things that you're calling us to. But Jesus Christ will be born to his water. Amen.