Third season, we were considering the Church of Jesus Christ as the royal priesthood. From First Peter chapter two. Verses four and five, we read, As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men but chosen by God and precious to him You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Then 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, verse 9, particularly the verse that we are considering with great care through these weeks. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. If nothing else is accomplished through these weeks, at least John Ban will memorize those verses. Considering this concept now particularly. of the royal priesthood. A very, very rich concept. We've been seeing that under this, first of all, that we are priests. We are priests in the new covenant. Now what does that mean to you? That you are a priest. Well, we talked about how Hebrews chapter 5, verse 1, describes to us the function of a priest. Every high priest is selected from among men and is appointed to represent them in matters related to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. This bringing men nigh to God involves both for us, we saw the first week, the fact that we can worship God directly As priests, we have direct access to God in the new covenant through the way provided through Jesus Christ and his blood. Secondly, we saw that as priests, the second week, we intercede for one another. Not only do we approach God to worship Him, but also to bring one another's needs in prayer, intercessory prayer for one another. Thirdly, we're going to look today at our function as priests in ministering to one another. Not only do we intercede for one another But we minister to one another. Then next week, we'll look at this last part of our being priests in evangelism. You know that the Bible tells us that we offer up the person that we bring to Jesus Christ as a sacrifice to God as priests? Take a look at Romans sixteen fifteen. We'll be taking a look at that next week. Romans fifteen sixteen, excuse me. Romans fifteen sixteen to see how our evangelism is a priestly sacrifice. Well now, uh thus getting ahead of the story, let's get back to the ministry to one another. The scripture that we've been following through that talks about our worship and our intercession and our ministry is from Hebrews chapter 10. So let's take a look at Hebrews chapter 10 now. Beginning with verse 19 through verse 26. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19 through 26. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way opened for us through the curtain, that is his body. Since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience, and having our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold unswervingly to the hope that we profess. For he who promised is faithful. And let us consider how we may spur one another on to love and good deeds. Let us not give up needing together, as some are in the habit of doing. And let us encourage one another, and all the more as you see the day approaching. We saw in verses nineteen To 22 of this passage, there's the reference to our worship as priests, directly in the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. We saw our intercessory ministry of prayer in verses 22 and 23, approaching God, and then interceding on behalf of one another, that we're approaching him, and in comparison with Hebrews chapter four, we saw that the reference there is to prayer. Well then finally today in this passage we're looking at verses 24 and 25, our ministry to one another Now how do verses 24 and 25 tell us that we're to minister to one another as priests? First of all, we need to see these verses in the context of all of Scripture First of all, then the Old Testament background to our ministry as priests, Aaron and his sons. Do you remember we saw a few weeks ago that in Exodus chapter twenty eight there is the description of the garments of the high priest? And part of what he was to wear, symbolically, demonstrating, representing his ministry, was the effid over his shoulders, bearing the people of God on his shoulders And also the breast piece in which he bore the twelve tribes of Israel written on his heart. So that in Exodus chapter twenty-eight, in verse twenty-nine, we read that whenever Aaron enters the holy place He will bear the names of the sons of Israel over his heart on the breast piece of decision as a continuing memorial to the Lord. In Nehemiah, chapter 8 We see that the priests, who in this function, this idea of their ministering, bearing God's people on their hearts, involves their ministering to the people by teaching them God's word. In Nehemiah chapter 8, we read that in that great revival after the exile, it was the priests who ministered to the people by teaching them the law. You read in Nehemiah 8, in verse 8, that the priests read from the Book of the law of God, making it clear, giving the meaning so that all the people could understand what was being read. That was the function of the priests, to give that understanding, to minister to the people. And then we read in Isaiah , chapter 61, the hope that one day all of God's people are going to do that. Isaiah says it's not just the priests who one day are going to have this kind of ministry. But on Isaiah 61 and verse 6 we read, And you will be called priests of the Lord, the whole nation now. And you will be named ministers of our God. And so this is the hope that one day all of God's people are going to be priests and ministers. to the most high God, to one another. The priest, you see, was called as a minister, to serve the people of God. That's why in the parable of the Good Samaritan, the fact that the priest and the Levite walk past this man with no compassion on him It's a particularly ugly example. Jesus is trying to stress there that the priest and the Levite were called to serve people. And they were called to minister to people, and so therefore, it's a particularly ugly scene to see them just going past people and not serving. Priests are servants. Priests are ministers. Now in the New Testament, then, we come to the example of the great high priest, the Lord Jesus. We read in Hebrews chapter two, as you saw at the beginning of the worship this morning, that he was called to be a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God that he might make atonement for the sins of the people And Jesus Christ's first and definitive work for the people of God was that he make a once-for-all sacrifice to bring us to God. Through his life lived perfectly and his death offered perfectly, so that you and I could stand before God, not as guilty sinners. But as those who have been forgiven, based on the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But another part of that ministry is also the fact that as Hebrews says here, that because he himself suffered when he was tempted. He's able to help. Present tense, you see. Now his ministry is in helping those who are tempted. We read in Hebrews chapter 4. Beginning with verse fourteen. Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let's hold firmly to the faith we profess. For we don't have a high priest who's not able to sympathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who is tempted in every way, like we were, and yet, with the exception that he never succumbed, yet he was without sin. So then let us approach the throne of grace, knowing that we'll find help there in time of our need. For every high priest is selected from among men and is appointed to represent them in matters related to God To offer gifts and sacrifices for sin. Now notice what he says after that, verse 2. He's able to deal gently with those who are ignorant and going astray, since he himself is subject to weakness. You see, Jesus was offered as the perfect high priest, not only in his sacrifice for sinners, but in his ministry to sinners. And because of this, he's the pattern for us as the church. And so we come now in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 24 and 25, and Hebrews is telling us Not only in our worship, not only in our intercession, but in this matter of our ministry, we are priests to the Most High God. We function as priests in ministry. Chapter 10, verse 24 and 25 say, let us consider them How we may spur one another on. He's just talked about worship. He's just talked about intercessory prayer. Now it moves into the action toward one another. Let's consider how we can spur one another on To love and to good deeds. Let us not give up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing. But let us encourage one another, all the more as you see the day approaching. Now this very familiar passage you've probably heard again and again used as a proof text for the fact that you ought to be in Sunday morning worship. Now people are always using the saying, how do you know you ought to go to church? Bible ever say anywhere that you should go to church? Can't just be a Christian and having a Bible study somewhere and not have to meet with the people of God. Oh yes Hebrews ten twenty-five tells us, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as matter some is. Well it does speak to that But I'm afraid that's missing a large part of the point of this verse. The context of the verse is ministry. Ministry as priests. Let us notice what this verse is really telling us. He's talking to us here and now about our ministry to one another. And as Patrick Fairbairn said in his work, Pastoral Theology Concerning Our Ministry as Priests, let me quote The service which the New Testament associates with the ministry of the gospel is one that employs itself not with presenting a sacrifice for men. But in persuading them to believe in a sacrifice already offered, and through that promoting in them a work of personal reconciliation with God and growing neatness for his presence and glory. Hence the ministry of the gospel. Is set forth in Scripture, has the revealed word of God in Christ for its great instrument of working, and according as this word is received in faith and brings forth in the lives of men the fruits of holiness, the end of the ministry is accomplished. In such a service there is no doubt a priestly element, since it requires those who would perform it a right not only to deal with men on behalf of God. But also to deal with God on behalf of men, to accomplish all their ministrations of word and doctrine with intercession, the throne of grace. See saying here that Hebrews 10, 23 to 25 is telling us, our prayer for one another must be blended together with our ministry to one another. The two things must always be wedded together. Our ministry to one another and our prayer for one another Now, the actual ministry he breaks down into four parts here in these two verses, and let's look at each one of them. First of all, we're called here to consider one another. Now let me try and presume to correct your translations just a little bit to make them a little clearer. Both the New American Standard and the New International Version The phrase it thou read from the New International Version, something like this, let us consider how we may spur one another on to love and good deeds. The idea is let us consider how we may stimulate one another. Literally, the Greek says, let us consider one another for the purpose of doing something. This idea of considering one another is a thought in itself in that verse. And so I think to understand this idea of ministry, we need for a moment to consider the word consider. What does he mean by considering one another? The word literally means to notice something, to observe it carefully. To look at something reflectively, to contemplate something , to examine something carefully , to study something. One Greek fellow was studying as an academic project, the House of Thales. And the word used to study his house is the same word that we have here in Hebrews 10, 24. To think about something reflectively, to look upon it, to study it, to observe it closely. Same word is used in Hebrews chapter 3, verse 1. Therefore, holy brothers who share in the heavenly calling, fix your thoughts on Jesus. The word there translated, fix your thoughts on, is the same word we have in 1024, consider. Fix your thoughts on Jesus. Contemplate him. Know him. Study him. Consider him. And then that link you see a few chapters later with, now consider one another. Fix your thoughts on one another. Study one another. Consider one another reflectively. You and I are here called to know one another thoroughly. It's a bit scary, isn't it? God tells us that we're to know one another thoroughly. That involves four things, at least, that I see here First of all, it's simply saying we've got to get acquainted. We must know one another. That means that when we talk with one another, We need to get beyond asking simply whether the kids are sick or whether they're well this week. Where we've gone recently What goodbyes we've gotten in shopping, what sales we've hit or missed, and on and on and on. All of these things are very appropriate topics of conversation But they don't really enable us to get to know one another beyond the superficial. Rather, this is talking about our knowing one another in terms of whether we're having problems with the kids. Not simply whether they're healthy, whether we're having any problems in our marriage, whether we're feeling any particular loneliness Whether there are needs, hopes, fears in our lives, what joys we're experiencing, what things the Lord's been teaching us recently What are the frustrations that we're experiencing in the Christian life? What are we struggling with? This is a call for you and for me to know one another. Consider one another, he says here. Secondly, it says we've got to care for one another. You can't really know a person unless you care for them I'm not going to open myself up to you unless I believe that you care for me, unless you want to hear, unless you pay attention to me, unless I know that you're not going to use it for gossip, but rather you're going to try and use it for my good. You and I, if we're going to know one another, have got to listen to one another, have got to communicate to one another that we care for one another. And we may need to begin to pray that God would give us that heart of caring. Thirdly, it means that you and I are called by this word to consider one another, to develop purposeful relationships. Do you ever ask yourself, when you look at another Christian, brother or sister in your under -shepherd group or in the congregation, ask yourself about that person, what's God doing in your life? What is God operating in your life on at this point? And how can I cooperate with the Holy Spirit to advance what he's doing? Do you ever ask yourself that question about another person? That's a purposeful relationship. That's considering one another. That's asking the question, how can I know you in a way so that I can cooperate with what God is doing in your life? That's what's meant here by considering one another. And finally, I would say that this word involves being able to construct a spiritual inventory of one another. That means that we could describe a kind of spiritual profile of our strengths and weaknesses, the people that we're close to, the people in our under -shepherd group. I could tell you something about this person 's triumphs in their spiritual life. Something of the things that they're struggling with, the things that they still haven't overcome and that God's working with them on But that's what I mean by a spiritual inventory. Not a critical survey. Not being able to simply tell you what's wrong with them. That's not what I mean. But I mean a balanced profile that comes from lovingly studying that person to see what it is that God is doing in His work in their lives. To tell you something of both the strengths and the weaknesses, the potential as well as the struggles and what God's doing We're to consider one another, then. And that's the force of that phrase in the Greek. Consider one another. But what's the purpose of it? You don't just consider one another so that you have that information. There's a particular purpose. So he goes on to say, for the purpose of Inciting, spurring on, stimulating one another to love and to good works. That's a very unusual usage of this particular word. It's a word that generally means to provoke or to irritate somebody. It's a word that comes from a word used for the sour wine that was offered to Jesus on the cross. It's the same word. Now remember when they gave Jesus that sour mu wine when he was dying on the cross, the purpose of that wine, you see, was to sharpen his senses. To make him more alive, to refresh him, to bring him back. That's the idea that's used. That kind of wine they would often add vinegar to and use as a seasoning in salads. It had a very pungent taste. The effect of it in in that climate was the same kind of effect that we would get today out of a nesty plunge on a hot day, you see, you know It it's that idea of you're really feeling lethargic and you're sort of dragging out and then all of a sudden you're slapped in the face, you know, sort of a uh uh whatever it is, the aftershave that you know clobbers you on the jaw or something. It's this sharpening effect, it's this waking up, the spurring on. Making you alive. And that's the idea of the use of this word in the positive sense. Like being dumped with a glass of iced tea. You see, what it's saying is that you and I are not simply to listen to messages and to say after we've had a good sermon, preacher, that's good stuff, we really need to live that. Good words, uh, God's got something for us, but not to interact with each other on it. But this verse is calling us to an interaction, a practical activity in which we incite Spur on, stimulate one another to the application of God's Word. You see, loving good works is nothing more or less than the application of Scripture. The problem is that when we begin to stimulate and spur on one another to our own personal opinions and value systems of how a family should be run or how we should live life, then becomes provoking. That's irritating. But if in fact we come to a common agreement that we're all submitted to Scripture. And if God defines love and good works, then we become very active and concerned as we consider one another. And I know uniquely in your life what it means for you to apply that passage to love and good works. And I want to stimulate you to do it. I want to be active in your life to bring about that change. That's what that verse is talking about. It's talking about a creative kind of concerned activity that's involved in applying the scripture. It's saying that when we meet in our under -shepherd groups, we don't simply talk about the fact that God wants us to apply what we've talked about that morning and leave it in vague generalities It means that as we're sharing in the group, a particular husband says, You know, you have to pray for our family now because we're going through a really hectic time. It's really very busy and uh got a very hectic schedule of pray for us. And you sort of sense in the way he's saying it that there's something beneath that. It's not just a hectic schedule. And so you gently seek to consider him. You gently seek to find out what it is that's troubling him. You find out that the husband and wife aren't even talking. It's not just a little hectic. It's abominable. We haven't been speaking for ten days. We're just sort of bypassing each other. And the two of us are really at great odds. We're alienated. The whole family's fallen apart. And you begin to find out, well now what what is this, how is this related to your schedule? And the group begins to rally around and they find out, well, this fellow's just got an impossible work schedule. He's on the road too much, or he's doing this or that. It's just something that's not right. Well you don't just say, well, we'll pray for you, brother. But you stimulate, you spur him on to love and to good works. You say, look, uh, what about talking to your boss? How about you uh talk to him and tell him this is an unreasonable thing, it's hurting your family. And so we begin to talk to the fellow and we say, Okay, as a group we're gonna pray this week that you're gonna find that time, you're gonna have that appointment, you're gonna talk to your boss, you're gonna say this is either gotta stop or I'm gonna have to leave the company. I'm gonna take action in my love and my good works. And the wife says, yeah, boy, it's about time somebody laid it to him. You say, no wait a minute. Are you encouraging him? Are you seeking to support him and create a climate in home that's really going to help this situation? And so we seek to stimulate, to spur on the wife for the love and good works, and bring the two of them together and see What's been going on in the relationship? That's the ministry of the saints as priests. That's considering one another so that we might spur one another on to love and good works. Often involves a great deal of creativity. I remember hearing of a fellow once who had a friend, and his friend said, I have trouble witnessing. I just can't seem to get myself into a position to be able to witness. I'm so afraid, I've never done it, and I don't know how to do it. So he went to a friend of his friend John. Fellow who couldn't witness was John. He went to his friend Fred. He said, Fred, have you ever wondered how you could know God personally and be sure that you're going to heaven? And Fred says, Well, you know, I have wondered about that. He says, Well you know, your friend John could tell you. Go ask him. Well then Fred's wondering what's going on here. Why why what does this John have that he understands that I can go and ask him about? And then this friend went back to John and he said, Now John You know, 1 Peter 3. 15 says you ought to be ready for an answer to anyone who asks the hope that's in you. What would you do if somebody asked you tomorrow? How would I get to heaven and know God personally? Well, gee, I don't know what would I say? Well, let's go over that a little bit. And so he goes over and he shares the gospel with him and how he can express that in a way that's clear and coherent. Then he says, Well, that's good. Now you're ready. That's creative ministering, you see, waiting for Fred to come to John, designing some sort of a project to stimulate, to spur one another on, to love and to good works. To be able to be active in one another's lives to that end. The third thing that these verses talk about is then meeting together. Notice what he says. Notice how he says it He says, now let us consider one another, so that we may spur one another on toward love and to good deeds. And let's not give up meeting together. As the matter, as some are in the habit of doing. This idea of meeting together, literally assembling together, joining together, involves certainly the purpose of worship. It involves also, you see, by the very context, primarily, the notion of edification and ministry. So while not ruling out the fact that this is saying that we need to come together in worship of God, the primary thrust of his argument is that we need to come together in ministry and in edification of one another. As Larry Richards says in his book, A New Face for the Church, to learn to trust and to become trustworthy. To learn to love and to become loving, we must become deeply involved in the lives of others, to whom we commit ourselves in Christ. To develop this kind of relationship, we need to share ourselves with others. And they need to share themselves with us. All of this demands time. More than this, it requires a face-to-face relationship, a relationship that we can have with only a few others at a time. And thus the church is forced to move to a small group structure. Why do we have our under-shepherd groups? In order for us to meet together for this purpose To consider one another so that we might stimulate one another to love and to good works. It's a scary thought, isn't it? To think of getting that involved in one another's lives, so that we can actually be involved in knowing where our weaknesses are. Being vulnerable enough so that the other person sees where I need to be stimulated to love and to good works. That you see is I think why he says He places this in the negative. Don't forbear. Don't withdraw yourself from this. Don't give up. meeting together as some are in the habit of doing. You see the problem is not ever getting a group of people together to talk about small group fellowship and begin to meet on. The problem is in continuing to do it. Once we begin to find out the cost of it, once we begin to find out the risk of it, once we begin to find out the vulnerability that is required of us in it The temptation is to give up. The temptation is to move out and to say, I can't hang in with that. Or I don't like that group. Or God, why did you place me in that motley crew of Christians? Lord, this group is just not meeting my needs. They're not ministering to me in any way that's helpful. And so we give up. We back off And the injunction here is don't give up. Don't give up meeting together. Don't give up meeting in those face-to-face relationships. of a few other people so that you can consider one another, so that you can stimulate one another to loving the good works. And then he gives one more point. It must then be added as to why we can begin, why we can continue to meet together. And that's the last point that he gives there, the fourth point Let's not give up meeting together that some are in the habit of doing, but let us encourage one another. Encourage one another. And all the more as you see the day approaching. The word there encouraged is the word paracletos, from which we get our word paraclete, a reference to the Holy Spirit, the comforter. The idea involved in that word is standing alongside of someone. Calling that person as you stand beside them to come along with you. Communicating as caring And not simply stating pietistic platitudes about the problems in their lives. It involves our being aware of where people are hurting It involves our being aware of their discouragements, being sensitive between the fact that this person may have a wrong attitude about something But it makes a big difference whether they're defiant or whether they're discouraged in how we seek to stimulate them to love and to good works. We need to encourage one another We need also to be careful that we balance our provoking, our stimulating one another to love and to good works with our encouraging them and building them up gently, wisely. In the Lord. Both are needed. Verse 24, you need to stimulate. You need that little slap on the face, that little kick in the rear, that little bit of pushing, that urging, that getting the person moving. So that they move out into loving good works. But any balance is that we're saying you need also the gentle encouragement. You need that support, that communication of caring. That balanced understanding of a sensitive calling alongside, standing with that person , declaring the promises of God, his sufficiency, reminding them of his gentleness to them. And putting those two things together so that we grow together in the Lord. You notice that he also says that there's more and more of a need for this as the day approaches. The day, of course, refers to the day of Christ, the day of his return. The consummation of history. And he's saying that as these days come closer and closer to that, the battle heightens. And as the battle heightens, we need to be consciously aware that there's a greater need for encouragement. in the life that we live, in the culture that we live, in the greater heightening of spiritual battle that we see about us. Now, how do we apply this then to our lives? Well, first of all, the very first question that you and I must ask is: are you a priest? Are you a priest? Now this is a this is a call for priests to minister to one another. And unless you're a priest of the Most High God, you're not even involved in what this is talking about. To become a priest, you only become a priest through the great high priest. You're made a priest, you see, by Jesus Christ. As the great high priest opens the way of the temple, you are then made a priest as you come to him, acknowledging that there is no sacrifice that you can offer to pay for your guilt and your sin. But only resting in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for you. As you come to Him and acknowledge your need of Jesus Christ, Acknowledge you need of what he has done in his death and resurrection for you. God then takes you, brings you into his family, and makes you a priest. If you've never settled that question, that's the very first and foremost thing that you need to deal with this morning. The second thing then is if you in fact you are a priest Through the work of Jesus Christ, then do you study lovingly other Christians? You and I have a tendency in our culture toward independence, a tendency to want to live and let live. To maintain privacy in our lives, to not want to be involved in one another's lives that is going to make us vulnerable so that people know our weaknesses But Hebrews is here telling us that that is not the way of the cross. That's not the way of the church of Jesus Christ. Priests, in order to minister to one another as priests, must be vulnerable to one another. And they must be concerned to lovingly study one another. Do you look at other people in your Under-Shepherd group or other Christians that you're in fellowship with? And look at them carefully, concerned, so that you might know how you can help them. How you can help them in their own walk with the Lord in some specific practical one. The disciple-making course that I give periodically. Is a course designed particularly to help you to do that kind of thing. To live purposeful relationships, to know how to construct a spiritual inventory. And how then to be involved with the Holy Spirit of God to advance what he's doing in a person's life. The next time that course comes around. You may want to sign up for that, to get that kind of training, or you may want to be one who would receive the discipling. from a person who's in that course. But at any rate, you need to begin, if you haven't begun, and improve if you've already our practice of considering, lovingly studying one another. To be able to know what God is doing in our lives and how we can advance it. Thirdly, I want to practically urge you to consider being in an under-shepherd group. If you're not in an under-shepherd group, I want to suggest that you think about this, that you pray about it. We need a structure, you see, that's going to help us to consider one another so that we might stimulate one another to love and good works, and so that we might encourage one another In the needs that we have. It's exciting to see what the Lord does in a group of people who take Him seriously in that context. Those in our Under Shepherd groups can share with you on and on about the exciting things that God's begun to do in answers to prayer. And are beginning to see what happens in healed relationships, in our marriages, in our homes and families, as we begin to work together on stimulating and encouraging one another to live out biblical truth in a practical way. Let me tell you that you may come to visit two or three times before you would have to commit yourself to that group. So if you come and you say that you would like to see about the Under Shepherd Group program, you're not having to commit yourself to that this week. But why not investigate it? Consider it. What structure is there in your life that helps you to consider and to spur one another on? To encourage one another to love and to good works. If you're interested in that, see me about it afterwards. Fourthly, by way of application I would urge upon you the question that you see there in the bulletin. As you come to an Under-Shepherd group, for those of you who are in an Under-Shepherd group , Make sure that you're asking the right question when you come. The question that we tend to ask ourselves is: how's this group going to help me? Is this meeting worth going to? Am I going to be helped by it? Am I going to be blessed by it? And I suggest to you, on the basis of these two verses, that that is not the biblical question to ask. The primary question to ask is: how can I minister to the other people in this group? How can I consider them? How can I spur them on to loving good works? How can I encourage them? And as you ask that question, and trust that God will provide for your needs. I'd like to challenge you to trust God to see if He will provide for yours sufficiently. I've never seen a person who wouldn't take that approach. Not what can I get from the group, but what can I give to the group. Who didn't find that all of their needs were met by God through that group. Fifthly, in application. Notice what's in the bullets in there There is no clergy-laity distinction in our priesthood. There is nothing in the New Testament that makes any distinction Between those who are ordained and those who are not ordained in the function of priesthood. We all minister to one another. Every one of you. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you are equipped by the Holy Spirit to minister to other believers in Jesus Christ. You say, not me. When they went by and the Lord passed out the gifts, I don't know what he did, but he didn't make any apparent to me. I don't see anything that I have to offer to other Christians. You're wrong. We do have things to offer. Corinthians tells us that when there's a person who thinks the body thinks that they have nothing to offer They're a person that God wants to surprise the body with in seeing that they have in fact more to offer than many others who are much more obviously gifted. God wants to use you in ministering to other believers in this church. But notice it goes on, do not wait. For the minister, for the elder, the under-shepherd group leader, see the Uggs. The Uggs are the under-shepherd group leader. Might uh wish we had a better acronym, but we're stuck with that. The the Under Shepherd Group leader. You know, don't wait for that person to meet the need that you see How many times I have talked to people in my office who have obvious needs, an area of great insensitivity to another person. And other people talk about it, they see it, they're appalled by it. But I talk to them. When I talk to them, they may say, very often I'll hear something like, nobody else ever told me that. I was never aware that that problem was so obvious or so deep or so obnoxious As we talk about it, then I'm surprised, and why didn't anybody ever tell you this? People tell me about it, when to tell you about it And very often you talk to the people and they'll say, Well, I didn't think I would do it right. I didn't think that uh I would be able to handle it right. I don't have enough experience to know how to deal with problems like that We know I've got news for you. Take a look at Romans 15, 14. Not right now. Take a look at it when you get home. Romans 15, 14. Paul says to you that you are full of goodness and the ability to admonish and counsel one another. You'll miss out on a terrific ministry that God has for you if you wait for the leaders to minister in a need that you see. You're a priest of Jesus Christ if you belong to Him. God wants to use you to consider one another. He wants to use you to spur another Christian on. to loving good works. He wants to use you to encourage another Christian who needs it. But you only have that opportunity if you begin to meet the needs that you see and not wait for someone else to do it. And not cop out by saying, I'm not experienced. Pray that God will give you that opportunity. Make the opportunity and pray for the grace for God to enable you to meet the needs that you see. Then finally the sixth thing. We need to research and to balance the correction that we do with lots of encouragement. Encouragement is absolutely necessary for an effective ministry. Absolutely necessary. I see this more and more in my own ministry. The need to balance my correction with my with giving encouragement to the person who's struggling with sin. You see, the whole difference between whether you are perceived as simply butting into another person's life and whether they accept your suggestions, difficult as they may be Generally will depend on whether they feel cared for. Other things, talking about accepting a general openness to the Holy Spirit With all the rest of the defensiveness that goes with hearing things that we don't like to hear, whether in fact ultimately the thing is received or not often depends on whether I feel cared for by that other person And feeling cared for will depend on whether you have listened to me and whether you encourage me. You and I, if we're going to be involved in this risky but exciting ministry of spurring one another on, inciting one another to loving good works. Have got to balance that with listening and with encouraging if we're going to be effective in it. The only way that we're going to get away with a kind of potentially threatening ministry of being involved in each other's lives like this. Is if we balance it with a great deal of sensitive encouragement. Let me finish by encouraging you. I've provoked you, I've stimulated you, hopefully this morning, in some change, in some things that we need to be practicing. Let me finish with encouragement. I can say honestly that whenever I follow up visitors or people who have been involved in the periphery of our congregation, because I'm concerned to either get them more involved or find out where they're at. In practically every case, I will hear from the people who have had contact with you. That is one of the most loving group of people that I've ever met. Those people love, they've loved us, they've cared for us, they've demonstrated that they are friendly to us, they have reached out to us. And they have really communicated something of the love of Christ to us. I can honestly say to you that I have heard that again and again and again about you and this congregation Now, obviously, that's music to my ears when I hear that. Let me encourage you. God is using you in this ministry. It's being noticed. Let's pray for the grace of the Lord as we continue to seek to minister in considering one another, in spurring one another on to loving good works, to encouraging one another. To know that God's blessing rests with His commandment. What He's called us to do here is impossible on our own. But His grace is sufficient to accomplish what He's called us to do. We're going to have an opportunity now before we pray for you to be able to stimulate one another to loving good works, and for you to be able to encourage one another. Perhaps you'd like to read some scripture. Perhaps you'd just like to say a word. Let's keep this in two parts now. First of all, this first section. Let's just have any word, a brief word or scripture that stimulates us to love and good works. Some word that's meaningful to you, some scripture that's meaningful to you. Doesn't have to be some profound statement But just some word of stimulation to love and to good works according to the scripture. Somebody has a scripture on that? Or some word that you'd like to give? Sorry? Until one holds a word, see from their mouth, but only such a word is good for education What is it to meet at the moment? So it might be a great thing with my good place with God by two season. Well bitterness and rapidness and turn glamour standard away from all mountain to be kind to one another and to hire. We 're giving each other just God and decides to also continue. I think one of the ways better places we can put out a surround this and maybe one of the fartest places to be in the world within our own path. Thank you. Well , uh guys.