Scripture text this morning is from the end of the Apostle Paul's letter to the churches in Galatia, Galatians chapter six, beginning at verse eleven. Galatians 6, verse 11. This is the word of God. See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand. Those who desire to make a good showing in the flesh try to compel you to be circumcised simply that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. For those who are circumcised do not even keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh. But may it never be that I should boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creation. And those who will walk by this rule Peace and mercy be upon them and upon the Israel of God From now on let no one cause trouble for me, for I bear on my body the brand marks of Jesus. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for your word. In it you reveal to us what we are to believe concerning you, and what duty you require of us in response. We ask, O Lord, that you would send your Spirit to be with us this hour, that He might illumine our hearts, that He might take this word and plant it deep in them. that we might bear much fruit to your glory and to your honor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One does not have to read too many of the letters in the New Testament by that great missionary apostle, the Apostle Paul. To realize that in that first generation, and by extension in every generation that's followed since then, the church has been at war. More or less, since the very beginning, the gospel has been under attack, both from forces without and also from forces within. What often happens is that those who attack the church, who attack the gospel, will focus their attack on the messengers of King Jesus, taking doctrinal issues and twistling them to be ad hominem against the King's messengers. For the Apostle Paul, the assault that was underway in Galatia Was a very serious matter indeed. And he too was under attack. But the attack upon his person paled in comparison for him to the seriousness of what was taking place with the gospel. In the time we have available to us this morning, we'll look at this text under three points, as you see in the outline in your bulletin. Number one, the fundamental duty of the church in sending missionaries is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Second, by virtue of their union with Christ, those who do faithfully preach the gospel can expect to suffer unjustly At the hands of the powers of this world. And three, in the preaching of the gospel, we come to see most clearly that our only boast Is in the glorious cross of Jesus Christ. Again, our duty is to preach the gospel. If we are faithful, we can expect to suffer unjustly. Our only boast is the glorious cross of Christ. Well, our Bibles teach us, our catechisms instruct us that our chief end, our duty, is to glorify God. More particularly, Scripture tells us that Christ gave to his church through the apostles a command to go and to make disciples of all the nations. To baptize them and to teach them all that He has commanded. And so as we laboring now, twenty centuries later Still carrying out that command Jesus gave. Our labors are focused upon the gathering and the building up, the perfecting. of Christ's saints. Those precious ones for whom our Savior died. Just like He did For you and me. That brings us to our first point. The fundamental duty of the church in sending missionaries is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That should be a no-brainer for us, but it's important to have the fundamentals squared away. So much is done today under the label of mission. But let's remember again what it is our fundamental duty as the Church of Jesus Christ is, and that is to preach the gospel. Many years ago now I was with Tony Kurto in Uganda. And we were out in the villages. There was one particular place we were concentrating on that week. We go back there night after night Preaching as those crowds gr grew in size that they might hear the gospel. Typically would go to a spot where you could gather a crowd of people, several hundred strong, offer just a garbage dump. AIDS is very strong there and people with AIDS, they call it the wasting disease. They will not come out of their houses because they're social outcasts. As long as you can distinguish features, they'll stay inside. But when it gets dark enough to where you can no longer see faces, They will come out. And so if they are to hear the gospel, somebody's got to climb a tree and hang the loudspeakers. Somebody else has to fire up the generator to power this. But pretty much The program is the same. Around 4 o'clock we start preaching, and yes, there's singing, and yes, there's times of prayer. But the emphasis is on the preaching of the gospel. And that will carry on till about six thirty. The sun goes straight up and straight down. Uganda's on the equator. There isn't much of a twilight And then when the preaching is done, because you can no longer see the words on the printed page of the Bible, the preacher closes with prayer. That's it. There is no altar call. There's no high-pressure sales techniques to try to get people to raise their hand saying, Hey, I made a decision today for Jesus that he can write me Hundreds raised made a decision for Jesus, and I can write you a letter that says send more money. It wasn't even a video Instead, the preacher and the elders circulate among the crowd, and it's a thick crowd, several hundred people. And it's dark enough now to where the people with the A's have come out of their houses. And you're kind of working your way through the crowd, barely able to see the forms of people. As you're walking through, somebody grabs your arm. They tug it and they say, What must I do to be saved? And I have to confess in my own unbelief, the first time I heard that, I what ran through my mind I was, do people ever really say that anymore? I know that's what they said in the Bible But this one didn't let go. What must I do to be saved? You turn and you share the gospel with them again, very simply. You have just heard of about forgiveness for sins in Jesus Christ, and you need to repent of your sins and flee in faith through Jesus Christ, believing that He is willing and able to save you from those sins. But you don't stop there. See, we're out there working with the church, and we say, you know, brother or sister, you have just heard the most wonderful thing in the whole world. It may well be that God is drawing you to Himself, but saving faith is based upon knowledge, and you need to go and to see the elders of the church and come and sit under preaching. that you might grow in your knowledge and come to understand the basis of your salvation. That you might be protected from all of the false doctrine that is running rampant across the land. That you might receive that sign that marks you as belonging to Jesus Christ and be baptized. And maybe back in those days, 70, 75 people would go see the elders that week. And a regular preaching point would be established with a view to establishing a congregation there as God prospers. the work. Our larger catechism, a largely forgotten document in our church today, is a missionary document. Question number 155. You might write that down on your bullets and look at it later today. Larger Catechism, question 155. How does the Spirit make the Word of God effectual unto salvation? And the answer is the Spirit makes the reading, but especially the preaching, an effectual means of and then it lists a bunch of stuff But there is a word in there if you heard it, you say, I think I know what that means, but it's not a word we use anymore. You got it? It was effectual It sounds like effective, and that's the gist of it, but in the context, remember it's the Holy Spirit who does it. And so it has an idea that it carries with it the power to make it effective. The Spirit uses the pre the reading of the Word, but especially the preaching, as an effectual means of, and then the larger catechism lists a bunch of stuff, and that stuff is the missionary enterprise. In fact, it's what you all do here as well. Here they are: an effectual means of enlightening, convincing, and humbling sinners. You hear the gospel. You are convicted of your sin. You are broken. Your pride is shattered. You are humbled. You fall in your face in the dust. before the Almighty God, a broken man or woman, of drawing, driving them out of themselves and drawing them unto Christ. In repentance, we flee from our sin, we turn away from it, but we don't stop there. Oh, how miserable we would be if we stopped there. Instead, God uses the preaching of the Word to draw us to Christ, of conforming them to His image, of subduing them to His will. of strengthening them against temptation and corruption, as we are remade in the image of Christ, that new creation that our text talks about. Of building them up in a grace and establishing their hearts in holiness and comfort through faith unto salvation. This is what the Holy Spirit does with the faithful preaching of the Word of God Every Sunday morning when you come here to worship God and your pastor faithfully opens the Word of God, that is how God is using it. For some of you, it's different parts Some of you are being convicted and humbled. Others, you are being driven out of yourselves and drawn to Christ. Others are being conformed and subdued, and so forth. That's why you invite your friends to come to sit under the preaching of the word. Because Preaching is one of the means of grace that Christ has appointed in his word for the building of his church. For drawing men and women to himself. And one of the beauties of the Reformed faith is we believe God's word. And God in his word says, I will use the preaching. And that it will be effectual unto salvation. And so that we have the freedom. We do not need the gimmicks We do not need to be slick. We need to be faithful in everything, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And so the missionary preacher becomes a messenger, a messenger of King Jesus. He comes to a land to call the whole land to repentance and to faith in Jesus Christ. Knowing that in each land Christ has a people for himself. Turn over with me, please, to Romans chapter 10, verse 13. For there we see an application made to us today, the Church of Jesus Christ today, based upon a promise in the Old Testament. Romans chapter 10, beginning at verse 13. The promise comes from the prophet Joel. And the promise we read in verse 13 is for whoever will call upon the name of the Lord. Will be saved. Usually, when you've got a promise, you also have a corresponding duty or application in view of that promise And in this text, in Romans, the apostle missionary apostle Paul will develop that for us with a series of four rhetorical questions. Question number one. How can they call upon him in whom they have not believed? You see, the calling that's in view in the promise is not just throwing out the name of God. But it's a calling based upon faith, believing that he is both able to save And that means that his sacrifice on the cross was entirely sufficient, and that he is willing to save. That is his desire. So it's a calling based upon a faith that God is willing and able to save. Second question. And how then shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? See The faith, the belief is based upon knowledge of God. See, the God of the Bible is not the force of Star Wars. He's not the deity of Thomas Jefferson. The God of the Bible is the God who is God. And if we're going to believe in Him, we have to know Him. And we know him as God reveals himself in his word. Third question then, and how shall they hear without a preacher? If the messenger doesn't come, how will they hear? That they might believe and call and be saved. And now the application to you and me today in the Church of Jesus Christ. And how shall they preach unless they are sent? See, that's what we do. We send preachers to go and preach the King's message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That his sheep, remember his sheep, hear their master's voice, that his sheep might hear their master's voice. Might believe, might call, and be saved. Oh, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of good things. Now, what's the key to the troubles underlying the churches in Galatia? If you look at the beginning of this letter, you'll see, it's very simple. In chapter 1, verse 6, we see messengers have come. Preaching a different gospel. Verse six. I'm amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. And so important is the preaching of the true gospel that the apostle invokes the strongest possible condemnation upon those who would corrupt it. He says, But even though we or an angel from heaven should preach to you A gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. See, notice the issue here. The issue is not the mode, do we preach or not preach? Preaching is assumed. The issue is the content of the preaching. Verse 9. As we've said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you have received, let him be accursed And in this, we begin to see now the battle lines being drawn. The attack is on the gospel. And the evil one will take and focus that attack then on the messenger of the king But don't forget our first point, the fundamental duty of the church in sending missionaries is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Secondly, by virtue of our union with Christ, those who do faithfully preach the gospel can expect to suffer unjustly, it isn't right, at the hands of the powers of this world. It's not easy to faithfully preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. The King's message itself is offensive to the ears of this world. Now you might say, well now wait a minute. Isn't it about joy? Yes. Love? Yes. Salvation? Yes. Eternal life? Yes. Heaven? Yes. I like all that stuff. You haven't offended me yet. Wherein lies the heart of the offense of the gospel? The heart of the offense of the gospel lies in telling people that you cannot save yourself. There's nothing you can do. There's nothing you can say. There's no good work you can undertake. There's no sacrifice you can make. Not even laying down your own life in a worthy cause that can earn you one drop. Of saving merit when you stand before the great God who you have offended your whole life with by your sin. Not one. The world today likes to say, there are many paths to God. Pick one that fits you. The Word of God says, there are no paths to God that you can take by yourself. See how strange the message of the gospel seems to the world today. The Bible says you're not good enough to be saved. In fact, you don't even deserve to be saved. The Bible tells us what we deserve. And you, made in the image of God, you know exactly what that is. Because of my sin, because of your sin, each and every one of us deserves God's wrath and eternal punishment. But, brothers and sisters, the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ Is whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved Not a single person who has ever lived in the 2,000 years since Jesus Christ, not a single one who has ever called upon the name of the Lord, believing that He is able and willing to save them. has ever been lost. Jesus said, This is the will of my Father that I lose none of all those he has given me But that I raise them up at the last day. None. Not even one. Now it may be this morning that some of you are still holding on to that idea. That vain hope that you might be able to do good something good enough, that on balance God will look at and say, close enough. I plead with you. I beg you. It is foolishness. It is the great lie from the great father of lies. And you are on the road to destruction. That is sure And so I plead with you to give it up. You cannot save yourself. Instead, you have but one hope. One alone. And if that fails, you are lost, but it cannot fail because it's based upon the promise of the God who cannot lie. And that is whoever will call upon the name of the Lord. Will be saved. Give it up. Turn away from whatever you're holding on to, and flee in faith to Jesus Christ. He will not turn you away. And so the missionary preachers you send out, your own pastor in this congregation is not free to shave the sharp edges off with a gospel, to dumb it down and to make it all sorts of politically correct To make it acceptable to the ears of this world, they must preach every conscience-pricking, pride-shattering clause of the Word of God. There may be times when you go to your past or your session expecting an atta boy or an atta girl for something you've done. And they have to tell you, brother or sister, the Word of God calls that sin. You need to repent. That's much easier to give the attaboy or at a girl. But they can't. Because if they're going to be faithful, they have to declare to you the whole counsel of the Word of God. For the false messengers, of course, their hearts never really did belong to the king. The cost of faithfulness is way too steep. And they sold out. Look at verse 12 in our text in chapter 6. If you want to understand the real nature of the battle at play here, here it is. This is the key to the book. Chapter 6, verse 12, those who make a good showing in the flesh try to compel you to be circumcised. Why? simply that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ You see? The cross of Christ means you cannot save yourself. Circumcisions, that's something you do. They are not willing to face the persecution for the cross. And so they will preach something else. Here's something you all can do and be saved. There's the battle. The true messenger of the king, however, is not seduced by the enticements. of an easy life. Earlier in this letter in chapter 2, verse 5, he writes, But we did not yield in subjection to them for even an hour so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you. And it cost him. Verse 17 of our text, Paul says, For I bear on my body the brand marks of Jesus. When I was visiting our congregation in Calisto, Montana, I went out with a pastor on a pastoral visit to the ranch, and they were out branding the cows. Marking them belonging to that rancher. Well you can imagine what the Apostle Paul must have looked like at the end of his life. How many times had he been re beaten, flogged with thirty-nine lashes, stoned and left for dead, shipwrecked, exposed to the elements, beaten by thieves And cetera, et cetera. Can you imagine what he must have looked like? This was before the days of plastic surgery. But you know? He goes, see that one there? That's a brand mark. I belong to Jesus. See this one here? That's a brand mark. I belong to Jesus. See the big one down my back that never heals right? I belong to Jesus. It may be in your lifetime that you too will have to suffer. And you will have your body broken. For the Apostle Paul, that was a brand mark. I belong to Jesus. That was a badge of honor. And so he writes to his young friend Timothy. He says, Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, or of me his prisoner, but join with me in suffering. For the gospel according to the power of God. Suffer hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus, and indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ will be persecuted. Over in Philippi, he writes to believers, he says, For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer. Several years ago now, we sent a couple of Orthodox Presbyterian ministers into the bush in Kenya to do some village work. Five villages a day in each village for two solid months. Preaching the gospel. Very first day we go out there, it's on the edge of the part of Kenya now called Somaliland. At that time the Somali raiders were coming through with the machine guns around it on the Jeeps And when they came, everybody fled into the bush for their lives. We go out to a little village right on the edge. We get there and one of the elders comes up and says, Hi, my name is Japheth. What's your name? And my colleague says, My name is Stephen. And Japheth says, Stephen, well out here we'll call you Stepheny. That's what they do with the names. Great, he says. But Jacob has more than just social niceties, he says. Stepheny, do you know what your name means? And Stepheny pauses for a minute, and Japheth answers his own question. Stepheny, ready to die for Jesus, out of the martyr in Acts chapter 7. And now Japha's application. He goes, Stephanie, are you ready to die for Jesus And Stephen he pauses and then answers, Yes, by the grace of God I believe I am. And Japheth says, Good, then we'll listen to you. You see, we can't send missionaries out, especially to that part of the world, who are not ready to die for Jesus. At any moment, the time may come when they have to make that stand. And if they're not ready, they will run away. Now we're not advocating a reckless disregard of life, some sort of suicidal martyr complex. But are you ready to die for Jesus? One of the great Presbyterian missionaries of the 1800s, I can't no longer say the last century, the 1800s, was a young man by the name of John Payton. A Scotsman. And he was a man full of promise. He had recently been installed as pastor of one of the large churches in Scotland. And it was one of those things where, you know, he's a man that everybody says, I look forward to sitting under his preaching for decades to come. And one day a friend came to him and told him about the plight of cannibals. Living on an island in the South Pacific, dying without the gospel. And as the young man wrestled with that, more and more he became convinced. That someone needed to go and preach the gospel to them, that he would go and preach the gospel Well you can imagine how that was received in his congregation. Imagine your young pastor comes in and says, I've decided to go off to the South Pacific to preach the gospel to the cannibals. After the service, one of the older men in the congregation buttonholed them. And just that's frustration. He goes, the cannibals, the cannibals, you're going to be eaten by cannibals. To which the young missionary-to-be preacher says, Mr. So-and-so, I perceive you are advanced in years now. And your own prospect is soon to be laid in the grave, there to be eaten by worms. Great pastoral skills. I confess to you that if I can but live and die serving the Lord Jesus Christ, it will make no difference to me whatsoever, whether I am eaten by cannibals or by worms. For I know that in the great day of the resurrection, my body will arise as fair as yours in the likeness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our own missionary Bruce Hunt, one of our first missionaries after the OPC came into being, was imprisoned for preaching the gospel in Manchuria. And one of the things that his captors tried to do in addition to the physical torture that they applied to him was also the psychological. They would take the Christian prisoners and try to humiliate them publicly. They would parade them through the streets. Back in those days, a garbage basket really was a garbage basket. They still have them in the countryside in Korea. You can smell them a block away. Foul, foul things. And they would take these baskets and turn them upside down and jam them over the heads of the prisoners And dress them in convict uniforms and parade them barefoot through the streets to humiliate them. When the Christian believers in the town, the ones who were left who were not in prison yet, learned that today was to be a day of humiliation. They would line up alongside the route. And as the Christian prisoners were marched by, even though the police are standing there with their weapons, Just as the Christian believers came by under their breath, they would mutter, Good Gaji, to the end, to the end. To the end, that they might be faithful to the end. You see, Bruce Hunt had found great comfort in the words of Matthew 10, 22, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But he that endureth to the end shall be saved. To the end Early in Acts. The apostles are commanded to come before the council. They're directed not to preach anymore. They go out, they keep preaching, they're brought back in, they're flogged. Because they kept preaching, and were told they went on their way from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. See, God's people really do hear the voice of their Savior in the preacher of the true gospel. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me Further in this letter to the Galatians, the Apostle Paul writes, But you know that it was because of a bodily illness that I preached the gospel to you the first time, and that which was a trial to you in my bodily condition you did not despise or loathe. But you received me as an angel of God as Christ Himself Inscribed on the tombstone of Miss Annis Trickwerther, one of your missionaries who was martyred in nineteen seventy-four in Ginda, Eritrea, are the words from Revelation 210 Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life. What about you? Are you ready to die for Jesus? If you look at your heart this morning, If you're not, as you're honest with yourself, you need to ask yourself, what is it that I'm holding on to so tightly That I won't give it up for Jesus. And whatever that something is, you have just found your very own idol in your life. Real freedom comes from actively putting all things into the hands of your Savior who loved you so much That he died on the cross for you. And then in being content with whatever he gives you, because he is good It may be that you have to suffer in this life. It may be that you have to die for Jesus Christ. God is good. And those wounds on your body are the brand marks of Jesus. Our Lord said to his disciples, He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. He who does not take up his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. He who has found his life shall lose it, and he who has lost his life for my sake shall find it. And that brings us then to our final point. In the preaching of the gospel, we come to see most clearly that our only boast is in the glorious cross of Jesus Christ. See, that's where we always end up. We always end up back at the foot of the cross. We can never quite take it in. To the world it's foolishness, but to us we're being saved, it's the power of God. We still cannot grasp how Jesus Christ would humble himself and be obedient to the point of death, even at death on the cross. That we might receive his righteousness, that he would take in his body the punishment for our sin, our rebellion. Our hatred of God. He would take that on his body that we might be clothed with his righteousness. We didn't deserve this. We know that. If any of you think you did, you do not understand the gospel. But at the cross we come to see not only our complete, abject, destitute nature. But we come to see God's perfect love and his perfect justice and his perfect truth, his perfect holiness. See, the one thing that lovers of God want more than anything else The real desire of the heart of one who belongs to Jesus Christ is for God Himself. Not for what He gives us, but the longing of our heart is for God. God is holy. God is clean. You and I, we live our lives wallowing in the mud. Oh my goodness. How many Lord's days do we crawl in to worship God coming out of a week and our whole bodies are filthy with the sins as we examine our hearts and we know it And we said, oh Lord, I am so tired of sin. Yes, I know the penalty is paid in full. But why do I keep sinning? I want to be clean. God, you are clean. The only thing the only one who is clean is God. And more than anything else, that's what we want. And in the cross, we see God's perfect holiness. In the cross, we know that we have been washed clean. We couldn't do that. As long as we think we can do that, foolishness and destruction But how we look to that day when we will be with God and sin will no longer be a part of our lives. How we hate our sin. And so the Apostle Paul, even with all of his credentials in the service of the king. He says in verse 14 of our text, he says, But may it never be that I should boast, except in the cross of Jesus Christ. through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. Brothers and sisters, what is it you glory in? The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, how we love the gospel. How we long for you. And we ask, O Lord, that you would indeed draw us to yourself. Lord, we confess our struggle with sin every day, especially our pride. Lord, we ask that you would break us, and you would keep breaking us, that we might be humble before you. We pray, O Lord, that you would raise up preachers of the gospel to go to the ends of the earth. Beginning here in Colombia and working out from here. We pray, O Lord, that they might be faithful no matter what persecution comes their way. We pray that your Holy Spirit might go with them, that he might cause your word to run, that it might be met by faith. And there another congregation of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ established in vital and living union with him. We confess our sins, O Lord. We pray that as we go from this place, you might, as we use the means which you have appointed for us, That you might continue to subdue us to yourself and conform us to Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen.