If you have your Bibles with you today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 4 This morning I'm going to be reading for us once again verses one through thirteen. And I know that when I sent that to our Our church uh office manager, Melinda, this week she said, that's the same text from last week, Pastor. I said, Yeah, I know. And it's gonna be the same one the week after that, and the week after that, and the week after that We are looking at the temptation of Jesus Christ. We're going to take our time with it. Last week we looked at the first two verses. This week we're going to look at the first temptation. Thus the very, very clever title to this sermon, The First Temptation. Please pray with me before I read for us these verses. Heavenly Father, we ask that you bless this reading of your word to us. Lord, we thank you that in a world that is full of propaganda and spin, We have your word, which is utterly true. It is immovable. It is inspired and inerrant. And Lord, it is a sure foundation. for what we know to be true, for what we believe about life, for how we should conduct ourselves. And we thank you and we praise you for it. We come humbly asking you to help us, because we who are not infallible, we who are not inerrant, we Who are often inspired by the wrong things altogether. We need eyes that see and ears that hear, and you, Lord God, are the one who has made them both. And so help us. And Father, in the preaching that follows the reading of your word, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, we ask that you bless that also. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 4, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness. for forty days, being tempted by the devil, and he ate nothing during those days, and when they were ended he was hungry. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written. Man shall not live by bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, and said to him To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will. If you then will worship me, it will all be yours. And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God Throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. And Jesus answered him, It is said, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, that first temptation is a temptation that, if you stop and think about it carefully, you might wonder. What exactly is happening? You might wonder, as the paragraph at the beginning of the sermon outline suggests. What's so wrong about turning rocks to bread? It was okay for Jesus to turn water into wine. It's a very similar miracle. It was very okay for Jesus, the Son of God, to create food when he multiplied the loaves and the fishes. That was an act of creation. How is turning one loaf of bread into seven loaves of bread really that much different? You know, you might have a lot of questions like that. It's not wrong to eat when you're hungry. It's not wrong to eat at all. In fact, it's not wrong to eat even if you're not very hungry, especially if there's lemon bars on the table. Well when we look at this temptation, I think it's important that we look at the very beginning of it. And the fact that Satan has premised The turning of a stone into bread with it with a doubt if you are the Son of God. The first thing we see about the temptation of Satan and his manifold schemes against the people of God. Is that he is a God who he is a is a is a devil who often likes to indirectly challenge what you know and think. Throughout Scripture, he likes to take a very Socratic method with the people of God. He likes to ask questions. We see that in Genesis chapter 3. Did God really say that you can't eat that tree, the fruit from that tree? And here he's doing the exact same kind of thing. He's saying, if you are, he's casting doubt. Look, Jesus, I was there, I saw it too. You were on the banks of the Jordan River, and the voice of God spoke, You are my son. Well, if you are the Son of God, then surely you can do this. And what was wrong with this? That is the question that has to exercise the child of God who would not be outwitted by Satan because they're unaware of his schemes. What is the scheme that the tempter is about here? The first thing is he wants you to doubt. And please keep in mind the difference between to doubt and to deny. Satan doesn't need you right now to deny the doctrine of the Trinity. He'd be very happy if you simply doubt it. Satan isn't always interested in making you deny his good creation of male and female He's very happy if right now you will simply doubt it. Satan is not interested in you straight up denying. That the Lord God hates divorce. He is simply interested in you beginning to doubt whether that is relevant to you. Do you see Satan's game? There are clear and bold statements in Scripture that punch our culture and even us right in the heart. Satan throughout scripture does not appear to be interested in just right up front putting his cards on the table saying this is exactly wrong. What he's interested in doing is saying something along these lines. It's more nuanced than that. You gotta think a little more. There's everything situational. In this context, maybe X, Y, or Z. You know, he is interested, dear Saint, you who were bought by the blood of Christ. He wants to put a stone in your shoe. A very small pebble that is going to irritate you and make you wonder at the goodness or the veracity of God and his word Did God really say, if you are? And if we are not committed to a high doctrine of the Word of God, What God has said. If we are not committed to holding fast to the fact that what God has said is truth, We have opened up ourselves to so much mischief and trouble and calamity in our lives. If you are the Son of God Did God really say? This temptation to doubt God's word is premised on the lived experience of Jesus of Nazareth. I want you to think about that. We're told only a couple things about Jesus' time in the wilderness. It clearly harks back to that great model established by Moses. Moses who was on Mount Sinai for how long? Forty days. The people of God who prepared to enter into the land of rest across the Jordan after how many years? This is very significant. A mark of preparation. A time of testing. And Jesus is there and he's fasting. And we read that unlike early heresies in the church that still crop up their heads today, that yeah, Jesus was fasting, but he's the Son of God. It didn't really bother them. We read that for forty days, being tempted, he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry. That's the experience of Jesus Christ. And we have a good reason to believe that Jesus was tempted throughout this time. It's not as if Satan waited till the 40 days were over to tempt him. We read here that he was tempted in the wilderness. for forty days being tempted by the devil. And then we read at the end, at the very last part of this passage, verse thirteen, we read that and when the devil had ended every temptation well, every isn't usually something you would say after just three. You know, that would be after he'd ended these three temptations or the several temptations. We get an impression that Satan has been tempting Jesus all along, but here at the very end These are his three big shots. Jesus is done his time of consecration, devotion, testing. And he's hungry. And Satan says, if you are the Son of God, address your hunger. What does he mean by that? And wherein lies the temptation? Sometimes we might think that if I really am loved by God, I wouldn't be so hungry. I wouldn't have this need or this unmet longing. If God really loved me, if I was really the Son of God, I would have a spouse. Therefore, I'm going to turn this rock into bread and I'm going to. Marry someone that I probably shouldn't. Or cohabitate. Or maybe we think, well, I'm a child of God and I'm hungry and I don't have literal food to eat, so I'm going to steal. The prayer of Agar, the last chapter of the book of Proverbs. Two things I ask, O Lord, give me neither poverty nor riches. Don't give me riches that I might forget you, and don't give me poverty that I might dishonor your name by stealing. You know, it's easy for us to think, I have this need. If I were a child of God, I wouldn't have this need. I need to act to resolve it. And the ways we choose to fill our needs that are not a faithful dependence upon God in his time to provide so often backfire so tragically. One of the first proverbs my parents taught me when I was a young boy. There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to Death. And how many times in my fifty-five years of life on this planet? Have I had a need? Thought, Lord, you're not meeting this need, I'm going to meet it myself, and come to regret deeply my impatience with God And how wise it is to be still and wait. There's something else that needs to be said about this. If you go back and look at Deuteronomy, and you don't need to turn there now, but do make a note of it. In Deuteronomy chapter 8 That's where Jesus is going in response to this temptation. He quotes, man does not live by bread alone. That's a reference to the people of God in the wilderness. And it is for them a time of testing, a time of trials. And it is a time that they utterly failed and did not depend upon God and did not rely upon God's word alone. Or primarily. And so they failed that test. And Jesus Christ is portrayed Constantly, in the Gospel of Matthew and in the Gospel of Luke, as the Son of God who is the people of God in himself and does everything correctly. We see that in the Gospel of Matthew, when after Matthew tells us that Joseph and Mary hear that Herod had died, they come back from Egypt and we're told this is to fulfill the word, out of Egypt I called my son. Which is in its original context a reference to the people of Israel. Now it's embodied by Christ. And the people of God fail in the wilderness. Jesus succeeds. And Jesus succeeds in his mission to be the representative people of God, that second Adam, in ways that we don't. And one of the ways he does that It's captured by what we read again and again in the Gospels. I came not to be served, but to serve and give my life as a ransom for many. Jesus Christ never once in his earthly ministry uses his gifts, his great powers, the authority of heaven itself. to protect or to preserve or to bless himself. We see this perhaps most clearly in the trial. When he says, I could have called down legions of angels. He could have. And he would have been justified in doing so. But in doing so, he would have served himself. And forfeited his role as the suffering servant. And had Jesus Christ chosen to use his ability to turn those rocks, which incidentally I am told from commentaries, in that area across the Jordan River, were shaped like little loaves of bread at that time, so it would have been enticing even visually. He would have forfeited his right to be the suffering servant and simply become another magician, another wise man. Another mystically endowed prophet. And he refused to do so. The second thing we notice is what makes this clear. This temptation is not simply a temptation to doubt, it's a temptation to be impatient. To be impatient. To say, Lord, I did my 40 days. My 40 days are up. I finished my quiet time. I checked all the boxes. Now, uh where's the buffet table? Well, I'll just make my own, thank you And sometimes we have an idea that if we put in our time here, God is going to answer here as if he's a bellboy. Or the dumb waiter at a fancy old hotel where you just ring the buzzer and all of a sudden, presto, you have what you want. That is not how God operates. And Jesus Christ had to, like every other human being who was engaged in a time of consecration to the Lord and was fasting in a wilderness for 40 days. Well, he after those 40 days had to go and walk home and fix a meal. And Jesus Christ had to do the exact same. He was not invited to exercise a kind of privileged impatience to say that, well, Now uh I I I I checked off the box. Now we're gonna do it my way. We're gonna turn this into uh rye bread, and you know what? I'd kind of like some corned beef and coleslaw on the side. Instead, Jesus patiently endures that hunger for that extra hour or two. Not keeping score against God, thinking I've done my part, now I'm going to do what I want. There's another thing we see here. We don't just see a temptation to doubt or a temptation to be impatient, but a temptation to reverse your priorities. Matthew in chapter 4 gives us the full citation. Luke simply refers to it. It would have been well known at the time. Jesus quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 8, and he says, Man shall not live by bread alone, and I betcha most of you can tell me the second half of that verse, but by Every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. That's how I the translation I remember. I want you to think about what Jesus is saying here. Man does not live by bread alone. Does man live by bread? Yep. Some of you guys are way too good at being Presbyterian. You're dead quiet. Yes, man does need bread. Never doubt it. We do need food to live. Man does not live by bread alone. But now, if you have your uh your Bible, I want to invite you to turn with me back to Deuteronomy chapter 8. I'm gonna turn there myself and I'm gonna deliberately do it. I'm not gonna recite it so you don't think I'm uh messing up a messing up a word. Deuteronomy eight three, this is what we read. Moses writes And God humbled you, and let you hunger, and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know That man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. But man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. What does Jesus understand to be true that Bob Birkus struggles with? You see, I think that the fundamental need that I have is food. Spiritual truth can follow. And sadly, if you go into my office, you know that's true. There is a box of Oreo cookies, and by box of Oreo cookies, I don't mean package. I mean box. There's probably 150 Oreo cookies in there, you know, packaged up for you know two at a time, which is the way God designed them to be made, one for each hand. And there's always a Diet Coke on the desk. And I feel like unless I'm fueled up properly, I can't do my exegetical work accurately. We are so saturated with having our needs met, it's embarrassing. I'm embarrassed. Jesus Christ understood that no, that hierarchy is flipped Every word of God is life-sustaining, and we don't live by bread alone. The whole point is that spiritual truth Trumps your lived experience. Spiritual truth is more important than my pain or my hunger. Spiritual truth is more important than my fear or my hope. Spiritual truth is more important than my perspective or my aspirations. There is nothing more important for your spirit for your well-being, physical, spiritual, mental, emotional. than the truth of God's word. And we live in a world today, folks, where that is very subtly being chipped away at. How oftentimes do we have people make a statement about what it means to be human, to the basics even of our anatomy, and we're suddenly told things about what science is beginning to discover. As if that somehow is a challenge to the truth that male and female he created us. That's just one area that I would anticipate largely getting agreement on in the Church of Jesus Christ. But we can go right down the list, and we can think of so many places where God has spoken, but But we think that our lived experience, either as an individual or as a 21st century subset of our species in the supposedly civilized West. Have come up with other data that informs our experience, enables us to have the Bible here, but then there's this over here, and who knows? And do you see how that's part of Satan's temptation? Did God really say, if you are the Son of God? And I would plead with you, dear Christian, lean into Christ's response to Satan. I don't live by bread alone. Yes, my experience of hunger or of happiness is very important. But it is not what sets my agenda. It is not the lens through which I interpret my ethical plan. It's not how I make my decisions. Because every single word from the mouth of God gives me life. And that's the life I want. The abundant life Jesus offered. When Jesus prays for his disciples in John chapter 17, we call it the high priestly prayer, and some of you know me well, some of you are getting to know me too well. I love John Calvin. Maybe, maybe it's an idol. But I love Jesus more, but I love John Calvin. John Calvin, the verse he quoted more than any other verse in all of his writing is from John 17, the high priestly prayer. And it has to do with Jesus consecrating himself that we might be sanctified in him. And Jesus says in that prayer, My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them in it. Protect them, guard them by the truth. Your word is truth. That's his prayer. And would you live a life of spiritual victory over the temptation that has lobbed at you from every direction? Every single direction? This world is hardwired and it's softwired and it's in the ether to try to appeal to your felt needs and your experienced wants. It's shocking. I was, I gotta tell you, it's funny. I have one regret. Well, I have a couple regrets from leaving California. One of them was Carrie and I were there for 16 years. We were always planning on going to Hawaii You know, there's only three states in this country I have not set foot in, and one of them is Hawaii. And I was like, oh, well, we're just a hop, skip, and jump. It'll never be easier. Did we ever get to Hawaii? No, we never got to Hawaii. My kids would say, all our friends have been to Hawaii, and we'd say, that's not true. And it actually was true. They'd all been to Hawaii. Not our kids, not the poor preacher's kids, no Hawaii for you. But we never got there. And I've always kind of regretted that. I gotta tell you something funny happened. Wayne and Debbie Koch, where are they right now? They're in Hawaii. And we were talking about we were talking about their trip leaving a we had a session meeting this last Tuesday night. Or maybe it was the one before this last week's been a real blur. And he was telling us about this wonderful family trip he's got. I'm thinking, yeah, that's awesome. And I said, hey, do you want to adopt me? All week long. My cell phone, when I hit the Chrome search button. Tell me about trips to Hawaii. My Facebook telling me about trips to Hawaii. My email, trip planners, have you thought about going to Hawaii? Once this world figures out you have some unmet desire, it is going to go after you. And it is literally programmed to do that That's not any direct design of Satan. That's the direct design of this world that is gonna, it is, this world is absolutely hellbent on figuring out what you want, not what you need. but what you want, and then putting it in front of you as much as it can on every platform available. And that is exactly what Satan does. To breed discontent in the heart of the child of God, to cause impatience to fester, willfulness to blossom, doubt to grow. The only response to that is a good sense of humor and an absolute insistence that in Christ I have all that I need. And in him I have all the truth I desire. I would encourage you, dear Christian, to think carefully about what good things you desperately want in your life. Because bread is a good thing. And there are times when we desperately want a good loaf of rye. I want you to think about how even a good thing, when it is pursued disproportionately to the best things works to your disadvantage and sometimes even your ruin. If you would have a good thing at the expense of better things, or would have a good thing but pursue bad means to get it. If you would have a good thing, but have to engage in a selfish dereliction of duty in order to experience it. If you would have a good thing and have it any other way than waiting for that to come in God's time. That is a temptation that we often don't think about And that's the temptation where Jesus is hit first in these last and great attempts of the tempter to disrupt that plan of redemption. That is our hope. So I would invite you to consider your temptation. If you are hungry and you need bread, cry out to the Lord Yes, pursue good and healthy avenues to have that need met by God. Don't feel the need to go outside of the lines of Scripture and duty and responsibility and holiness to meet a need that you feel, however painfully. But learn, like Christ, how to be hungry for one more day, four more hours. And trust that your Father in heaven loves you and you are his child and you will be fed. I would also encourage you if you doubt your relationship with God. As believers, often we have doubts. When I was in seminary, I discovered a Puritan named Richard Baxter. And Richard Baxter was a chaplain in the parliamentarian forces in the English Civil War of 1638 to 1643. And he saw terrible things, and he saw all manner of theological issues and dilemmas and deformities. He said at the Battle of Nasmee that every dream of perfection that ever imbalanced the human mind is present in the army camp. But he wrote something in a book entitled Dying Thoughts, because Richard Baxter had some chronic ailment where he thought he was dying for the last 40 years of his life and was evidently constantly in great pain. And he wrote about doubts in that book. He said, if you experience doubts, always address them head-on. Never ignore them, lest they win half the victory over you. You know, Satan wants you to doubt. And if you have doubts about your being the daughter of God, the Son of God, by grace through faith, I would encourage you to make a beeline for that corner. Well, you don't have to maybe make it that obvious if you don't want to all of a sudden have people wondering, why is Pastor Bob running for that corner? You can walk carefully, share that with one of your elders, and explore the promise and the offer of the gospel. And let your heart soak in those precious words from John 6 where Jesus says, I will by no means cast away any that come to me. And ask yourself this simple question. Have I come to him? Have I said, Lord Jesus, here I am a sinner, forgive me, be my Lord and Savior? Well then, dear brother and sister in Christ, don't, don't allow the tempter's voice to feed a doubt that has no basis. Only come to Christ and stay there. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your goodness to us. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you who were suffered, suffered when you were tempted, even as we do. Lord, show us how we can know that we live by the words of God, and that's more important than our appetite. Father, your truth is so much more abiding and helpful and blessed and certain than our deepest longings Father, help us to delight in you that we might receive our greatest blessing. You And Father, we commend ourselves to your care on the basis of Christ's merits. Feed us, give us this day our daily bread. And lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. These are our prayers in the name of Christ, our elder brother. our great mediator and intercessor, the Lord of glory himself, Jesus Christ. Together we say,