I thought for a minute Jeff was trying to get out of here in a sermon. Let's jump right to the end here. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter eleven. This morning I will read for us, beginning with verse thirty-three through verse thirty-six. Let's pray. Almighty God, we pray that you would bless this reading of the Bible to us. Lord, it is your word. And we confess it to be the truest, most faithful, most certain source of truth available to us. Lord, we thank you that you are God who has spoken and revealed yourself. And Lord, we pray that you would help us to fix our eyes upon it and upon you. Lord, that we might be enlightened. O Spirit of the Living God, we ask that you would help us to see, help us to hear, help us. Lord, to receive and to believe, and to apply and to grow. Father, we ask your blessing not only on the reading of Scripture, but on the preaching of it. And Lord, in the sermon that follows the reading of the Word, we ask that in as much as it is faithful, that you would bless that to each one of us as well. We ask these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter eleven, beginning with verse thirty-three, the word of God. No one, after lighting a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light. But when it is bad, your body is full of darkness. Therefore, be careful lest the light in you be darkness. If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright as when a lamp with its rays gives you light. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, that is a fascinating passage. If you were to open a Bible commentary, that's a book written by one or sometimes by several Bible scholars and theologians, where they go verse by verse through a book of the Bible, usually a book of the Bible, sometimes a smaller part of a book. But they'll go through that and they'll dissect it for you and explain it to you and give you all sorts of good background on it. And it's different from a sermon. a commentary is, because commentaries tend to be m more like a shotgun blast than a rifle. It's All kinds of crazy ideas coming about everything from language to history to philosophy to other passages of the Bible to all sorts of stuff that isn't necessarily grouped around a theme. Now, if you were to open a commentary and look at these particular verses, it's only four verses, but all of them will say, well, there's three Proverbs and an exhortation. The exhortation is this, therefore be careful, and I'll give you an interesting little, there's a kind of a pun hidden here in the Bible. You could literally translate that see to it. That the light in your body is not darkness. Be careful lest the light in you be darkness. That's the command. And doesn't that sound a little bit esoteric and mystical? Be careful that the light in you is not darkness. And then you back up a little bit more and you think about the different proverbs and you look at the first one and say, no one takes a lamp and puts it under a bushel or puts it in a cellar. And but they put it on a stand so it gives light and most commentaries will say, well that that's talking about Jesus and then your eye is the lamp of your body. And you think, well, what does that mean exactly? The lamp in the verse before was Jesus. Now the lamp is my eye. Okay, moving on. And you get this very disjointed picture of what this passage is really about. Some Bible scholars think that for some reason Luke just put a bunch of proverbs about vision together that Jesus undoubtedly preached at various points. I don't think that's quite right. This passage, like everything that Jesus said in his earthly ministry, makes sense And if we don't understand how it makes sense, that's because we don't understand how it makes sense. It doesn't mean God is not sensible. And I discovered something in preparing for this sermon that got me very, very excited. I started printing up articles off the internet and everything, chasing down footnotes and some of my more academic commentaries. Some of you know I have an eye disease. It's retinitis pigmentosa. I can't see my hands right now. Now I can see them. This eye works, so if you want to hide from me, this is where you want to stand. Stand to my right. I won't see you at all. Vision has been important to me and it's interested me. In the world of Jesus, they thought about vision very differently than we do. Very differently. I want you to think about how you and I conceive a vision. We conceive of light bouncing off of an object. Our eyes pick up the reflected light, and an image is put together by our retinas, receiving the light, transmitting it to our brain, and our brain provides us with a mental picture. Is that close enough to swing for those of you who actually know what this is all about? Pretty simple, that works. Now I want you to think about how they conceived of light I'm going to read to you something from Plato. And this is a notion of light and of vision that was ubiquitous. Kids, that means it was everywhere in the ancient world. Seeing does not involve the passive reception of external impressions or effluences, another word they used. Rather, it is a participatory activity in which the humans interact with the external world by sending light from their eyes outwards. The beam formed by the light-bearing eyes in the sunlight, which coaxes the light out of us, because like attracts light in the ancient world, apprehends an image and brings it back. That's how they thought about life. Now I want to revisit this text with a pre-scientific concept, excuse me. Concept, boy, I'm a mess today. A pre-scientific concept of how vision worked and what light was and what it meant that the eye is the lamp of the body, something which would have meant a lot to Jesus' first audience So you see, they would have understood that your eye is the lamp of your body. Duh. Everybody knows that. The eye is that which sends forth the capacity to capture something and bring it in. Light leaves us. grabs something, brings it back. Kids, if you're in middle school studying science, everything I told you is not actually scientifically accurate. But it was the theory that everyone understood at the time. And Jesus condescended to us to speak to people in language and through analogies that they could understand. That's one of the ways we see the grace of God. As John Calvin said, God baby talks to us that we might know. Your eye is the lamp of your body. So let's start here. Nobody takes a lamp and puts it. In a cellar or under a bushel. That's not talking about Jesus. That's talking about you. That's talking about your eyes, the lamp of your body That talks about your capacity to emit light in the ancient concept and apprehend something and bring it back that it might fill you with light. So let's think now a couple of questions that are very relevant to this text. Let's think about what it is exactly that we're talking about when we think of the purpose of a lamp. When you have a lamp, or when you have eyes that send forth and bring light and create images and enable sight, you don't put it under a bushel Now, kids, a bushel is a basket, a large basket that would utterly contain the light so that no rays of light were able to escape and bring back any images of anything useful. If you have the gift of sight, you are not going to go around with your eyes constantly glued shut. You are not going to go around with your hands over your eyes preventing yourself from seeing what can be seen. Preventing those Beams of light to go forth as effluences and capture images and bring back truth and goodness into your soul. Neither are you going to take that lamp And put it in a cellar. Now, this has been a fascinating sermon to prepare because we have to correct another notion here. That word seller is a word that, believe it or not, you all have heard, crypto Now, they didn't have cryptocurrency back then, obviously, but that word meant, in its first most basic meaning, it meant hidden. That's what it meant. A hidden place, or a place where things would be would be secured from sight. For example. When Jesus tells a parable about treasure hidden in a field, he's using this word, hidden We have a translation here and I love the ESV, but we translate it cellar because in later Greek and in later times it was a word used in the Hellenistic culture for for what we might think of as a basement or a root cellar. However, in Galilee, where Jesus was preaching and teaching, nobody had basements. The houses were dirt-packed floors. The word here would be better translated. Nobody takes a lamp and buries it. Nobody takes it and hides it underground. We get the word crypt out of this word for hidden because that's where you put dead bodies. You buried them. You hid them. You sealed them up so no light could get there. And the things that were hidden were things that were intended to not be seen. You hid treasure in a field so that nobody could find it. You hid a body because it was unclean and should not be seen. And the point Jesus is making here with this first Proverbs is no one after lighting a lamp puts it In a hidden place where things are supposed to be not seen. No one puts it under a bushel so that it can't reveal the things it should help you to see. But they put it on a stand where that light will give light to all. That those who enter may see the light. Now, when Jesus subsequently goes on to say, your eye is the lamp of your body, It's making a statement with deep and real moral implications. The function of your eye, if it is good or if it is healthy, Notice he says if your eye is healthy, the word there is also, it could be translated good, your whole body is full of light. If your eye is effectively going forth and capturing pictures of goodness and wholesome thoughts and godly ideas and images and bringing them back into you, your whole body gets filled with light. If your eye is unhealthy, the word translated here is translated bad. It's also the exact same word that we should translate evil. It's a moral issue. Your whole body will be full of darkness. If you choose to take your vision and look at things that really ought to be hidden, ought to be buried under the ground, ought to be put under a bushel basket. Well then that darkness of the grave, that darkness of a closed-off, smothered, bushel-covered reality, that's going to be your life. Your whole body will be full of darkness. Jesus has just talked about Pharisees and crowds. That saw Jesus do any number of miracles as he traveled from town to town, village to village throughout Galilee. They watched his disciples go out, first the 12 and then the 72, and do the same thing, do countless things in the name of Jesus that brought life, freedom from possession, health, salvation. And they didn't see any of that. Instead focusing on their own doubts and skepticism and resistance to the thought that a messiah might come and not check every box on their wish list. They said, we need a sign. And what did Jesus call them? He called them a bad generation, an unhealthy generation, an evil generation. And that exact same word shows up right here just a couple of verses later When he says, if you have an evil eye, your whole life will be full of darkness. If you refuse To open your eye and look at the good, the true, and the beautiful things and apprehend them and bring them back into your being, where your whole body will be full of life. The alternative is that you will turn a blind eye, that you will put a bushel over your eye, that you will be burying your eye in a grave. And bringing back into your body only the fruits of unbelief and skepticism and resistance to the person and the beauty and the glory of Jesus Christ. The function of your eye is to see things and bring them back to your eternal blessedness, to your safety, to your progress, to your growth. And yet we so often use our vision to behold and to capture and to retrieve things to our inner being that are hideous, horrifying. Dishonoring to God, hurtful to our families, to our marriages, to our kids, to our parents, to our churches, to our nations. Light always overcomes darkness in the world. That is a theme that comes throughout the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation. When God says, let there be light , the darkness had no choice but to disappear. Light has to be constrained or suppressed. It has to be buried or hidden, or it prevails And isn't this what the Bible teaches in Romans chapter 1? Where another passage describing an evil generation talks about all of humanity, including people like me and people like you. That we suppress truth and unrighteousness because the things about God concerning his power and his wisdom are crystal clear to all of us. We can't deny it. We natively know that there is a God, and he is strong, and he is wise. But rather than deal with that one fact and bring that one fact back in through the lamp of our eye and letting it illuminate our entire body, we find the bushel basket. We focus on the grave. We suppress the truth to our eternal loss See, light overcomes darkness, but we as people are able to ignore light. And if we don't have that light of Jesus entering in through the eye, if we don't see Jesus for all he's said and done And focus on him, fixing our eyes on the author and perfective of our faith, as Hebrews puts it, and bringing him back in by faith and letting him transform our whole body, the alternative. Is eternal loss, as Jesus describes it, outer darkness. Putting all of this together I want you to think about how we have a moral choice to make with respect to what we see and how we think about it. There's one of these articles I printed up had a fascinating statement. It was summarizing ancient views of vision. And listen to this The ancient doctrine of extra mission, that's what they call the light coming out of your eye, your eye functioning as a lamp revealing things and taking the images back. and absorbing them into your soul or your life. This extra mission in which light emanating from the eye streams out and grasps an external object and uh brings it back to the eye. These require a moral judgment. One can direct one's attention to some things rather than others, consciously or unconsciously. By deliberately directing one's gaze, one places a given object or scene in the foreground and pushes everything else into the background. Desire and passion are then at the root of visual attention. This is the perspective of the ancients. on the the goal of vision and the way they understood it. That you saw what you wanted to look at And you looked at what you desired. And have you ever thought about that? Have you ever thought about the things that you notice Have a correspondence to the desires that you experience? Think about the subject of faith Jesus has just applied this in a way that refers back to the crowds. They wanted a Messiah that met their needs. That was their kind of king that would resolve the issues that were important to them, get rid of Rome, make us all wealthy. Instead, he came and he freed them from demons and he talked about forgiveness and the need for repentance. Not what they wanted. They were looking for what they desired and ignoring what truly was. They decided not to notice the good and the beautiful and the true, and instead look at what they wished for. And isn't it true that you and I in our relationships notice and see things that have some correspondence with our own brokenness? I'm going to ask you to do something very uncomfortable. So everybody put your feet firmly on the ground in front of you. I'm going to step on all your toes. Every last one of them. Have you ever dared to think that when you are critical or judgmental or upset or angry at your spouse That says as much about what you have chosen to notice as it does what they have done. Now, I'm not saying that your spouse never sins against you. Doesn't need to be confronted lovingly, doesn't need to repent, doesn't need to be forgiven. But how often is it the case that if I have cultivated in my heart an eye that looks at my wife Carrie and imagines some fault, and then that's all I see to prove my theory right? I am at part guilty of having a broken lamp when it comes to considering my wife Isn't it the case with you? Isn't it the case that sometimes we might look at our relationship with our kids or our neighbors? And we have cultivated the ability to see those things that most disturb or bother us And it gets to the point where that's what we notice, that's what we see, and those little offenses and annoyances begin to shape our entire perception of that person. Such that we look past all of the virtues, beginning with the fact that God made them in his own image. And we see them as an annoyance. We evaluate them in terms of their flaws. You see, we have this systemic capacity to constantly look at things and people and opportunities if they're glasses that are half empty and draining fast. And how does that translate into your relationship with Jesus? We see the things that God has chosen to do by grace in the life of other people. And we think, why not me? And we begin to judge God not by what we see that He has done, by But by things that we wish he had done, that for reasons that might be good and beautiful and true, he has either not done for us yet, or will not do on this side of heaven. And our whole attitude towards Jesus becomes stilted and evil because we are not simply seeing who He is and what He's done for us. concrete, objective realities. He was born, he lived without sin. He died, he was raised, he invited us to come to himself. He forgives. Instead, we create our own standards. And we lose out on so much joy and peace. What if instead we chose to put our lamp, our eye, on a stand, so that it illuminated the right things? That it could be a blessing to us and to others. What if we decided that we were going to take our eyes and no longer put them in the books of false teaching or aberrant behavior or wickedness or evil? What if we decided that those things that brought distress and anger and even hatred into our hearts were things that were no longer going to be privileged with our attention? What if we decided that those things that divide us and dishonor Jesus Christ, those secondary, tertiary, quaternary issues that divide Christians everywhere, even here in our country? What if we decided that those are not worthy of so much of our attention? Because the fruit that they yield is not joy or peace or light. The fruit that they yield is division and anger and hatred over doubtful and debatable things. What if we decided that those things that are good and true and noble and excellent and trustworthy and beautiful, that we would think about those things And as we cast our cares upon the Lord, laying with thanksgiving all anxieties before Him, then a peace that passes understanding will begin to inhabit not only our own life. But our families, our churches, our neighborhoods. What if we decided to take responsibility for that which we see? What if we decided that I am responsible for deciding which things I notice and allow to affect me? Dear Saints, I'm not suggesting that we all become Pollyanas and deny the existence of real evil, real hurt, real offense. But I am asking that we see it all clearly under the banner of Christ and the umbrella of his sovereignty. And never forget that our God is good and He is loving. He is strong and He is merciful. He is wise And he cares about you. And if we open our eyes to those truths and see all things using a lamp with that filter on it, Is it not true that then we will be holy bright That such a powerful light as that will enable us to actually live out the life Jesus calls us to and actually bless those who curse us and actually love those who hate us? and actually long for fellowship with those who despise us, whether it's our ideologies or our appearance. We are responsible for what we look at and what it makes us. And are the things that we are looking at making us more like Jesus? Or are they making us more like the Pharisees or the Sadducees? We are responsible. Dear Christian, what are you reading? What are you scrolling through? What movies are you watching? What music do you listen to? What jokes do you laugh at? All of that falls under the authority of this command that Jesus offers. Be careful lest the light in you be darkness. Be careful lest the most important things to you be things that have nothing to do with the light that came into the world. The one who said he is the light of the world. The one who calls you to be a child of the light and walk in him. The one who then says, just as the moon reflects the light of the sun, you, we together are the light of the world. And that is only as true as we are careful lest the light in us be darkness. You see, that idea of the light in you being darkness, that also would have made great sense in the ancient world. If your eye was so evil that there was darkness within you, it's not light that came out of your eye, it's darkness. And it laid hold of yet more darkness. And it brought even more darkness in, and rendered you morally, ethically, spiritually, utterly lost. What will we do? Will we acknowledge that none of us are wholly bright and that we need to see more of Jesus and see the world He did, that we can love all and serve all? Do we and will we take responsibility for the things we look at and see? Will we take responsibility and take seriously the fact? Kids, let me if sp specifically address you middle school and high school kids? Do you realize that the things that you look at that your friends want to show you on Twitter or TikTok or Snapchat or whatever the other ones are that I can't even keep up with them? That those things are affecting you, that they are bringing images and ideas and values and thoughts into your very soul. Will you take that seriously and make decisions about what you will see? Because sometimes what we look at is literally taking our lamp of our eye. and burying it in a nasty worm-filled corpse-laden grave. Stop doing that What do you need to start focusing on? I want to encourage you in your small groups to give some thought to Philippians chapter 4. Finally, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. Look at those things. See those things. Begin to focus on those things about your spouse or your kids or your siblings or the people sitting in the row of chairs with you. Think about the excellent, praiseworthy, good, and beautiful things about them. And all of a sudden, the weaknesses that they experience common to us all will take on a proportion that is utterly manageable. But not when that's all you're looking at. And will you look to Jesus this morning Ultimately is an evil generation that will not, that refuses to see who Jesus is and what he does. And refuses following that to see the kinds of things he calls us to look at and to apprehend and to spiritually ingest. Will we look to Jesus this morning? Will the light in us be bright? Please join me in looking to Him. Let us pray. Almighty God, we look to you this morning. Lord Jesus, we would see you. Lord, help us to put the lamp of our body, our eyes, in places where we can see Jesus. Where we can see him and hear him being taught about, Lord, where we can see him being imitated and lived out. By the Christians around us. Lord, help us to surround us with company that is a blessing to us, not bad company that corrupts. Lord, help us in every way to have a keen mind For how we can focus on those things that will not only be a blessing to us and honoring to you, but will enable us to truly bless others. Lord, forgive us for our complaining, our arguing, our bitterness, our criticism. Lord, help us. Lord, help us to be like Jesus, beholding him, embracing him, imitating him. Help us to see him. Lord bless us, we ask in Christ's name. Amen.