Have you ever walked through the National Arboretum when all the Azaleas are in full bloom? or get a walk through Greaton Regional Park, when the roses are at their peak, or maybe through Longwood Gardens, when the Easter display is at its apex. Perhaps if you've ever done this, you've been like me, you're you're overwhelmed by the intensity uh of of the beauty that is also closely assemblable. So it overwhelms you so much that you just ate to see that all. And then perhaps in the midst of that, you see one small flower right in the middle. We have a picture of minutes of perception. And yet we almost miss it because of the surroundings that so overwhelming That's what Romans 3. 24 means. The picture of most of the function in one phrase And that verse, first founding its implications, but he's having focus on it much more, except for the fact that it's lost in the vast array of Romans chapter 3. So I find that many Christians avoid Romans 3. Maybe they avoid Romans altogether. But particularly chapter 3, because you see the argument is so closely mixed The language is so practical, each word, each frame, so heavily weighted, that it becomes exhaustive to decline just work Every phrase needs to be weighed and considered and so like long with guards of the Easter display or national algorithm or Google Regional You launch for something that's more tranquil. You just can't take that much between all the time. Because what I want to do this morning is why I want to go through all Romans 3, I want to just focus on one page Focus our attention on one phrase in Romans 3. 24. Let's see that verse that I'm talking about here now. Romans 3. 24 says So we are justified freely by his grace, through the legal, the came, by Christ Jesus. Once raised What I want to focus on is that is justified freedom by his grace. Now let's put that in context And so take a look at the scripture, Romans chapter 3, beginning with verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every master may be silent. And the whole world held accountable to God. Therefore, no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law, rather through the law we become conscious of sin But now a righteousness from God apart from law has been made known, to which the Mah and the Prophets testified This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ, to all who believe. There's no difference for all of sin and fall short of the glory of God, and it's justified freely by his grace Neither was them from attained by Christ Jesus. God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith from his blood He did this to demonstrate his justice because in his subal he had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished. He did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time For to be just and the one who justifies the man who has faith in Jesus. Well then it's both them It is excluded. And what principal? On that is observing the law? No. But on that except For we maintain a man who justified by faith apart from observing the law. Is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles too? Blessed Gentiles too, since there is only one God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through that same faith. Did he then nullify the law by this faith? Not at all. Rather, we uphold the law. And again, that faith we're going to focus on in the midst of all those riches. We are justified only by his grace. justified freely by its faith. Putting a splendid link between the series that we have been pursuing on forgiveness and the one that's going to begin two weeks from today on the church. The Cape will be speaking next week. I want to divide this verse into three parts. Three parts that are the three main thoughts in the verse. First of all, justified Then that beautiful praise brings by his grace, and then allows praise through the redemption through Christ. The redemption is thrown by Christ. First of all then, we are justified. Do you remember the study that we did last April on this doctrine of justification? Remember those of you who were here at that time how we looked at the nature of justification. Remember at that time we considered how the nature of justification is that it's a legal term. It's a term from the courtroom. And it means an objective legal verdict. It is a word that does not refer to changing someone or making them anything different It is not a subjective change to you, but rather it is simply the judgment of God with respect to you. I can't emphasize that too much The justification does not deal with or refer to any change that takes place in you, but rather with respect to the judgment of God concerning you, with respect to you. It's how God regards you, the justification refers to. And how God regards you depends upon sin So the relationship to God in the scripture is presented primarily in legal terms. And considered one of them in funders for this morning, the term witness There are many other terms that we have talked about, debts and other terms that refer to our relationship with the Lord. This is one of the key terms to justify, a legal term to acquit someone. Now the meaning of the term then is to declare someone to be righteous. To justify someone is to declare them righteous. Remember we said last April that it is the same word as the word righteous. And therefore a verb form of that would be to righteous. So to justify someone is to righteous them. That is to declare them righteous That is to say that they are blameless before the law, to say that a person is innocent, acquitted, and therefore absolutely pure in God's sight. Of course, as soon as we realize the implications of what justification means, then we realize also that there's a problem, and that problem is, of course, how can we or so unrighteous and altogether guilty We see a verdict which says that we're altogether acquitted, blameless, and curious. See what Paul himself says not about a bunch of sadness But about you and me in the verses just before this, beginning with verse 10. Because concerning you and me, if there is no one righteous Not even one. Not in all Columbia, in all Howard County, in all Maryland, in the whole United States, in the whole world. There's none ISIS. No, not even one. Not one who understands. No one who seeks God. All have turned away. They have together become worthless. There is no one who does good. Not even one. The virtue are an open graves. The tongue practice deceit. The poison of vices is on their mist. The mouth is full of cursing and bitterness The feet are swift to shed blood, ruin, and misery mark their wings. In the way of peace they do not know. There's no fear of God before their eyes Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, every one of us, so that every mouth may be silent and the whole world held accountable to God. Therefore, no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law, but rather through the law you simply become conscious of sin. Well verse 23, all have sinned. As some sort of the glory of God. And yet verse 24 it says we're justified. It says we were declared innocent, blameless. And how can it be? Well it's expelled, of course, by that next beautiful phrase. Feeling by his grace. Freedom by his grace. The only hope you see the real need is a righteousness that comes apart from our own obedience to the law. That is exactly what it offered me. See what he says in verse 21. But now a righteousness from God apart from law. Now it's not apart from the law, it's apart from law principles. That's explained in verse 20, you see, where he says, no one will be declared righteous because he's like by observing the law. That's what he's speaking about. The law principle, whereby righteousness is attained by observing the law. But he said that no one will attain it by that. By now there is a righteousness from God that's apart from that. A justification that is apart from our own obedience to the law. That's a justification that comes by grace. So that's what he says. He said it's a justification that is by grace, that is God's favor, his goodwill, his opposition to the way of law, which is our obedience. The word grace refers to favor. It refers to kindness, goodwill. And yet, the Bible does sometimes refer to grace and favor that is its own. For instance, in Genesis chapter 39, in verse 4, we read concerning Joseph. The Joseph found grace or favor in the household of Potiphar, because Potiphar entrusted to accept everything that he owned. Well now this grace that Joseph found in Potiphar's eyes was not a grace that is totally unmerited It is a grace that Joseph had earned by his own integrity. The third cause of this possible use of the word grace falls here in order to make it absolutely clear But this grace is something totally unmerited, adds this word freedom. The same says that we are justified freedom by his grace. That word sweet is a very interesting word. The Greek word is dolion. And it is pretty much equivalent to an Old Testament Hebrew word, sinon. Now this word Dorian, or its Hebrew equivalent, sinam has two primary meanings. And you see them there as we follow along in the bulletin. First of all, it's a word which means no cost. Something which is without price. Something which there is no payment. Something which is free. For example, in Genesis chapter 29. Remember in Genesis 29, you have the story there of David coming from Aiden He fled from the wrath of his brother Esau, who just treated out of his birthright, both by taking it and then by getting his father's blessing. Esau's uh not in the best frame of mind with regard to his relationship with Jacob and so Jacob hit the trail and he arrived at e at Laban's place, his uncle Laban, and he worked for Laban for about a month And at that time Laban says to him in Genesis 29, 15, after Jacob had stayed with him for a whole month, Laban said, Just because you're a relative of mine, did you work for me for nothing? I don't know what your wage you should do. Uh maybe sounding a little more generous there than in fact proves to be the case, as you remember in years ahead. But the point is he's very saying should you work for me for nothing without payment? That's the word hidam, the word that is equivalent to this Greek word, translated in Romans 324, freely. That same word. Feature work to me really? Without any price, without any wage. It's the word that's also used in Exodus chapter 21. In that chapter, the subject is the matter of slaves and how a slave is to be freed. And we read in Exodus 21 that if you buy a heathen servant, he's the servant for six years But in the seventh year he shall go free without pain anything. That word there without pain anything is equivalent to this word in Romans 3. 24, freely. Pay one. Without paying anything. Something that uh has no cost to it. He goes on then to talk about the female sleeves And how a master of a female slave has three obligations to it. If he doesn't fulfill any one of those obligations that are mentioned in verse 10, then in verse 11 Then he shall uh let her go free. She is to go free without any payment of money. Again, the word uh without payment is this word equivalent to this word borian. She has to go free, no cost to her. She has to go out without any payment whatsoever. That's the word that's used in 2 Samuel. In 2 Samuel 24. Then you have David after the plague that has come upon the people of Israel. Remember, because David and his pride wanted to conduct the census to show how great his freedom was And God let him choose between three punishments, and he chose a plague that would last three days, and the plague was devastating. And David wanted to make a sacrifice in order to appeal to God's mercy. And he didn't even have time to get to the tabernacle. And so because of that he wanted to buy a freshman floor and some um sacrifices from this fella Alona And he says, um, let me know what your price is. And Avona says to him, No, no, there's no price. Uh you can have it for nothing. But David in verse 24 replied to Avonah, No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that cost you nothing. Cost him nothing. It's the same word. Nothing. Costing nothing. It is used. Romans 324. Something which costs nothing, which is absolutely free, which there is no price for That is the nature of our justification. There's no thought, no thing, nothing but you or I can offer to God Of course, we talk about this is in contrast with the pain, of seeking the law. There is nothing that you and I can sacrifice sufficient The earnest justification. And yet so often you and I think, if I could just sacrifice a little bit, if I could just show God that I suffer a little bit for my sins If I could just not enjoy life so much, and so I'll take a certain amount of enjoyment out of my life to produce suffering so that God can see that I'm paying for my sins And by doing that we deny justification. But at the very heart of justification is that there is no payment that you and I can make. It costs us nothing Now the second meaning of that word is that there's no cause to it. Not only is there no cost, but the word borian means it is something without any cause, without any reason. in the person that referred to. Before we see that a person who is justified is a person justified without cause with respect to that person he is justified. And we're causing him for the justification. Again, some Old Testament examples of this equivalent word himan For 1 Samuel, chapter 19. We have here the uh controversies remembered between Saul and David Saul now has turned jealous against David, who is God's anointed. Saul is bitter. He wants to be David in. And Jonathan, Saul's son and David's friend, tells that he'll go and intercede on behalf of David. See Saul. Because he's raging bitterness. Saul tells Jonathan what a scoundrel David is. And Jonathan then responds to Saul. In verse 4, Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul, his father, and said to him, Shh Let not the king be wrong to his servant David. He has not wronged you to what he has done, but in what he has done has better fitted you greatly He took his life in his hands when he killed the Philistines. The Lord won a great victory for all Israel, and you saw it and were glad. Why then would you be wrong to an innocent man like David by killing him? For no reason. That word there is a word there for no reason. And again, equivalent to this word in Romans 3. 24, freedom Now we don't think of that as killing David Freeman, but you see there is that significant meaning in this word, this Greek word, that can't come through in the English without a cause and a reason justified for no reason, without any cause, as Saul had no cause to kill David. And we see again an example of this in Job chapter 1, verse 9. In Job 1, remember, there's the controversy between God and Satan. Job is a righteous man, worshiping God and hating evil. And Satan comes to God. In that amazing picture that we have here, a glimpse of this controversy in heaven, as Satan comes before God and he says in verse 9, Does God fear God for nothing? Shh And the word there for nothing. It's the same word in Romans 3. 24. To still fear God without any cause, for no reason. You put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has and you must the works of his hands. Here's all the reasons why Job worships and fears you Now take away those reasons and you'll see what happens. And so God takes away those reasons. Let Satan slip Job, take away everything he has, and flip him naked And then we see God in a play on the words comes back to Satan in chapter two, verse three. And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? And there is no one on earth like him. He's blameless and upright. A man who fears God and suns evil. And he still maintains his integrity, though you incited me against him to ruin him Without any reason. And it's the same word. And God says here, you said that my servant Job worshiped me without any reason. But Satan, you're the one who could be standing with your face covered. For you have incited me to afflict him without any reason. And it's the same word in Romans 3. 24. Your cause. And something that is done without any warrant in the person that's involved. The Philippine Psalm 69, verse 4, the cry of the psalmist One who is persecuted. As a thing cry in Psalm 3519, as we have in 694 here, adults who think me without reason outnumber the hairs of my head. Those who hate me without any cause have no reason to be bitter against you. The same word that's used in Romans 3. 24, and in this case it's dead. In John chapter twenty fifteen by the Lord Jesus himself. The verse is to fulfill what is written in their law that they heated me without reason. And the word used there is this word, Borian. Translating. Psalm 69 and 4. They heated me without any cause, without any reason. Do you see the comparison? It's being used there. What we're being told here is that the people have as much cause to be Jesus As God did to justify you and me. And the reason is dully on. Nothing. No reason. There's no cause. There's nothing you can attribute to that person to justify that action was justified for no reason, just as Jesus was needed for no reason. And so this reminds us of Hosea 14. 4. We considered a couple weeks ago Where the prostitute wife, the unfaithful wife had turned against and spurned the love of her husband, had gone away And had deserved nothing but his rich wrath. And God says to those people Israel, betrayed by that woman, I will love you freely I will love you without cost. And I will love you without any cause in yourself to prompt that love. It's like the prodigal son Where after he had left home was not even worthy to be called a son. And he comes back and we read that the father forgave him and loved him freely and restored him to sonship The freeness of such a love and such a justification is something we can barely comprehend. Something without cost to us, without cost in us And yet there must be some cost and some cause. And so where is it? We see that in the final phrase there. In Romans 3. 24. The space through the redemption in Jesus. Through the redemption in Jesus. The cost, you see, was to him. You see there that the redemption that came by Christ. This word redemption is a word which means to buy back. To purchase. And therefore, you see, it implies a price. Because what Paul's saying, you and I are justified without any cost By the infinite cost of the redemption by the blood of Jesus. The cost of Christ was to him, and that Christ With his blood, you see there in verse 25. God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood The sacrifice. The atonement sacrifice. The Lamb is slain. His blood is sprinkled on the mercy seat as the payment for sin. Peace the covering and the law in the Holy of Holies. That's the crazy tell somebody tells you, that's your wife, or your son, your wife has been unfaithful to you, or your son has run away and disgraced you. And then this one who has so turned against you and so despised your love, unfaithful to you, brought you nothing but heartache. He's told that this person is in desperate need, and he alone can save that wife or that son. When a person says, uh You alone are able to do this and you say, Okay, I'll do it. What's it cost? Well it's going to be a pretty high cost. What is it? Well it's not the cost of your money, it's not the cost of your house. You see this person has stolen In a Muslim country where the penalty for stealing is to lop off your hand. And that person is under charge to have their hand cut off Are you willing to make that substitution? What do you think about that wife or that son who has never done anything in return to your love except virtue? Do you think, am I willing? Shh. To give that kind of love because it costs me my blood, my hand. To you and I begin to enter in to the weight of such a sacrifice and what it would involve in our own considering whether we'd be willing to make that. But then Suppose we say, okay, we can have it. And a week later we're brought, and as a substitute for that wife or that son, our hand is chopped off at the wrist We no longer have a right hand. We've given our hand to save that person that we love. But then a month later we're told they're in trouble again. Only this time it's far more serious. This time they've murdered, and there's no question about the penalty now. It's the death penalty. You must give your blood to save that person Before I consider even what would begin to go through our minds being the cost of such a sacrifice, can we begin to realize that it cost Jesus For that he would be justified in. Because him everything that he had, he who was life died So that you and I could be justified freely. We cost them everything, so we cost you nothing. And what about the cause? If the cause to him was everything, the cause in him was everything. There's no cause in you or me to cause him to love us. Why then did he justify us? Deuteronomy 7 tells us, simply because he loved us. There's no reason why God justified us Except his own determination from eternity to love you and me. Because within him. The cause was not in me. The cause was not in me. I am not so appealing to God and so indispensable to the universe that God had to redeem me The cause was simply this determination to love me. This cause was so great There is to dress reason that he tells us in Revelation chapter 21, 6 He said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To him who is thirsty, I will give to drink Without cost from the water of life. And that's the same word as Romans 324. I will give to him to drink freely without cost from the water of life. And the same word again. In the close of Scripture in Revelation 22, 17. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. Let him who hears say, Come Who's ever thirsty, let him come. And whoever wishes, let him take the free gift, Goliath, of the water of life To be justified, since by his blood. Their application. What does this mean to you? We believe that we are justified freely. And yet that same passage tells us that you and I must believe To have this justification. Verse 22 says that the righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ through all who believe It is not an indiscriminate kind of justification of the whole world, but it's to you and you and you who believe and have trusted in Jesus. Before the person here said, I have no cause in me to be able to recommend you to God. But there's nothing that I could ever pay in order to be reconciled to him. The only possibility is the blood of Jesus. Have you ever come to realize that that was the only plea that you could ever offer, as we just say a few minutes ago? Is this my only thing? Jesus has lived, has died for me. That's the fossil to you. A justification without cost and without cause. It's a free justification, and yet the only alternative to that is to stand before God unjustified To stand before him not a quitting, but to stand on him on the basis of your own performance according to his standards. How will you measure up in that great day? And to stand before him based on your own works. From your own performance of what God has told you, it is what you should do according to his nature and his character. The alternative therefore is death and judgment. If you've never come to Jesus to be justified freely, come today. Come today without cost and without cause. To know him as Savior and Lord. But for those who are Christians, what does this mean? And Paul tells us right here how to apply it. He says it means that all boasting is eliminated. Verse 27. Where then is boasting? It's excluded. On what principles? On that of observing the laws? No. But on that of faith. So we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from observing the law. Recall how we considered some months ago how you and I tend to compare ourselves with other people for the purpose of justifying ourselves. Make ourselves feel better that at least we're not like so-and-so. At least we don't do this or that. And if we do that, we're seeking to justify ourselves and therefore to deny The justification that you see in Jesus. But yet we need to be aware that this can come very, very subtly, not always felt obvious You may be tempted by your family. And perhaps in your family there are those who don't know Jesus Christ. What happens when you're with those people when they ridicule your stand as a Christian? What's your reaction? Is it to be defensive to them? Is it being irritated because they're so stupid that they can't see these things Is it perhaps to see that their values and their lifestyle are so transparently shallow, how can they be so stupid as to go on like that? And you wonder, you're bugged by them, you're bugged to death by them. So what's implied in that kind of an attitude I'm implying that I can boast of my justification, that I'm not as stupid as they are, that I'm not as transparently shallow as they are in my own rejection of God. And yet what did it cost for you and your justification? And who paid it? Let's be careful in our own families when we're tempted to be irritated. And we realize that this is boasting of our justification. And rather remember that it's a free justification. And therefore we don't have anything to boast on. And our aunts and our uncles and our sisters and our brothers and whoever it is who are still without. What about our neighbors? We have the same kind of attitude The same kind of irritation with the transparent shallowness of our culture, of those who are simply and obviously only after things. We are irritated at them But you can't understand how they can be so blind to what life is about. And more than that, you simply realize that uh you're part of the elect and they're obviously part of the non-elect and that's the way it is. Clearly they would never be interested in the gospel. And so you have your whole neighborhood sewn up. Here's the Christians, and here are the non-Christians. The non-Christians have no interest in the gospel and never will. The justification was free for you. Why won't it be free for them? Why can't you and I believe that God could lay hold of them not according to their Desire and according to their current interest in the gospel, but the God could take them wherever they are and turn them around. Do you see your neighborhood as a mission field of people who are unjustified? But nevertheless, the justification is offered to you just as freely as it was offered to you? If you do, you know what you'll do? We begin to pray for them by name regularly. To not boast in our justification is to begin to thirst for others to enter into us with us To know the freeness of the water of life that cost us nothing, but the cost you everything. Be here as a family. Pray by name for your neighbors Have you begun to look for them, to show some interest, to know where they are spiritually, to know in each case what it is that's keeping them from progressing in their interest in Jesus Christ Begin to pray for them. Begin to expect God to do something among your neighbors, because justification is free. Even one another Do you really believe that we share one common righteousness around here? And that that righteousness belongs to Jesus and not us Do you really believe that the righteousness that we all possess is a righteousness that has been imputed to us, that is credited to our account rather than one that has had anything to do in earning or getting If we do, then we're not going to try to score points with each other by outheaving each other with our spiritual victories and our victorious life. It seeks to intimidate another person by saying, Why aren't you where I am? It seeks to show that I'm a victorious Christian because I'm walking with the Lord. See what the Lord can do with a person who really means business with him like I do But rather it seeks simply to give the credit to the God who has justified us freely. And there's no boasting in the fact that this God answers even my prayers But this guy can use even somebody like me. And not in a kind of a reverse posting about how rotten I am, but simply kind of acknowledging the fact that God justifies sinners' demons If that's true, then we'll be at ease with one another. Our intersepers of fellowships will be open without being able to deal with our problems and our concerns You know, one of the greatest joys indeed since having come to this church has been the special fellowships, the special fellowships that include the wives of periodic dinners and the times that are just for the men Uh there's in such an openness. Uh if you can uh see any of them they'll tell you the openness is in just uh a a transparent openness. I mean we know about all the problems of all the husbands and the wives and everything that we struggle with. But that's been a beautiful thing because you know what it says? It's supposed to be come as a session together on the basis of the common righteousness of Jesus. We're not trying to hide the problems that we have in our homes. Problems in loving one another We've been good parents. And because we have Jesus' righteousness, He's justified us freely, and we're seeking to honor Him and to serve Him and to become more like Him But that doesn't mean that we have to outheavy each other and hide the fact that we're people who are still justified and not those who have arrived It's a beautiful freedom. I know that in each one of our Under Shepherd groups, the millions that will be put together and start in December. Finally then, you see the implications of this on the church. Paul says here. And we justify it freely. And then after going through more of what this means, you remember he comes up into chapter twelve. And he says, There, I urge you therefore, brothers, in view of God's mercy To offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And then you'll be able to test and approve what God's will is. His good pleasing and perfect will. The whole basis of this section that he's about to deal with on the practical outworkings of the gospel are appealed to on the basis of in the light of God's mercy. Now what's that mercy? It's mercy we talked about in 324. Being justified freely by his grace. In the light of that mercy, Paul says I appeal to you to be a living sacrifice. And what's the first topic he takes up when he says that? Verse 4. Just as each of us has one body with many members, and these members do not all have the same function, so in Christ These who are many form one body, and each member belongs to all the others. The practical implications of justification are the nature of the body of Christ. But in the weeks ahead, we're going to delve into this some. We're going to seek to find out what that means, to be the body of Christ in our generation. But I want you to know and remind you right now that as we look at those issues that are going to be coming in the weeks ahead, and some of them are going to be tough issues we're going to try and tackle, we come to grip with some of the toughest questions about the nature of the church and what it means to be the body today. Back in the light of the motivation of Romans 3. 24, I appeal to you by the mercies of God who has justified you freely But to be the community of God in this world. Keep that motivation in mind as we look in the weeks ahead at the things that God has in store for us Because our whole desire will not simply be the best Presbyterian church in the Presbytery, or to be the best church in Howard County But our desire is not to boasting, but rather that we're a people who live out our identity as those who are justified freely. By his grace. Let's pray. The kind of people we are. And even as your people, how often we let you down and how often we play around with sin Father, we're amazed at your grace. We stand in awe of it. Help us, Father, to consider the extent of it, to dwell upon it But our minds might not quickly back off and say, I'll consider that some other time. The fact is that you would use the hours of this day in each one of our lives that we might dwell on and meditate on. And to set that time aside, to think of what it means that the God of heaven and earth, majestic in holiness and justice, without compromising your purity, has justified us freely. So that it cost us nothing, but it cost you everything. Ah Lord our God, we praise you for that love. Lord Jesus, we praise you. And if you did not object to that stand of your Father, you did not say that he should simply bypass justice in order to link at sin. And that you, who paid everything, affirmed the righteousness of your Father. And that righteousness which is yours yourself, and the righteousness of you, Holy Spirit, and you went to the cross. And you died. And so that you, Lord God, can be just and the justifier of him who believes in Jesus. How we thank you that it's an objective thing. It's something that that doesn't depend on us. It doesn't rise or fall with our emotions. But it's that which is settled in the courts of heaven, that you love us freely, that you've justified us freely by your grace. Help us to leave this out. Pen of it out support our families this week. Pen of it out among those that we work with. To Father expect to do things in our neighborhood and to begin to pray for our neighbors by name To long for them to be justified fully by your grace, and to deal with any boasting in us that causes us to be irritated with those who don't receive your word And Father, that we might quickly realize that they, like us, are those with whom there is no cost and no cause to be justified And to lay before your throne of grace constantly their own lives on their behalf as if you would work in them as you've worked in us Father, we pray that in the weeks ahead you'd help us in working out the implications of this in our church as we begin to think of what it means to be the community of the people of God. Help us, Father, to be more which you want us to be, that we would honor you, that we would live up to our identity as those who are justified freely by your grace Amen. Well, let's praise God finally with a hymn that I think reflects this and expresses it so very well. Him number one hundred eighty five By the Cross