The essence of fall can often be seen in the glory of a single leaf, and likewise the beauty of Christmas may sometimes be experienced in the loveliness of one single single Christmas carol or the joyful jolving of a particular memory that comes to us. And likewise, the essence of salvation so difficult for us to grasp. And sometimes I think be best captured in a small incident. And that's what I would like to do for you this morning. I would like for us, as we continue in our series in Luke, our Christmas series of Luke 1 and 2, to look at one particular incident. in which we might grasp something of the essence of salvation. So let's turn together to Luke chapter one. Luke chapter one, we begun the series in Luke back in nineteen seventy nine, when we began our Christmas series. Messianic prophecies and the Christmas stories in Luke one and two. And you know, we've covered uh Luke's introduction, we've covered the announcement to John the Baptist uh to uh Zachariah concerning the birth of John the Baptist and all that has gone along with that. We looked at Gabriel. We've looked at all those verses up to twenty five, and now we're up to the announcement of the birth of Jesus. And so this week I would like to cover verses twenty six to thirty, and then next week verses thirty one to thirty three, and that's as far as we'll get to this year. Let's then consider from God's Word Luke chapter twenty one, verses excuse me, Luke chapter one, verses twenty six to thirty three. Let's give our attention to God's word. In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. A descendant of David. The Virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at the end of the day. his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give birth to a son. were to give him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. But our God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. So far, the reading of God's Word. Now, let's focus together on just the greeting within the scope of these verses and its application to us. First of all, I would like for us to notice together the exalted greeting itself. Notice the exalted greeting. It's now six months since Elizabeth has become pregnant. And the scene now Shifts from the hills of Judea, the quiet home of Zechariah and Elizabeth, nearly a hundred miles north to the hills of Galilee, a little bit west from the southern tip of the lake of Galilee. And there in Inside a common, rude little uh dwelling place sits a young girl by the name of Mary. And whatever she's doing, we're not told at that moment, but what we are told is that all of a sudden In the front door walks an angel, Gabriel. It's significant to notice that the account here does not say that Gabriel appeared to her in a dream or a vision. This is a wide-awake encounter with an angel. He walks right to her. the front door and she looks up and there he is standing right before. A little bit unnerving, I'm sure. But there she stands face to face with an angel. And his greeting to her is simply shalom. Probably that's what he's said and then told her two things. Notice uh what are the two things that he says to her. First of all, he says, you are highly favored. Highly favored. Now first of all, notice what this is not saying. It is not saying what the Latin Voge would have us think that it's saying. The Latin Voge translated by Jerome and has been adopted by the Roman Catholic Church since that time As the sense of this, Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you. That's where we get the Hail Mary. It's precisely from this verse. It's the Latin Vogue translation of Luke 1:28. But you see, uh What that implies is that Mary is full of grace. That's the Latin sense of the way that was translated. And being full of grace implies that Mary herself has grace to give, that she's a dispenser. of grace. Hell Mary, you who are full of all this grace, so much grace that you can give it to those that look to you for grace. But you see, the problem with that is that it is a wrong translation. The Greek of verse 28 there, the words highly favored, are a perfect passive. In other words, we would translate that. You have received grace. You are now in the position of one who has been favored with grace. It's very clear in the Greek word that's used here that the grace is something that Mary has received. Rather than something that she is full of or able to give of herself. It's a passive bird. You have received God's favor. You have been favored. You see, the angel's about to tell her. That she's going to become the mother of the Messiah. And so he wants to be very clear at the very outset to say, Mary, this is not something that you deserve. You're not the best Jewish girl around that we could find. God looked down from heaven and he surveyed all the spiritual magnitudes of all the Jewish girls around in Judea and He said, Mary, she's the best, I'll pick her. But his point is, you haven't deserved it. This comes to you totally by grace. God is giving this to you, Mary, as a gift. It's something that you've received. It's interesting that the word Mary itself means exalted. But she is exalted. by grace, a gift, undeserved. The second thing that he says to her is that the Lord is with you. The Lord is with you. Now in a sense that was a rather common greeting. Do you remember when Gideon was threshing out the wheat because he was hiding and was doing it behind the barn so that the Midianites wouldn't come and steal it? And the angel came to greet him. The angel greeted him with, Hail, mighty valor. Valiant lawyer, the Lord is with you. You know, and Gideon muttered some sarcastic remark in response. But you see, that was a it was a kind of a greeting, meaningful in itself. The Lord is with you, his presence and his favor are with you. But in this case, it means much more. Because Israel's coming now and he's saying, uniquely, Mary, the Lord is with you. In fact, Mary, soon the Lord God Himself is going to be. Ephetus in you. There is no more intimate way that we can conceive of the Lord being with someone than he was about to be with Mary. And so Gabriel is saying in a very literal sense: Mary, the Lord, is with. You. His presence is with you in the most intimate way possible. Now, having seen what an exalted greeting this is, God is saying, My favor is given to you, it rests on you. My presence is going to be unique. Let's look at who received this greeting. Consider then the humble recipient of this in verses twenty six and seven and then verse twenty nine. First of all, the greetings given to someone who's in Nazareth of Galilee. Notice verse 26. In the sixth month God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee. Now Nazareth had a lot going for it. It apparently was a quite attractive place. It was beautifully situated. About 15 miles to the east of Nazareth was the southern tip of Lake Galilee. About twenty-two miles to the west of Nazareth was the Mediterranean Sea. It was situated right at the thicker section between the plain of Jezreel, that uh famous battleground Armageddon of Israel, and to the north, the foothills of Lebanon. And it was a place uh that was so beautiful. That uh it would have been a very lovely place to dwell in. It uh was described by someone who visited it uh in words that I thought were worth quoting. Uh from the hills around Nazareth, one has a very extensive view. all directions. Winding in and out among the hills, the great highways from Egypt to Damascus, from Jerusalem to the north, could clearly be seen in the New Testament times white ribbons of road floating in the dust of merchant caravans. Now glittering with the diamond-headed spears of soldiery, towering skyward in the distance were the three of the most noted mountains in Scripture. The rounded dome of Tabor, Herman's snow-clad peak, and the historic heights of Carmel. A beautiful place. It's a place that's still occupied to this very day. There are about ten thousand people right now living in Nazareth, about one third of the Profess to be Christians, two-thirds of them profess to be Muslims, zero Jews. They avoid the place like a plague. And Nazareth is a place that has been clearly identified. It was a place, however, that New Testament times was despised. The Galilee was a despised place by those in Jerusalem, because the Galileans were half-breeds. They were those who had been removed, you remember, from the ten northern tribes and taken. away to Assyria and never returned to be able to trace their lineage back to true and uh pure Jewish roots. And so there were a mixture of those who had some Jewish blood but had a lot of Gentile blood in them. And they were not considered part of the holy God's people by those of the Pharisees or those who were the purest in Judea. Particularly, Galilee had not gained in its reputation since Herod the Great, that bloodthirsty guy who had come and slaughtered uh both those in his own family, has subjugated subjected the Judea, uh the domain that he was the ruler of by blood and by uh violence. Uh that did not help Galilee's reputation to the Jews. Herod got his start in Galilee. In fact, uh by the time uh that uh we have Jesus' birth, uh there was a a parable, uh a a phrase that was used, Can anything good come out of Galilee? You remember that uh was used in John one. And so Galilee was not at all a place that was looked at as having anything to respect it. And yet here's where the angel comes. He picks a Jewish girl in Galilee and in Nazareth. The priest center and also a Roman garrison for the place that he comes to visit, the one who will be the mother of the Messiah. And notice also that this person who he comes to visit is just a young teenager. Now when I talk about the humble recipient here, I am not meaning to imply that all teenagers are humble and worthless recipients of any good news. All I mean to imply by this was that uh Mary was probably somewhere around thirteen or fourteen years Betrothal, in the Jewish custom of those times, began as early as twelve and went up to around 15. So she was probably somewhere between 12 and 15 years of age. The betrothal, which was as binding as marriage, lasted about a year. So somewhere in that period of time, you know, the highest possibility would be that she was about thirteen or fourteen years of age, means that what the angel is coming to here is not some mature women Who is versed in the scripture and who has gained a great deal of knowledge and depth in her understanding of God's ways? It's coming to a kid. It's coming to a young teenage girl, inexperienced, who is uneducated, who has not had the benefits of the learning of Judea and Jerusalem, who's up there in rural Galilee, next to a Roman garrison, a hic, a Galilean peasant. And then thirdly, notice her lineage. Luke tells us that he comes to a virgin in verse 27, pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. Now that might seem to exalter in the fact that here she is a descendant of David. of King David. But who is she engaged to? This fellow Joseph, who we're told elsewhere, is a carpenter. And we're told by the offering that they come to give at the temple after Jesus is born that they're extremely poor. And so the fact that she and Joseph are of the lineage of David is more a mockery than it is a declaration of exaltation. Because here you have King David and all his line that come down through the ages. And what do you have? You have a couple of uneducated peasants, a fellow who is a carpenter, who doesn't have enough money to give a decent offering in the temple. And this is what the line of David has come to. And so you have this exalted reading. coming to a poor, uneducated, teenage Jewish girl in the hick country of Galilee despised by all the religious establishments. What I want for us to see is that same reading comes To us. Don't listen. This same greeting comes to you and to me. You are highly favored in Jesus Christ. The word that's used there in verse 27, greeting. You who are highly favored is only used one other time in the New Testament. The only other time it's used is in Ephesians chapter six. Take a look at that for a minute. Because in Ephesians chapter oh excuse me, Ephesians chapter one. In verse six. In Ephesians chapter one, verse six, that same word is used, and who is it applied to? It's applied to you and to me. Notice beginning at verse four. Paul says, For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his son. Through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. The words there, freely given us. given are the same word as Luke 128. Highly favored. He's saying there that this is the grace which he has bestowed freely in the richest possible measure. To those of us who He loves. In Him, then, we have received redemption through His blood. The forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God. God's grace that He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. Do you see it? Do you understand what that's saying? You and I don't live in despised Nazareth of Galilee. And Mary had no choice of that. You and I have chosen to live out of God's presence. We've gone to the far country away from our Father to live on our own and to be able to use what we had upon ourselves and not to live in his presence. And we're not some young teenage girl who's seeking to follow him. You and I are disobedient children who've chosen to go our own way and have chosen to leave the ways of our God. And we've despised our heritage as those who are image bearers. As those who have come to bear the image of the God who has made us, by going away from him, we become as those who are under his wrath. And yet he comes to us and he says, You have received his grace. Freely given. You are highly favored in Jesus Christ, the one that he loves. You have his forgiveness of sins. You've received that. undeserved grace. Mary didn't deserve to be the mother of the Messiah. You and I don't deserve to be the children of God. And yet the Lord has said, I have given that to you. I just got switched off, right? Can you hear me okay still? We won't tinker with it then. It might blow up. He has said that you and I then have received that grace freely, undeservedly. And God has given us then the forgiveness of sins by which he has taken. Taken us into his own family. And he has said to us, The Lord is with you. Emmanuel, Matthew says in chapter one, Jesus, the one who is born, is Emmanuel, God with us. The Lord is with you. with me. Well think of what that's saying. When the Lord came to visit Moses and to be with him from the burning bush, he said, Take off the sandals from your feet, because the place where you stand is holy ground. I am with you here. And it's holy ground. You remember when Moses then brought the people from Egypt out to Mount Sinai? And God spoke to them from Mount Sinai. We saw this in the last couple weeks in Deuteronomy 18. God said, When I visited those people and I spoke to them, the Mountain shook, it trembled, it smoked, it smoked. And even if an animal came to touch it, he would be struck dead. Because the Lord's presence was with his people. And the people said, We can't bear your immediate presence. Send a prophet that will be an intermediate. And so then the prophet Moses came and he spoke about the temple and the tabernacle, the construction of that. And what was the significance of the tabernacle? It was the place for the ark where God's presence was with his people. The Shekinah glory covered the tabernacle. God said to his people, You must be a holy people, because I am going to dwell in your midst. And the Holy of Holies was a place of the immediate presence of God, but only the priest, the high priest, once a year. could go, and that offering blood to go into the very holy place of God's presence. Do you remember when that ark was taken by the Philistines? It was returned. And then the men of Beth Shemesh looked curiously and instantly Into that ark, and fifty of them were struck dead immediately, because God's presence is so holy that it's not something that anyone can bear in an unprepared and unsanctified manner. You remember when Elsa carelessly touched the ark to try and help it as they were carrying it up to the temple. He was struck dead because it was the very presence of God. And yet the angel comes and says, The Lord is with you. And Matthew tells us, that message is to you and to me, Emmanuel is here. God is with us, and Jesus has come to tabernacle, John 1. 14 says, with us. He has come to be the immediate presence of God in our midst, and because he died for sins, and we have the redemption that Paul talks of in Ephesians run the forgiveness of our sins, he said, The Holy Spirit has come. That veil of the temple has been read, and so the Holy Spirit dwells in you and me, and we have that very presence of God more fully than the fetus who dwelt in Mary's womb. Because God Himself, with all this fullness of glory, dwells in you and me by the Holy Spirit. And we have become his temples. The Lord is with you. So finally, consider how you and I respond to this. I think that one of the great difficulties for us as Christians is the fact that it's hard for us to imagine God saying these things to us personally, isn't it? It's one thing to imagine him saying them to marry. It's one thing for us to picture in some abstract way that the Lord has accepted us, that we have heaven. But to feel special to him, to feel that we are fully accepted. Accepted by him is something difficult for us to grasp because we have his word, but we don't have someone standing before us. And what I'd like to encourage you to do, I think we're back on the air, what I'd like to encourage you to do this week. is to think about this incident. To imagine yourself as you're there having your quiet time this week, as you're there studying the scriptures, as you're alone in your room. And imagine an angel Coming to you. Walking in the door there and saying, Hi, peace. I just want you to know that you are highly favored by the Lord God Jehovah. That He has set His heart And his grace and his favor upon you, Alan Harris. Upon you, and you put your name in there that you see the personalness of it. That his favor rests upon you. That you are spiritual. Special to him, because Jesus Christ has died and put away your sin. And therefore he comes to say to you, The Lord is with you. His presence is with you this morning. With you this week. And you didn't deserve it any more than Mary deserved to be the mother of the Messiah. But you have it. And you have it by grace. When Mary heard this, we read in verse twenty nine. Of Luke 1, that she was amazed. She was so amazed that she was troubled. And she wondered, what is this about? Have you ever been amazed at the grace of Jesus Christ? Christ for you? Have you ever been amazed to the point where you're troubled and you're disturbed? And you say, My God, how did I ever deserve this? How did I ever deserve that Jesus Christ comes to me and says, I love you? And I've set my favor upon you to belong to me. I want to dwell with you, and I want you to be with me in my home for eternity. And you begin to think of that and you begin to think of what your life is like. And you're amazed. Oh, may God give to you and to me that amazement, that holy amazement of the greeting that comes to us. We see there in verse 38, that should be verse 38, not verse 30. And then after the angels Had given her the instruction that her response was, pray to the Lord serve him. May it be to me as you've said. But Mary's attitude was not only amazement, but it was submission. And when you understand that the living God has called you into his service, called you to belong to him. How can you and I have any other attitude than to simply say, Lord, what do you want me to do? Lord, now show me from your word what is it that you want me to do to show the gratitude of God. My love for you. Lord, I'm your servant, I'm your bond slave. What is it that you want to do with me today? Let me trust you that I might see a work in my life because of the grace that you've given to me. And then thirdly, we see that Mary. response is that of praise. It'll be a couple years before we get to that, but you know what it's like there in verses 46 to 55. We call it the Magnificon. And my soul praises the Lord and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Him, because he's been mindful of the humble serv state of his servant. Praise to God because of that great favor and that mercy which he's given to you. And even though you can't see him, even though he's not Physically before you to communicate that. Meditate. Use your imagination that you might hear him speaking these words to you. And then that you might imagine him before you hear it, your phrase. Coming back to him out of a heart that is so full of gratitude for his mercy to you that you can't stop, but you've got to go on and on and on telling his praise. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we pray for anyone here this morning who hears these words but realizes that they have never heard that. declaration to them personally that you are highly favored. You have the mercy and of God Himself who deserves to punish you for your sin. That he has chosen you from all eternity to be one of his own upon whom he delights. The Lord Jesus has died that you might have life. Lord, we pray. anyone here this morning who's never responded to such mercy and grace, that you had opened their hearts so that they cannot any longer resist such favor, such mercy, such love. pray that you would do that because Lord what a terrible thing to think not only of this Christmas without knowing that favor but of standing before you and having to say I never cared enough for that favor to respond to. Lord, we pray for each of us who have responded to that favor, who have taken the Lord Jesus as our own personal Savior. Lord, we confess to you that so often that favor seems removed from us. It doesn't seem Real. We are so much more cognizant of the criticisms and of the rejection that we find so much more tangible than your word which comes to us to speak of your favor, of your grace. And of your presence in our lives. And so, Lord God, we pray that you would give us holy imaginations that we might see how the greeting that came to Mary comes even more so. in a more full way by the Holy Spirit to us. Lord, enable us to dwell on this, that we might be a people who are truly amazed. Amazed to the point where we are almost troubled to think how We could have received such grace. That we become your bondservants. So glad to do whatever you want us to do because of the mercy that you've given us. And those who praise you. Because, Lord, Lord, we can't do anything else back when we consider how great your love has been to us. Lord, make us this kind of people, because your grace is so rich, and we thank you for it in Jesus' name. Hello, I don't know. Hymn 69 is one of my favorite hymns. It's one of the fun things about getting to lead worship is you get to pick some of your favorite hymns. But I didn't have to force this one. It fits so well with uh our message today and our theme project. worship. You notice the author wrote another great hymn, one much more popular than this one, about 20 miles from here off the coast of Fort McHenry, Francis Scott Key, the Star Spangled Banner. But this one is infinitely greater as it speaks of God's grace and his goodness. Uh notice in the in the second line of verse one the pardoning grace that saves us, the peace that from it flows. Oh God, uh help O God. My weak endeavor, this built soul to rapture raised. But it doesn't only speak of God's grace coming in Jesus Christ, it speaks also of his grace that works in our heart and causes us to come to Jesus Christ. Look at the uh the third verse, the second line. the blood sealed pardon to me. Bade thee look to him and live. Praise the grace whose threats alarm thee. Rouse thee from thy fatal ease. So we praise God, not just that he sent Christ, not just for that grace, but that part of that Grace is how he's worked in our hearts and he's roused us from our fatal ease. And the last verse also fits very well with uh uh Al's point about submitting, about Mary submitting her response to God. We see our response in the last line of the letter. So let's sing this great hymn of the faith, hymn sixty-nine, and praise our God to give it sixty