With me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter five. This morning I'll be reading for us verses 1 through 11. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. It is such a blessing to us. Lord, in a world where we are surrounded with messages that we don't know if we should believe or not, Lord, we thank you. That your word is a firm foundation for our faith. And that we need not, we ought not, we must not doubt. who you have said you are and what you say you have done. And Father, we thank you. That not only are you a rock, but you have given us a Bible that is as a rock to our faith as well. And Lord, we pray that we might read it to our benefit Bless this reading of it by your Spirit working in us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, Father, we pray again and again, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have done. Make it helpful. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 5, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the Word of God, He was standing by the lake of Gennesaret, and he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land, and he sat down and taught the people from the boat. And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. And Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing But at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them, and they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. And so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men. And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. This ends the reading of God's Word. Have you ever Picked up your old Bibles off the bedstand table or the kitchen counter, got your cup of coffee, opened it up and read a familiar story, and found your heart moved. to praise God. This is a text that is so familiar to us that it is perhaps over-familiar. It's something that if you are my vintage or older, you'll remember the flannographs that your Sunday school teacher showed you. with Jesus and the disciples and the boats and the crowds pushing in and Jesus wanting to have at least enough separation to project his voice so he gets this fellow named Simon, Simon Peter, to put him out in a boat. So he can better address all the crowds. And we have no idea what Jesus spoke about. We do know one thing that's remarkable, though. Is that here in this text it says that the people crowded, they pressed in on him to hear the word of God, not likely a description of Jesus as the word made flesh. But a recognition that the words he spoke, the words that are full of authority, not just grace, are the very word of God for the people of God. But we have no idea what his subject was. We can presume that he was speaking about the kingdom of God, because that was the theme of his great ministry, but that's not the point. The point here is not what Jesus was preaching to the crowds. The whole point focuses on this one man whose boat Jesus gets into named Simon. Simon Peter. And Simon Peter is someone who is in a kind of proliptic way, an anticipatory way. He was kind of introduced in chapter 4. Because Jesus had performed a miracle in Simon's house. Simon was a married man, and his mother-in-law lived with him. And in chapter 4, after Jesus teaches at the synagogue in Capernaum, we read that Jesus arose, left the synagogue, and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf, presumably Simon as well. And Jesus stood over Simon's mother-in-law and rebuked the fever, and it left her. So Simon is no stranger to Jesus. And it is one of those coincidences, one of those, now Ruth chanced upon the fields of Boaz, one of those divine providential orchestrations of an amazing God that Jesus chooses to stand on the banks of the Sea of Tiberias, the Sea of Galilee, Lake Gennesaret, all the same body of water as you read the different Gospels. And he is standing proximate near to Simon's boat. And he says to Simon, whose mother-in-law he had healed. Put out a ways. And so he stands in the boat and puts him out a little from the land. And Jesus, assuming the posture of a teacher, sits down in the boat and teaches the crowds. So much for this story so far. It's what happens next that gets my attention and moves my small, tiny, stony heart to gratitude. To this point, Jesus has no disciples. To this point, as far as we know, people aren't following Jesus To this point, people are either trying to kill Jesus or trying to get him to stay and become a fixture in their town or community life. But at this point, he has no entourage per se. That's all about the change because of one word. And that word is sinner. When you think about this text, you think about the fish. You might think about the miracle. You might think about the deep water and wonder how deep is the Sea of Galilee, Lake Gennesaret. You might think about what the boats looked like. But do you think about the word sinner? We are in the fifth chapter of the Gospel of Luke, and it is not until this point that that word makes its appearance. And it is the first person who understands by a confrontation a deep, deep painful recognition of the difference between Jesus and themselves who says, I am a sinner. who is no longer interested in keeping Jesus, either to be the local good old boy who's going to charm all of their fears. or the visiting rabbi who is going to stay and get the big house on the corner and heal all their diseases. It is the recognition of a sinner and the first person to say, depart from me. For I am a sinner. And that person becomes the chief of all of Christ's disciples. Isn't that remarkable? The first person to truly understand the vast chasm that separates Jesus from a human. The first person to truly understand that Jesus is not simply a prophet. He is God come in the flesh. You see, there's a confrontation here that marks out the beginning of the disciple road. And it's important to keep that in mind. There is a deep confrontation, this deep, deep recognition that God is God, I am not. That God is holy, I am sinful. And the proper response to that is fear. Go back in your Bibles with me. You don't need to turn there, but go back in your minds to Genesis 3. Most of you know that chapter well. That's the chapter where the deceiver appearing in the form of a serpent tempts Eve, and Adam is standing right there with her and says, Did God really say this about that one tree? Eve sees that it's good for food, takes a bite, gives it to Adam, who was with her, and he takes a bite, and they become subject and liable to death. And the first thing they experience is fear. They hear God walking in the cool of the day Come to have fellowship with his image bearers. And they hide. Because they are afraid. And they name it. Adam says, I was afraid. Fear runs through the Bible From Genesis to Revelation. And fear concerns the human condition as much as anything else. I've shared from this pulpit before that if you were to count up all of the imperatives, all of the commands, all of the things Jesus says with authority. The things that God says through his prophets are by his angels with authority. The number one command you find in Scripture is some version of fear not. Be courageous. Do not be afraid. Fear is something that is essential to recognize as part of being human on this side of heaven. And it is something that in particular surfaces when you have an encounter with the living God. And it's something that I am afraid and I am Sad to say that it appears to be the case, we as preachers have done a lot to kind of put on a bit of a back burner. This is what I mean by that. Now, there's Wayne. Wayne earlier quoted Anton Devorzak, and he even sang some. So this is not going to in any way one up him. In fact, it's going to many, many times down him. But uh I would like to refer to something Alice Cooper said. But I I'm not I'm not going to sing any Alice Cooper. Have no fear about that. You all know who Alice Cooper is? Hardcore rock and roller. Am I right? How many of you knew that he's a devout Christian man? And you should go on YouTube and find some of his interviews. He talks about how he came to Christ, he came to Christ because of the fear of God. And he recognized who Jesus was, and he recognized who Alice Cooper was. And it scared him. And he says in one interview, I realized that I was going to hell, and hell did not mean that I was going to be getting high with a bunch of other rock and roll stars. I regularly read books on the great revivals of the Christian religion, whether they happened in the 19th century in Wales and Ireland, whether they happened in Scotland in the 1600s, whether they happened in Chicago in the days of Moody. Virginia in the days of Finney up through New York, of course my favorite, the 1730s and 40s, New England with Jonathan Edwards. Did you know that One of the great themes that presaged every great outpouring of the Spirit of God and revival was fear. There's two things that happened in every instance there was a revival that shook a society and changed a culture. And I'm not talking about merely growing a church. or having a denomination get a larger share of the pie of Christian professors. I'm talking about the kind of revival that happened in the in the 1790s, in the late 90s in Philadelphia, which had the highest murder rate in the 1790s in the history of America, even to this day. The murder rate was higher than the worst parts of Chicago or New York. That was Philadelphia shortly after our founding. And then revival came. And you'll read accounts of police officers that literally had nothing to do, and they would form themselves into gospel quartets and tore the churches. just so they weren't bored because they didn't have uh Wordle back then The gospel and these great outpourings of the Spirit of God comes with prayer and fear And it does not surprise me as a student of the Bride of Christ, church history, or a close reader of the scriptures as close as I can, to recognize that when the discipling movement of God in flesh, Jesus Christ, is inaugurated, it starts with the first person to fall down on their knees and recognize I'm a sinner. I'm afraid, depart from me. And for those of you who've been through those valleys of fear I want to encourage you. Not everyone comes to Christ through a valley of fear. Some people are one very sweetly. The trouble as I see it from a professional ministerial perspective is I have colleagues in ministry whom I've heard on the floor presbytery say they never want to frighten anyone. They only want people to come to Christ because of his overwhelming beauty. Amen and amen about having people come to Christ because of his overwhelming beauty. But to say that no one authentically and genuinely comes to Christ out of a fear for their eternal state, that is wildly unbiblical. Because Peter did. In Acts chapter 2, after Peter's great Pentecost sermon, people are cut to the heart and they're crying out, What must I do to be saved? And I often lament the fact that I'm not sure that the effect of my preaching ministry is that people fall down and say, what must I do to be saved? And where do we see that modeled? Where do we see preaching like that? Because some texts would win you sweetly with the beauty and the grace and the mercy and the unending love of Jesus come next week for that sermon. Oh, it'll move you to tears. I know I'll be crying in my office this week. And not just because I'm not a diet coke. But this text is different. And how is it different? There is a confrontation. And it starts. Again, because Simon, Simon Peter, Peter the rock, whose confession of Jesus Christ is the Rock upon which Christ builds his church, he has come to already appreciate that Jesus is in authority. Look at what Jesus says to Simon Peter after Jesus has finished his public ministry preaching from the boat. He says, put out into the deep and let down your nets for catch. And Simon answered, Master. He recognizes his authority. We toiled all night and took nothing. We were out there all night fishing and didn't catch a single thing. And if you look and and Mark chapter 6, I believe it is, where we have the same account. We read that Peter is washing his nuts. when Jesus asks him to put out so he can preach in his boat. And the others, his partners, these other characters that are described, who also come to follow him, James and John the son of Zet sons of Zebedee, they're also washing their nets. They fished at night at that particular time. I read an article by a guy who coincidentally his name was Biden. No politician. He's a New Testament scholar. And he was uh he wrote an article about fishing in the Sea of Galilee at this time, and they used linen nets. Now, some of you know that I fancy myself a bit of a fisherman. And when I take all of my nieces and nephews and my sec and my first cousins once removed, they still call me uncle, but I'm not their uncle. And uh I take all these little kids fishing. They are very confused about how I specifically pick spinner lures and rapalas and and spoons based upon color. based upon water conditions. Fish are visual. Catfish olfactory driven. You need to worry about visibility. In fact, you can go and buy different kinds of fishing line that have different ratings for visibility because fish are not stupid. They might eat their own young, but they're not stupid. Now, linen nets, according to this Bible scholar Biden, are exceedingly visible, and so they would use them as dragnets only to catch fish at night. So here's this picture. All of these fishermen, because you might be wondering, why are they done fishing? Do they only fish in the morning? No, they fish at night. They've been fishing all night. And they caught nothing. Now here comes Jesus saying, listen, I want you to go ahead and go ahead and put back out into the water. into the deep water, you're gonna do a whole run. You're gonna put down your nets deep and you're gonna drag them back in. That's why you had to wash them out to get all the junk out of the linen nuts. And uh Peter says, because you asked I'll do it. Jesus demonstrates his authority and his divine power. In that area of Simon Peter's greatest expertise. In that place where Simon was the authority Probably, possibly in Capernaum, the great fisherman. People partnered with him. That's not the word for Koinanea and partner there. Peter's the ringleader. He's the golden boy when it comes to the fishing trophies. And Jesus tells him to do something, and he says, we caught nothing, Master, but because you asked. How often does Jesus ask us to do things that fly directly into the face of our expertise? Think Joshua at Jericho. Think Joshua at the banks of the Jordan River when he says, walk into the river and I'll stop the flow. Think Abram, when he's just been privy to the knowledge and perhaps through the received cultural traditions he'd gotten in Ur of the Chaldeas. People want to make a great name, so they're going to build big high towers that are permanent and notable and high and gather people to them. The living God says, you want a great name? Go live in a tent and wander. The exact opposite of what culture and expertise would tell you to do. And you can go through the scriptures and see how God is demonstrating his supremacy over the supposed expertise of humanity. such that we may never trust in our expertise, our methodology, our skill, even our experience We must trust in God. And God can bless expertise and methodology and experience. But the tricky, tricky point is recognizing when you have begun to trust in your methods and your talents and your gifts and your skills and have stopped simply looking to Jesus. As the eyes of a maid look to her mistress, the eyes of a servant look to his master See, Simon recognized that. And he recognized suddenly that Jesus was not just a healer. He was God come in the flesh. And he falls down. And he's given a great opportunity. Jesus says to him, Do not be afraid. You see, I want you to think one more thought about fear. It's not that Jesus is scary But it is this. When you confront Jesus for the first time, your condition is scary. It's not religion, not true religion that's frightening. It's that moment when you realize you have no religion that's frightening. It's not the fact that Jesus, the Lord of glory, was in the boat that was frightening. It was the fact that Simon was in the boat with him that was frightening. And so when Jesus Himself says, do not be afraid, the invitation to lay aside your fear, the invitation to know that you are welcome in my presence, the invitation that says, stand up, get up off of your knees. And follow me. Oh, what an opportunity. What an opportunity to actually acknowledge the fear that resides in the bottom of the human heart, that lurks in the psyche of the toughest one of us. To recognize it, to own it, to express it, and to hear Jesus, whose charms bid all our fears to cease, as our hymn puts it. And to hear him say, rise, follow me. No longer are you going to catch fish is the end. That's the clear implication. And that word for catch, that we caught nothing, and that they enclosed a large number, that's a different word from the word that Jesus uses when he says, now you will catch men. The word Jesus uses for catching men is a word that comes from the battlefield, not the fishing industry. And it has to do with capturing alive, saving for life. Because I tell you, an ancient battlefield was a terrible place to be. Because it was generally the case that everybody got killed if they could be. And if you got taken alive, that meant that Odds are you are going to live. And when Jesus uses that word, he's saying, Peter, you're going to be in the business of saving people from an arena of death that they might live. And that's the work of the evangelist. And no longer is he going to be catching fish in order to put them in a kettle, he is going to be catching people from a world of warfare so that they can live. What a calling. What an opportunity. What an opportunity to be a part of something that Christ Jesus, the Lord Himself, is going to do in reaching out with an invitation to people to stop dying and come and live. What an opportunity. And it's expressed to the first person in the Gospels who recognizes they are a sinner and they have no business being in the boat with Jesus. Because it is that recognition that qualifies him. It is your recognition that you are a sinner that qualifies you for fellowship with Jesus, the Son of God. That's what is necessary for you to have peace with the Father, your Maker. That is what is necessary for you to become a temple suitable for the Holy Spirit Himself To take up residence. I am a sinner. The very first membership vow that members of this church make As I confess that I am a sinner, justly deserving of God's wrath, without hope, save in his sovereign mercy, without hope, save in the fact that Jesus Himself said I could stay in the boat. Jesus himself invited me on mission with him to rescue people on the battlefield of death and call them to life and safety. Discipleship in the Gospel of Luke begins with a confrontation. It's expressed in an opportunity, and it involves a sacrifice. Look at the last verse. And when they, not just Simon Peter, but the sons of Zebedee as well, when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. And I want you to think about left everything. Imagine that Jesus Christ came to you, and I'm going to use a um I'm going to use a very suspect analogy here, so elders, please forgive me. Imagine Jesus came to you and said, you know what? I want you to go by what is it, mega powerball? Is that a thing? It's not a thing? I'm glad none of you know about it. Make no mistake, the lottery is uh really not a smart thing to do. But imagine for a moment that Jesus said to you, you know what, I want you to go play this number And you played that number and you won $2 billion. And then Jesus said, follow me. Would you cash that ticket first? Or would you leave it? Because I want you to think about this. Two boats, and those were big boats, two boats are full to the sinking point of fish. That's an awful lot of shekels, my friend. That's a payday and a half. That would have been the equivalent of two months' worth of fish caught on one day in one trawl. And they just leave it. They leave behind not only their past calling They leave behind a bigger payday than they could have ever imagined because they recognized In ways that were not recognized in Capernaum and certainly not recognized in Nazareth. Those three fishermen recognized that the real treasure here. It's not the gifts that Jesus gives. It's Jesus himself. And so they just walk away from everything and follow him. They walk away from everything and follow him. And that in itself is a sacrifice. Jesus was homeless. Jesus didn't have a guaranteed income. Jesus didn't have welfare or food stamps. Jesus invited them to walk a road of the greatest uncertainty they could imagine and to leave a life of great stability. Jesus called them to hazard all of their relationships, all of their accomplishments, and to count them as nothing compared to the greatness of knowing Jesus. And there's a sense, dear friends, when all three of these things must at some point intersect our calling to be followers of Jesus. We must be confronted with who he is from time to time. I am. We must from time to time re-encounter the great opportunity that it is to live this radical life. And stop being so overwhelmingly concerned with the mundane affairs of this life, of this culture, of this world. And to be, to use the word again, overmastered by this incredible thought that we are on a mission to see souls saved for eternity. Not just education, not just health care, not just clean water, not just literacy, But to see them hand in hand with the Lord of glory himself, the captain of salvation and author of life, who says to fearful souls, come. I would have you in my boat. And a sacrifice. God calls us to sacrifice. Sometimes he calls us to do and be things that are very uncomfortable in a world that in many respects is post-Christian, in some respects is hostile to Christianity. If you want to name the name of Jesus Christ in certain places on the West Coast, and you want to hold to what the Bible teaches regarding sexuality, You are not an eligible candidate for fostering or adopting kids. That's a sacrifice. There are sacrifices. that you may be called upon to make, to name the name of Jesus, and they may become more before they become less, as the Lord of history sovereignly determines. But in every generation, there is a cost to be counted in following Jesus. Because no longer can your life be fixated on you. Now it is focused on glorifying Christ. Now you are no longer intent upon uh getting as many blessings for yourself as you can. Now you're interested in becoming a blessing to as many people as you can. Now you are preeminently interested in storing away your treasures where they can never be stolen. And you're not as worried about your 401k. Now you are sacrificing temporary, shallow sometimes false pleasures for the inexpressible joy of having peace with God and fellowship with Christ and communion with his spirit And when I'm sitting in my office on a Thursday reviewing my notes scratched out on a glue pad, I'm thinking to myself, Bob, you are the luckiest man in the world. Because not only is this invitation for a sinner like you, but you get to invite other people. And I would invite you, dear friends. Do not be afraid. From now on, Jesus will make you fishers of men. To catch people onto life. Yes, you are a sinner. But Jesus came for sinners. And he's going to do something about it. And lead you from grace to grace and glory to glory. Amen. If any of you are afraid of Jesus at all, whether you've walked with him and are a born-again Christian, or whether you are realizing that I need to be right with Christ, I'm worried about hell. I would endorse and encourage you to explore that fear, but express it to the only one who can calm it. That is Jesus Christ. We will have elders in the back that would love to pray with you. And I would urge you to know this. Jesus delights. And telling people who become sensible of their dreadful and frightening condition, do not be afraid. And his arms are open wide to receive you. Almighty God, we come and we give thanks for the fact that the very first disciple that you've called is one who so beautifully models for us this picture of conviction, of fear, of repentance, of turning, of sanctification. And Lord, we pray that wherever we are in our personal pilgrimages with you, Lord, that you would be calling us always in anew. to leave behind nets and harvests and great catches and boats. And Lord, in whatever way you're calling each one of us to follow you, and to be a a redemptive, saving, life-giving agent in the life of others, whatever our careers may be, whether we're fishermen, Lord, whether we are like my brother Wayne, who led worship, a surgeon, whether we are teachers, Lord, we are all called to participate in this glorious, glorious calling. To catch men onto life. To catch women onto life. What a thought. What a calling. We praise your name. Bless us in Christ's name we ask. Amen.