Do you ever have ever have that experience where you have an idea and you think it's a great idea right up until the time that you go about to do it and then you think, what in the world have I gotten myself into? Well that's the way I felt uh yesterday afternoon about uh three o'clock. Oh until this morning about now. Oh, huh. I haven't started my clock yet. I g I guess I'll do that. Although the second service, you guys um There's nothing coming after this. So you guys have that blessing from the Lord, that opportunity to serve Alan and I have had conversations in the our preparation, my preparation for beginning to serve as an elder. And in those conversations we've talked about the nature of Christian service as he uh has sought to disciple me in that area. And one of the things that we talked about was this passage in Matthew 20, and I was relating some thoughts on Matthew 20 to Alan, and he said, Well, why don't you preach on that? And I and I said, All right. And uh and so that's how we got here But the point is that today's thought began as a discussion on the Christian service Christian service in the context of the role of the elder. But that's not what we're going to talk about this morning. And I want you to remember that as I present this passage to you, that Matthew 20 is the word of God delivered to you, and that you and I both have one teacher. The Holy Spirit. John, the Gospel of John tells us that the Holy Spirit counsels us, so in fact we can be taught. So that this morning, my prayer is that the Holy Spirit will speak to each one of us as we open up the scriptures and see what God has for us. Let's begin by reading Matthew 20. We'll start in verse uh seventeen and we'll go to verse twenty-eight. Matthew chapter twenty. As Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside by themselves, and on the way he said to them , Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him. And on the third day he will be raised up. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Jesus with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him. And he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit one on your right and one on your left. But Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? They said to him, We are able. He said to them, My cup you shall drink, but to sit on my right and on my left This is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by the Father. And hearing this, the ten became indignant with the two brothers, but Jesus called them to himself, and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them. It is not this way among you But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and give his life a ransom for many. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to your presence this morning with thankful hearts. We have rejoiced as we sang this morning of your greatness and of your glory. And as we heard from your holy word about the depth of our sin, we confess to you and rejoice that we receive forgiveness through the finished work of Christ. And so now, Lord, as we come to open the scriptures to see what it is that you would teach us this morning, I ask that you would help us. To lay aside the other thoughts that we have and the things that might distract us. For Father, you know the desperate need of our hearts. more than we do ourselves. Meet us here this morning, Lord Jesus. Holy Spirit, teach us from your word. In Christ's name we ask. Amen So we're going to be looking at Matthew 20, but before that, I want to spend just a minute in Ephesians, kind of to keep pace with Alan. So turn with me to Ephesians chapter four. Although I think I'm about eighty messages behind. But um in Ephesians chapter 4, we're going to answer these two introductory questions. Who are the ministers and what then, given that is the role of the elder. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11 says that he that is Christ gave some apostles, and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ. So the question who are the ministers? And minister and servant are interchangeable words in the New Testament. The word for minister is the word for servant, the word for servant is the word for minister. The answer is that you are the ministers. You are the servants, the body of Christ. So then what is the role of the elder or the pastor, the apostle, the evangelist? Well, unfortunately, our job is that uh we're the ball boys. We are the equipment managers And actually that's really fortunate. And we're going to see why as we look at Matthew 20. But our job is to equip the saints For the work of the ministry. And that's you. The ministry not only belongs to you, the service not only belongs to you, but it is really what defines the congregation. The ministry is the work of the body of Christ. And I want you to remember that as we go on because it's an important point. As we look at Matthew chapter 20, that it would be nice if it was just about ministers, that is, Alan and Steve and Tim. But it's really for us. It is for us, the saints, who are going to complete the work of the ministry in the power of Christ. So we see that the desire, the question that was asked was that they wanted to sit in Christ's right and left hand when he came into his kingdom. And Christ's response is uh, as usual, an arresting one. He doesn't say yes you can or no you can't. His initial response is, you don't know what you're asking for. Paul W. Hoon wrote a book in 1971 called The Integrity of Worship. And about 20 years ago, I heard a quote from it that has stayed with me. this entire time. And I want to share it with you because I think it really lends insight to this passage in Matthew chapter 20. Mr. Hun says that Jesus Christ continually contradicts us in the way we experience ourselves as alive. And compels us to radically redefine what we mean by life. He encounters us the way he encountered the disciples on Easter Sunday. They were the ones marked out for death. Those who survived him were really the dead. He, the dead one, was really alive. Jesus Christ continually contradicts us in the way we experience ourselves as alive, and he compels us to radically redefine what we mean by life. Let's look at the text. And the question that I had today in looking at this is: what were they asking for? That is, what are the characteristics of service and ministry in the kingdom of God? The first is found in the 22nd and 23rd verse, Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink of the cup that I am about to drink? They said to him, We are able. He said to them, My cup you shall drink. And he goes on from there. My cup you shall drink. The first characteristic Of ministry in the kingdom of Christ is that it involves the cup of wrath. It involves the cup of wrath. Christ, as he usually does, answers a question that is given to him with a question Can we sit on your right and left hand is the question. Christ's response, are you willing to suffer? Are you willing to suffer? He's just gone through the pr the suffering that he's going to have to experience in bearing the cup of wrath. And he asks them, Are you willing to to drink of this cup as well? In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul points out about the Christian life that it is different than the lives of those around us for a very distinct reason. He's talking about the resurrection in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. But if you go to verse 19, he says this. He says, if we have hoped In Christ, in this life only. In other words, if there is no resurrection, we are of all men most to be pitied. We are of all men most to be pitied. What's he saying? Paul's saying that there is something about the call of Christ on our lives. That is so radical that if there is no resurrection, and again he's speaking rhetorically, obviously he believes there is the resurrection. But if there wasn't, we ought to be pitied He continues on verse 30. He says, Why are we in danger every hour? Again he's speaking rhetorically. He begins to ask questions. Why are we in danger every hour? He says, I tell you this, I die every day. We were beaten, we he says we we faced wild beasts at Ephesus. And then he says this, if the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. So what's he saying? You know, I don't think that he's saying that uh we ought to be if there is no resurrection, everyone should just be a drunk and a lecher and I think anybody that's seen the uh ravages of alcoholism or the torn and destroyed lives from living in that kind of sin would agree that it is not something to be recommended in any sense. Paul is saying something that is more convicting. Paul is saying that there is an ordinary, normal, human life A rhythm of delights that we can enjoy with no troubling thoughts of heaven or hell if there is no resurrection. Let's see. About a month and a half ago the Brofies took us to a baseball game. Maureen and I and the Brofies went to a baseball game. Where we and about forty -four thousand three hundred and eighty-five other Screaming fans. Although this month I think it's more like 30,000 screaming fans, but where a large number of people got together and uh enjoyed the ordinary rhythm of life with no troubling thoughts of heaven or hell. And when I think about myself and Maureen and I talk, you know, we'd like to build a long home someplace on a quiet lake. And retire there. Some place the the kids, the grandkids can come. Those are the normal, ordinary things that Paul is talking about. Those are the things that we look forward to that are good things. But I wonder how they comport with Paul's claim that if the Christ is not raised, we are of all men to be most pitied. Quickly, I want you to see that this is not just for Paul, and it's not just for the disciples. It's for you and I as well. That's why you have those three passages right underneath the first point. Philippians 1. 29 Which not only tells you that it's for us as the church, but uh more interesting says that it has been given to us freely For you it has been granted for Christ's sake not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake. So that the cup of wrath is freely given to us. It is a gift from God. The second is 1 Thessalonians 3 3, and it says that we shouldn't be surprised that afflictions Because we are destined for them. So then not only is the cup of wrath freely given to us, but it's our destiny. And lastly, in 2 Timothy 3. 12 Paul tells Timothy that all that desire to live a godly life will be persecuted. It is common ground. So to me that's radical. It's counterintuitive, isn't it? It's not what we want. After the first service I was talking to uh someone in the foyer and and uh he said I don't want to suffer. And I uh echoed that sentiment. See we uh we try and avoid suffering. We uh purify our water We try to live in good neighborhoods. We um take aspirin when we have a headache. We move to places, we try to move to places that have a climate that we like By air conditioning for our house and for our car. We're coming out of the rain. We don't walk down dark alleyways at night if we don't have to. We flee suffering. And I would uh Submit to you that that's a good thing. Those are good choices. And yet there is something about the nature of Christian ministry which is so powerful and so compelling that Paul lives a life that he says is pitiable if looked at by human standards. The point is not that we're all called to be Paul or we're that we're all called to be martyrs. We're clearly not, though some of you or me will be. But the point is, what are we willing to sacrifice for the gospel? How precious is it to us? That we are willing to drink of the cup of wrath. Revelation 12. 11 says that the overcomers overcame by the blood of the Lamb And the word of their testimony, and then add to this interesting last statement, that they didn't love their own lives, even when faced with death. All right, so why is this cup integral? Why is it in why is it necessary? We established that yes, it is part of our lives. Why is it part of our lives? Well, you could preach a series of sermons on that. I am not going to do that this morning. But I want to give you two quick thoughts to take home and really to ponder. The first the first thought is in Second Corinthians, and it's in uh chapter twelve, verses nine and ten. And here's Paul talking about the fact that he has a thorn in the flesh. He has prayed that God would take away from him, but God refuses. God says that my grace is sufficient for you and my strength is made perfect in weakness. And so the first reason that the cup of wrath is a part of the Christian life. The part of each one of our lives as we walk with Christ is that in suffering we magnify the glory of Christ's all-sufficient grace. And not only that, but we cast ourselves on it. I would submit to you that it is in that crucible that the deep things of God are revealed, in a way that they can be revealed in no other place. There is a depth of yieldedness and suffering that is required that reveals God to us in His grace in all its glory. Annie Johnston was born in 1862. As a very young girl, her mother died. Before she reached the age of 10, her father died. She was placed in a foster home. The Flint family, and she became Annie Johnston Flint. At the age of eighteen, she was heading off to college when arthritis struck her in a very, very crippling form And she was bedridden for the most of the rest of her 70 years. During that time, early in her life, incontinence set in, and much to her embarrassment, she lived most of her adult life in diapers. She was blinded eventually. She was diagnosed with cancer. And her biographers write that the last time they saw her, she was in a bed with eight feather pillows propping her up to try and cradle her from the constant pain that she was in from the bed sores that have resulted from this crippling arthritis. Annie Johnston Flint wrote this poem, which in the hymnal in the Christian and Missionary Alliance Church has been set to music and is a precious, precious hymn. Listen to her words. He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater. He sendeth more strength when the labors increase. To added affliction, he addeth his mercy. To multiplied trials, his multiplied peace When we have exhausted our store of endurance, when our strength has failed ere the day is half done, when we reach the end of our hoarded resources, our Father's full giving has only begun. His love has no limit, his grace has no measure, his power has no boundary known unto men, for out of his infinite riches in Jesus He giveth and giveth and giveth again. Suffering, tragedy, reveals the majestic grace of God in all its glory. Secondly, and quickly, but majestically as well, suffering gives the body of Christ the opportunity to personally demonstrate to the watching world The suffering of Christ on behalf of his people. Colossians 1:24, Paul says this He says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I do share on behalf of his body, which is to the church, in filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. Filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. What an amazing statement. For we know that Christ's afflictions and his suffering was full and sufficient. To pay for our sins, completely covering the wrath of God poured out, not because of his sin, but because of our sin. So clearly the sacrifice that Christ made is sufficient and once for all. And yet Christ says that you will drink from this cup of wrath, which uh uh Steve Green and I were actually mostly Steve was talking to me about this, about the idea that the cup of wrath is very specific in Hebrew writing. And it is specific in terms of that judgment that God pours out for sin. That Christ took on our behalf. And Christ says to the disciples, there and through them to us that you will drink from this cup. And I would submit to you that suffering is essential. in the Christian life because in it we demonstrate to a watching world that cannot see the physical nails that were driven through our precious Lord's wrists and and feet, that cannot see the back that was destroyed. by beatings, the the face that was marred by having his beard pulled out, the thorns that ripped through the flesh and his forehead. They cannot see that But they can see us. His visible body. And as we suffer, we magnify the glory of God in proclaiming his suffering that he suffered on behalf of those that he's calling to himself. We have the awesome privilege of representing Christ and our suffering to the watching world. Finally, there's one line at the bottom that I want you to think about, and it says this the Christ-exalting miracle is not simply suffering, but it is joy and suffering. I challenge you to look at those scripture verses and to think about it. It is not just that we suffer. It is that somehow the grace of God is so sufficient. His mercy is so boundless that we in the in in the suffering that is ours in the Christian walk can suffer with joy. I leave that for you And we move on to the second thought. Verse 23, as we read about the cup, Christ continues and says To sit on my right and my left, this is not mine to give. And then he says something that really caught my attention for the first time just last month It is for those for whom it has been prepared by the Father. We are chosen by God for ministry. It is not something we pick It is not something that others pick for us. We are chosen by God for ministry. And that's exciting to me for lots of reasons. But I want you to see one in specific What was the question that was being asked here? Do you remember? They wanted to sit, the right hand and the left hand of the Father They desired to be with Christ. They wanted the best seats in the house, didn't they? They wanted to be right there in the center of the kingdom of God. And I think it's interesting that he doesn't start his response to them by saying, Boy, y you you ought not to be wanting that. The problem was not with their desire. The problem was that they didn't understand the radical nature of Christ's kingdom. Their desire was in a sense too weak. They would have been content to sit on thrones next to Christ. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 20 to 23, tells us that Christ has been seated in his position of authority in the heavenlies. That in fact Christ now rules and reigns. He has come into his kingdom. He is ruling and reigning now. But Ephesians doesn't stop there In chapter 2, in a passage that is very familiar to you, Paul, after talking about our unworthiness, our wretchedness Says this, but God, being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace we have been saved. And raised us up with Him and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the ages to come He might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness towards us. Brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ, you are right now where the disciples long to be. We have been seated with Christ in the heavenlies. He rules and reigns, and we are seated with him. Do you see that? The thing that they longed for, the thing that that they desired, but but they didn't understand It can't be earned. It can't be asked for. It is given because God, who is rich in mercy, with the love with which He has loved us Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ and raised us up with him, and he seated us in that position. So that the position of service in your life that God has called you to is not something you can earn. But it is something that has been given to you because it is prepared for you by the Father. Your second homework assignment is in Ephesians chapter 2. Read verses 8 to 10. And go back and read these other passages in Acts and 1 Chronicles, particularly 1 Chronicles and Philippians 2. Because I want you to see a second point, maybe more subtle. Because we really do want to have some say in this. We really do want to do something We want to have a part. And you can say, well, yes, I've been saved by grace, and yes, my position of service is by grace. But look at what I've done as a minister of the gospel. Look at my service. Look how important the things I've accomplished are. And Ephesians 2 refuses to allow you to say that. Because the good works that you are going to complete, because of the position God has called you to, they were before ordained. by the Father that you should walk in them. Even those redound to the glory of God. So that this prepares us for verses 25 and 27, where the leadership and the ministry and the service in the kingdom of God is contrasted with the greatness of secular leaders. Quickly, there are two things that we need to see about secular leaders. They exercise authority over people, but eventually they exercise authority upon people. And this is because their dominion is earned. You know, I work at the Capitol, and there are lots of people there that are in positions of authority. And they have gotten there by all kinds of different methods, but in some way or another they have earned their place there. And that privilege eventually ends up in a a method of leadership that uh exercises authority over other people. Okay? So that they say go do this and people go do this, they say go do that and people go do that. Because of the position they have that they have earned But I think that we readily see, even in our own lives, that if we're not careful, a position that we have earned and deserve over other people becomes a seedbed to have a position in which we exercise authority upon people, in which we take advantage of that authority. Christ says it's not that way in the kingdom of God. My question when I first asked that is, how can that be? You know, you it's like it like pushing a rope. How c how can you make it happen? You gotta get out there and lead, right? You've got to be in front and drag the rest of the congregation screaming and kicking behind you But it's not so in the kingdom of God. And it's answered right here in the text. Command in your kingdom. These two sons of mine may sit, one on your right and one on your left. Brothers and sisters, the kingdom of God belongs to Christ. It is his kingdom, not ours Authority is not from an autonomous man, you know, exercised and imposing our will on a following. The head is Christ. He provides the increase. So that it frees us, doesn't it, to be humble and to exercise service to one another in a humility that is born out of a recognition. of the grace that God has bestowed on both ourselves and on those who we serve. Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. We are compelled not to lead by dragging, but to lead by serving and to live by faith. So I would say this, I borrowed this from John Piper, by the way, that Christian service is the overflow of joy in God. That is in our relationship with God. It is the overflow of joy in that relationship which gladly meets the needs of others. And I would add that it gladly meets the needs of others Without counting the cost. Lastly and most preciously The Christian servant and his ministry or her ministry is consummated in the person of Christ Verse 28, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. I see this is the gospel. And we we'll preach on this and talk about this for all eternity, thankfully. This will never grow old. Let me share three things that I think are critical in looking at this text about Christ's ministry as he came not to serve, to be served, but to serve, rather, and to give his life a ransom for many. The first is that he serves with unconditional love. Romans 5. 8 says that God demonstrated his love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. If you are here this morning and you don't know Christ as your Savior and your Lord, there is only one message for you today to hear, and that is that the God who created the entire universe Loved you so much that he came and he took the cup of wrath for you as a ransom for your life so that you might be reconciled to him. So that he might get the glory that he created you to reflect. For us as brothers and sisters who know the Lord, the question still remains: have we seen how lost we are in the flesh outside of Christ. How the as Paul says, in my flesh dwells no good thing. There was a worker in Harlem that worked with inner city youth. And she wrote a poem, actually I'm sorry, not a poem, but she wrote a story about one of these youth that I think is instructive for us. So I'm going to read it to you. It's pretty brief. Talking about one of the young men that she was working with. He is dirty, ignorant, arrogant, dishonest, unemployable. He is broken, unreliable, ugly, rejected, and alone. And he knows it. He knows at last that he has nothing to commend himself to another human being. He has nothing to offer. There is nothing about him which permits the love of another person for him. He is plainly unlovable. But it is in his own confession that he does not deserve the love of another that he represents all the rest of us. For none of us is different from him in this regard. We are all unlovable. But more than that, the actions of this boy's life points beyond himself to the gospel of Jesus Christ, to God Himself. Who loves us though we hate him, who loves us though we do not satisfy his love, who loves us though we do not please him, who loves us freely and accepts us though we have nothing to offer And she closes it with this precious sentence. Hidden in the obnoxious existence of this boy is the scandalous secret of the Word of God. Whatever else he did, he was not able to thwart the unconditional love of God and the all-sustaining mercy and grace of God. Hidden in the obnoxious existence of your life and mine. In our misplaced desires and loves, in our selfish pride, in our desire to exalt ourselves, in our anger Hidden in our obnoxious existence is the scandalous secret of the love of Christ. Christ races to meet us where we are, and he loves us unconditionally Quickly he also served us with joy. Hebrews 12, 2 says that for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. And lastly, and perhaps most importantly, he served to the glory of God. So what is it that Christ is calling you to do today? If you're here today and God is showing you your sin, showing you that you have never bowed the knee To embrace Christ and all that He has done for you as Lord, the answer is simple. He is calling you to accept Him, to reach out to Him. And to allow his Holy Spirit to work in your heart in such a way that he brings you from death to life. If you're here this morning and you know the Lord, the question remains, what is God calling you to do? Brothers and sisters, he is calling us to serve. He's calling us to experience the joy of God overflowing to meet the needs of others. The call of Matthew 20 is a radical call. It's a call to serve Christ. Through service to one another and to the world around us, expecting suffering, as our Lord suffered, so that we might see his grace, so that we might proclaim his love. To a watching world, resting in the fact that we can't earn the position, but that it is given by God the Father. And looking to Christ as our model and as the power in which to live this life, to serve one another with unconditional love, to serve one another with joy. And to serve one another to the glory of God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, for its power Which cannot be thwarted. Thank you for your grace, Lord Jesus. Precious Jesus, our Savior and Lord. Thank you for the finished work on the cross. That took the cup of wrath that belonged to us, so that we might, by God's grace and mercy Be grafted into your body to give you glory. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.