If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10. This morning I'm going to be reading a very familiar story to us, one we would have heard in our earliest children's Bibles, this story makes its appearance. It's the story of the Good Samaritan. I'm going to be reading for us beginning with verse 25. Before I do, let's pray. Almighty God, we ask that you bless the reading of your word to us. Lord, we pray and we will never cease praying that you would help us to value your word rightly. to recognize that the Bible, the holy scriptures, consisting of the Old and New Testaments, are our surest, most certain means of knowing you Of understanding who we are, of discerning your will for us. Father, help us to see in your Bible a rule for faith and life, a comfort in living and dying. And encouragement in good times and bad. And Father, we confess humbly That we need your Spirit's assistance to read it and apply it rightly. So we ask, O living God, meet with us in the reading of your word and bless us. And Father, in the preaching that will follow, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, we ask your blessings on that as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 10, beginning with verse 25, the Word of God. And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, Teacher. What shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds. Pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him. And whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back. Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, the one who showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go and do likewise. This ends the reading of God's Word. It seems that lawyers always get picked on. Even two thousand years ago. I have a book in my office called The Exemplar, and it is a collection of sermon illustrations that were used in the High Middle Ages. And would you believe it, they picked on lawyers too? But this lawyer, this lawyer is a lawyer who appears to have been following Jesus at least recently. Remember, Jesus has just publicly told the seventy-two who returned, and with the buzz of seventy-two returning, whom Jesus had sent out two by two to all the towns of Judea to declare the nearness of the kingdom. And as they come back and great things are happening and people are probably gathering, what's that to do? And Jesus is hearing their reports and he's addressing them and he tells them, don't rejoice in the success of your ministry. Rather rejoice in this, that your names are written in heaven. And so in that context, this lawyer comes up. Not described as a disciple. And a lawyer then was an expert in the law, a teacher, a scribe, someone who knew the Old Testament well. It was more of a theological title. than a law that had to do uh a title that had to do the jurisprudence or the court system as we would understand it. It wasn't a secular title It had spiritual overtones, a biblical basis. And he comes and he says, teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? What should I do to ensure that my name is written in heaven is another way to put that. And so Jesus answers him and he says, How do you read it? He says, What do you think? You're an expert? You're a teacher, in your own right, what is written in the law. And the man answers with the Shema, love the Lord your God, with heart, soul, mind, and strength. And your neighbor is yourself. And Jesus tells them, You're right. That's a great answer. And if you do that, you'll live. Now you might think, well, wait a minute. Is that true? If he did that, he would live, he would have eternal life? And the answer is yes. I want you to think for a moment. If you were capable of offering a perfect, personal, and perpetual obedience to the God who made you, you would be a candidate for heaven. But who can do that? No one. So when Jesus says to him, Yes, do this and you'll live, this teacher of the law is immediately having a little bit of a crisis. Because he needs to justify himself. He needs to defend himself. So he's trying to figure out how he can square The fact that he's just rightly answered that I need this amazing obedience, a complete, total, unreserved love for God. and a corresponding love for my neighbor. So in order to justify himself to himself, he says, well who's my neighbor? Yeah, see, if you could make that small enough, maybe you have a shot. And Jesus gives them this parable that we've come to know as the parable of the Good Samaritan. And the parable of the Good Samaritan is designed to help this lawyer, this expert in the Old Testament, understand Who his neighbor was, and who he must love, and how that love should look. We make love to be whatever we are currently thinking, feeling, and doing for another person. We do this with a lot of words. I remember asking a member of the first church I pastored. I remember saying, let's call this person Bill. I remember saying, Bill, are you happy in Jesus? And Bill said, Yes, I'm happy in Jesus. Because all that ever happened was complaints and grievances and sorrows. But he was utterly persuaded that in point of fact he was really a happy person And I have since reflected on the fact that I like to read the Bible and see in it a call that I have to respond to. And rather than aspiring to obey that call, I redefined the call in terms of how I am right now. So if you ask me if I love my wife. The standard for that love is how I treat her right now. And I say, of course I love my wife. The standard isn't The perfection and the beauty of 1 Corinthians chapter 13 makes me say, Yes, Lord, I love my wife, only help me to love her. You see, how often do you settle for your current performance of certain duties you read in the Bible and assume that, yep, I can check that box? How often do you assume that, yep, I love my neighbor and check off not only what you're doing as being sufficient expressions of love, but the people to whom it is shown as a Sufficient extent of your love. And Jesus turns all of that on his head and calls this expert in biblical theology as was understood in Jerusalem in his day, turns it all on its head by calling him to the most radical, crazy, sacrificial, countercultural Expression of loving your neighbor as yourself that could have been imagined. I want you to notice first that Jesus is calling this man to demonstrate counter-cultural loyalties. And this should hit hard today. Jesus was an incredibly smart fellow. Amen. And he uses a trope that was called. A trope is like a literary device. And he uses this literary device of saying, first there was a priest. Then there was a Levite, and who would you naturally expect to be the third? You go priest, Levite, then you might think Judean? Citizen of Jerusalem? Pious Jewish person? Who's next down in that hierarchy of being in the who's who of the Jewish world of Jesus? Jesus goes, priest, Levite, Samaritan. You see, if you were a Jew living in the time of Jesus, there is no one you would find more despicable than a Samaritan. No one. You might think, well, wait, what about the Romans? The Romans conquered them. The Romans were were subjugating them. There were whole sections of Jewish society, for example, the Sadducees who were pro-Rome. Who encouraged cooperating with them. This is the way of the future. We better get as close to this world power as we can if we want to be successful and and and at peace and and thrive and even grow as a as a Jewish uh Entity. There were people who loved Rome. There is no one who loved the Samaritans. There were specific laws against marrying Samaritans, none against marrying Romans, not specific laws. You might think, well, why the hatred? Go back to Solomon. You'll remember King Saul was the king that went bad and died in battle, well, committed suicide. He was followed by King David, King David's son Solomon. Solomon was wisdom and many wives, which demonstrates that his great wisdom had limits. Solomon dies. His son Rehoboam becomes king in Jerusalem. And Jeroboam, who had begun rebelling against Solomon He was, Jeroboam was a, think of him as a as a cabinet member of Solomon's court And Jeroboam as Solomon started going bad and denying God and beginning to worship Ashtaroth and and foreign gods, Jeroboam was rebelling and withdrawing. So Jeroboam comes to Rehoboam and says, hey, let's work things out so we can be one nation. And Rehoboam basically says, no. Rehoboam promises that he is going to be a harsh and a demanding king. And so the kingdom of Israel splits. The ten northern tribes become what we know as Israel. And the two southern tribes, Judah and Benjamin, become Benjamin. They basically had a civil war that, rather than resulting in union, resulted in disunion. And so during the entire ministry of all of the prophets, there are two nations, Judah and Israel. Well, Israel. goes into captivity by the Assyrians, a century before Judah goes into captivity by the Babylonians. Now, when the Assyrians carry the Israelites off from the ten northern tribes, they repopulate with people from the area that we know of as Syria. And so there are people now living in the ten northern tribes area that aren't Israelite. They're not Jewish at all. That didn't happen in the south. So that when we read in Ezra and Nehemiah that the Jews returned from Babylon, Judea is still a Jewish part of the map. But as the exiles return to the northern kingdom, it becomes ethnically compromised. and spiritually syncretistic. The Samaritans, the ten northern tribes, only believe the five books of Moses are valid. Sometime between 350 B. C. and 450 B. C. , they built a temple on Mount Gerizim, which is the very site of the well where Jesus meets the woman in John chapter 4 and talks about worshiping on this mountain. You might say, why didn't he say in this temple? Because in roughly 125 B. C. , John Hyrcanus, a king in Jerusalem, came with an army and destroyed the Samaritans' temple on Mount Gerizim. And there was hostility and bad blood and hatred between these two groups. The Jews hating the Samaritans, the Samaritans hating the Jews. It was the kind of hatred that comes from a one-time union. I remember one time, yeah I'm a I'm such a sucker for clickbait. If anything says the worst or the greatest, I'm clicking on it. And that's why my home computer laptop has so many viruses. So that's a bad idea. But I can remember which state has the most beef with which state and I clicked on that website like it was going out of style. And it's amazing. If you look at the map of the of America and they did this story to find out which state hates which state the most The states that hate each other the most are always right next to each other. It's not like Alaska hates Florida. But Tennessee and Kentucky? Woo! Judea and Samaria, so close they ought to get along. A hatred that went bone deep. In the decades leading up to the time of Christ, it was not uncommon, according to ancient historians, to discover that pilgrims making their way through Samaria Galilee was still largely Israelite. Samaria was not. Judea was Israelite. These folks coming down to Jerusalem for the Feast of Tabernacles, Sometimes those wagon trains got raided with the result of murder. There was bad blood. Sometime when Jesus was a teenager, we know from a historian from the first century, a Jewish historian named Josephus, we know that a group of Samaritans surreptitiously entered Jerusalem and before the Feast of Passover desecrated the entire temple area with human bones. Now we might think, well, that's kind of a sophomore at college prank. No. That would be something akin to somebody uh burning every American flag and killing the president. You can think of that as happening four years ago, eight years ago, or four years from now. That was an act of national sacrilege second to none. Samaritans were hated. They were despised. They were ridiculed. They were considered corrupt and corrupting. You could not eat at a table with them. You could not stay overnight in one of their towns or villages, not if you were a good, conscientious Jew. And yet, this Samaritan saw someone who was Jewish and loved him. I want you to imagine what are the poles of sociological hatred in our world today. Let's take a trip briefly in our imagination to Minneapolis. And imagine an ICE agent and a protester You see, Jesus is stirring the pot in the same way that a preacher mentioning those two groups is stirring the pot. And it's as if Jesus is saying that, and you can pick your side, whether you tend blue or red, doesn't matter. You can pick which one is the victim and which one is the helper. That's the radical, strange, unexpected kindness and goodness of the neighbor in the Good Samaritan. Someone you would have every reason to bet every penny of your net worth. You would have every reason to think that there would be an absolute shunning and a hatred and a d despite and maybe you'd see the person down and you'd you'd spit on them for good measure. And yet it's that person Who shows this radical love. And it is a radical love. You see, being a good neighbor doesn't just call for countercultural loyalties, it calls you to be a good neighbor to the person you should be, by your s culture standards, hating. It also involves personal sacrifice. Did you notice the priest and the Levite, we read, passed by on the other side? Why is that? Why did they see their fellow compatriot lying beaten up on the side of the road and passing by? And you could tell if someone was a Samaritan or a Jew in that day by the way they dressed and by the way they wore their facial hair Read Jerusalem in the Time of Jesus if you want to hear more about that. It's only a 450-page book, and it's still in print. Joachim Jeremias is the author. So they they know this is a Jewish fellow on the side of the road, their fellow countrymen. They pass by on this side. Two reasons have been suggested. dating all the way back to the second century. Some think it would have had to do with cleanliness. You see, this man was beaten up badly and left for dead, and as we'll see in a moment. His recovery was a matter of probably months, not days or weeks. And so maybe he was laying there Absolutely inert. And the priest or the Levite thought, I can't get myself ceremonial unclean by helping him. I better stay far away and not risk touching him. That's one theory that we find as early as Origen, an early church father. The other great theory is that, well, maybe they thought that if I if I stop to help them, I'm going to get mugged. Maybe he's just a decoy. Either way, it would have involved risk and sacrifice to help that man in the moment. And neither the priest nor the Levite was willing to take that personal hit. And what would happen if they became ceremonially unclean? Well, if they're on their way to Jerusalem, perhaps to engage in temple service, they wouldn't be permitted to do that. It would have been a real accolade, a high point in their career. unwilling to sacrifice that feather in their cap to help a hurting person. They were a bad neighbor. Unwilling to risk, perhaps being exposed to some misfortune of their own in order to help someone whose life was hanging on by a thread. Risks, inconvenience, and costs I want you to think about how to help someone like this fellow who was beaten up and left for dead. There's no guarantee of any reciprocal response on that person's part. Think about our own world and culture, how we've had to pass Good Samaritan laws. Because if I, and I've been trained, I don't know, 20 times in CPR as a lacrosse coach, I have to get recertified every two years, and they did that forever, it seems And they have to pass laws in this country so that if you happen to save someone's life by breaking their ribs, doing compressions on the chest, they can't sue you. Now, why do we have a law like that? Because in our day and age, it's entirely possible that if you save someone's life by doing CPR but break their ribs, they could turn around and sue you for breaking their ribs. Stranger things have happened. You see, there's no guarantee that if you help someone who's incapacitated, there's no guarantee that they're not just going to turn around and hate you in return. Because he didn't help them properly, sufficiently, enough. And so recognize that the act of taking this man and putting oil and wine on him. Wine was considered to to cleanse the wound. Oil was something that would be used as a salve to help expedite the healing process and seal the wound to set him on his own animal, his own donkey, uh so that he has to walk the rest of the way. This is all unilateral, one-sided, the commitment. I'm gonna love this person even though there is no expectation they will do anything for me other than maybe hate me. It's a Samaritan after all. It's somebody who hates Jews, and I'm a Jew. A personal sacrifice with no expectation of reward. And an ongoing commitment is modeled here clearly as part of what it means to be a good neighbor. An ongoing, enduring commitment. And the next day. The Samaritan takes this is the next day after he's dropped him off at the inn. The next day, the Samaritan takes out two denarii and gives them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him. And whatever more you spend, I will repay when I come back. Two denarii. Is that a lot or a little? Do you have any idea? We read something like that and we might think, hmm, that's one of those, like a $2 bill, right? Polybius is a Greek historian who lived late. He died in the early 2nd century B. C. So around, I think he died around 125 B. C. So he's a little before the time of Christ, a couple generations. Inflation wasn't quite what it is today. But a night's lodging in Palestine costs one thirty second of a denarii. So to leave two denai was to leave two months worth of rent. Now even if you account for some inflation, he's putting him up for a month. And saying, if he owes anything more, I'll pay it when I come back. You might think, well, that's pretty far chronologically removed from the time of Jesus, but Jeremias, that fellow that I told you about that wrote the book Jerusalem in the Time of Jesus, has done a lot of research. Food for a day during the time of Jesus would have cost about one-twelfth of a denarii. So we're talking about roughly three to four weeks worth of food. Imagine going up to a perfect stranger who was hurt and saying, here's a month of rent and food for the month. While you recover. And if your expenses exceed that, I've got your back. And we don't even know if this man was conscious and able to say thank you or I'll pay you back. He was left for dead and clearly had dire wounds. And the overall picture that we get is that Jesus is telling this expert in biblical theology, this wonderful, educated Jewish fellow, Think Christian fellow in our context as we read it as Christians, that you are a neighbor even to people. You would be expected to reasonably hate. Despite the fact that it would take great personal sacrifice to show love. And in a manner that cannot be like a mushroom that springs up overnight and is gone the next day You are called to a radical, sacrificial, ongoing expression of love. to whoever you share this world with. What a high calling As a family, individually or in your small community groups, I want to encourage you to think about how Jesus demonstrates these same loyalties, sacrifices, and commitments to us. Think about how Jesus, he takes all that is his by right and gives it entirely to us that we might live. He does far more than take his oil and his wine and pour it on our wounds. He gives us his own blood. And he doesn't simply set us on his beast of burden. He gives us his birthright that we might be sons of the living God and daughters of the Creator of the universe. And his sacrifice. He wept for you and he bled for you. He died for you. He was raised for you. And his ongoing commitment. Even now he sits on the throne of heaven, bearing five bleeding wounds Yet incarnate, he will never cease to be your Savior and your God longer than time will exist, for the eternity of the everlasting. And we are called to be like Jesus. And we, though we were by nature enemies. We're out of God's great love and mercy, saved by grace through faith, by thee good neighbor, Jesus. And we're called to be neighbors to others in turn. But to whom? To whom are you called to be a good neighbor? We live in a culture that has kind of made it a virtue to hate the right people. Won't you feel called? Child of the living God, disciple of Jesus Christ, won't you feel called to love that person instead? Whether they're an immigrant or an ICE agent, won't you love them? And have you responded, dear friend, to Jesus' offer to be a good neighbor to you? At some point in your life, you're going to realize that you are on the side of the road bleeding out. And no one can help you. No one can stand between you and your conscience that condemns. A holy God that terrifies. A future that is certain and horrific. But then came Jesus. And he sees people like us lying on the roadside of life. And he says, I love you. I can help with that I would heal that. I will be with you forever, and you will be safe for eternity. This is the gospel. Having nothing to offer, but as close to a corpse as we could possibly be, we simply reach out our frail and trembling hand and receive the gift of God's grace. Jesus Christ coming alongside us and saying, I died to pay the penalty for your sins so that you don't have to die. Grab my hand and live. And we grab his hand by acknowledging our need. We call that repenting. Saying, forgive me for my sins, be my Lord and Savior, and rise up and follow your Savior. And He will never leave you nor forsake you. As long as you live. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on us. Father, we confess that we have been so very cultural in our loyalties. We have been so very sparing in our sacrifices. We have been so fickle in our commitments. Father, help us to be imitators of this Samaritan in the parable who is simply a picture of Jesus Christ. Lord, help us to truly love our neighbor, and help us to truly receive the love of that great neighbor, Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen. As you're able, please rise. I know the service has gone a little long. We had a lot to do today because of the snow day. If you have kids in the nursery and you would like to, I'd encourage perhaps one of you, uh mom or dad, can go uh Help get get your kids. Let's rise up and sing with uh with joyful, clear, and loud voices whatever my God ordains is right.