It's good to be able to preach God's word again and uh pray that the Lord would use it. And uh I'm grateful for the Holy Spirit because God uses All kinds of things for his glory. So let's turn this morning. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn in them. If not, it's on the screens before you It is the beginning of a new series, The Church on a Mission. And we're going to be looking at, for a little bit, we're going to be looking together at the Part of the Gospel of John called Jesus' High Priestly Prayer. But the reason for the series is to unpack together what we believe is a session God was calling us and is calling us to do in terms of our new and renewed. a vision statement as a church, and that vision is that CPC, Columbia Presbyterian Church, exists To experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Colombia, the region, and the world. That we believe that throughout the history of the church, that in Christ bringing the church into reality, it's always been a church on a mission. And it is on the mission that to declare the work of Christ, but also to enjoy his grace. And so we believe that God has called this church in this place in this community to both experience His grace and to extend it And we're going to be unpacking what that looks like from John 17. But before we get to all of it, it's appropriate to begin the series by looking at, well, what is the mission of Jesus? To fully understand what our mission is, we must fully understand what the mission of Jesus is. And in fact, we see in this prayer What that mission is. So look with me together at John 17, verses 1 through 4, and then verses 15 through 19. Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Now, this is eternal life. That they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. And then John 17, 15 through 19, My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified. May God bless the preaching of his word. It's very interesting, in fact, what we recognize in this passage. Is that Jesus in this prayer, as he's coming to the end of his earthly ministry, preparing to go to the cross, these are the things that he prays. And I recognize that there are so many different things that could be said about these verses. And we're not going to be able to unpack all of these verses this morning. That's going to be the purpose over these next number of weeks. But this morning I want to particularly focus our attention on the mission of Jesus, what it is, the focus of the mission, and how do we get in on the mission? But let me clarify for just a moment. You'll recognize if you have your Bibles open, or if you're familiar with the passage at all He first prays for himself, he then prays for his disciples, and then he prays for those who would believe on the message that the disciples would preach. But what is interesting is that he says in verse 20, My prayer is not for them alone, meaning everything he's just prayed is for the disciples, but also for those who would believe the message that the disciples preached. That includes all of you. That includes the church throughout its history since its inception. But again, let me also say that the church has been from its inception been on a mission to declare and to know. Who God is and who Christ is, his grace, but then also to declare it. But this morning I felt it appropriate that we begin by looking at the mission of Jesus. itself. So this morning let's first then look at what is the mission. And you will see that what the mission is by seeing what it reveals and what it accomplishes. Let's look first at what the mission is by what it reveals. We see here very click very clearly in the first opening verses what exactly it reveals. Jesus says particularly This is now a personal prayer, which, by the way, he's also praying. While his disciples looked onward and were with him, he looked toward heaven and he prayed, and he says, Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. One of the things that this prayer reveals is it reveals what Jesus' mission is, and that is first. of why he came. Now here's something very interesting. We need to ask the question what the mission is and what it reveals because there seems to oftentimes be a lot of confusion in our modern day of what exactly Jesus came to do. I went to a local bookstore uh this week, spent a little bit of time in the religious Christian Inspiration section and just looked at what the titles are. Or if you look at what the titles are, you see very quickly about what it reveals about what we think the mission of Jesus actually was. There's a lot of discussion about giving faith, giving hope, giving joy, giving faith inspiration, giving a balanced life, how to have a better family, how to have a better marriage, how to be a better parent. Or even if for just a moment if you leave the Christian inspiration section and go to the Christian reference or the theological reference, you'll see a lot of books about even Jesus. But what is interesting there too, and I keep using the word interesting a lot, so I find a lot of things interesting. It's this. It's that there's discussion about the historical Jesus. Who was the real Jesus? So if you take one of those books and you simply open to the back to the index and look at the subjects, that are brought up in the book, what it you find there, what's revealed, is that it says very little about the holiness of Jesus It says very little bit about the glorification of Jesus. It says very little about what Jesus actually prays for in the last and longest recorded prayer that we have of Jesus Himself. It's interesting. We we call it the Lord's Prayer, what he teaches how, but that's how he teaches the disciples to pray. This is the Lord's Prayer. And what he reveals is something that might surprise us. Jesus' mission was not first and foremost to come and to tell us that he loves us. So often it is believed that Jesus' mission was to come to declare the love of God. What we find here in these first few verses is that it reveals that Jesus first and foremost came to glorify his Father. Because of his love for the Father. Please understand, I'm not suggesting that Jesus does not love. He most certainly does. For God so loved the world, but what Jesus came to do was first and foremost, is to glorify his Father. Isn't that what it says? He says, Glorify your son, and your son that your son may glorify you, for you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those You have given him. Now this is eternal life, that you may know that the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom He has whom He you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. So his first priority is to do the work, to do that which glorified his father. And what we see is what glorified his father was to make the Father known and to make himself known. Now, that may not seem very radical But it is extremely radical. There are many books that would tell us that the central point of Jesus' mission Was to say, I love you, now love one another. But I will tell you, if that was Jesus' mission That doesn't adequately answer the question, if that was his mission, then why did they crucify him? They would never have crucified Jesus if his message was merely, I love you, now love one another. If he had simply said, God loves you, now love one another, they would not have crucified him You see, embedded in these first few verses is that this tells us that Jesus' mission was to glorify the Father, and in so doing, by showing the Father The radical nature of what Jesus was doing is, if you have seen me, you have seen the Father. It's interesting because this is part of the great themes of the Gospel of John. We hear it in just the first few verses of the of the Gospel itself when he declares something which may be familiar if you're a Christian. Surely you have heard this. But in John chapter 1 it says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. John understands that what Jesus reveals in his mission is that he came to glorify the Father by revealing to everyone he represents the Father and He Himself is God. That was scandalous. That was blasphemous. When Jesus said, If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. Only the Father can forgive sins, and then Jesus forgives sins. Do you see what the Father sent him to do? That is why he went to the cross. Because he claimed to be God himself. And here Jesus says That is the work you gave me to do. It's to glorify you, and he glorifies the Father by revealing the Father in who he is. And therefore, his mission was to reveal just that. Surely Jesus said For God so loved the world, most certainly. But it's radical because he was saying he is God. And then he says that the problem is not what you have done. The problem is not, even sensorally, that you have failed to love one another. The problem is your nature. The problem is sin. That it has infected every relationship, every thought, every part of who you are Isn't that what Jesus declares when he says, when he prays for them? That he, in fact, has come to give eternal life. That means that there's a problem, that death has entered in. And the great sweep of the Gospel of John. is saying that the problem of sin is why God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son But the mission is seen in what it reveals that Jesus was wanting to glorify the Father by doing the work. Therein lies the mission. When it says that he is sent, that's the same word that we get the word from the word Greek, the same word we get the word mission. So the very idea of what Jesus came to do was his mission. to declare the Father, to bring him glory by making known eternal life through him. Isn't that what John declares earlier on? For no one comes under the Father except through me. I am the way The truth and the life. That was Jesus' mission to say, I am the way, I am the truth. I am the life. And then, as we heard read earlier, John chapter 10, he laid down his life for his sheep. And now he's praying, Father, glorify yourself by glorifying me. And now hold that for just a moment, and then we will get there. Isn't it amazing that Jesus could pray? Now, whether you're a Christian or not, I want you to think about this question. Isn't it amazing that Jesus could pray that the most glorious thing that He could do by glorifying the Father and where He was glorified is to be lifted on a cross. That is amazing and is incredibly radical. And I will say is the dividing point But it cannot be denied. Jesus died, and he said that is what would bring glory. Because of what it would accomplish. The mission is seen in what it reveals, also what it accomplishes. Jesus means to say That he came to reveal the love of the Father, the eternal life that comes through him alone, by showing the Father in what he is getting ready to do. but not just to save individuals and leave you as such. He came to accomplish a people. It's why it says sheep, meaning plural. Here, disciples, a group. Here, whereas he prays for the church. What does he pray? That they would be one, that they would love one another. He meant not to come and to save a bunch of discreet people. No, he came to save individuals into a people. The mission of Jesus is to show the Father, to glorify him by revealing the saving Purposes of God. Yes, he loves us. Yes, we can declare that Jesus loves, but he first and foremost loved the Father to glorify him. In this radical revelation that He Himself is God in the flesh, to die on a cross would be His glory point to make a people But here's the question. If that's the mission, then what does this prayer tell us about the focus then of the mission? Well he tells us. What it tells us in verse seventeen, it says this Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself that they too may be truly sanctified. What I want to show you is, yes, that the focus of the mission is a little bit of what I just said a few moments ago. First, it's to glory, to glorify the Father, but it is also to sanctify. To glorify and to sanctify. Now, what is interesting is this: that Jesus says that his desire was to glorify the Father. In so doing, the focus of his mission was to open up how is it that Jesus' death on a cross glorifies the Father? Because it was not Jesus who was guilty of sin. It was humanity. How does the cross glorify the Father? Because it reveals the character of the father. We have the catechism. It says, Who is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice. Goodness and truth. That God is all of those things, and He does not change, and yet The glorifying point, the rallying point of the mission, the focus point of the mission was that the Father would be glorified by his son. Dying on a cross because it reveals the character of God, His mercy, His compassion, His patience His grace, Jesus It tells us in the prophet Isaiah had nothing in and of himself to draw us or attract him, attract us to him. He was a common man, born to a poor family in a backwater town, to a carpenter as a father. And yet, what he came to do was to reveal what was most attractive, not his external beauty But his profound wisdom, from his earliest days, even when Jesus uttered words as a young man in the temple, people were floored. Because he revealed the truth and wisdom of God. In his miracles, in his compassion, he showed over and over and over again that he was willing to befriend and to be around those who were ostracized and who were on the outside. Those who were the least likely to get it got it Jesus is revealing the character of God. So the focus is first and foremost. To glorify the Father through the focus point of the cross by revealing the beautiful character of God Now, with that said, this text also tells us as he then prays for the disciples and for us. For all who would hear the message, he says, Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth I'm very thankful to Dr. Timothy Kellogg, who pointed this out in a very accurate way. Of all the things to pray for As one of the last things that he would pray prior to going to the cross for his disciples. Isn't it interesting? He doesn't give them like, you know, this this book, like, here you go, just read this and everything will be okay. He doesn't pray for them, you know, physical power. He doesn't pray for them remarkable cunning ability in argument He doesn't give them the five points of what to do when confronted. He prays for the disciples to be sanctified. What was Jesus doing? That seemed to be the focus of this mission. That in the process of drawing people to himself into eternal life meant that he was going to sanctify. What does the word sanctify? Do you use that word very much? It's not a word I use very much. It's certainly not a word I hear outside of church. It's certainly not a word you're going to find if you go to the Christian bookstore oftentimes on the labels of books. Or even to the Christian section of Barnes and Noble. But the word is a profound word in the Bible. It literally means to set apart For a particular use, for a special use. We can go all the way back to the Old Testament We can find pieces of furniture that were sanctified, meaning set apart for the service of God, for the worship of God. But here he says that they would be set apart. And then he says, the means by which they are set apart. And that gives us a little bit about not just are they set apart, but what happens when they're set apart. He says this: He says, they are sanctified. By the truth. Your word is truth. Meaning, it isn't just that he sets the disciples aside. He sets them aside and he sets those that he draws to himself aside for the purpose of worshiping and living out life to the Father, but by what means? By what? The Word. If you remember it, it is John who says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And the word became flesh and made his dwelling amongst us full of grace and truth. It means that the only way that the disciples can understand for what they have been made for, what they have been set aside for, is by immersing themselves In the revelation of Jesus Christ Himself. They've been set apart To be formed by, to be changed by, to be challenged by, from the inside out, the Word. of truth. And that is all that Jesus spoke, all that Jesus taught, which is why we have the Bible. The Bible reveals the nature of God, the character of God, his saving purposes, and how he would go about it, Jesus Himself. In other words, to be set apart. is, as one writer said, to think God's thoughts after him. Well, I can't do that unless I know God's thoughts Unless God's thoughts enter into me and begin to change me from the inside out. So being set apart to be sanctified is the focus of Jesus' mission. was for his disciples and those that he would draw to himself, those of you who can hear my voice, are being called to this as well. That it isn't just being receiving salvation from Jesus and, well, have a good time. Good luck with your faith. It means to then turn back to this word and define our purpose. To find our power, because in it we hear and see, and it is revealed the character, the beauty of God Himself But the focus of Jesus' mission is to glorify and to sanctify. But then how do we get in on this mission? How do we get in? We get in on this mission if we are willing to accept The premise that Jesus means to save, sanctify, and make you holy. You get in on the mission if you're willing to embrace and accept Jesus as King Which we have spoken about this morning, the very beginning of our service. Pastor Flora 's voice is rolling over in my head. Do you know this king? Do you know this king? A king is a ruler, he is a sovereign, he is in control, he has dominion, he has power. And to know Jesus and his mission and to be set apart for him and by him is to then say and to embrace: you are my King. And to get in on the mission, how we do it, is to say, okay, I embrace this. But before we're willing to say, I'm willing to embrace this, we must recognize it is total. It is total. Meaning this, there are no people this morning who can hear my voice or who can see me. Who are in a neutral position. Let me explain. John Piper writes these words He says becoming a Christian is not like standing neutral between two possible options, having the power of ultimate self-determination, and then deciding from the outside which we will devote our lives and service to. There are no neutral people. Let me read that again. Becoming a Christian is not like standing in a neutral place between two possible options with the ultimate power of self-determination to decide then who am I going to serve The issue is, who do you serve? Because I will tell you That if it is not Jesus that you serve and are not willing to embrace, that Jesus calls you as King To wholly be set apart for him by your thoughts, your words, your deeds, your will, your motivations, your very life. And because you say that's too much, what I would say to you is Well then you're giving all of those things over to somebody else or to something else. Consider these thoughts by a wonderful author, Carolyn Weber. And I recommend this book extremely highly. She wrote in a book this past year the title of the book is Surprise by Oxford, a memoir. It's a story of her life In going from a radical skeptic to becoming a believer and doing so through her academic studies at Oxford University. But prior to leaving to Oxford, God had already begun to begin to knock on the door of her brain and her soul and her heart because he was trying to send her a message. And she looked back on it now. And she could see it. And this is what she said just prior to going to Oxford. She said, just before going abroad, I came across an epigram by Alexander Pope. An 18th century English poet, see, she was going to do her doctorate in English literature She said, Pope engraved the verse on the collar of a dog, which was then gifted to the king. So Alexander Pope took a verse and wrote it and had it inscribed on the collar for the dog that was given to the king. The verse read this way. I am his highness's dog at Q. Pray tell me, sir, whose dog are you? And she writes, granted, the dog image is not an elegant or a politically correct as some might prefer. But it does effectively beg the question, just who is your master? For we all have one. No individual by the very state of existence can avoid a life form of servitude. It only remains for us to decide, deny, or remain oblivious to whom or what we serve. The problem is this. Ultimately, it is not the totality Of our lives that must embrace what it means to be set apart for Christ through Him. The problem is we still want to hold some back. We still want to be our own master. But the question is, are you denying the totality of this? Have you decided for the totality of this? Or are you remaining oblivious to the fact that if it is not Jesus that you serve, who do you serve? Because you serve someone. She concludes, she says, before I left for Oxford, the answer was easy. I was my own master. But please note, Jesus did not come to die on a cross to save for himself a people, to glorify the Father by forming godly character, holiness, and goodness in his people. So that we could reserve certain parts of ourselves for ourselves. It is total You see, I saw this this last week when I had the opportunity on the Labor Day weekend. I took the opportunity to worship at a local church, a friend of mine who I met a few years ago as the pastor there. And the final song of the service, of which is our final song this morning, was Take My Life and Let It Be. Now, as a pastor, it is hard oftentimes to worship in your own church because you're so caught up in what's going on. So in that moment I wasn't the pastor. I was just Randy. And I began to sing that song, which I know so well. And it got to the verse where it says, Take my will and let it be. Consecrated, Lord, to thee. And I stopped. And I asked myself this question: Am I really that much of a hypocrite? Am I really willing to pray that way, just as I'm willing to sing it? I ask myself this question. Okay, today's Sunday. Randy, tomorrow is Monday. Am I willing to get up on a Monday morning or any other day of the week? Am I willing to pray, Lord, first thing, before I dig into the email, before I look at the headlines, before I do whatever it is I do in my comfortable little routine Am I willing to pray, Lord, today, take my will and let it be consecrated, Lord, to you, given to you for what you want me to do. What do you want me to do? I began to realize that I don't like to ask that question. And quite honestly, as I sang that song, it felt like a kick in the teeth. But I want you to know that the Lord didn't leave me there Because in that moment I saw just how radical, how total it is to be in on the mission, to embrace Christ as King. And I'm still getting it But what I was left with, as I prepared this week, were these words That there's no way you and I will be willing to embrace the totality of Christ's mission, to be set aside, to be set apart. For him, for his glory, out beyond myself, unless I recognize the beauty of the words in the final verse of this text. For them I sanctify myself that they, or so that, that they too may be truly sanctified. I'm so thankful for D. A. Carson and his great commentary on this gospel, who said, Do you see that word? Do you see the order of verse 19? Because he takes the word sanctify and he takes it all the way back to its Old Testament roots. And he said the word sanctify there can actually be used with the word consecrate. Stick with me. The word consecrate was exclusively used for something which was set aside as a sacrifice to the Lord. That meant that Jesus says, I sanctify myself, meaning I set myself apart. As a sacrifice of flesh and blood for flesh and blood, so that you, so that I can begin to have the power. To say, take my will and let it be. Consecrated Lord to me And the Lord began to take what I felt like was a kick in the teeth, and he began to show me that while the calling is radical and total and completely on my life and on your life. That he came first to give me the power through his dead and risen Son, Jesus Christ. Because I could then go and say, Lord, forgive me, for I do not want to pray. Take my will. I want you as an accessory to my already well-ordered life. Can't you just be like the spiritual accentuation to life? Can I keep my comfortable little routine, my day in, my day out, and throw in a little prayer, a little song and call it the Christian life? Jesus, and this text tells me no, he is no accessory. He is the end all and be all of life itself. And the only way you or I will be able to embrace and accept what He has done and what He has called us to is to first see Father, glorify yourself as you glorify your Son, for I came to do the work you gave me to do. Now, only through Christ can we sing. Take my life and let it be. Consecrate it, Lord, to thee. Pray with me. Heavenly Father, I confess to you That the words of your scriptures, that even the words of Him so easily roll across my tongue, but Lord have mercy. For I'm just beginning still to understand what you're calling us to. But I know in my own heart As I know the hearts of the hearers, perhaps those who can hear me, we cannot, we will not be able to do this unless you first show us how radically, how totally you have given yourself for us May that be our power. May that be the source of grace in our weakness, in our frailty. Help us, we pray. By your grace, to experience your grace, all for you. In Jesus' name. Amen.