Paul writes to Timothy about the office of deacon. Please join me in prayer before I read the scripture for us. Almighty God, we thank you for the fact that you give us different gifts and you give us different callings. And Lord, that we're not all the same, we have different interests, different abilities, different strengths, different weaknesses. We have different opportunities and different needs, and Lord, because of that we not only work well together, but we depend upon one another, and we flourish best when we are closely engaged with each other. Leaning upon one another's strengths and leaning upon one another in areas where we are weak. Father, we ask that you bless us as a church. Lord, help us to fulfill these offices well Help us to be saints in that New Testament sense. Lord, help those called to be elders and deacons to serve well and willingly. And Lord, help us all to receive their ministry. Bless the reading of your word, God. We ask in Christ's name. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, Lord, we ask your blessing on that also. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. First Timothy chapter three, beginning with verse eight. Deacons likewise must be dignified. Not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience, and let them also be tested first. Then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober minded, faithful in all things. Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves, and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, you might if you were here last week, you might remember the bulletin and you might look at the bulletin this week and say, wait a minute. Uh pastors uh cutting us short on the sermons. This looks a lot like last week's sermon. Same three points, nature of the office, qualifications, and function. And look at that, the first two points have the same subpoints. Necessity, dignity, plurality, character, and doctrine. What did he have vacation this week or something? Uh I did have a day of vacation, but that is not anything to do with the fact that I decided after about three hours of working on the sermon that I'm going to follow that same template for a reason. These offices present the same kinds of questions. What is it like? What is it for? How does it operate? Who does it? And the texts provide the same answers. You'll see that the description Paul gives for deacon started here with the word deacons likewise. He's just described the office of elder in remarkably similar terms. It's dignified. It requires dignified persons. It is important, even necessary Churches are supposed to have deacons. As we'll see from Acts chapter 6, when churches don't have deacons, things can go sideways in a hurry. And there's always a plural of deacons, never just one. Now let's take a running start at that and look at the necessity of the office of deacon, and for that I'm going to ask you if you have your uh your Bibles out. Okay, keep your finger in 1 Timothy and turn with me to Acts chapter 6. Read about something that happens even before the office of elder is explicitly The apostles functioned as what we might call proto -elders in their spiritual care and shepherding ministry, but something was happening in the very, very earliest chapters of the church. In the in the book of Acts, there are six short passages that describe the growth of the church. And I've often thought that in all of the proliferation of church growth literature, someone ought to just go and look at the sixth The six short passages that talk about the growth in the Church of Acts, and we ought to simply look at that. The first one is described right here. Acts chapter 6, verse 1. Now in these days, when the disciples were increasing in number, growing, a complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews. What does that mean? There were a lot of Hellenists, Greek Christians, who hadn't been Jews first. They hadn't, like many, converted to Judaism and then decided Jesus was the Messiah. They had converted through the ministry of people like Paul directly from Greek paganism to becoming Christians. So you've got these Jewish Christians, the Hebrews, and you've got these Greek Christians Who had never been circumcised, didn't know anything about whether or not it was good or bad to eat pork, and you have this mixed group in the early church. And so this complaint from the Greek Arose against the Hebrew Christians because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. Full stop. What is the daily distribution, you might ask? During the era of the Roman Empire, it was very common that there were clubs and associations throughout All of the Mediterranean world. And these clubs and associations functioned in ways that we don't really have a good parallel for today in our modern society. If you were part of a club or an association or an organization like the church clearly became, widows were fed. Burials were paid for, weddings were celebrated. It became something where there was a social contract where if you joined that organization, that outfit, or in this case the church, It functions something like a social security net. That was part of the fabric of the ancient world. There was no federal anything, unless you lived in Rome and got free entertainment and bread. Everything had to do with the social networks you had in your world, your town, your city. Now, if somebody had converted to follow Christ, they were automatically denied the distribution of any pagan associations they had for their widows. And so the church recognized that when people came to Christ and became associated with the church, they still had physical needs. They still had widows. They still had people that couldn't provide for themselves, that needed care. And the early church rose to the task. But they clearly did so in a somewhat ad hoc helter-skelter manner that left gaps. And it might be very, very easy for people to overlook those with whom they had fewer natural affinities. I can remember pastoring in California, and I pastored several immigrants, and I had uh well one elder in particular who really struggled with understanding accents. He he just he couldn't I could talk to my friends Mohit and Ne Too and I understood every word they said. He he couldn't understand at all. And he naturally did not go out of his way. And I say naturally, maybe it's not the best thing. But it was out of his comfort zone to try to minister to people whom he couldn't communicate with. There are all kinds of reasons why people Don't see or look past folks that are challenging for them to connect with. But that doesn't make it okay And the apostles, the proto -elders, if you will, become aware that this is happening, that there are people being overlooked and neglected. And it's happening in a way that is creating an us in them. And they immediately say, this is not good. And so an entire class, an entire office is instituted in the church. Six men are picked. Every one of them has a Greek name. That doesn't mean they were all Greeks. Remember, Levi also had a Greek name, Matthew. But it does mean that they were all very comfortable operating in both worlds. One of them, we are told, was a man who had been a pagan and had converted to Judaism And then become a Christian. His name was Nicholas. The manner described here. Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Procorus, that's a Latin name, and Niconor and Timon, and Parmanus, and Nicholas, a proselyte or a convert of Antioch. These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them. And they were ordained to make sure that there were no gaps in the coverage. That everybody was cared for. And they also freed the elders, the apostles, up, to do what they were called to do. So that the apostles could be dedicated to the ministries of prayer and the word, these men were raised up and ordained. So that while the elders or the apostles are caring for the spiritual needs of the church, the deacons are with deep sympathy and service caring for the physical needs of the church. And it's very instructive for us that the church is concerned with both. It's easy for us to think that the church is really a sort of a a spiritual organization in an almost Pythagorean sense. And for some of you kids who struggle with math, well it might help you to know that Pythagoras was a heretic. Pythagoras, as in Pythagorean Theorem, he taught that the body is the prison house of the soul and the flesh and the body and Appetites, they're bad, you want to get freed from all that. Just focus on the spiritual or the intellectual. Sadly, there are churches that should not be called Presbyterian, but rather should be called Pythagorean. We are called to look at people in the totality of their being, enfleshed, incarnated souls, and we're going to have bodies in heaven, beloved. And God has called us to care not just for one another's souls, but for the bodies in which our souls live and breathe and have their being. And to do that, God has established that there be an order, an ordained office, the most dignified thing the Bible can speak of, an ordained office. Specifically dedicated to being sure that people have enough food to eat. So while the elders are responsible To pray and to preach and to minister directly to the souls. The deacons are eager And diligent to care for the bodies. There's a lot of overlap. There is a lot of overlap. Elders also rise to the occasion and take care of physical needs whenever they're able But when meeting physical needs impedes their ability to pursue their primary calling, which is prayer in the word, it is right. For the deacons to rise up and to take that off their plate, if you will. Similarly, the deacons Are focused on meeting the physical needs, but they are also more than competent to read scripture and pray with people and to teach and even to preach. This is about primary callings, not exclusive abilities. And I've known many men who have at different seasons of their life been either an elder or a deacon or both. And I hope it's okay that I mention this. Where's is Bob Bob where there is? You were an elder at a previous church. Am I right? I am correct. And now he's got a calling to be a deacon. And I've seen that function the other way as well. It is a necessary office because we are bodies with physical needs. It is a dignified office because it is ordained and set apart to do a work on behalf of Christ, who after all fed people and offered them drink to eat and healed their diseases. And it is an office that can't be done alone. Deacons are referred to in the plural when the office is mentioned everywhere in the Bible And in their first instance, it wasn't one person ordained to take care of that one church in Jerusalem. It was six. And so when we think about this office, it's very much like the office of elders. It's necessary, it is dignified, it is a high and holy calling, and it involves a plurality. But what are the qualifications for it? They are almost verbatim the same as for being an elder. In fact, you could argue by the fact it says deacons likewise And then we have synonyms, if not the exact same words, to describe the criteria. The criteria are the same. They must be men of deep and abiding Christian character And they must be men who have a firm grip on the deep truths of the faith. They have to be doctrinally orthodox just as well as elders. Look at what it says in verse 9. Deacons must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. They have to be able to say, Yes, I know what the Bible teaches, and I believe it, and I am committed to it So when we have deacons nominated, they're trained, and we get we examine them and their doctrine the same way we examine an elder. It's the exact same test in our book of church order. The exact same test. And they are men of deep character. We see the same descriptions. They can't be double-tongued. What does that mean? I think we all know. Saying one thing to one person, one thing to another. I must confess I struggle with being double-tongued. When I spend time with my nephews, whichever one I'm with is always my favorite. And then they get upset because they find out that I told the next guy he was my favorite, and I say to the other guy, well you were hanging out with me. And uh it's okay to be joking like that, but when it comes to true things that matter seriously, we should have a single message, should we not? I should be able to say one thing to one person and the same thing to another, and it'd be consistent. I shouldn't be one person to this and pretend I'm for X, Y, and Z, and then when I'm talking to that person, be some kind of theological chameleon and say, no, now I'm a now I'm X, Y, Z. We have to not be hypocrites. We can't be addicted to much wine. That basically means be a drunkard Remember, everybody drank wine in the ancient world, and Jesus' first miracle was creating wine at a wedding in Cana. It doesn't say they can't drink wine, it says they can't be addicted to much wine. They can't be greedy for dishonest gain. They can't be always looking at what's in it for them. How can they personally benefit from someone else's trouble? And again, they have to be doctrinally faithful There's one area that this text touches upon that is also mentioned with respect to elders that is also something of concern to us today. Look at what it says. The deacons must manage their children and their own households well, for those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence. in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. What does it mean that deacons like elders are called to manage their families well? The text from Titus that talks about elders mentioned last week that their children must believe. That word believe could be faithful. They must have faith. And there's been a lot of debate over the course of the Christian centuries, especially since the Protestant Reformation. The reason it's been especially true since the Protestant Reformation is because beginning it around five hundred or so six hundred AD it became more and more common for clergy, people who would be the equivalent of elder today, to be single, to take a vow, celibacy. So families became irrelevant in the life of the eldership in particular After the Protestant Reformation, of course, men like Martin Luther and John Calvin, they got married. They had kids. And then they struggled with what does this mean? that an elder or a deacon has to manage their family well or that their children must be faithful and obedient Does that mean that if I have a child who is an adult and is not a Christian, I can't be a pastor? Does that mean that if I have a child who is wild and crazy and maybe serving prison time, I can't be a pastor or an elder? Does that mean that if I have a child who is well-behaved and law-abiding, but doesn't attend church and has no interest in it, can I be an elder? These are questions that have exercised the church for well for centuries now, and particularly today, when you can scarcely find a pastor in all of America who has more than one kid whose kids are all following Christ The word used for believer in Titus is the word pisthis, which is the same word that is found in the Greek word epistemology. What you have believed. It's the basic word for faith or belief. And the word had two different primary uses. One was more civil and the other was spiritual. And in the civil sense, to be faithful, it meant that you were trustworthy, simply trustworthy Now, when children, and description children is different in the Greek from sons, which could refer to adult sons. Technon for children is children living in your house. If you have a pastor whose kids are just hair on fire burning the house down, that might be a problem. If you have an elder candidate whose kids are an absolute terror, that might be cause to slow down. If you have a candidate for deacon whose kids Are a perennial issue in the church, constantly fighting in the parking lot , disrupting class, that might be cause for Hitting the brakes a little bit. And not as a punishment, but rather as an indication that God is gracious and that potential candidate has some work to do at home. But we do have to look carefully at the family life of candidates for office. Here with deacons, wives are specifically, very explicitly included. The wife of a deacon must be dignified also, not a slanderer. They are going to be learning things about people that others might not. uh sober minded, faithful in all things. There's our word piste again. There's a sense in which the people that we nominate as elder and deacon, and the people that we elect, as we'll be electing Bob, Lord willing, next week. are people that we have to carefully consider the outcome of their life. Not just what we know they believe or what their character is like. We have to look at the way their life has unfolded. And ask the question, has that person been faithful with the family God gave them? That doesn't mean that it's a Pollyanna type situation where every one of his kids went into the ministry and And uh it's um kind of like uh like woe-begone world in which all the women are strong and men are good looking. Is that how he says it? Yeah. There's a sa yeah, and children are all above average, right? It's it's not that kind of a a world we live in. We live in a world where people are by the grace of God striving to honor Him and their families And shepherd their wives and kids well? And we're careful when we look at the qualifications for office that we examine the character and the doctrine. And part of examining the character means looking at their family and saying, does their family reflect the careful stewardship of these relationships God has entrusted to him? That doesn't mean that every child of every elder deacon candidate is elect. It does not mean that. If that were the case, that would deprive the church of some of the voices that have most powerfully impacted the kingdom of God in the last 300 years. But it does mean that we are very careful to consider the outcome of their way of life. The nature of the office and the qualifications for the office. They are pretty much the same. The thing that is different is the function of the office. Look back to Acts chapter 6 In Acts chapter 6, we find that the office of deacon requires deep sympathy for those who are prone to be overlooked for societal reasons. Cultural preferences or biases, comfort zones that we all have or don't have. The deacon's function is to cultivate a heart of sympathy for all of the people in the totality of the body of Christ and beyond. The deacon's job is to see a need, to discover a need, to be told about a need. And to determine how the body of Christ, through our gifts and our talents, might meet the need. Sympathy is an attitude. Service is an action. And then the deacons go to work. The deacons serve tables. If the Lord Jesus Christ came not to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many, how much truer is it that we as elders and deacons are called not to be served, but to ourselves serve? See a need and meet it. See a need and meet it. And this goes especially for elders and deacons and for the saints at large. If you see something that needs to be done, do it. Now I've used myself as a bad example in being very fickle with my vuncular affections. I will dare to use myself as a good example. There was a fellow who joined a church I pastored in California because we had a men's room with one toilet. And before the church service, a guest, first time visitor Had walked into the toilet, came out, and discovered that there was, if I may say, scubala, that's the Greek word for fecal matter, on the toilet seat. And I said to him, I'll take care of it right now. And when he discovered that the guy that cleaned the toilet for him was the same guy that preached, he said to me later, I'm coming to your church. See a need, meet the need. We are not like the Gentiles. We do not say, I'll find something to do it, it's beneath me See a need, meet the need. I am not sure that we know as a church how blessed we are by the deacons we have. About six months into my tenure here as pastor, I had a session retreat where my objective was just to listen. I wanted to hear from all of the elders what they thought were our strengths, our weaknesses, our opportunities, and our threats. Now I'd ask all of your elders to write three strengths, three weaknesses, three opportunities, three threats. And then we spent the balance of a morning going around the the the large uh Collection of tables sharing our perspectives. And I was just there listening. Every single elder on the three strengths had deacons. Every single one of them. I don't know if there was anything else. They got put in any category by all three, by by all of the all of the men there. The deacons of this church are faithful men, full of sympathy, committed to service, beautifully qualified. Beautifully qualified. And what a blessing they are to us. Amen. When I was a kid, I professed faith when the church was meeting in the Oakland Mills Village Center. And I can remember being interviewed and Alan Harris, the founding pastor of this church, he used to ask kids, what are your gifts? What do you want to do when you grow up as a Christian? And I'd always said, and I told him at that time, I told the session, I want to be a deacon someday. I never got to be a deacon, but I have sure delighted in watching Men be deacons well. And I want to challenge you. Do you have a calling to be an embodiment of the heart and hands of Christ? By expressing sympathy and performing service, you might be called to assist the deacons. You might be called to become a deacon And typically the way we identify officers is somebody says, Hey, have you thought about uh Bob Weir? And we'll go to Bob Weir and say, Hey, we'd like you to be a deacon. But let me challenge you. If you feel called to serve in some way, it is a good thing to aspire to a high calling If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. That's 1 Timothy 3, verse 1. Deacons likewise aspire to ordained office men Aspire to be the kind of man who is capable, because of character and doctrine, to fill this office Aspire to receive the ministry of ordained servants, dear Christian. And aspire and commit yourself to praying for your deacons and your elders. Because deacons like elders are volunteering to have a target on their back. I can remember Watching uh most most boys and men go through a phase where they watch a lot of war movies. I don't know what why, but it's it's true. It was true for me, certainly. And During World War II, officers never wanted the ranks to salute them when they were in a hot zone. Any guesses why It let the sniper on the other side of no man's land know who to aim at. You see, when your deacon or when your elder accepts ordination. They are pinning on very bright, shiny silver bars that gleam in the darkness of this world. And that that great sniper who opposes the people of God can notice very easily. Your deacons need your prayers. Your elders need your prayers. And we all together need to humbly seek to read the Word of God, understand the Word of God, embrace the Word of God, and live it as best we're able. Imagine a church in which the deacons are full of sympathy and service, and the elders are full of prayer and the word. This is who we want to be. Imagine a congregation praying, Oh God Almighty. Fill your elders with the word and make them men of prayer. And give your deacons hearts of sympathy and hands of service. What would happen at CPC? Having already attained such a beautiful degree of this, what would happen if we grow yet more? And what would happen in Howard County? Central Maryland? Wanna grow a church? Well, the first lesson in the book of Acts have officers committed to doing their calling well And churches willing to receive it. Amen. Heavenly Father, we ask your blessing Lord, we pray this morning, especially for our deacons. Lord, we give thanks for them. Lord, they are such beautiful examples. Of men who are committed to loving sympathetically all who have needs and serving them to the very best of their ability. And Lord, they are the tip of the spear for us here at CBC in meeting the physical needs of people in a world that is, Lord, though we're surrounded by an abundance of goods, yet there are There are deep and real needs that people have in this land of plenty. Father, bless them. Give them energy. Add to their number. Lord, support them in every way. Raise up people to assist the deacons in their calling, Lord, to help with setup, Lord, and takedown, to help with everything that they turn their attention to. And Father, we pray again for the elders of this church that you would cause us to double down. Having such a beautifully qualified and competent diaconate, help us to double down on our ministry of prayer. And our commitment to the word and teaching it. And Father, we pray for the members of this church that we would all see as the very highest calling we could aspire to the title Child of God. And that is what we are. And Lord, help us then to support and to encourage those who accept ordination to serve in these particular ways. Father God, build your church. Lord Jesus Christ, lead your church. Spirit, fill your church. We will give you the praise and the glory today and forever. In Christ's name we pray, Amen.