Among all the wonderful names by which our God has revealed Himself to us in His Word, names like God, which when you read that means the strong, faithful Creator. Well names like Lord, when you ever see capital L, capital O R D , that's the name Yahweh. It means Redeemer, Jehovah. The sovereign Redeemer, who redeems us from our sins, from our bondage, into a relationship with Himself, with an inheritance of heaven forever. And there are a number of compounds that are built on that name, the Redeemer. And one of those that we've been looking at this week is this name, Yahweh Shalom. The Lord is peace. Do you see that name? The Lord is peace. From Judges chapter six, verse twenty-four. That implies that without him, there ultimately is no real peace. The Lord is peace. Let me ask you this morning. How's your peace? Do you have peace this morning? Are you at peace? Or is there something that's robbing your peace this morning? Maybe it's guilt. You don't have peace because you're always feeling like you don't measure up. Maybe it's vague kind of inability to meet people's expectations. You're always feeling like you're failing a little bit here, a little bit there. You know, you're like the guy who said that his worst fear was that on the day of judgment he was going to stand before God and he was going to be right behind Mother Teresa and he was going to hear God say to her, you know, you could have done a little better And that really focuses on the fact, doesn't it, that when we think about all those inadequacies, all of people's expectations that we don't meet, the real concern is, have we met God's expectations? And so we lack peace. Maybe it's because of all the little things. Maybe it's some major guilt. Something that you look at in your life and you could do anything. You would do it to change that. Do that over. And so we saw that in Judges chapter 6, the Lord is peace. First of all means that he establishes peace with himself. That's that first blank. Peace with God. We saw in Judges chapter 6 that Israel had sinned because of their sin of doing evil like you and like me. They were suffering for that. The Midianites were oppressing them. They were coming down at harvest time and taking all their crops. They were raping and killing, destroying whatever was in their path. And God appears to Gideon. And Gideon is complaining to the Lord. The Lord's abandoned us. He's talking to the Lord about this And he goes on, and Gideon, remember, has his his in his own backyard. That's the town worship center for the worship of Baal, an idolater, an arrogant complainer. And so we saw how the Lord revealed himself to Gideon. Verse 22 of Judges chapter 6. When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he exclaimed, Ah, sovereign Lord, Adonai Yahweh, I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face. What's going to happen to me? Now you're not concerned at all about other people's expectations. The main thing is what does God think of you? That will be your concern and my concern when we pass out of this life. We won't care anything about what we got on the report card of other people's opinions. And at that point , God says to Gideon, Peace, do not be afraid. You are not going to die. Why? Not because you don't deserve to die, but because Gideon had made an offering. He had killed a goat and he had offered that to the Lord. And that goat didn't take away his sin, but that goat because of the blood of that goat pointed to a true lamb, a sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ, who did keep the law perfectly. who did meet every one of God's expectations completely, as you and I could never do for an hour, let alone for our whole lives. And because Jesus had done that and died taking the curse, you deserved and I deserved. He says that if you come to me and turn from your own efforts and trust in yourself and Put your trust in me and my sacrifice. You have peace with God. Do you have that peace this morning? Are you sure about that? Is that something that's settled in your heart? I pray that if it's not, you'll talk to somebody and don't let that matter settle. Don't just turn on another video. Another C D and forget about it. We amuse ourselves as Americans to keep from remembering that we lack peace with God or peace of God. So, for you this morning, do you have that peace? Maybe you're lacking that peace this morning because you know Jesus. But it's your pace of life. You know, our pace of life can be so counterproductive to peace. We're so overextended. We're so trying to do all that we think needs to be done. And one more demand comes and we scream, bite somebody's head off because we're under stress. It's a great message for me to preach after preparing to go away to Japan for this next three weeks. Time after time this week. It was a question of do I turn off the fax machine and destroy it, or do I trust God for peace? You know, again and again, you know, it it there's that that frenzied way that we live. Always trying to cram one more thing in, and we wonder why don't we have peace Because we haven't learned to be still and let God reveal Himself to us as in control. We don't have to do it all. The kingdom will go on. The world will survive. Stopping and saying no is an act of trust in the Lord who is peace. Or maybe it's because in your life this morning of some pain that you're lacking peace. There's thoughts and hurts in your heart that you could not share with one other person. No one If you told any other person they wouldn't really understand, they might even criticize you, even those who are closest to you. And you feel lonely. And you wonder, who can I go to? For the Lord Jesus says, I'm your peace. I'm Jehovah Shalom, the Lord who is your peace, for I understand your hurts, I unknow your heart. I'm El Roy, who sees your heart completely and thoroughly. And I want to give you my peace for your pain. Or perhaps it's some fear or some anxiety. And we saw that Gideon certainly could understand that. He lived in constant terror. Of the Midianites coming and swooping down. His own brothers had been killed by the Midianites, and he knew what devastation they could bring about. So he lived in anxiety and fear. But the Lord came to him, the Lord who is peace. And he says to him in Judges chapter 6 and verse 12. The Lord is with you. Mighty warrior, I'm with you. Verse 14. Am I not sending you? Go! Save Israel out of Midian's hand. I am sending you. I am with you. Then again in verse 16 of Judges chapter 6, the Lord answered, I will be with you. And you will strike down all the Midianites together. I am with you. And so we see the peace, the peace, the second blank, the peace of God in our hearts. is not conditioned by circumstances. It's affected by circumstances. You stress your life out to the max and you'll probably lack peace. But we don't just simply protect ourselves in order to keep peace. Peace transcends circumstances when it's the peace of the Lord. Because it's a peace of God in our hearts that the Lord Jesus Himself gives. Jesus is our Yahweh shalom. He's the one who is the demonstration as well as the giver of that peace. On the last night of Jesus' life, everything was going wrong. One of his twelve inner disciples has gone off to betray him to his enemies. The others don't seem to comprehend or understand what he's been trying to say to them for years. The inner three go with him to the garden where he needs to gain some peace because of what he's going to be facing, and they fall asleep instead of supporting him. Then when they wake up, one of them cuts off a guy's ear in Jesus' name. needs to restore the ear. He doesn't want a confrontation. They seem clueless about how to help him. Everything seems to be going wrong. And Jesus shows us in that situation that he is peace. And you look at Jesus and you see, there's how I can find peace. There is who gives me peace. And he demonstrates it in Gideon's life. We saw that Gideon 's peace came not from his circumstances. Certainly not that. But from his awareness. That's the next blank there. From his awareness of God 's the three P's are God's presence, God's promises, and God's power. I'll go over those again. But Gideon's peace rested on his awareness of God's presence, God's promises, and God's power. And I want to show you now in this story how God confirmed and demonstrated those things in each case by a sign in order to build Gideon's faith. Because he intends to be our peace. He's not trying to play hide and seek and withhold that peace. He wants to give that peace. And look at how he goes to great lengths in Gideon's life In order to give him and to build his faith to show that peace. First of all, in his presence. We saw last week in chapter six. How he said there in verse 12, the Lord is with you, I am with you, you have my presence. Verse 14. Am I not sending you? Verse 16, I will be with you. I am present with you, Gideon. And so verse 17, Gideon's response is, well now, if I have found favor, give me a sign that it's really you who's with me. Gideon saying, My faith is so weak, show me, give me a sign. And God does exactly that. He says, Go make this offering When Gideon brings the offering, it's on the bro on the rock with a broth poured over it. God takes his rod and he strikes that offering and it's consumed in a flash. A fire and smoke. And then God says, peace, Gideon, you're not going to die. I'm with you to save and not to destroy you. He gives them a sign of his presence so that Gideon can't doubt that God is with him and that that's more important than all that the Midianites can do. Secondly, we see that God's promises are what sustain Gideon. It's not just the fact that God is with you in your situation, it's God has given you promises. He gave Gideon promises and he gives you promises. What were the promises to Gideon? Again in verse 14 of chapter 6. Am I not sending you? Go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hands. Am I not sending you? You're going to do this, Gideon verse 16 confirms it. I will be with you and you will strike down all the Midianites together. You're going to succeed in this, Gideon. I've called you, I'm equipping you, and I am going to make you successful in this. As we go to Japan, and whatever God's calling you to do, it's his promises that sustain you. This is what promises that are sustaining us. If he's calling us, he's going to equip us. But then Gideon, of course, like us, is weak. And even after seeing God's power, he says, Lord, again later on in chapter 6, if you're going to save Israel through my hand , Down there in chapter 6 and verse 36. If you're going to do this, if you're going to keep this promise, isn't that a terrible thing to say to God? If you're going to keep your promise, God. Show me. And God doesn't blast him to a cinder and say, I gave you my promise, that's all you need. Gideon says, let me put out this fleece. And if you're really going to do it, let the fleece be wet and the ground be dry next morning. And it's so. Then Gideon says, well, you know Maybe that wasn't the way to ask. It's more unlikely that the fleece will be dry in the ground be went. Let's try that again. Please, Lord, one more time. And again, God in his patience gives him the sign of his promise And Gideon 's peace comes flooding back to him. Lord, you're going to do it. You're going to accomplish what you said that you would do. And Gideon's ready in chapter 7, verse 1. Early in the morning, Jerah Baal, that is Gideon, means Baal contends from that incident of destroying the altar. Gideon and all his men camped at the spring of Herod. The camp of Midian's north of them, they're all south down in this little spring. And all the people that have come from two and a half tribes now have all gathered. He's got 32,000 men. Now it seems like a pretty large army. You say that's a pretty good deal. 32,000 men, man, this will be easy. Except when you stop to realize that the Midianites and the Amalekites and the rest of them may have something like three hundred thousand men. We don't know exactly how many that they have, but we do know that uh chapter seven says uh down there a little ver further on that the camels were like the sand of the seashore and you couldn't count them. That's just what the camels were like. Imagine what all the soldiers were like And we know that there are armies numbered in the hundreds of thousands. So it may be about ten to one at this point. And Gideon's getting a little nervous, but he says, Lord, you've told me that you're gonna do this. How's it gonna how are we gonna do it? And God's well says the first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna cut down the army. Verse 2. The Lord said to Gideon, You have too many men for me to deliver Midian into their hands, in order that Israel may not boast against me that her own strength has saved her, announce now to the people. And God says, You got too many people. Even ten to one, you may think, hey boy, we are tough, man. We drove out those Midianites, you know, of course we prayed about it, and God helped us, but we really drove those guys out And so God invokes a principle from Deuteronomy chapter 20 that he had given. He says, Tell the people, verse 3, anyone who trembles with fear may turn back and leave Mount Gilead. And so Gideon stands up and he gives the speech of his life. He says, seven years these guys have been coming and destroying your crops, and they've been raping your wives and your daughters, and they've been killing your livestock, and they've been killing your family. And they've been doing all of this for seven years and God says He's going to deliver us. Now, which of you is going to be chicken-hearted enough to go back home? If you want to, go ahead. God says you can do it. But if you want to fight for your families and for Israel, then come on with you. Now is anybody want to go home? Verse 3 says, 22,000 said, I'll take it. 22,000 leave after that impassioned speech. And Gideon's only got 10,000 left. And that's really testing his peace, I'll tell you. He goes back to the Lord, he says, Lord, are you sure that was a good idea? And we just lost 22,000 guys, and I don't have a lot to spare. And then you read what the Lord says in verse 4. The Lord said to Gideon, now Gideon, still too many men. Take them down to the water now. We're gonna have a little test Gideon says, I don't understand this. But let's go down to the water. So get down to the water and God says, okay, here's what we're going to do with the spring of Herod now. There's two kinds of ways that you drink. One is you flop down on your belly and you just lap up the water and then take off on your way. The second is you kneel down and you cup the water up to your mouth to drink They says, notice we're going to mark off the ones that flop down and drink like a dog, and the ones that just gonna kneel down and cup it up and drink it out of their hands And of the 10,000 men, 9,700 of them kneel down and cup it up with their hands, 300 of them flop down and they drink it like dogs. And when that's over, Gideon says, Well, that wasn't too bad, Lord. We only lost 300 on that one And the Lord says, no, no, no, Gideon, it's the three hundred that you're gonna keep. Let the rest of them go home. And Gideon says, I don't understand you. Three hundred men? We could hardly even Have any kind of a uh any kind of a mobilized army? Three hundred men, that that's not an army, that that's just a one little troop And so God says it's with ease that I'm going to destroy Midian. That's less than three percent. Of the uh 32,000, and it's less than one percent, excuse me, it's less than three percent of the ten thousand, it's three percent of that, and it's less than one percent of his original army And I love this, what happens next. It's so encouraging to me. In this third case, the third sign Gideon doesn't request anything. He needs to know God's power. And look what happens. Without any provocation, that night in verse 9. You read, during the night, the Lord comes to Gideon now and he says, Get up, go down against the camp, because I'm going to give it into your hands. There's the reiteration of the promise. Now, Gideon, if you are afraid to attack Go down to the camp with your servant Pura and listen to what they are saying. Afterward you will be encouraged to attack the camp. And I love the next part of this too. The Lord doesn't even finish speaking. I love Gideon because he there's no pretense in this guy. He doesn't say, no, no, that's okay, Lord. Lord hadn't even finished speaking. He said, Where? Which way do you want us to go? Hey, where come on? And they head right on down. He says, I need that encouragement. I need whatever you can give me, Lord. And so they head down to the camp And as they do, look what happens. They see in verse 13. Gideon arrived just as a man was telling a friend his dream. And he says, I had a dream. This is a Midianite now speaking. A round loaf of barley bread came tumbling into the Midianite camp. It struck the tent with such force that the tent overturned and collapsed. And his friend responded, Hmm, this can be nothing other than the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash, the Israelite. God has given the Midianites and the whole camp into his hands. Isn't that precious? There's three things that are happening there. Don't miss them. The first thing is that it humbles Gideon. You notice what kind of bread came rolling into the camp? It's not angel food cake. Gideon 's saying Lord, Lord, at least you could have made an angel food cake, you know, to help me out a little bit. It's barley bread. Barley bread was the cheapest, coarsest grain available to the poor people of Israel. And so just as a kind of an aside, the Lord says, Remember, Gideon, you're just a barley loaf. Nothing special. You're not wheat. You're not anything special, you're just barley. I'm going to do this. It's not going to be because you're something special. And Gideon says, thanks, Lord. I needed that. The second thing is, did you see that God's promise is coming now from the mouth of his enemies What could be a clearer sign of God's power than he has put his own promise into the mouth of the enemies to be destroyed? The promise of chapter 6, verse 14 and 16 is now being reflected back through the vanquished foe. Already they realize that their time is up. What tenderness of the Lord to show us the gates of hell shall not prevail against the gospel and against the church and all the things that you and I are attempting to do for the Lord Jesus. Satan himself knows that he's a vanquished foe. And Gideon has the privilege of hearing the confession from those who understand it as God places the fear in their hearts. And thirdly, you see the clue to the strategy. Perhaps it's at this point Gideon gets the idea. I think some of the indications came before that, but I don't have time to develop that now. That would be what you'd do if this was a Sunday school class. Suffice it to say that right now, Gideon understands that these people are in fear. And so if there's a way to conquer them, it's going to be to play on their fears. And so Gideon goes back up and he says, okay, guys. Oh, one other thing. You notice before he does that, verse 15. When Gideon heard the dream and its interpretation, he worshiped God. All the peace of Yahweh Shalom comes flooding back in his heart. He says, You are with me. Your promises are sure. And your power is invincible. Lord, I worship you. You know, there's nothing to accomplish peace in your heart like remembering God's presence, his promises, and his power, and then worship him for that. Worship him for his presence in your life this week. Worship him for his promises to you. Worship him for his power as it's been demonstrated in Scripture and in things that you have seen. So that you might then know his peace. And with that peace, Gideon goes back and he says, okay guys, we're moving out. And he gives them the plan, and so you know with the story of what happened that night. They surround the valley of Jezreel, and at a signal given by Gideon, four things happen almost simultaneously. First of all, 300 trumpets are blown. They probably took all the trumpets from all the companies of the 32,000 and kept them. And so 300 trumpets are blast on all the surrounding hills of the Midianite camp. And immediately as soon as that happens, there's the crash of 300 pitchers being smashed, and it sounds like devastation is already beginning to take place. And at that very moment they see three hundred torches blazing all in the hills about them. And then the fourth thing that happens is at that very same moment they hear 300 voices shouting at the top of their lungs, the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. Now that has an effect, I'll tell you But it has not an effect psychologically or in any way that we can explain, because the key to what happens there is in verse 22 When the three hundred trumpets sounded, the Lord caused the men throughout the camp to turn on each other with their swords. And what happens, of course, is that the Midianites are in utter terror. They think that there are hundreds of thousands of Israelites who have them trapped in this valley. They're all going to sweep down from the hills, and everyone tears out of his tent. And he's got a sword in his hand, and all he thinks is that everyone he meets is some Israelite coming to kill him. And so they start slashing at each other. And all the Midianites are killing and slaughtering each other And their vast numbers at this point are exactly what work against them. They can't escape without running into other men who are also trying to escape. And so the Midianites literally destroy each other. And those that flee head back toward the east to try and get back with their lives across the Jordan. And so Gideon sends a message to the Ephraimites whose Territory is right there along the Jordan. He says, Head them off, finish off these the enemies of the Lord. And so the Ephraimites meet them down there, and they slaughter them, those that they see who are leaving, particularly a couple of the leaders. uh the one the two leaders that um that they uh uh uh attack and kill orrib and zeb that means wolf uh they kill these guys and so gideon is chasing them to the east and they're headed off and it's a mighty slaughter and victory for the Lord. Amen. You really entered into that. Okay. Notice what happens then in chapter eight. Maybe you already anticipated this. This is why your heart sank. It happens every time. Mighty victory of the Lord. Look what happens in verse eight. Verse 1. Chapter 8, verse 1. Now the Ephraimites asked Gideon, Why have you treated us like this? Why didn't you call us when you went to fight Midian? And they criticized him sharply. Can you believe that? Say, yeah, I've been around the church long enough to. Here's somebody who had accomplished a great act of faith and deliverance for the people of God. And this one section of the people of God said, Hey, why didn't you let us in on it? Well, were you keeping all the glory to yourself? Now of course these guys had seven years to fight Midianites if they had wanted to I'm sure the Gideon didn't want to exclude anybody in this campaign. They just conveniently ignored it until they saw that it was a victory, and then they wanted to get the glory. What does Gideon do to such a ridiculous charge? You ever received a charge like that? You've tried to do something for the Lord, and you get criticized, and the criticism comes from a brother or sister in Christ where you least expect it. And that's what's so discouraging. But Gideon has met Yahweh Shalom. And so he answers them in verse 2. Hey, fellas, what have I accomplished compared to you? Aren't the gleanings of Ephraim's grapes better than the full grape harvest of Abiazar, that's Gideon's family, tribe, or his clan? God gave Aurazeb, these two Midianite leaders, into your hands. What was I able to do compared to you? And at this. Their resentment against him subsided. He didn't say, Hey, I didn't do anything. You guys are the ones that headed him off here at the Jordan and killed the leaders and did all I haven't done anything compared to you. And he said, Well Yeah, I guess so. Okay. Ain't gotta put it that way. You see, it's hard to pick a fight with a person who has the peace of Christ Gideon says, I'm not interested in fighting with you guys. God's accomplished a great victory today. He gets the credit. I don't care. These you little guys don't want to give me the credit. I'm not going to fight about that. Take the credit if you want. God did it. I'm just a loaf of barley bread. You say to yourself now, that's wonderful. But you told me that God did this by giving him signs. Signs of His presence, signs of His promises, signs of His power. Oh, if God only did that for me today, then I could have that peace. If He only gave me that kind of a sign Strike my offering with a rod of fire or put out some fleece that I would see something supernatural happen. Or give me some dream revealed from an enemy that shows that I'm going to conquer or something. You know, whatever. It doesn't even have to be that dramatic. Just some sign. And Scripture comes back and God says to you, My children I have. I have. Because the Bible tells us that in the new age. The age of the New Testament. The sign that you and I have is the Holy Spirit. Put it down in that blank that you have there. We have the sign of the Holy Spirit For the Holy Spirit is that is that experiential sign of God's presence. Romans chapter eight and verse sixteen. We read that we don't have the spirit of slavery to fear, but we have the spirit of God, a spirit of sonship, and that spirit testifies with your spirit, so that when you feel overwhelmed and afraid and all those things that rob you of your peace, You cry out to God, Daddy. And when you do that, the Spirit testifies with your spirit that you are able to call the God of heaven your Father. And something in you witnesses to the peace of Christ, I can call you daddy. It's okay. You are with me. That's a sign, brothers and sisters. And he gives you a sign of his promises. For example, in Ephesians chapter 1, God says, I've given you the promise of heaven and a kingdom that I'm going to transform, and the down payment of that promise is the Spirit of God dwelling in you. He's the one who testifies to you of the fact that you can claim all the promises of the kingdom. And those promises are for you. And so when you look up scripture and you claim that scripture, the Spirit testifies to you, this is true. It's going to happen in the fullness of time. You will see heaven, and this is just a down payment of it. I'm true to my word. And he gives you the sign of his power. As we've seen in our purpose in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 19 and 20, Paul prays that your eyes and my eyes would be opened so that we would see that the one who raised Jesus from the dead, that definitive sign of history of God's power, Has given to us that same power. And so he says in chapter 3, I pray that your eyes will be opened that you might see by the Spirit the power of Christ in you. And that power is experienced as with Gideon, as you obey, and as you say, I will take your word and I will act on it. And God gives you sign after sign of his faithfulness. And you begin to rest. And the fact that he's true to his word, not always as we'd want, but completely as he intends. Now the third point is the peace of God in our world. And that's the peace that I hope that you'll meditate on this week. You don't have time to really go through that in this message. But the meditation covers that. Basically what it's showing you is that God promised peace in the land to Israel. But Israel again and again was in turmoil because of their disobedience in the time of Gideon and on after. And Gideon's peace, chapter 8 tells us, was just a Teaser. They had peace for a few years, and then again Israel slipped into their disobedience, and the peace was taken away, and they forgot all about Gideon. It was only a temporary teaser of the peace that God intended. When you read in Isaiah, God says again and again to Israel, if only you had kept my covenant, I would have given you my peace in your land. But because of Israel's unfaithfulness, God doesn't withdraw the promise. It in fact grows. God says through Isaiah, this peace is not simply going to be in your land, it's going to be a world peace through a prince of peace that I'm going to send. And when Jesus is born in Bethlehem, what do the angels say? Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men with whom God is pleased. And Jesus says, My peace I give to you, not as the world gives, I give it to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. I have overcome the world. And then as Dick read those scriptures, you see again and again in the New Testament, Paul says over and over and over, he's the God of peace. He's the God of peace. He's the God of peace, and in Revelation you come to where he will wipe away every tear from your eyes and he will restore peace, a peace that will never be shattered or disturbed forever and ever. That you and I will know. This is the only time, brothers and sisters, you can have peace by faith. When Jesus comes, you will never have peace by faith again. You won't need faith. It's only now you can honor him by going to him to know his peace by your awareness of his presence, of his promises, and of his power in your life. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we so focus on the things that disturb us We so forget your presence and your promises and your power. We confess that to you now. We pray, our God, that you would focus our attention and our concentration upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Then we would see that this week, the more we concentrate on Him, the less our peace is disturbed. The less we focus on Him, the less we have your peace. Lord, work in our hearts now to see Jesus. For those of us who need to be restored and have peace with you, Lord, give us a realization of our miserable condition apart from you. We would confess our sins and trust Jesus for peace. For those of us who lack that peace in our hearts, Lord, give to us a sense Of your presence, of your promises, and of your power, that we might have that peace as Gideon did. That we might know it transcends all of our circumstances. Lord Jesus, hear us. We come to you for peace. We thank you for that hope of peace that will come when you return. And our peace will never again be destroyed. Enable us, Lord, to honor you through the peace that we have by faith in this brief time before you come again. In Jesus' name.