If you brought your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Luke chapter 8 This is the last of our Luke messages before we take a summer break. This summer, if you subscribe to the church emails that go out, we have one that goes out every Friday, I think, right at 5 o'clock. And uh I always begin that with a note. And I'd mentioned that we're going to wrap up our Luke series for the season here. And this summer we're going to be doing a 10-week series on the Church of Jesus Christ. And so I really want to encourage you to be excited about that. And this sermon, this text, actually is a wonderful end to this section of Luke and an introduction to that series. So be listening for that as well. But before I read for us from Luke chapter 8, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And Lord, when we come to it in the service of worship, Lord, we come mindful that it is through your word that you speak to us most clearly. And Lord, this is a distinct element of worship. The reading of your word is different than the preaching of it. And Lord, we pray that you would give us hearts that tremble with hope, with awe and reverence As often as your Bible is opened up and it is read, either by us or to us. Father, may we exalt your word above all things but yourself. May we see it as a rule for faith in practice, as a means of life, as a description of our hope, as an invitation to fellowship. As a treaty of peace. Father, bless the reading of your word to us. Give it in our hearts and minds the importance that it deserves. Humble us before it. Lift us up by it. Almighty God, we pray that in the preaching that follows the reading of your word, inasmuch as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, Lord, help that. Aid it by your Spirit. Give me clarity of speech and give us all clarity of listening, especially me. And so bless us by the gifts you've appointed that all depend upon this infallible anderrant beautiful Priceless treasure, the Holy Scriptures. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter eight, beginning with verse nineteen, the word of God Then his mother and brothers came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd. And he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you. But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. This ends the reading of God's Word. I want to give you a wonderful tool for reading and studying and understanding the Bible on your own. Whenever you open up and are reading, especially in one of the Gospels, and you have the person who is in the I was about to say nominative case, and my wife would be looking at me like, don't be a geek. The subject Not the object. Whenever you have a paragraph that begins with, then his mother, and you think, well, wait a minute, his mother. That seems that requires context. Who? Whose mother? That is a certain clue that in order to understand this text, you need to have a look at the introduction of the main character referred to as his. Now, when we look at this text, it's easy to look at this text and immediately go and say, well, I think this showed up before. Yeah, in fact It's in Mark chapter 4. And then you do your cross-referencing, which we'll do in a moment, and we start just looking at these just these three verses, forgetting the fact that Luke. inspired and led by the Holy Spirit is giving us this account of this event in Jesus' ministry in the context of Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 1. You see, all of Luke chapter 8 up until this point Requires you to assume that the his constantly refers to Jesus. And so this morning we're stepping kind of midstream into the very end of a larger unit of the text. that is focused on the companions of Jesus and the necessity of hearing him in a certain way in order to be his companion. Now, let's go back and take a running start at this so we can see it. You know, one of my great objectives in preaching the Word of God is for for me and for you to love it and exalt it in our hearts. But also for us to, there should be a degree of transparency in a sermon where you sort of see the recipe even as the ingredients, hopefully well mixed, are put on a plate for you So let's look at some of the ingredients or the baking instructions of a sermon, if you will. Look back if you have your Bible or your phone device with your scripture app on it, and look at this description of Jesus traveling. It introduces a lot of sections, a lot of new units of text in the Gospel of Luke in particular. And so here we see Jesus going through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom. And here we have, this is a description of a broader set of activities that Jesus is doing. And we have a description of who is with him. The last time we had a description like this in the Gospel of Luke, we were introduced to his apostles, those he named such from the larger group of disciples. And here we have this description of the women who are following him, who have been blessed by him, and who are supporting him out of their means. Then we have three different accounts of the significance of hearing. The parable of the sower, which is about four different types of hearers or listeners. the callous or hardened hearer, the shallow hearer, the divided listener, and then the sincere listener. The sincere listener is described as the one who has an honest and good heart, holding fast the word and bearing fruit with patience. And then we have in the exact same context Jesus giving three proverbs about lighting a light under a bushel. About how nothing hidden will remain so, but all will come out. And about how we should remember that those who have will receive more, and those who don't will lose even what they think they have. And tucked into the middle of those three proverbs is this central idea. Take care then how you hear. Listen well, with a sincere heart. Be that person with an honesty about your spiritual condition. Bearing fruit with patience, because you have heard the gospel of the kingdom of God. Be very careful how you hear. In responding to the invitation Christ gives in his word and through his servants to come, you who are weary. And drink, you who believe, and repent, you worn down and broken sinners, and live You walking dead. Take care how you hear. And it is in the context of this that we have all of a sudden, then his mother and brothers came to him, but couldn't quite get to him. And he's told by other people that are sitting more in the front row, hey, your mother and brothers are here. They want to see you. And he gives them this fascinating answer. My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. This morning we're going to be looking in particular at that statement and what it means, what it meant then and what it means now. Being in a family has always been important. God creates families. He ordainedly Sovereignly ordains, pardon me, families. He works through families. One of the most difficult conditions for a human being to be in is that of Adam before the creation of Eve. Remember how all through Genesis chapter 1, all the things that can be wondered at, confused by, and fought over, one thing is clear from Genesis chapter 1. God created everything, and it was it was good. And what a shock that even before sin enters the world, What is it that Adam is alone? Not good. You ever stop to wonder how loneliness Is not good. There was something that was not good in the creation. Something not good that God addresses before he will rest. He creates a family. And he intends it to be considered as such. Has it ever struck you as perhaps a bit anachronistic that When Eve is presented to Adam, we are given the divine instruction. For this reason a man will leave his father and mother. And cleave to his wife, and they will become one flesh. Adam had no father and mother, neither did Eve. God was thinking in terms of families even before the birth of Abel. Families are important. And they were incredibly important in the time of Christ. You might say, well, if it's so important, where's his dad? Is this another single-mom family that is becoming ubiquitous in our culture? Probably not. His father, well, probably so in one respect. His father's probably passed away by now. Remember, Jesus is 30 years old. Joseph would have in all likelihood been over the age of 25, and so he'd probably passed away. And so his mother and brother come to talk to him. And why are they coming to talk to him? Because of the importance of family. In Mark chapter 4, we read a different take on this event, and it's worth noting. In Mark chapter four, uh when the twelve are uh appointed and He goes home, crowds gather, and when his family hears about what's happening in his life with his busy ministry schedule and all the opposition he's starting to receive, this is what we read in verse 21. When his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying he's out of his mind, skipping down just a couple of verses. And his mother and brother came, and standing outside, they sent to him and called him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and brothers? Those who do the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. You see, this is the selfsame event. But here we're focusing on what Jesus said to them. It's helpful to understand in the context of the first century that we would have known, naturally, that his mother and brothers have come because family is important and they are concerned. Kinship is very significant, and it is so even today. But water is at the end of the day thicker than blood The unity that's ours in baptism is greater than the bonds that sharing DNA create. Kinship in Jesus' day was very, very significant. Hugely important. We'll see that later in the fall when we get back to the Gospel of Luke. But it is not everything. And it certainly is not the only thing. It's important to note that Mary and the brothers And sisters of Jesus. That word could be used to include both, and there's no reason not to believe that Mary and Joseph didn't have other kids. James was one of them. They aren't rejected. Nowhere does it say they aren't my mother and brothers. It's rather the circle of kinship is enlarged. Now we might know for a fact that, as many would say, Jesus' brothers don't appear to be particularly close disciples, but we know his mother was at the foot of the cross. We know that she knew his disciples. Jesus introduces her in John 19 to John and says, this is your mother, this is your son, take care of my mom after I'm gone. Jesus loves his family and cares for them. This isn't a rejection of them. It's a statement to those who are there and concerned about Jesus and want to know how he's doing and want to Give them a break, whatever it was in the hearts of Jesus' mother and brothers, Jesus wants the crowds to know that, in a sense, all of you who are my true disciples are my family. In order to be part of that family, there are two necessities that Jesus lays out here. Look again at what he says. My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. Both. Hearing the word of God and doing the word of God. And remember, hearing the word of God in that context can mean understanding. It can mean seeing. It can mean accepting is true. Remember what James will tell us, that even the demons believe that there is one God, and they shudder. They don't act in conformity with what is true, they don't do the Word of God. They do their own thing. They seek their own glory. Both of these are essential, hearing the word of God and doing the word of God. And lots of mistakes, as Wayne in leading worship observed, can be fallen into by confusing those two, messing up their definitions, or blurring them together. You see, hearing and doing the word of God are like the two sides of the quarter. If you were to kind of make a composite of both sides of the quarter and put it on each side of the quarter, you have what might be called a slug. It's not worth twenty-five cents. In order for it to be worth twenty-five cents, it has to have one thing on one side and another on the other. And they've been changing things with national parks and who knows what else on there, so I I can't say an eagle and a president anymore. But that's the idea. Both have to be there. Both. When's the last time you used a scissors? I used a scissors just the other day. A scissors needs a top and a bottom blade. If I decide that, well, I'm going to kind of blur them together, well, all I've got then is a sharp pointy object. I can no longer cut. I can slash But the scissor loses its scissorness. Hearing and doing. Faith and works. justification and sanctification have got to be held together but distinctly understood. What is it to hear the Word of God? To hear the invitation of Jesus Christ to come? To hear him identify who he is, what he's like? to hear his prescriptions for life, for holiness, and the happiness that flows from holiness. Get those two in the right order. Accepting is critical to hearing. Those who hear the word of God or those who pay attention to what he says Who reflect upon and meditate upon the Word of God. And I would not be so wooden as to say you have to read through the Bible every year, you have to have a quiet time every morning before coffee. We're not going into some legalistic camp where there's some prescribed definitive this is what it looks like. Keep in mind for the balance of the history of the people of God, we didn't have these. We didn't have a Bible in every room of our house. It's interesting that in the early 1500s, In England, when the Bible was translated, it had been translated in some part by Tyndall. And it was working its way into parish churches throughout what is today Great Britain. They had to chain the Bibles to the pulpits because people would steal them. They would have to rebuke people for tearing out pages of the chained up Bible because they wanted to take them home and read them. To what lengths do we go to read our Bible? But what they did do and what they have been called to do and what the people of God are exhorted to do is to meditate upon the word. Whether it is a Levite in the wilderness, or whether it is a rabbi in a synagogue. In Babylon, or whether it is a priest in a temple, during the day of Christ, the word of God was read. And you would have heard it. And it was your call to remember it and to think about it. Meditating on the Word of God is an essential part of hearing it. And I would plead with you, brothers and sisters, with all of the talk today about the importance of meditation. You must utterly reject this non-biblical notion of meditation that involves emptying your mind. Every time the word translated meditate appears in your Bible, it takes an object. Meditate on. We, as the children of the living God, meditate on things. We don't try to empty our minds of things. We try to, with a hyper focus and intensity, focus on the holiness of God, the beauty of God, the purity of his word. the nobility of his law, the utility of his church. And we think about these things in a way that is singular and undistracted and deep. Dependent upon the Spirit, always reflecting on the Word. That's how we hear God's Word We think about it deeply. We discuss it with each other. We go to our community groups or our prayer meetings and we share what we've read and we wonder at its import. We are not simply those who hear something in passing and move right along. We are those who hear, and then hearing, we do it. We think about the big question, what does this text require of me? What do I need to change in my life because of what this passage is saying? What in my life is being affirmed by this text? What in my life is being condemned by this passage of Scripture? Those kinds of questions are frequent visitors to your pastor's quiet time, and they ought to be to yours as well. If you think that the Bible approves of every single thing you do, attitude you hold, behavior you demonstrate for the world to see, dear friend, you don't understand what sin is. It is a heavy burden that has infected every quarter, every single square inch of your very soul. And you are being delivered from it, but will not be so delivered from it that it doesn't reach out and touch all parts of what you do. There is a sentence in our confession of faith that I struggled with when I was in college. I had long conversations with my dad about the Westminster Confession of Faith created by the English Puritans. late 30s and early 40s of 1600. And there are two passages that really troubled me, and one of them was this. I was I was talking to someone about this just the other day. I think it was Anthony. Every motion thereof, thereof referring to the born-again Christian, the regenerate believer. The one who's had the Holy Spirit come and take up residence. Every motion thereof may be truly and properly called sin. You ever thought about that? That every single thing I do, every single comment I make in a Bible study, every single prayer I say before a mealtime, is unacceptable to a holy God were it not for the fact that I am in Christ by grace through faith. This is critically important to know. In fact, John Calvin attended what we might call a colloquy. He attended three of them towards the end of his life, trying to create a reproachment between the Lutheran Reformation and the Reformed Reformation. And John Calvin's doctrine of double justification was rejected. And John Calvin realized that there was no hope for approachment between competing theological systems, and he left. How many of you have ever heard of the doctrine of double justification? Hallelujah. Ah, there's one. I'm going to tell you what it means and why it was so important to John Calvin. Because John Calvin understood what one veggie tail episode understands. Remember that veggie tail episode where someone goes to the Father's house and he sees just horrible artwork on the fridge of of God? If God has a fridge. And he said, why in the world would you hang that up? Because my son did it. Have you ever thought that the best thing you do is far worse than just amateurishly executed with fat crayons on cheap paper? But is so touched by the remaining and indwelling sin within us that God has to see us and our works. Just double justification. as being justified in Christ. Even our prayers have to be translated by the Holy Spirit There is a sense in which we owe God in Christ, through whom He has reconciled us everything. When we say nothing in my hand I bring in our wonderful hymn, I'm not just saying I bring nothing in my hand to God to be saved. I bring nothing as saved. I am simply an instrument of God's grace using gifts He's given me to the best of my ability, counting on God to strike a straight blow with a crooked stick. Because on this side of heaven I dare not boast in my flesh, redeemed though it be. And so when we talk about works, works have to come logically from hearing and we have to hear the fact that God has no need of anything from us. He doesn't need our cattle. But God is delighted to work in and through us to accomplish his good and beautiful purpose. And doing the word of God means letting that word of God that we meditate on express itself through us In ways that bounce back to his glory and our credit to his work, to his power, to his wisdom. Never to our own. Never to our own. When we make ourselves living sacrifice subject to the will and movement of God the Spirit. We are doing the work of God. Brothers and sisters, when we're concerned about Jesus and what he said and how he operated We need to take stock of where we are. There are things Jesus did that I might have done differently. Shame on me. I may never, ever presume or dare to be critical of what Jesus did in the temple. Or what he said to the woman caught in adultery. Or how he interacted with Zacchaeus. I can never say, well, he should have said this, boy, did he miss an opportunity. I must stand in utter and in absolute yieldedness to the character and the person of Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God. And I must hold him in such esteem that I make it my business to love my enemies the way he loved his, to forgive his murderers, my murderers the way he forgave his. That's doing the Word of God. And they're both necessary. You know, I spent over 30 years coaching lacrosse. In lacrosse, it was a wonderful thing to have two different categories, junior varsity and varsity. Junior varsity is sort of the developmental squad. The underclassmen. You're trying to infect them with a love of the sport. You're trying to introduce them to the culture of your program. You're trying to get them to show up on time, keep their gear in order, line it up nicely on the sidelines, show up to the bus in the right uniform. All the little things. And you're teaching them how to catch and throw with both hands, because middle school lacrosse coaches almost never do. But when you're varsity, there's a whole nother layer of expectations. The Church of Jesus Christ is not like that. There are no JV Christians. Or varsity Christians. There's only Christians. And the high and holy calling you have as a child of the living God calls you not to say, well, for season, just listen. As you listen, do from the very beginning. As you listen, do Obey by the power of God, giving full credit to his wisdom and his knowledge of the situation Such that even if you might have done things differently or struggled with something, you have by grace, through faith, taken your own thoughts captive and said, Lord, here am I, send me. I will do your will, whatever it may be. One of the places we see the absolute necessity both of hearing and doing the Word of God is in the passage that Wayne Coke read earlier. It tells us basically that faith without works is dead. If you only hear and mentally assent to or intellectually agree with what God has said, but refuse to do it. That's not faith. Faith is productive. And the works of faith are not faith, but they are the evidence that faith is there. You follow me? It is a logical relationship, not a chronological relationship You might say, well, I have faith for a season and then I do works. That's chronological. Faith works. When I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God from all eternity, who gave his life for sinners, and that I'm a sinner, and that if I repent, I can be forgiven and united with Christ, and therefore at peace with God the Father. and possessed of the Holy Spirit. When I hear that, if I believe it, I am going to spontaneously say, Lord, forgive me a sinner. I yield myself to you. You are my God, and I will serve you. If I don't do that, it means I have merely heard, have not listened, and certainly have not believed. You see the connection? If I were to tell you, touching this stove will burn your hand. And this is a real-life illustration, by the way. I said these things to one of my children who will remain nameless, who's the oldest one. I said to him, Son, do not touch the stove. You will be badly hurt. And he looked at me. Ah! That was a doctor's visit, one of many. He didn't believe me. He heard me. How many times have you harbored anger, resentment, pursued vengeance? How many times have you cut corners? ignored certain parts of the law, decided you were going to go with the spirit of the age rather than the ethos of the holy God. Let your worldview be a function of Wall Street, Madison Avenue. And Hollywood rather than Jerusalem So often, dear Christian, we stick our hand on the stovetop. And haven't we learned the folly of such things? Faith without works is not faith. And works without faith is sin. You see, the other problem, the other misapprehension that you can walk away with is that, well, well, in order to be a Christian, then I have to do all these things. I have to do the Word of God. And so you might think, well, I'm listening to Pastor Bob, and so my goodness, I better I better memorize the Ten Commandments, which is true. You should do that. Uh but I boy, I better just make this do list and checklist or uh whatever you want to call it, a tick list, I've heard it called, and you know, put that on my fridge and be sure that I do everything as right as I can. Well, in Romans we read that everything that is not from faith, even if it's done for quote-unquote godly or spiritual reasons, says it's sin. And beloved, there is no worse word in the vocabulary of the Bible than sin. There is no worse word. One of my favorite Puritans once said, there is more evil in a drop of sin than in an ocean of suffering. Sin is utterly, eternally disgusting. The depredations that it brings to your life, to your family, to your work, to this world. We can scarcely imagine. The feelings we get when we open up our news feed or look at a newspaper, that only scratches the surface of it. And when the Word of God tells us that if we do something separated from faith as if it's a good thing, that's just another sin. Utterly rubbish. You see, if I don't do things because I have put my faith in Christ, having heard those things aforementioned, he is the eternal Son of God. He lived a perfect life, and as fully man, fully God died on a cross to pay the penalty for my sins, that I, through faith and repentance, am united to him, reconciled to God. That is the great motive for my doing. The two have to go together, dear friends. Do you hear the call of God in your life? Do you hear the voice speaking from Scripture, not mine, but the Spirit's, saying to you, come home. Stop resisting. Listening to what God has said. Do you hear God saying to you? Start doing. And stop disobeying. Because here's the wondrous thought. When Jesus says My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. He's not saying that Mary and his siblings are not kin. He's saying that you, on condition of your hearing and doing, are his kin. Sit with that for a minute. Have you ever been ashamed of a family member? Have have you ever had a family member make the news or? At least make the scuttle butt circles you live in that has disappointed you. This was a very real thing for me growing up You know, I talk about my parents a lot. I love them dearly. Many of you know them. And I cannot think of a godlier man than my dad. But one thing he used to say to us, only partly in jest, was don't bring shame to the Bjerkes family name. I did on a couple of occasions. But my father was never, ever tempted to disown me. And in that I saw Christ. What does Jesus say in Hebrews? That the Son of God stands up in the assembly of heaven and is not ashamed to own us as brothers. Have you ever thought of that? Given that you have resisted listening, that you have resisted doing. Or that you have only gotten half of the listening and doing done that you in your deepest heart want to. I want to give you this concept. Jesus says, hear and do the word of God. And you are my kin. You are my family. There is no relationship closer. Because you're adopted. And in that culture, it was legal to disown a biological child. You could not ever disown an adopted child. You are permanently by grace through faith a member of God's family if you have believed and that faith is true. And we see, as was said earlier in the service, that the evidence of faith is often attached to the fact that we can see God changing us We are growing in our knowledge of our sin. We are expanding our appreciation for the beauty and holiness of God. We are reforming our life one baby step at a time. As we are hid in Christ, we are finding ourselves. And delighting in the presence of God. Has any of that described you? Has it described me? Oh, that it were so. Would you be? the mother, brother, or sister of Jesus Himself, then know that at the very end of this great passage on the importance of hearing productively, in order to be a companion of Jesus, you are given a royal invitation. You are given a promise that could change your entire life, that if you will hear and if you will do, If you will come to me, trembling from the east or the west, the north or the south, whether you fled me on ships or hid under a mountain, however you have avoided the majesty of your God, if you will come to me, we will be family. Isn't this such a theme in Scripture that He Himself is standing at your door of your heart knocking, saying to you, estranged believer, you dabbler in spirituality, you Friend of the church, you struggling Christian, open up your door. Hear me. Obey me. And we will be table mates. We will have fellowship. We will be family. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Father, we pray that you would help us to be those that both hear and do your word. Father, help us to appreciate just how significant it is that we who hear and do your word are your family. You own us as such and will never forsake us. You will hold us fast. You will Uh Lord, send the very hounds of heaven to corral us and shepherd us back to the places we belong. Father, I pray that if there are any of us here this morning who do not know that they are your family by grace through faith, Lord, that that today would be the day they hear and do. That they would meet with people in the front left corner of this sanctuary. And that they would pray that sinner's prayer. And that those adoption papers in heaven would be signed and that life, abundant life, would begin. And Father, for those of us who have walked with you and been in your family for decades, Lord, rekindle in us our first love. Remind us anew daily of the great joy that we have as the redeemed. And help us though we are painfully aware of our weaknesses and frailties. Help us to boldly and freely and with happiness in our hearts, because of what you've done for us, do what we can for you and others. We ask these things in Christ's precious name. Amen. Let's rise and sing to God's glory and in praise for his grace. Amazing grace, please rise