Well, as I mentioned last week, we uh we finished uh First Timothy. Today is is two days before the fourth of July. You know, you know it's fourth tomorrow today's the second fourth two days. Okay. So And I've been thinking a lot the last few months about the book of Daniel, and I wanted to share some thoughts and insights and and uh maybe get us thinking about what it means to be in a in a pagan world. And uh Daniel has always been a book that I've gone to for that kind of a thought. And um Daniel is one of the best examples in scripture of a person who lived and worked as a key leader. With a powerful position within one of the great pagan kingdoms of history. And yet simultaneously He remained absolutely faithful to his God. He's a forerunner of Jesus, by the way. Jesus was called a friend of sinners. This astounded people about Jesus, by the way. He didn't stay aloof from people, he was involved in the world. And yet, who can accuse Jesus of sin? His perfect righteousness covers our lack of righteousness, and one area where we need his blood to cover us is in our activity in a pagan world. Because it's tough living in a pagan world. Daniel chapter 1, ESV translation. We're going to look at this whole chapter. And um read the chapter. From the ESV translation. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it, and the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand with some of the vessels of the house of God He brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his god. Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, his chief eunuch to bring some of the people of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility, youths, without blemish, Of good appearance, and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding, learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace and to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate and of the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king. Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah of the tribe of Judah. And the chief of the eunuchs gave them names. Daniel he called Belteshazzar, Hananiah he called Shadrach, Meshel he called Meshach, and Azarai he called Abednego But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food or with the wine that he drank Therefore, he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself. And God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. And the chief of the eunuch said to Daniel, I fear my Lord the king who assigned you food and your drink. But why should he see that you were in worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So you would endanger my head with the king. Then Daniel said to the steward, whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Henani, Ishael, and Azariah, Test your servants For ten days, let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink. Then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your service according to what you see. So he listened to them in this matter, and he tested them for ten days. At the end of ten days, it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate the king's food. So the steward took away their food and the wine they were to drink and gave them vegetables. As for these four youths God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. At the end of the time when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, The chief of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar, and the king spoke with them, and among all of them none was like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king. And in every manner of wisdom and understanding about which the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters that were in all his kingdom. And Daniel. was there until the first year of King Sarus. God's word. Let's pray. But I pray you would use this this time in your word to To encourage us, to challenge us, to move us all, to be more faithful to you. Lord, I pray you would use the words of my mouth and the meditation of all of our hearts to sanctify our lives. Lord, we need we need you in these moments. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now, living in pagan lands, believers often face very tough decisions. Very tough decision, very tough choices. But God caused his people to live in Babylon, but not live like the Babylonians. We're caught to be in Babylon, but not live like Babylonians. After I I finished seminary, I had a personal challenge. I needed money, right? I didn't have a calling yet. for the first couple years. And um I ha my first uh uh job I had was telemarketing. It was a little simple job. That's b that's back when you made phone calls to try to get people to help the business It was a ridiculous business. It was telemarketing, but I was pretty good at it, and uh but it didn't make it didn't make a lot of money at all. And so I did that for I think three months and we realized this isn't gonna help. This isn't gonna sustain us as we wait. So I I said I gotta find I find a job with more money. So look the yellow page they had yellow pages back in those days, you know. There was a company that was uh I saw I saw an ad for a company called the Environmental Water Control. Um this it it they all they they promised twice as much money as I was already making. I I interviewed, got the job. It was a sales job that I had for a grand total of three weeks. It was a job where I would this is in the days before you could actually pay for water, for good clean water. So this this company, they they they went door to door cold calls in communities. and and offered people filters to put on their faucets to clean the water. You remember those days when those kinds before before again you can buy water, okay? So this is what I did and that was just asked to do and and I found out within the first couple days that this wasn't just a nice thing to help the community. This was a money-making scheme to help you help you and and and and the the the the bosses Because the the prices that we were uh uh uh uh uh this was ridiculously uh uh astronomically uh too much. And uh After about two or three days of no call, of no of of being honest and trying to get little old ladies to give this get this product, um, the the boss called me in and said, you know, you gotta look a little harder, you know, you gotta get a little Fudge the truth a little bit, you know, exaggerate a little bit. You know, you gotta you gotta get some money here. After three weeks, I said, forget it. So I I I gave up that job. And the Lord blessed us. Uh Um I for the for the next couple year and a half, I think I I was a courier. I got to drive for a hundred miles a day to think and pray and and uh and do something where I didn't have to compromise my own values. And that I did that until ordination. But Living in this group, there's challenges, there's decisions we have to make that sometimes are not easy to make. Sometimes there are sometimes we know what to do, but it's not easy to do it, right? Most of our time today, we're going to be looking at Daniel, this chapter, this first chapter of Daniel and his friends. And then we're going to look at a couple brief stories in Genesis. They might be familiar. And then I'm trying to draw together a few applications. But first, the dilemma in Daniel, in this first chapter of Daniel. It says in the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, verse 1 anchors this story in history. This this history tells us it was 605 BC when this happened. You can look in the Bible to 2 Kings and find that this is when that this event takes place. King Nebuchadnezzar besieges the city of Jerusalem and and and and and It's interesting that it says in verse 2, the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand. This wasn't just, yes, Nebuchadnezzar did it, but the Lord allowed, this is part of the plan of God that this happened. This thing that seemed horrible was part of God's plan. Why? It's interesting back in the Old Testament, in the book of Deuteronomy. 28, chapter 28, there's the warnings to God's people. There's a prediction of exile upon God's people if they fail to remain covenantly faithful to God. And and in in Deuteronomy 28, 29 we see the promise of blessings and the promise of curses. And and The blessings are conditional on their keeping the word of the Lord and being faithful to it. And sadly, the ten northern tribes they first were defeated by the Assyrians in about 722 BC. The Assyrian conquerors, though, they allowed them to stay in their land. And they intermingled and intermingled. They set up a puppet government. We had the Samaritans that came out of that. And they they kind of blended with the Assyrian people, but the the the two the two southern tribes, the tribes of Judah, they ignored the lessons that for a hundred years had the lift the lesson of what had happened to their northern brothers. But they ignored that. They ignored the constant warnings of the prophets of Jeremiah and Habakkuk. Instead, they continued in their covenant unfaithfulness. idolatry, injustice, immorality. And so God came and judged them through the the the the astonishing through through the wicked Babylonians. Read the book of Habakkuk. They're astonished That God would choose the Babylonians as his vessels of judgment upon them. I mean, the Babylonians? The wicked, evil Babylonians? No, God wouldn't do that. That's what happened. So Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, he was allowed by God to capture the Jewish temple items, the holy items. Brought them to Babylon, put them in his own temple for display. Sort of like a museum showing off What he was able to accomplish in the name of the gods of Babylon, Martin, and Baal and the other Babylonian deities, almost like a museum So that's the exile. Now, in verses 3 to 7, we see begin to see the agenda that they had. The king had a different, much more aggressive strategy than the Assyrians had had on the northern tribes. Verses 3, we see in following, we're told the king took a handful of the young boys as hostages And then quickly set up a training program for them. You know, history says they were anywhere from 13 to 17 years old. These are teenagers. This is a brainwashing exercise that's taking place here in the text. As you know, I worked for 11 years. in campus ministry and this was a this was a go-to passage for me during those those interversity years. You quickly discover this passage. It was a staple for us, particularly with freshmen as they came in. What is it what does it look like to be on a campus? And uh we have this paragraph here. And I this this paragraph that we're going to look at now is essentially the college catalog for the Babylon University. That's what we have here. It tells us what that school is going to be like. It's kind of like an admissions brochure in miniature. Look at what what does the brochure describe? You see quickly the the criteria for being part of this school. They only wanted the best and the brightest. Look at verse 3. Exile Jewish young men from royal families and the nobility. Only the best and brightest. In other words, this was no community college. Sorry if you work at a community college. This is no state school. Sorry if you work at a state school. This is Harvard, Yale, maybe Johns Hopkins, I don't know. This is an elite program for only the best young people. Verse 4 says they were youths without blemish of good appearance. They were health requirements, the boys that were handsome and probably had to be very physically fit. It says they had to be skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding, and learning. They had to have super SAT scores. No remedial classes were going to be done in this school. You had to come in ready to ready to work, ready to study. The curriculum focused on the literature and language of the Chaldeans. This is not just a school where you can get all a general education to get all there were very specific things they wanted them to get. It was a focus through the curriculum. It says they had to be competent to stand in the king's palace. These boys, they only had to come in They have had a proven excellence in their social skills. Poise. Confident. Humility before adults. The ability to speak to adults using the King's English. I was trying to think, what does this look like? And then this week I saw one of my favorite basketball players, Bradley Beale, who was traded, unfortunately, to Phoenix. And they had a press conference for him. And now I'm a I'm a big Washington Wizards fan and he they we traded Bradley Bill. I was kind of glad they did. But anyway, that's a long story. But I've soured on Bradley for the last few years because of some of the things that happened, but I I after watching some of the press conference, the clips of it, I began to realize again why I like him. He walks into the press conference with him and his wife and his three kids, and he's dressed to kill. He didn't dress, he didn't look like he just he didn't look like he's preparing to go to the club. But he was like he's just going to go to a high class business meeting. That's the way he looked. That's the way he presented himself. And then they they put a microphone in front of him. He asked answered questions and he spoke articulately. He used four or five syllable words. He he he he used humor, he was very poised, he expressed vision. Just the kind of kid that I wish all my boys were like I got four boys He's the kind of kid, kind of young man that would make any any person proud. And as I was as I saw some of those clips, I said, that's what was going on here. They wanted men like that. with that kind of raw material to be part of this uh uh uh uh brainwashing program. They wanted to use that raw raw material and then twist it, make it pivot so that it could be used not for the God of Israel But for the culture of Babylon and and their and their um um program These graduation requirements that are shown in this brochure, verse 5. At the end of that time, they were to stand before the king. The Veninsula program is three years. It seemed to be a promise of a stable degree, usable degree, if you're successful. This brochure also included the cafeteria menu. Did you notice that? Verse 5. The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate and the wine that he drank. Now what they're doing is they're whining and dying, these kids. I mean, this is not only good Babylonian food and drink. It's the food and drink from the king's table. This is the best. This is not Applebee's or Golden Corral. This is Ruth's Chris or Morton or anything better than that? I don't know. This is the best And for three years they said, come on boys. So part of the program is to drag them to appreciate all that was Babylon. By the way, one of the biggest differences in college campuses today, as opposed to 30, 40 years ago when I served on college campuses, is now there are many, many more and better food choices. I don't know if young people know that, but it's true. You'll find out when you go. Back in the day there was cafeteria food. Food, quote unquote. You wanted something good, you had to walk off campus and find it. Not now. All the primaries food franchises are fighting to get on campus. A few weeks ago I was I was I w I w I w I wanted to get some Chick-fil-A. I was in Townsend on a beltway. I said, let me stop and get some Chick-fil-A. I I I I checked my phone. I said, because, you know, I live in Pikesville. I w I said, I know there's Chick-fil-A in Woodlawn. There's one in Owens Mills. There's got to be one in Towson somewhere. Um my phone showed me there were two. I said, okay, there's this Chick-fil-A in Towson. Well the first one I said I noticed was um that wasn't the mall, the Towson Mall. I said, I don't want to deal with that parking lot. No, I'm not going to Towson Mall. The second one, I said, wait a minute, that's Osborne Fossey, that's Towson's campus. That's the university center. That I'm not going there. I've got to have a parking pass. I remember that I I kind of chuckle because that's the building where when I first came to Baltimore, I learned how to do evangelism. The University Center it at Townsend And and and and and I I just chuckled. I said, so they didn't have Chick-fil-A back when I was there. Now the school the the the the the food on campus is a real drawing point. You've got to have food nowadays. The mission of the University of Babylon was quite clear, to develop cross-cultural leaders from among the exiles, ripping them of their home culture and their home religion. And replacing it with commitment to Babylonian culture, language, values, customs, and ways of living. That's what's going on. Verse 7 is pretty key, by the way. These nobles and royal family teams were to be groomed to become the future leaders of the kingdom. And And verse 7 tells us that one of the things that they tried to do was to change their names. Okay? The king gave them new names. Daniel, whose name means God is judge. Gave him the name Beltashazzar. Hananiah, which means the Lord is gracious, was given the name Shadrak. Meshael, whose name means who was like the Lord, was given the name Meshach. Azariah, whose name means the Lord is my helper, was given the name Abednego. The Babylonian names were derivatives of the pantheon of gods of Babylon, Bel, Aku, Marduk, Nego. They're trying to strip them of their identity. And they said it's going to change your name. In our modern world, the change of name It's not that abnormal when you think about it. How many of you know Malcolm Little? Malcolm X. You've heard of Malcolm X, haven't you? Even Kanye West changed his name to Ye, or is it Yee? I don't know. I was astounded to learn that there was a man named Leslie Lynch King. That was the name of President Gerald Ford. He changed his name. I don't know why. Leslie Flinch King. Probably the most interesting to me and the humorous to me is Prince Rogers Nelson, who changed his name to the artist formerly known as Prince. Prince Roger Snowson. Even in the New Testament, we have Saul who became Paul. We have Simon who became Peter. Names can be changed voluntarily. But when those over you demand you change your name, it's a totally different ballgame, isn't it? This is about domination. It's about erasing your cultural, religious, and family history. This is about your core identity of who you are and what you believe in, what you stand for. Seeking to make them less Jewish and more Babylonian. Interesting, look at what the Lord said in Isaiah 62 to the community that was in exile. He says this, Isaiah 62, verse 2. The nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name. That the mouth of the Lord will give. The Lord's going to give you a name. And the book of Revelation, several times, picks up on that theme from Isaiah. So I'm calling this battle over ethical choices, this fight to maintain one's identity as the Babylon dilemma. The Babylon Dilemma. Verses 8 to 14, though, but Daniel resolved. that he would not defile himself. I suspect that Daniel and his friends had many ethical decisions to make as they lived in a strange land with different customs and practices But they chose a very interesting one in which to put their foot down. Cafeteria food. Interesting. Changed the educational curriculum. Okay, it's not forbidden to Okay, there's nothing in scripture demanding that they resist this. In fact, they probably didn't in their own private conversations. They called each other by their original names. But changed the diet. Interesting. Eating Babylonian foods which were heavy on the ham and the sausage and the pork The bacon. That was going too far. It's quite interesting that this is where they drew the line, isn't it? Notice these f these several problematic issues. The problem of uh the preparation of the food. The food would not have been kosher, the food would have clearly been a violation of the Levitical food laws. And then there would have been prayers over the food. The food would have been dedicated to the gods of the Chaldeans, the Babylonians. But but don't miss this also. In cross-cultural settings, never underestimate the importance of food. Let me say that again. In cross-cultural settings, don't underestimate the importance of food to people I noticed that uh Matt Lowling finished his series from Romans 14 and 15 about about differences and how Christians need to understand each other's differences. And um Pause. I'll keep talking. We have another microphone. Romans 14 and 15, if you remember the the the passages that he talked about, the big dispute, the surface issue is food. It was food. Should you eat certain foods? Food customs are always important in cross-cultural dynamics. They did not want to become ceremonially defiled. So in the area of food there was to be no compromise at all. So they go to Ashpenaz, who was the eunuch who was managing things, and he requested an alternative diet, the now famous Daniel diet. Sounds very very similar to, but even more right rigid than the Mediterranean diet that my wife Terry and I have been trying to do. She's doing a better job with it, by the way. These four boys trusted God that they would be as healthy as the boat Babylonians desired. They thought that through the ultimate goals that the school officials had for them, They would be satisfied. They said, we believe we can achieve your goals using an alternative process while we maintain our faith. In fact, they trusted God, they dared God that He would be faithful. And I love how Alistair Begg talks about this as a miracle. Ten days of veggies and water. Should have made them weaker, not stronger. But God desires to do more than we can ask or expect. So permission was conditionally granted and for 10 days they did this veggie diet You may have heard this week some of the Supreme Court decisions. One decision was quite interesting, it was about religious liberty, from Christianity Day magazine. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in favor of a Pennsylvania postal worker who lost his job for refusing to take Sunday delivery shifts due to his Christian observance of the Sabbath. In the court's opinion, written by Justice Alito, it held that accommodating Gerald Gross's religious practice did not provide an undue burden on postal operations, which expanded to Sundays for Amazon delivery. An employer who fails to provide an accommodation has a defense only if the hardship is undue. The court stated. Faced with an accommodation request like Gross, it would not be enough for an employer to conclude that forcing other employees to work overtime would constitute an undue hardship. Groff wrestling with choices and decisions. Should he cross the line or should he not? We all face those kinds of decisions. Verses 15 to 21 now. We see the victory. We see what happened with the test And the end of the ten days was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate the king's food. So verses 17 and 18, they they when the three years were over, they had their oral exams, their oral final exams. Department heads brought them before the king. And all four of these young men easily graduated with honors. You see that? Daniel, it says, he maintained and grew even in in the important era of his spiritual giftedness, of understanding all visions and dreams. That foreshadows Some things that are going to happen in the next few chapters, the visions and dreams of Daniel. So 19 and 20, these verses These four graduated at the head of the class, and by far, they were in a tier by themselves. In fact, they were, it says, ten times smarter than even the professional musicians and enchanters. Now, notice something very important in verse 11 and verse 19. The three friends are listed with their Babylonian names. Why? I'm not sure. Maybe they became famous later using those names. Maybe privately they use those names among with each other. Deciding not to make it a public issue. But I do know this. Ten times in this chapter, we see the name Daniel, not Belteshazzar. As the book goes on, Daniel served through several kings' regimes for many, many years, and still the book is called the Book of Daniel, not the book of Beltishazzar. This book is a story of how to live in a pagan land. And God blessed Daniel and in fact to the point where he becomes a leader in Babylon, having a great impact upon the leaders of Babylon. You can review chapters 2 through 7 for the dramatic stories and the impact that Daniel and his friends had. But we also see that he draws the line. The world always asks God's people to cross the line. Let's review. What are we seeing? Change the curriculum? Okay. Change the name? Okay. Change the diet? No. Let's figure out an alternative diet. Why? Because it was a direct violation of God's word. Daniel and his friends found an alternative way to accomplish the goals of those over them while not violating the word. Now later in the book, all four of them are going to have moments where, like Luther the Reformer, they declare, unless I am convicted by Scripture and plain reason I do not accept the authority of popes and councils because they have contradicted each other. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. Here I stand. I can do no other, so help me God. This dilemma Is not fresh in the book of Daniel. It's all over scripture. Just I'm going to look at three three stories in the book of Genesis, the first book of the Bible, and you'll see where men face choices, tough choices. The first one is Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, where he he and his wife Sarah are about to go into the land of Egypt, and Pharaoh there is known to have an eye for the ladies. And Sarah is still hot, though she's old. If I can use that phrase hot. And that's a problem of K first. So he says, look, honey. I know you I know you're my my wife, but right now you're my sister. Okay? Because if he sees you, he can kill me. And I don't like that You you might have it's a humorous situation, but it loves it funny. Not to Abraham and Sarah. Tell them you're my sister We find later in chapter 20 where the same thing happens with the King of Bivalek that that was a half-truth. She was his half-sister. You can look at that chapter 20 there. But it's quite interesting. The lesson is simply this. In a sinful world, the choice is sadly offered between two bad options. There were two bad options here. Tell them you're my my sister and and and and and and we'll be saved. But if you're my if you're my wife, this could be some blood here. They're gonna get me. Now, notice this, particularly in chapter 20, the second is Abimelech, God warns the king, hands off, don't touch her. God never chastised Abraham, but he goes full blast after the two kings. God always judges those who are in authority, who create, who benefit from unjust systems. More stringently than he judges those who are victims of an unjust system. Very important principle as we live in an unjust, crazy world. The second example is lot. In chapter 18 and 19. This, as you know, is a very crazy, sad situation. The men of the city desired to gang rape two angelic visitors. What's Locke gonna do? His response, please don't do that. Take my two daughters, who by the way were engaged to be married. The passage later states That says something to us about the relative, the understanding of the relative degree of abomination between gay and straight activity. That's another sermon. But you know you know what happened? God said, okay, that's enough. This this society this Sodom and Gomorrah have gone crazy. And so the result is fire and sulfur, fire and brimstone upon wicked Sodom and Gomorrah. Very tragic. But also tragic is that they were told, don't look back and see the destruction of the city, and Lot's wife turned back around. And she instantly herself became a pillar of salt. Jesus in Luke chapter 17, talking about that story, says, remember Lot's wife. Unfortunately, many have neglected to remember Lot. You remember Lot's wife, you remember this story, about what can happen when you don't make the choices, make right choices. In an ungodly world. The lesson here is compromise in the face of the Babylon dilemma can cost you your physical life And the third example is Joseph. Joseph in chapter 39 of Genesis, the favorite son. And he's he's Potiphar is is is is the leader down there in Egypt. And Potiphar's wife is enticing Joseph in chapter 39. And uh he has a choice. And his choice is to be faithful and leave her alone. And he runs away. He runs from her. And so he had the dilemma of either being with her or being accused of being with her. Not a very good choice, is it? He chose faithfulness to God. And what did that get him? Time in prison. Time in prison. Pafar believes his wife. But he ended up having a prison ministry. He began to ministry to people that the others never in the prison there. And eventually he was vindicated. Eventually he becomes the prime minister. of Egypt who delivered the entire world, the entire known world during a famine. The story goes on. Chapter 47 and 48. And the lesson we learned through Joseph's life is that live with integrity as you face this Babylon dilemma. And you persevere, and God just might have something great in mind for your future. It's not promised, but this might happen that way. More than you can ask or imagine could be the result of staying faithful to God. when you face a dilemma. Well again, the dilemma continues on. It's an ongoing dilemma. This dilemma is not just about Daniel's day or not just about the ancient times back then. The New Testament, Jesus said, in this world you will have tribulation. We'll have choices to make, and sometimes it's going to lead us to being persecuted. Paul said, all who live godly will suffer persecution. 2 Timothy chapter 3. The choice is always, will you serve God or Babylon? The culture. And we all must choose. We all must choose. See, we all face in our world uh uh an ashpenaz and a nebutinesh. What am I saying? Ashpenaz is is the the local, the daily local representatives of this the world system that we interact with all the time, that we have face-to-face contact with. Your your your boss, your your your your your neighbors Who press you to go against God? We also face the Nebuchadnezzar's, these unseen, powerful political forces that make major decisions of impact. How we live. We all face an Ashpenaz or Nebuchadnezzar. We should heed the desires of the Ashpenazes of our life as best we can. And we should heed the desires of the Nebuchadnezzar of our life as best we can. But ultimately, we should know that when a clear conflict arises There is a line that we cannot cross. We must ultimately serve only God, not Babylon. So as believers in America, some some measure with some measure of loyalty to the American experiment, that's good. It's appropriate. Celebrate. Yet we must maintain a courageous, no compromise attitude whenever we see America encroaching on those realms of faith and life that belong only to God. Jesus said, Render to Caesar that which belongs to Caesar, render to God that which belongs to Caesar. to God. I was thinking of 1 Peter. 1 Peter begins this way. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles. Chapter 2. You saw this verse. You're a chosen race, the royal priesthood. Verse 11 says, I urge you as soldiers and exiles This is an exilic understanding of our living as Christians in this world. He says, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. And then the fifth chapter This is what this is what Peter says. She who this is verse 13, she who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark my son. Peter is writing from Rome and he is calling Rome Babylon. It's the seat of power, the seat of worldly power in his day. And he's in Rome, and there's others in Rome with him. But he says he metaphorically says, she who is at Babylon, not Rome. Interesting. Well, there's good news at the end, isn't there? Babylon. Revelation. Remember how it ends? Towards the end? Chapter 18. Babylon is depicted as a beautiful, lovely. Prostitute. Remember that? Whirl it. And yet, verse chapter 18, fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean detestable beast. For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality. The kings of the earth have committed immorality with her. The merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. As she glorified herself and lived in luxury, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning, since in her heart she says, I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see. Mourning, not grief. For this reason, her plagues will come in a single day. Death and mourning and famine, she will be burned up with fire. For mighty is the Lord who has judged her. Alas, alas, you great city, you mighty city Babylon, for in a single hour your judgment has come. That's the end of Babylon. Al Five things to ponder as we wind down. Don't be surprised if following Jesus you face Babylon dilemmas. It's inevitable living in this world. Second, it's always helpful if we have others to assist us in trying to understand and navigate Babylon. Encouraging us to do what's right. Helping us understand what is right. As best you can. Refrain. Refrain from Hasty, unilateral decisions. Consult with others. Consult with wise people. Lean on mature Christians in your workplace if you found some. Or the school, if you're in school. They may have already thought through some of the ethical choices that you're facing. They may have already worked through that. Third If you've never done so, resolve in your heart that you will not defile yourself, that you will not compromise in the face of the world They can change your name without your permission. They can never change your heart unless you allow that to happen. Trust God. Depend on God. Live for God. Even if there seems to be no course of action. Study God's word so you have a sense. Of what the rights and wrongs are, where the lines are. The problem that many face is that they cross the line even before they realized the line was there. I like that's what I like about Daniel 4 and Daniel 6. When told bow down before the statue, they said no. And they ended up in a fiery furnace. When told worship. King, they said no. Daniel said no. He went up right up. He knew exactly where the line was. He wasn't going to cross it. They didn't have to go and deliberate right there. They had thought through the decisions Fourth, allow other saints to come to different conclusions on some matters. Not everything is going to be this is the decision for everybody. Again, examples. You're counseling, Christian marriage counseling. Do you counsel couples who are living together before marriage? How about a same-sex couple that are legally married? Where are the lines there? It's not simple. As of yesterday, we have new marijuana laws in our state. There's some new lines that we're going to have to understand where they are, aren't they? As we live in this Babylon, we should keep in mind that often all this confusion is temporary. The Lord will destroy Babylon. An old song that's based on a Negro Spiritual Close. It was a song by a singer called Roberta Flack. Many of you know her. I think she she but she didn't write it. She she sampled it from a From from the Negro Spirituals. The song is called I Told Jesus. I told Jesus to be alright, alright. If you change my name. And then he told me the world will turn away from you, child, if I change your name. Then he told me, your father, won't you know, child, if I change your name? Yes, he told me, your mother won't know you, child, if I change your name And she says, if my father turns away now and my mother turns away now, yes, my brother, the baby's sister, turn away, turn away. I still, I told Jesus, you'd be alright. If you change my name, change my name, change my name. If you change my name. That's the crisis. Who are we? What who who who do we live for? What's our identity? What do we stand on? We're allowing Jesus to change our name, change our identity. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, I thank you for this portion of your word But we all face dilemmas, all kinds of interesting choices in a confusing world. But I pray that we would trust you, trust the Spirit of God It's work in us in those moments when we just don't know which way to go. Well, I would pray for anyone who doesn't know you, Lord, that they would know that this help is available, that this This understanding and insight and wisdom of how to live in this world is available from your Spirit. But trust Jesus Christ as our Savior. Now Lord now Lord as we think about the the supper that we're about to partake remind us that it's for not for perfect people maybe some of us have have have not been as faithful as we should have been in some very important ways But we turn to the table because there we we turn to you and there we find grace. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.