Chuck Colson wrote these words recently in the magazine Jubilee. The Senate debate over school prayer was big news in March. Night after night, the networks covered fair vigils on Capitol Hill with President. President's appealed to the nation, heated exchanges between senators. But almost obscured by the national furor over the constitutional amendment was a case in an Oklahoma courtroom, the outcome of which could have far greater consequences for religious liberty and the church in America. The case grew out of the actions of a small church in rural Oklahoma. Some months ago, the elders confronted one of their members, Marion Glynn, who was having an affair with a local mayor. She was counseled to repent, or the church would withdraw from her. Lynn did not deny the charge, for affair was well known. But according to the elders, she refused to repent. End of the quote. What's the church do? situation like that. How should that be handled? The Bible is quite clear in that situation. Every effort should be made to gently bring that person to realise the sin. And in every possible way. To show the love of Christ along with his unyielding standards. You just heard Dennis and Sarah take vows. The last of that vow, the last vow that they took. I remind you was that I give to the elders of this church my encouragement, my submission, and prayers, recognizing that they have been called by God to keep watch over my doctrine in life and must give account to the Lord for their ministry. That's basically a paraphrase of Hebrews thirteen, seventeen, personalized. We used to have a vow, it's uh found on page six hundred and sixty six of the hymnal, that put that last statement, in some ways even more strongly Directly. We would ask the question, do you agree to submitting the Lord to the government of this church and in case you should be found delinquent in doctrine and life, to heed its discipline? And the person would say, Yes, I do. We changed that, not because we wanted to water it down, but simply because we wanted to put the emphasis more positively in terms of discipleship, not simply in terms of a problem of sin. But the net effect is to be the same. That I realize that I give submission in my life to those who are called by Jesus Christ to lead this congregation. I don't know what vows Mary and Gwyn took. She probably took something in which she acknowledged that she was part of that body. But she refused to listen as the elders brought the sin to her attention. I'm not saying the elders did everything right. I don't know exactly how they handled it. Maybe they made a number of mistakes. I don't really know. All I know is That after they considered in seeking to submit to the Bible's teaching that they had exhausted every effort, they then issued a public statement in which they denounced her fornication and called on the members of that church to withdraw fellowship. The result of that was that Mary and Gwynne sued the church for $1. 3 million. The reason? Damages for publicly condemning her sexual behavior. When told the court during the trial, quote, I'm not saying I wasn't guilty. I was. But it was none of their business. It was none of their business. And so she charged invasion of Privacy. The court, in my judgment, did two incredible things in that case. Number one, they rejected all motions to dismiss the case, and instead they asserted jurisdiction. Over the church's affairs. They decided that the church had the right to decide whether the church had the right to discipline its members. The second thing that they did, which to me was incredible, was the But they in fact ruled in her favor, awarding her about four hundred thousand dollars in damages. The verdict is now being appealed. This case raises, I believe, to us two very important questions. The first question is a legal question. You see it there. Does the state have jurisdiction over the church's internal affairs? That question has seriously been thrown up in the air because of this case. Does the state of Maryland, for instance, have the right to tell us as a congregation how we conduct our affairs in fellowship, discipleship, and discipline? Can they tell us that to discipline our members is illegal? Will we come to a place in the near future where biblical discipline will be illegal in this country. The second question which this case raises is perhaps more less obvious, but it's more disturbing. And that's the question, a spiritual question. How does the culture perceive the church? How does the culture perceive the church? I would have liked to have gone on to Amos VI this morning, but when I read Coulson's article and I registered, To reflect on what had been happening there, I saw that it was such a precise application of Amos 5 that I decided that we needed to look at that one more time before we move on to Amos chapter 6. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to look at that whole stream of thought in Amos 5 and apply it to the situation in the church today. And first to examine ourselves and see how this applies to our own situation. Let me read then from God's Word, Amos chapter 5. I would like to read simply verses four to seven and then verse ten, which sum up the key, the heart of Amos's point in this pat in this chapter. Amos chapter five, then, beginning with verse four. Amos says, This is what the Lord says to the house of Israel. Seek me and live. Do not seek Bethel, do not go to Gilgal, do not journey to Beersheba. For Gilgal will surely go into exile, and Bethel will be reduced to nothing. Seek the Lord and live, or he will sweep through the house of Joseph like a fire. It will devour. Bethel will have no one to quench. You who turned justice into bitterness and cast righteousness. to the ground, and then there's a parenthesis describing God's works, continues in verse 10, you hate the one who reproves in court and despise him who tells the truth. As we examine ourselves in this, to look at three things. First of all, the character of American churches in the light of this chapter. Secondly, the call to us as church leaders, and then thirdly, the call to all of us here as members. Of Christ's body. First of all, the character of American churches. First among that, you see the common charge in American churches of hypocrisy. You see this is stated in Amos chapter 5, verses 7 and verse. Verse eleven and twelve. You call yourselves the people of God, but you pervert justice, you trample the poor, you give uh force him to give grain. Uh he speaks about your many offenses. We're all familiar with the charge. hypocrisy in the churches, aren't we? We've referred a number of times recently to Frank Tillipaw's book, The Church Unleashed. Frank Tillipaw's own testimony runs that while he was raised in North Dakota, he had very little time for the church because he knew knew that at that Time in the church that he was involved in the town, those who sang loudly and held positions of leadership in that congregation were the same guys that he would see in the bar on Saturday night pawing other men's wives. Those who cheated, those who lied. those who held and lived lives that were absolutely inconsistent with the most liberal kind of understanding of what it meant to follow Jesus Christ. Well you and I have learned perhaps some clever answers to those who charge hypocrisy to the church in our evangelism. But I think we should never lose the sting of that charge, that there's so much truth to it, of those who name the name of Christ and go to church in our country. You see, secondly, the charge of our hating. Reproof. Hating to have these things brought to our attention. Verse ten says, You hate the one who reproves in court and despise him who tells the truth. You love to hear humanism and blatant unbelief condemned. But what you hear Messages on gossip, greed, racism, on uh immoral sexual practices that are a little too close to home or divorce, various other things that begin to penetrate into your own lifestyle. Then you say, I don't think that preacher's feeding me anymore. He doesn't encourage me with the word. I think I better look for another place to get fed. And so what happens? The church learns to keep silent. Verse 13. Therefore the prudent man, whether he be preacher, elder, businessman, or whatever, the prudent leader keeps quiet in such times. But the times are evil. And so the church has learned very well how to keep quiet and not offend the people who come. People say you can't offend them and grow as a church. You've got to preach a positive message which simply encourages, and I'm all for positive and encouraging messages. God forbid that he would come here and be discouraged by the gospel. But there's a difference between discouragement and conviction. And the church is meant to keep silent so that it will grow and people will feel comfortable. And the result of that Is, as you see, what Amos goes on to describe, an increasing dullness concerning a hatred of evil and a love for good. An increasing tolerance for evil that we might might once have shuddered to see on television. Vision, but we learn to get used to sin. And there's an a numbing of our sensitivities, a dulling of our consciences, and there is a lessening of our hatred of evil, a lessening of our And with that there is also a lessening of our fear of judgment. How many people do you know today that really think about judgment and what it means about how we live this life in terms of eternal? And you say, well, you just don't talk about those kind of things today. That's my point. The church has not raised those issues. We learned this so vividly in our own experience when we spoke of the judgment that comes upon people. without Jesus Christ right here. And the thing that impressed me as much as anything else in this whole controversy has been the surprise with which that statement was met. People were surprised that we'd make the statement. There is no fear of judgment. Judgment. And Amos describes it. He says, You look at the day of the Lord and you say, three cheers, isn't it great? History's coming to a conclusion, and everything's going to work out. And everybody has some sort of a theology within the church of how things will work out. But it's why I call In general, the Santa Claus theology. There may be a few threats about not being good, and what you'll get is coal in your stocking on Christmas. But when Christmas comes, everybody gets something in the end. You don't really have to worry about it. And this is because the church has backed off. from offending anyone. And so the result is, as Amos finishes up in this chapter, saying at the end of the chapter there, that the church has emphasized religious activities while discreetly keeping its nose out of people's lives. And so God says, You have all these religious activities, and He says, I hate them. I won't listen to them. It's noise. He says, I despise the offerings. Because there's no justice, there's no righteousness. The righteousness. Which, like the stream of the Holy Spirit we spoke of, floods a person's life as he brings it before Jesus Christ as an offer. And they were surprised that Barry and Gwynn's lawyers argued their clients that their clients' sexual affairs were irrelevant to the church. God should use that to wake us up as an evangelical church, to wake us up that that argument was a cogent argument. in our culture. The court bought that argument. The court heard that and they said, she's right. Gwynn's attorney uh brazingly summed it up in another quote from Chuck Coulson on this thing. Quote, this is what her attorney said in her defense. It doesn't matter if she was fornicating up and down the street. It doesn't give the church the right to stick their noses in. As Colson goes on in his comment, as the world sees us, the church has no business being concerned with the moral standards of its members. Unfair? Or is the world's perception justified by the way that we've acted? If in fact we as a body of believers seek to keep our lives privately held and come together only to worship, then how can we complain when our culture says the church should mind its own business, and that business is simply religious affairs and activities. It is not to be concerned for holy living in the lives of these people who profess Jesus Christ. And so you see in this This passage and in this matter a call to us as leaders. There's a call to the elders of this that we must, must make pure lives lovingly our business. We must, it is in Incumbent upon us as under-shepherds of Jesus Christ, that we make your lives our business. Verses 7, 15, and 24 in Amos chapter 5 speak of justice in the courts, the perversion of justice, the maintaining of justice, and And then in verse 24, the fact that there is no justice, and justice should roll down like waters. And while that has to do with public justice, remember this. In Israel at this time, the justice that's being delivered. Is church discipline. Israel is the people of God. And so what they're speaking about, what Amos is speaking about here, is the elders carrying out a righteous, loving discipline in the lives of the people of God. That was to be done by the law of God, which was very specific in the Old Testament concerning offences, restoration, and punishment. In the New Testament, we now have it clearly laid out to us in Hebrews chapter 13, 17, concerning what our charge is. And then the steps of that in Matthew eighteen, in which we come to one another when we're concerned, to see a sin and tentatively bring that up to one another. And then if we find a resistance, a defensiveness that continues, then we bring some others in. We seek to really get that person's attention about that sin. And if that continues and the person says, My life is my affair, keep your nose out of it We then bring it to the church. And the church must then hold us accountable. Now is that good news to you? Or is that bad news? Do you squirm as you hear that? Or do you say, that gives me a terrific feeling of security, like I have in my family? My kids have said to me, time and Then again, when we really get honest about it and things are going well, Dad, we're glad that you spank us because we know that it shows you love us. In fact, Heather once, when she was just a little kid, went telling some other kid up the street, my dad He loves me, so he spanks me. The other kid thought they were doing a little better off, I think, in not getting spanked, but it was her way of showing that she knew that I loved her because of that. And we should realize that in the family of the body. of Christ. One of the things that we have been noted for as a congregation is a high sense of accountability. Some people have left because of that. Others have been drawn to us because of that. What I want you to see from God's word and from what What you see is the drift in our culture today, that that's not something that's simply a preference. Amos calls upon the Church of Jesus Christ to maintain justice within the courts, the courts and the body of God's people. And to reform So we concern ourselves with our religious activities to make sure that justice is rolling down like waters and righteousness like a never failing stream in the lives of our people, in order to be a people who are in fact usable by Jesus Christ to reach this area. And so finally there's a call to you in this. And the call to you is that you take God's judgment seriously. Take it seriously. You realize that in Amos chapter 5 of the 27 verses that are here. Twelve of those are about God's judgment. Twelve. Amos wasn't ranting and raving. He wasn't a guy who had a peptic ulcer and some problem and just needed a good meal or a few uh rounds of racquetball to put him in better spirits. He did And out of concern for his people. And he was saying, don't you know this is reality? There is a holy and just God who won't be toyed with. Take seriously that there is a judgment. We need to, once again, recognize that Jesus, the most loving man who ever walked the face of the earth, said, Many will come to me in that day and they'll say, Lord, we did this and that and all these kinds of religious activities, and he said, I will say, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity. Did he speak of those who build their house on the sand and on the rock? And those who build upon the sand who knew all about the gospel, but did not follow it with their lives who serve. say, great was the destruction of that life. We as a church need to take that seriously. And taking that seriously I hold before you Jesus Christ. Do we come not remembering only the judgment? But we come this morning encouraged by the mercy of Jesus Christ. The call that you see in verse 4 and 6: come and seek me and live. Come and seek the Lord, Jehovah, the one who has come. A covenant of God for his people, and sent his own son, Jesus. So that his verse 15 says, You'll have mercy. And you see the judgment that's portrayed here. The first verse is talking about Israel being deserted. Jesus was deserted. He was the On the verge of Israel who was deserted by his father, and he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And he was deserted on your behalf. It was Jesus to whom the fire was put, that you see in verse 6. The fire that spread through his life and burned him so that you and I could stand in that burned over place and the fire of judgment could not touch us because it had already seared him. It was Jesus who said, contrary to verse 11. But you, he says, Well, have the vineyards, but you won't drink the wine. It was Jesus who said, I won't drink the wine again, until I taste it with you anew in my Father's kingdom, the other side of a judgment, the other side of the execution. of the sentence for sin that I will bear with you. It was Jesus, and then there was the wailing that you see described in verses 16 and 17. A wailing that's everywhere by everyone. And you remember when he went to the cross, it was the women of Jerusalem that Wept for him and wailed in mourning. And he said, Don't weep for me. Weep for yourselves. Jesus was going willingly as a substitutionary sacrifice to bear our sins. And bewildering. It was rightfully for him. Rightfully because of such a travesty that was being committed at that point. And such a crime, the greatest crime against God in all history, when his own son is crucified and nailed to the. cross. And so it was Jesus who was exiled. We read in verse 27. It was Jesus who was exiled to hell and set away under the judgment of his Father so that you and I could stand before his throne without shame, without any fear, knowing that it had all been done, it had all been born for you and for me. And so come to Jesus for mercy. Come to Him and cultivate your love for Him. Cultivate that love for Jesus as you meditate day by day, reading the Scriptures and seeing the judgment poured out on Him for your behalf, and seeing the greatness and the tenderness of His love to you. till you come to that place where you hate evil and you love good in your own life. You hate the sin in your life that distresses and disturbs and grieves the spirit so much that you'll even love a rebuke to be rid of him. Do you see that? How many of us hate evil and love righteousness enough to say, I welcome the accountability in this body for someone to call that sin to my attention. To call that sin to my attention so that I can be rid of it, even though it hurts and it's embarrassing, and even though I don't like to have that exposed, that I'm willing sometimes to even open up myself and say, pray for me, brother or sister. Here's a sin in my life. And God has really been convicting me of this now. And I want to share that with you so that we pray together, as James says, that my sins be healed. Or that not having confessed it, you come to me and you bring that sin to my attention. recall some very important times in my life when people have come to me and pointed out sin. I remember when somebody came to me in my own life who I was supervising as a staff person in intervarsity. And he said, I look at you as manipulative and sneaky. And I didn't like to hear those words. I was very defensive at first. God used that to bring about in my own life a new commitment and conviction. to integrity of those that I worked with that I might have never come to without that computing. Do you welcome the accountability that there is in this body? Amos chapter five, verse ten says that the more proposed Who are under God's judgment is that you hate the one who reproves in court and despise him who tells the truth. You say, Keep your nose out of my business. It's my life, you have no business sticking your nose in. But you know what proverbs? Chapter 12 verse 1 says Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates correction is stupid. He who hates correction is stupid. He doesn't Realize that it's the means that God uses for us in our accountability with one another to be brought to righteousness in Jesus Christ. Marion Gwynn hated the rebuke and the correction she received, however. It was handled. It may not have been handled right. I don't know the details of the case. It might have been handled very poorly. But somewhere there there must have been some believers who were trying to accomplish some kind of righteousness in that situation. Mary Gwynn wanted nothing to do with it. She said, It is my life, and you keep your nose out of it. It's here relevant to the church, how I live. And that shows something about where her father is. But if you or I ever say in this congregation, it is my life. And I don't think the elders in this church or my small group leader or anyone who has demonstrated my life has any business Calling attention to sin in our life. And Proverbs 12. 1 says you're stupid. I didn't say. I don't want to call you stupid. Proverbs 12. 1 says you're stupid. You're missing out on how God has brought to bear a form of security for your own walk with Jesus Christ. May God give to us such a hatred of evil and such a love of evil. righteousness, that we welcome the accountability in the body, and we welcome the desire of others to be able to even involve themselves, not always to the best way, but to take the risk to involve themselves in our lives. Colson finishes in this saying, our culture doesn't think morality is any of our business because they haven't seen us make it our business. It will be bad news if the court should emasculate the church by holding that it can't enforce biblical standards on its members. But it will be even worse news if it turns out that by ignoring our biblical responsibilities, We have done it to ourselves. Let's pray. All Lord our God, how we come to worship you. This morning, as we think that Jesus came willingly to be the one deserted and abandoned by his Father, to be the one who was exiled to hell, to be the one Who endured the fire of your burning and just judgment upon his life. Not for anything that he had done, totally for what we had done. But you, Lord Jesus, came And doing the very wrath of your father, and drank that to the very dregs. The willing of the angels was for you, and you're bearing our sin, because you loved us so much. Alright, increase our love for you. Increase that love for you which, Lord, makes us look with abhorrence upon those parts of our lives and characters that we see are displeasing to you. And Lord, that we will open ourselves to others who are concerned. Concerned, Lord, as sinners. Concerned not always with the right motives. But Lord, that we will not simply defend and justify ourselves as those who are part of our culture who say my life is my business it's none of yours to recognize that we are a body that we're one of a We all suffer. Because when we lift up your name and honor it, when one of us does that, then we all do it. And when one of us disgraces your name, then it's disgraced among all of us. Lord, give us such a hatred for evil. That we will be sensitized to it the way you are. And that we will even come to love a rebuke, that it might bring about greater holiness in our own lives. Rebukes from our husbands. Rebukes from our wives. Rebukes from those who are in our fellowship. Rebukes, Lord, even sometimes from the elders. Lord, we pray that you would give us responsive hearts. And if there's anyone here who has not responded initially to the very mercy of Jesus Christ, open that heart, we pray, to receive Him today. Amen. Let's say the hymn with response number 430. I lay my sins on Jesus. Hymn number 430.