Rick directed me up here and uh in lieu of the uh the hymn, Be Thou My Vision. Thank you, Andrew. for the uh rendition of whatever my God ordains is right. You recognize Trinity Hymn Tune 108? Hopefully. You did We are in the uh second sermon in a series of four. In the book of Galatians. If you have a copy of the scriptures with you today, I invite you to turn to Paul's letter to the Galatians, chapter 2. We have an opportunity here in our worship time to see and to marvel again at the wisdom, the mercy, and the grace That is of God displayed to us sinners in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Last week we saw how the gospel is good news, good news for Pharisees. Written by a Pharisee. Paul himself describes himself, tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. As to the law Pharisee. He was zealous for those things of the law and the Jewish tradition, in fact, so zealous that he was a persecutor of the fledgling Christian church. Until the Lord Jesus Christ stopped him in his tracks on the road to Damascus. So we have a word Concerning Pharisees from a Pharisee. He should know. I hope that you've been able to uh To read through the book of Galatians this week. Rick uh mentioned and he chuckled and we've talked about this and laughed. Four weeks to preach through the book of Galatians. There's no way to accomplish that. There's no way to mine the depth of the goal that God has for us in the gospel here And so last week you recall we uh issued this little challenge. If you take just one chapter a day, on Monday, read the first chapter, Tuesday, second, Wednesday, third chapter, and so on and so forth. That by the time we finish this series, we'll have read through the book of Galatians three times. And I won't ask for a show of hands, just Encourage you, it's possible. I did it this week. And if I can do it, listen, it's possible Even Monday, as I read the first chapter in Juarez, Mexico, and then all the preceding chapters with my wife here back in Colombia. Long story, tell you later if you're interested. But how gracious God is, listen, his word is powerful and active. And he visits and attends the preaching of his word, but he will meet you personally as you read and prayerfully meditate on. his word privately. And so I want to encourage you, challenge you, whatever word I can throw on there to read through the book of Galatians. You will benefit from it Because God promises benefit. So we pick up our glimpse of the gospel, if you will, through the encounter that Paul had with Peter, this open confrontation. Two apostles, head to head, mano emano. And at first read of the passage we looked at last week in chapter two, you'd think that Peter, who had out of fear of the circumcision group, these Judaizers who came from James and And we saw that where they were uh part of that group at the Jerusalem Council in Acts fifteen, that when they appeared on the scene, Peter, who had been eating with the Gentile Christians, removed himself. withdrew this military term retreated from their presence out of fear. And one would think at first glance this you know this is racism. And so he's to be rebuked for that. And racism truly is something to be confronted openly and face to face and to rebuke. And yet As grievous as that is, it's not at all the depth of what was at stake here. In fact, what was at stake and why Paul openly confronted Peter was the very core of the gospel. How is a sinful man ever to be righteous before a holy God That's what was at stake. That's why Paul took it upon himself to stand firm in the gospel and confront Peter, two Jews. Steeped in the law, the tradition of the law, and yet when the law was trying to be added back to the gospel, Peter in so doing, Paul confronted him. You remember this is simply what the Sermon on the Mount was teaching, what Jesus was trying to show, how high and how lofty God is, how altogether righteous and blameless a holy God is. as he presents who God is through his law. The Sermon on the Mount is filled with how righteous Our God is, and the standard of righteousness is absolute perfection The gospel confronts our hearts. The gospel is an affront to our proud, pompous pedestal upon which we've set ourselves. You like that one? I was in a meeting this week where I saw pompous at work. I viewed pompous in the flesh. For two hours plus, I witnessed pompous at work, the arrogance. And the vanity of this individual in the meeting that I was in. But do you know it did not come to roost until at a subsequent meeting. When the Lord deeply convicted my heart, Tim Pompus rests here That's why you're able to so quickly accuse another. The gospel of Jesus Christ confronts Our pride, our pretension, and knocks us off our pedestals Remember Jesus' words from the Sermon on the Mount. That's why he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the lowly in heart. They We'll see heaven. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And the gospel is what gets us to see that. So let me ask you a question. Can you keep God's holy law? Are you able to keep the righteous standard that God has raised up? Absolute perfection? Are you? Really? Can you achieve a standard of righteousness that is pleasing to a being who is infinitely holy, perfect, and blameless in all his ways Christianity is the one world religion that has a high and lofty view of God He is holy. He is the creator of all things. We unashamedly acknowledge that and proclaim that in Christianity. All the other world religious systems Don't have a higher view of God as Christianity does. We believe God is holy. He dwells in unapproachable light. No one can see the glory of God and live This is the God who's described, he describes himself that way in the scriptures. All the other religions of the world are an attempt Of man to get to God and Christianity is God condescending Coming to man and doing what's necessary to reconcile sinners to himself. All the other religions promote man's achievement, but in Christianity and Christianity alone, we see it's all about Christ's achievement. That's the gospel. That's the good news. That's what would drive Paul to confront and to plead with the Galatians to stand firm in. At the core of the good news, what Jesus accomplished is rescue from sin. Rescue from the punishment that our sins deserved. The establishment of a relationship that's based on righteousness, that's based on the perfect standard of God, but that righteousness is imputed or credited or given to your account and received by Faith. It's the gospel. A restoration of what was lost in the garden through our first father Adam. Who represented us when he sinned, we sinned. When he died, we died. And Christ came to restore, to redeem, to wonderfully make new and right. We tried to make this point last week. I hope it came through. That the Christian life from the beginning to the end is simply a response To Christ's death. His sinless life lived and his substitutionary death died for us. It's simply a response. That's what the Christian life is all about. It's not about self-help or self-achievement or self-glory at all. In fact, the Christian life It's about self-denial and death to self. The gospel is a strange way to live. A strange way to live. It's God doing everything to save us from sin and us simply receiving his work on our behalf and living accordingly. This is a it's almost too good to be true. It's almost too wonderful for words. It's this can't be it, right? To borrow a line from the Sini and the Princess Bride, I'm just getting started. The gospel is too wonderful because it is all about God. It brings glory and honor and praise to God who has done everything. And our appropriate response is to respond in love and obedience and a life of service and dedication and praise and worship. Do we know the gospel? Remind ourselves of this Heidelberg Catechism, number 60. How are you righteous before God? How is it possible? That you and I are righteous before God without a wrangling over the adjective true, listen to the answer. Only by a true faith in Jesus Christ, so that though my conscience accuse me, that I have grossly transgressed all the commandments of God and kept none of them, Just in case you're still not up to speed, it goes on, and am still inclined to all evil. That's the condition that you must first embrace in order to be primed for the gospel. Notwithstanding God. Without any merit Without any merit of mine, but only of mere grace, he grants and imputes to me the perfect satisfaction and righteousness and holiness of Christ. He grants this to us in the gospel, even so as if I had had No sin, nor committed any sin. Yea, as if I had fully accomplished all that the obedience of Christ has accomplished for me, inasmuch as I embrace. such benefit as with a believing heart. That can't be. That can't be, can it That's the wonder of God's grace, the marvel of the gospel You gotta stop right there. You gotta stop and you must take time to take that in Put aside and behind you this thought that doctrine is cold and lifeless Put aside this thought or this notion that might try to creep in, that that dwelling on these wonderful deep things of God, this solid meat of the Word. It's not for you. You gotta, even if you don't understand it, read it again. Get with people who read it with you. Read it a third time. Get a commentary on it. Understand the gospel. Grasp it Because if you come to this setting hoping that the music will enthrall your heart and send you into the world ready for service and the fight of the faith. Then you'll be disappointed. If you go to the small group community, the fellowship group that you belong to, and look for those people to fellowship with you enough to drive your system into that exaltation of God and being willing to give your life in service even to the point of death, then you'll be disappointed. But if you taste and drink deeply of the doctrine of what God has done on the cross for sinners It'll stir your heart. It will produce fruit in keeping with repentance. It'll drive you to see your need for Jesus. It'll Allow you the grace to see that Jesus is the provision for your problem. And it'll put you on that road whereby his Spirit walks with you and preserves you all the days of your life until He comes to claim his bride as his own. That's the gospel. And that's why Paul was so adamant to stand for the true gospel. This gospel calls you and I to a radical, a radical way of life. Belief in this is like no other path. It doesn't make sense. We wouldn't do it this way. I want to read from Galatians 2 and verse 14. I want to read the uh these are the words that Paul spoke to Peter and after a conversation last week after the second service, I am convinced, and I'm convinced after looking at this in much more detail this week That Paul's word to his fellow Jew, Peter, goes all the way through verse 21. It's the personal use of the pronoun. It's the reference to we. It's all the many things throughout. But listen to this. Then in light of that, Paul's personal rebuke, his personal correction to the brother in Christ. who um was at risk of letting the gospel be veiled. In verse fourteen, Paul says, But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners, and yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law. But through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Because by works of the law, no one will be justified. But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners Is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I revealed what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ, who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me. And gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification were through the law Then Christ died for no purpose. What's at stake in the gospel is that the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. Would be nullified if we were to add something to the message of the good news of the gospel. It is serious business. It affects our eternal soul. I want to make try to make three points. I've already made the executive decision at the second point we're going to probably look at next week We're gonna try to camp out in chapter five of Galatians next week. So the second point we're gonna probably look at more detail there, but three points The gospel way is counterintuitive. It doesn't make sense. From our perspective, we wouldn't do it this way. We have to acknowledge that. Up front. The second point is that the gospel actually produces fruit in the life of Christ's followers. It does, it will, it should, it ought. All those things. The gospel, the third point. This is my contention, and I believe Paul, his example here in chapter two, is this The gospel should never be discussed in abstract terms. The gospel should never be discussed with The cold light of a fluorescent bulb overhead where you're simply bantering about words upon words. The gospel is life because the gospel is Christ. And so the gospel should never be discussed in abstraction, but always personally applied. Personally applied to the speaker, and if possible, personally applied to the hearer. So the gospel is A counterintuitive truth. It's a way that doesn't make sense. It's that straight and narrow path. It's not the broad way. It's the way that that binds and pinches and calls us to an obedient life A certain narrow parameter exclusively claimed by Jesus Christ when he said, I alone am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. It's counterintuitive. The gospel almost seems too good to be true. But if we attempt to alter the message in order to make it more manageable, we wreak havoc on the correct understanding of who God is and what God has done. And that's what Paul's point is. Paul realizes the heart of the Pharisee. He realizes the heart of the sinful nature that has that aching within. for achievement to be recognized and affirmed. That's the way the sin has produced in us, this desire to be acknowledged, even acknowledged as one in charge. And Paul knows the Pharisee heart because he had it and he fought against it. Paul anticipates how the Pharisees might respond to this free offer of God's righteousness. Freely offered, received by faith. Too good to be true. Paul knows that there's Those in the crowd who are thinking, listen, if we don't keep the law to get righteous with God, then no one will do anything righteous for God Don't do that, Paul. What are you doing? If we don't have the law as a part of our standing with God, then what would motivate us to godly living? Ah, it doesn't make sense. Don't don't do that, Paul. Without the law, there'd be no good measure of the love of God, His favor on us. How can I keep track of how much God loves me if I don't have the law? You see those objections, those hypothetical objections is exactly what he's trying to address. In verse 17 he says, if we endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners. If we endeavor to be justified in Christ, what he's doing is he's referring back to verse 15. The same Greek phrase is used for the Gentile sinners as it's translated sinners here. And Paul says, Listen, if we're standing in our freedom and we are free in Christ to eat what we what we would have before us on the table and to eat who we would with us, not keeping the ceremonial laws If we're free in Christ and doing this, then what you're saying is that we're sinners too. But if we're sinners, and this is where it gets deadly serious, Paul says, listen, if you're placing the law on top of the gospel And living in your freedom causes you to be a sinner, then Jesus Christ is then a servant of sin He's the one who is the proponent of sin. And Paul has in other places in Romans 6 and Romans 7 when he uses these hypothetical objections, he uses this little Greek phrase, me genito. Certainly not. May it never be, God forbid that thought occur. As we live in the freedom that Christ has purchased for us by his blood. That freedom is to be enjoyed because we've been to the law, we have died. This is the argument that he's making here Being justified by faith doesn't make people prone to sin. Being justified by faith and understanding that justification by faith actually produces fruit in keeping with repentance. That's what we call one another to in the body of Christ. Paul says if if you want to be justified by keeping the law, then you're going to nullify what Christ has accomplished on the cross. If there's another way to be right with God, if there's another way to be right with God apart from the cross of Christ, then the horrific Crucifixion of the blameless Son of God is nothing And Paul says, may it never be. May nothing in our practice, may nothing in our words, may nothing in our theology ever get us To deny the cross of Jesus Christ. It isn't the doctrine of justification by faith that promotes sin. It's the doctrine of justification by law that promotes sin. Paul goes on to say in verse eighteen, If I rebuild what I tore down I prove myself to be a transgressor. If I add the law to the gospel Then the law is going to take over and do what the law is meant to do. And the law points me to the fact that I'm a lawbreaker. The law in chapter 3 Paul says serves as our tutor, as a pedagogue, as Ichabod Crane, to instruct us in the things of the law until faith be present. And the law serves simply to condemn us as lawbreakers. The law does not, Rick read earlier, the law cannot produce life. It's incapable of doing that. But the law is good and the law is holy, because the law represents and displays God. And because it does, it reflects the fact that we're not God. So Paul says you can't add the law or try to obey the law to make your justification real. You are justified apart from the works of the law. Freely. By grace. That's a wonderful good news. The law cannot produce life. The law condemns us to death. And Paul's saying, listen, when you die to the law, you die once. You can't rebuild. Don't add to it. Don't try. Paul says that he died to the law. And it's only through his death to the law, listen He said, It's only that I died to the law, verse 19, that I might live to God. He's got to die in order to live. You see the gospel message Is a strange message. It's a strange way to live. I deny myself. I humble myself before the truth of what God says about me and about Him. And I acknowledge my sinfulness and my inability to keep any of his commands, or to be justified by keeping those commands. All that is a part of the good news. Paul says it it wasn't only that Paul was put to death by the law, but more in Christ more importantly, listen, Christ was put to death by the law. Christ Jesus Himself was put to death on the cross by the law. If I could borrow from John the Baptist, then behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The law of God required a spotless, blameless sacrifice for sin, and that is what Jesus Christ came to be and to do for you and for me. You believe this and therefore it is really with Challenge me on this, please, if I launch it, if I jump into this as in future conversations with you, but it is my contention that the gospel should never be discussed. in abstract terms, because of what the gospel is. We have Paul's example of that right here. And in verse 19 he says, I've died to the law so that I might live to God. Peter Remember the truth that you embraced, I think Paul is saying. I have been crucified with Christ. I no longer live. Christ who lives in me now. And this life I live in the flesh, in this body, in this mortal coil, I live by faith. I live by faith in the Son of God, recognizing and rejoicing that the motive for his death on my behalf was the love of God. The Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. You see the substitution again. It draws the heart to praise and to worship. And to serve and to follow him. So that's why I don't throw doctrine out or theological studies out, because it's only in that Deep and wonderful meat of God's word that we are able to grasp the truth of what God has done Paul says that Christ was put to death on the cross and So was he. We talked last week about the gospel. It's a story. It is the human story. An actual literal person, Jesus Christ of Nazareth. He was born of the Spirit and born of Mary, fully God and fully man. Was arrested for crimes he had not committed, a mockery of a trial, and sent to the Roman execution crucifixion. For crimes he had never ever done. He was tempted in all ways that you and I are, and yet never knew sin So the spotless, sinless Lamb of God was crucified. Paul uses a perfect tense here when he says that I have been crucified with Christ. The perfect tense in the Greek is that which is a a completed action with Ongoing eternal results. Paul laments that people have not embraced that In Galatians 3, he says that Christ, who has bewitched you, Galatians, don't you know that Christ has been publicly portrayed as crucified? Same perfect tense. A historical literal fact, a completed action with ongoing, lasting results. Not only Christ was crucified, placed on the cross, but in Paul's letter to the Colossians, he tells us that something else was nailed to the cross that day. In Colossians 2 and verse 13, Paul says, And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him. Having forgiven us all our trespasses? How? How am I forgiven? How is a sinful man righteous? before a holy God, having cancelled the record of debt that stood against us with all its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Paul records in this letter to the Colossians that the record of debt that stood against us, the law which condemns me as a sinner, was nailed to the cross. And I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. I don't bear that record. That's sin debt, as I place my faith in his finished work and walk in accordance with that belief. I've got to get you to help me to do that. You've got to get me to help you with that. We call one another to walk that walk of repentance. Paul says that's the way we live. We live by faith in the Son of God, who loved us and gave himself for us. It's the cross that is the centerpiece of everything. The gospel is a strange way to live. We deny ourselves. We take up our cross and crucify the flesh. beating it into submission, disciplining ourselves, asking people to hold us accountable so we won't stray, humbling ourselves, humiliating ourselves before one another. That's death. Make no mistake, that's death. But in that death, because of Christ, we live to God. I want to close with a quote from John MacArthur. Speaking about the cross of Jesus, MacArthur says this. No ritual, ceremony, regulation, or any other thing devised or accomplished by men can pick up where the cross leaves off. Because the cross never leaves off. The cross is the continuing and eternal payment of the city. For all sin, and every sinner who puts his trust in the cross is forever and continually being forgiven. A believer can no more stay saved by works than he could have been saved by works in the first place. The cross. keeps moving powerfully and relentlessly through history, and the cross will stand forever as living proof that men cannot redeem themselves. When we see the motive of God that He loved us, when we see the substitution complete that He gave Himself for us. What is our response to be? Oh great God, make it so in me. Work this out in me, so that in my life you receive glory, so that as I walk, that I'll make it to the end of my days with my faith in you intact. And he calls you to that as well. Let me pray for us in that regard. Father in heaven, we pray that you would be pleased to accomplish All that we believe can be and will be accomplished when your word is opened up. We pray and trust God that you're doing that even now. I pray for freedom that you would set the captives free, those who have labored for so long to try to please you by their works, that you would free them to see the gospel. We pray for those who are, Lord, laboring under the condemnation. Because they've attempted to achieve a standard and compared themselves among themselves, and it's a discouraging life that they lead. Give them the comfort of the gospel. Father, we pray that you would continue to grow us. We trust that you will, and we rejoice that you are pleased to answer this kind of a prayer. For we lift it to you in the name of Jesus.