As human beings, we're always thirsting for knowledge, aren't we? Especially knowledge about the future. Knowledge that'll help us to make right decisions. We crave guidance. someone who's going to be able to tell us what to do or what to believe. And there's certainly no lack of people who will step forward to tell us. Among the religious or the supernatural options, there are three. First of all, there's occulted knowledge. Secondly, there's knowledge of false prophets. And thirdly, there's the knowledge that comes from the true prophet. As Bob Dylan said, you've got to serve somebody. Deceive yourself to think that you don't have to follow what someone else will tell you and how to direct your life. Moses outlines these three alternatives for us in a startlingly relevant passage in Deuteronomy chapter 18. So let's turn to that now. We might consider God's word there together. Remember that last week we saw in this messianic prophecy the comfort of the true prophet who is to come. We saw there that this prophet, Jesus, would be a prophet like Moses, and yet so far infinitely superior to Moses that it's difficult for us to even comprehend the comparison. That like Moses, Jesus , Jesus would renounce his royalty to come to be a prophet, but that whereas Moses knew God and he could declare him by knowing him face to face, Jesus had spent eternity with God at his side in the closest possible relationship. And renounce all of that will in order to come and to be a faithful prophet like Moses, even more faithful, to declare God's ways and his will to us. But that this prophet not only declared as a mediator of the covenant as Moses. Moses was what the law of God was for us to live. But Jesus, the pure prophet, came to fulfill that law for us. So that God Himself would be pleased not only with our fulfillment of that law, but with Jesus. Perfect fulfilling of it. And that would be reckoned to our accounts in our place because of what he did. Now this morning I want for us to consider together the warnings that are in this passage. So let's notice the warnings that Moses gives in connection with this prophet. And we begin now our reading from Deuteronomy chapter 18, beginning with verse 9. Your bulletin outline should read Deuteronomy 18, 9 to 22, not 19. to twenty two. Just cross out the little one there. So let's begin reading Deuteronomy chapter eighteen. Follow along as I read Deuteronomy eighteen, nine to twenty two. This is God's own word. Let's give it our best attention. Moses is at the end of his life and he's giving instructions to Israel as they enter on the eve of their entering into the land. And he goes on to say, The day you enter the land that the Lord your God is giving to you, Do not learn to imitate the detestable ways of the nations there. Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in the fire, who practices divination or sorcery, interprets omens engages in witchcraft or casts spells, or who is a medium or spiritist, or who consults the dead. Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord. Because of these detestable practices. The Lord your God will drive out those nations before you. You must be blameless before the Lord your God. The nations you will dispossess, listen to those who practice sorcery or divination, but as For you, the Lord your God has not permitted you to do so. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. You must listen to him. So this is what you ask of the Lord your God. At home on the day of the assembly, when you said, Oh, let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God, or see this great fire any more, or we will die. The Lord said to me, What they say is good I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. If anyone does not listen to my words, that the prophet speaks in. My name, I myself will call him to account. But a prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything I have not commanded him to say, or a prophet who speaks in the name of other gods Must be put to death. You may say to yourselves, how can you know that a message has not been spoken by the Lord? Yet what a prophet proclaims in the name of the Lord does not take place For come true. That is a blessing the Lord has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously Do not be afraid of him. You see in this passage, Moses giving us a warning against the occult in verses 9 to 14. against false prophets in verse twenty to twenty-two, and then right in between those two are the warnings concerning the true prophet in verses fifteen to nineteen. Let's consider then I ask you to consider seriously in the name of Jesus Christ three deadly dangers in seeking for direction for your life. Three deadly dangers that we must be careful to avoid as we seek for direction for our lives. The first is in dabbling in the occult. Verses 9 to 14. Dabbling in the occult. We live in a day of a tremendous resurgence of occultic activities. Especially this is true in Europe, but it's also true in North America. There's always been a great deal of demon activity. People are familiar with evil spirits in Africa and in Asia. It's been a part of their culture for as far back. as anyone remembers. But that's not been true in North America. In North America, the idea of demons has been somewhat foreign to much of our culture. It was greatly weakened in the last couple of centuries and now has grown much stronger. It's like the example that Oz Guinness gives of men who go on a safari in Africa. He describes how the hunters there will when they camp for the evening establish a large fire in order to keep away the wild beasts Beasts. And when you have the fire roaring, there is no indication of beasts anywhere around. But as the fires burn down through the evening, as the fires get low, the beasts get bolder And then after the fire gets low enough, you can look around the edge of the campfire and see that you're encircled by eyes gazing humbly upon you, just waiting for the fires to get low enough. And Osvina says that's the state of Western culture right now. The fires of Christianity have burned low enough that the beasts are beginning to close in. And occultic activity, particularly since the late 1960s, has grown phenomenally in the United States. Right now it is estimated. that over ten thousand Americans make their livings by forecasting of the future. Uh that they make professions out of being uh either uh fortune tellers or mediums or something along that line. Joe Bailey describes the books that you would see in an average bookstore. Take a look in the mall or anywhere that you go. And you'll see in any significantly sized bookstore a whole occultic section. You'll walk up and down and you'll see such titles as Astrology Made Practical, Astrology for Everyday Living, Fortune Telling with Cards, The Tarot Revealed, Your Baby's First Horoscope, Astrology for Teens, How to Find Your Mate in Astrology. Regard to astrology and good health, and on and on and on it goes. Books all over the place. The New York Times publishes a series on the zodiac And every one of the books that they publish on that series sells over three million copies. Double A started an occultic book club. Within less than two years, they had gained over 100,000 members. There are churches of Satan. There's a satanic Bible. Many people have documented the uh significant place of occultic message and activity within the current rock groups. The Eagles uh song, which was a bestseller about eight, ten years ago, Hotel California was a song about the first Church of Satan in San Francisco with a high priest Anton Lee is it's a whole row of white Victorian houses and right there in the middle is this black Victorian House with black windows and black pats and coffins. And that's the Hotel California, a song which many people uh heard about but didn't realize what it sang. And so some people say that the uh rock groups are backward masking occultic messages. Whether or not the messages are revealed by backward masking, uh forwardly they're bad enough, and many of them have explicit occultic messages mixed in with the messages of drugs and immorality. And we're seeing a fantastic upsurge. A overt and a rather accepted occultic activity. Now, what does God say should be our attitude toward these kinds of things? Well you see here in Deuteronomy 18 a very sober warning about this. In verse 9, the Lord says, When you enter the land that the Lord your God is giving to you, do not learn to imitate the detestable ways of the nations there. I don't care if the men men on Wall Street uh consult their mediums before they make transactions, as some of them do. Uh there are uh mediums and there are fortune tellers uh in the uh along with those who uh make some of the law. transactions. And there are many who will consult their mediums, who will consult their horoscopes and someone to interpret before they would make any large business deals in some of the largest corporations in the United States right now. The Lord says, that's the way of the nation. It's not Canaan. We're talking about the United States. In verse 14, he says, the nations of Jesus possess, listen to those who practice sorcery within nation. Some of the highest-paid executives. But as for you, the Lord your God has not permitted you to do so. One thing to notice in this before anything else. Is that the scripture never dismisses occultic activity? It doesn't say that these people are foolish because there's nothing to it. But it does not dismiss this, the Bible throughout recognizes the demonstration. Activity is real. We can all probably remember those times sitting around the campfire or when things got a little boring and you began to trade ghost stories. But you remember some of the shivers that went up and down your spine as you began to consider what a amazing world this is, what strange things go on that are inexplicable. And you always heard a few stories and maybe shared a couple yourself, and no matter how you looked at it, you just couldn't solve it. What accountant for that phenomenon. We live in an amazingly complex world, but we live in a world in which many intellectuals will acknowledge is a world that is hosted by evil spirits. Psychiatrist John White in his book, The Mask of Melancholy. speaks about the reality of demon possession in people that he has contacted in his practice, and he documents it by seven convincing cases of demon possession. Evil is personal, not impersonal. Evil is personal and it is rampant and there are hosts of evil all about us. Evil right here in this room. Even if you and I worship Jesus Christ this morning, we need to be aware that right about us, in a world that is unseen, in a world that we can't have tangible contact with There's a reality of evil and good warning. Do you believe that? God says that that's true. Jesus Christ believed it. When Jesus Christ walked on earth, he recognized the reality of demons and the majority. part of his ministry was casting out real demons out of real people. He wasn't simply psychologizing. The Bible records dialogue, interaction between Jesus and real hosts of evil. And why would we be so silly as to think that that was was something true in the first century, but not today. Paul wrote for our instruction that we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against spiritual forces of evil and darkness in this world. The Bible makes no mistake about it. The Bible's absolutely clear. Divas and occultic activity are real Spiritual evil forces are a very real force. And Moses gives nine references, in these verses nine to fourteen, to specific kinds of occultic and demon activity. Now for the sake of simplicity, I'm going to I'm going to group them into three major groups so that you understand what he's talking about. Because he really is talking about three main kinds of apultic activity here. First of all, he's warning against the fortune-tellers through signs. In verse 10 , you see the four kinds that he mentions there. Verse 10. Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or his daughter in the fire. He practices divination. Or sorcery, or interprets omens. All of these refer to consulting signs for information, even the child sacrifice, a couple references to show you the connection. This has its roots in some ancient superstitions. People would shoot arrows into the air and they'd find out how they fell and determine some signs through that or they would chop open some animal's liver and they'd lay out the parts and they'd start to read the liver, you know, and things like that. Ezekiel 2121 refers to that kind of activity. Uh these were all kinds of things that people did out of superstition, but then some of that moves over into occultic kind of activity. In uh line with this sort of activity is the uh creation of horoscopes. And uh just Because this passage doesn't speak about that, Jeremiah 10 2 explicitly forbids us to engage in anything to do with horoscopes, or to not learn the ways of the nation, to read the stars. Jeremiah 10 2. The second kind of activity, a cauldic activity that Moses refers to here, is that of witchcraft. The end of verse 10 and beginning of verse 11. uh to void those who uh practice witchcraft or cast spells. Both have to do with the same kind of thing. This is now information not simply to give us uh some guidance for the future, but this has to do with information in order To gain a power to affect people or events. For example, Anton LeVay, the high priest of the first Church of Satan in San Francisco, one of the most known of a number of churches of Satan in large cities in this country right now. Anton LeVay did Here's one example of a time when an an actress, Jane Mansfield, some of you may be a a little young to remember Jane Mansfield. She was kind of a Lonnie Anderson of her day. Jane Mansfield, at the peak of her career, was being pestered by a particular Steve Brody. And she went to Anton LeVay and she asked LeVay to curse Steve Brody to put a hex on it. And so LeVay did that, and Steve Brody shortly after died a violent death in an auto accident. The only problem was that Jane Mansfield happened to be in a same car at the same time. She died in the accident with him. Levay's comment was that was her tough luck for fooling around with the devil. LeVay is absolutely explicit. He says, I'm in touch with Satan. He says anybody who gets involved in occultic and human activities and won't Give the devil his due. He's in for a big shock. Because he is absolutely convinced of the reality of this. And he has an awful lot of convincing evidence. This is witchcraft, the casting of spells, information to affect events in people. Moses says it has nothing to do with the people who do that. And then the third thing is the consulting of the dead for information in verse 11. Because I want to talk about those who are or spiritists or consult the dead. Again, those three references have basically to do with the same kind of activity of of consulting now not signs but dead people in order to gain information. Now, there's no question a lot of this is quackery and it's fake, but when it is real, and some people disp uh debate whether Bishop Pike was really in touch with his dead son or not, and things like this, when it is real. It is always occultic. It is always by means of a real demon spirit. In fact, the word word medium refers to the fact that the person is a medium between those who come for the information and the demon spirit. Who gives that information? The spiritist is one who is in touch with the very real spirit of evil. And there have been many Christians who have testified in going into situations like that, of the fact that they could sense an overpowering realization. of evil. I've heard uh of one Christian friend who went into such a situation and the medium stopped. It was a large group and they did not know the medium did not know about my friend being there who was a Christian. And the medium stopped and said, We can't get on. until a certain person leaves this room because there's a conflict of the spirits. That gives you a little shiver when you're in a situation like that. And it wasn't until he left that the medium would continue to go on and practice what she was doing. So these are real conflict And Moses says, have nothing to do with that. Have nothing to do with beginning to get even in fanciful and the light-hearted kind of joking situations, reality of contacting the dead. John White, in one of his examples, tells about a young Mennonite girl who was engaged to a man to be married, and her parents did not approve of the match, and they forbid her to marry that fellow. And so they broke off the engagement. One week later. He committed suicide in his despair. And in her deepest grief, this young girl, lying upon her bed at night, would seek to make contact with this young man. And after weeks of seeking to some kind of a psychic contact to establish contact, contact with it and she did. And the man would begin to appear to her in reality and her dreams and speak to her from across the other side, as it were. And then as that girl began to find that she had other powers, she would be able to go into a room of an old old house and she would see people dressed as they were a hundred years ago, carrying on trivial conversations, just as they had done a hundred years ago, visualizing in great detail what had happened in that house 100 years before. A kind of Edgar Casey's sort of example Experience. Her life went downhill. She began to get into drugs. She began to live with men. On two occasions she attempted suicide and then she went to see John White. The Christian psychiatrist. Wright told her that this was something that was in contact with the devil, that she must forsake this, that he would seek to help her, and by the power of Jesus Christ she could be released from it. As soon as he sh he said that, she got a faint look on her face, boom out of the room and never came back. Twice she tried to contact him in desperate, distressed tones from phones, but every time he would bring up Jesus Christ, she'd hang up the phone, and he never heard from her again. And so Moses said have nothing to do with this. You see the consequence secondly of ignor of ignoring this warning. Leviticus nineteen thirty one. Now that should not be Exodus. I put down the wrong book there. You see Exodus nineteen thirty one under B Cross out the Exodus, that should be Leviticus, L. E. V. 1931 says that anyone who contacts a medium or spiritist will be defiled by that. That's speaking to God's people. A Christian cannot be demon-possessed, but a Christian can be Defiled and oppressed by an evil spirit, and so God's warning is to stay away from that. But more than that, Moses tells us in this passage two things. But first of all, it is detestable to God. Three times that word is used in verse Verses nine and twelve. That God says, This is detestable to me, this kind of practice. And Moses says, Beyond that it is under God's judgment. You see there in verse 12 that God says, Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord. And because of these detestable practices the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you. You must be blameless before the Lord your God. Galatians 5. 20 tells us that anyone who practices witchcraft will not inherit the kingdom. The Moses says, you're going to drive out from this earthly kingdom all those who do this kind of thing. God says they're under my judgment and I will wipe them out. Because of this detestable practice, one of the major reasons why God had to destroy the Canaanites from off the face of the earth so that not one of their remnant exists to death. And Galatians says that in the new kingdom, the kingdom of heaven, there will not be one remnant of anyone. Who practices witchcraft. Revelation chapter 21, verse 8 tells us that anyone who practices magic arts will be in the fiery lake of the second death. That's not saying that somebody can't be delivered from that and come to Jesus Christ and inherit the kingdom, but no one who practices that will be in the kingdom. He continues to practice that. Joe Bailey says in his book about horoscopes, page forty five, a late and frivolous approach to the unseen spirit world Today, our praise for horoscopes and mediums, fortune tellers and Ouija boards, turning it all into one big game, may be an open invitation to Satan and his demons to come out into the open in our society to fill the vacuum of the spirit. that exists. And I believe that's true. There are many people who don't know Jesus Christ and have no intention of getting involved in demon activity. But they stay late with these things. And they don't realize what they're getting into until they get in way over their hands. I personally have counseled with a woman who had come to Jesus Christ, who had been possessed by 23, according to her and the person, the exorcist who worked with her, 23 distinct personalities and demons. And that woman was a wretched woman, I'll tell you. She had gotten into some something way over her head, and she was a miserable woman to be able to see. Even as a Christian, she would seek repeatedly To commit suicide because her life was so much of a shameless. And it was so much radical healing that had to be done It was a tremendous force, a tremendous struggle to see what Jesus Christ would do in conflict with the Satan and the evil spirits to see how the Lord would accomplish his victory in them. But what is the alternative that we presented with here? Look at verse 14. Moses says, The nations you will dispossess, listen to those who practice sorcery or divination. But as for you, the Lord your God has not permitted you to do so. That's the alternative. Well, verse 15. The Lord your God will raise the words. The alternative, not to go to any of these for sources of information, but rather to go to the prophet Jesus, reminds me of the people who are not going to be able to do that. Yes The other messianic prophet prophecy that has to do with this in Isaiah chapter 8 and 9. In Isaiah chapter 8, we read the same kind of warning where Isaiah says, When men tell you to consult mediums and spirits, Spirit who whisper and mutter, should not a people inquire of their God? Why consult the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimony. If they do not speak according to this word, they have no light of God. What's Isaiah? Saying. He's saying you can have two alternatives. You go to the to the source from Satan, the very pit of hell, to get your information. But he said that information will always lead to darkness. Because he says, if it does not speak a According to the law and to the testimony of God's word, there is no light. So the prophet Jesus is the one who holds up to his word, and this is God's alternative. To be able to go to the Bible and say, if the Bible doesn't say it, if it doesn't Give me direction for my life here, then I don't need to have that direction. I go to this and the principles that I can deduce from this to get the direction for my life. And I don't go to any other source. Nothing stands above this. Word. This is my final authority for direction in my life. And Isaiah goes on to describe what happens if you don't do that. He goes on to say, Distressed and hungry, verse 21, they will reign through the land when they They're vanished. They will become enraged and looking upwards, they will curse their king and their God, becoming spiritually hardened, you see, through this occultic activity. And then they will look toward the earth and they will see only distress and darkness and spiritual gloom. to be thrust into utter darkness. It reminds me of the words of Frederick Leech, who from a Christian background and culture had rejected God, had he gotten involved in demon activity, and he said life is an increasing depth of night. More and more night, deeper and deeper the darkness. comes and so Isaiah goes on to say in chapter nine verse two that there's hope. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. And those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. What is that light? And we're saying that. Because Isaiah 9. 6, he goes right on to say, for unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called what? A wonderful counselor. You see the significance of that? It's relating to getting information. It's relating to prophecy. It's relating to who do I go to for guidance? The first name given to this child who will deliver us from darkness is that he's a wonderful counselor. He's one who we can trust to get information. He's one who we can trust for guidance and how to live our lives. He's the one who has come. To direct us into the paths of light. Isn't it wonderful to know that the alternative to all the information in the real powers that can give us real information about the future or what decisions to make. But it's always leading to evil. But the alternative to that is truer knowledge, more reliable knowledge, and good knowledge Isn't that tremendous? But the real prophet is a good prophet, not an evil prophet. You see, people today can't assume that. You don't know, maybe the real prophet's the evil one. As a remote, the Bible says that the real prophet, the true Prophet is the one that says that no, what is evil is abnormal. And that's going to be set right because the real prophet has come to set things right. As we are in rebellion against him and his authority over us and the world and all of its disruption. But he's come to set it right. And in setting it right, he comes to, as Colossians ten says, in just a beautiful passage, Colossians two fifteen, having this the powers and the authorities. He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in the cross. Isn't that great news? You see what that's saying? I mean if you ever see any kind of demon activity, I'll tell you, don't you shiver right down to your toes? There is nothing firm about seeing real occultic activity. It's like standing in the middle of an earthquake. You don't know what's going to happen and you sense the horror of real powerful forces far beyond anything that you can control. God says there's come along the prophet. And this prophet is going to make a spectacle of those palettes. He's going to make a spectacle because of his cross. He defeated them once for all. And if you've felt a twinge of fear and you've got a certain foreboding, as I said, that there are those powers even in this room surrounding us that we need to look at Colossians 2. 15 and realize that Jesus has made a spectacle of those powers. And as we worship him this morning, and as we praise him for the victories one, those powers cannot touch us. Jesus Christ has made us safe and secure in that. And so we come to Him for deliverance. And we come to Him for safety. And we come to Him for guidance. I wanted to focus on that and so I don't have time to develop the other two things, but let me just say one or two things about them. Concerning the false prophets, Moses goes on to describe in Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 20 to 22, the danger of going to false prophets. Now that refers simply to any religion, particularly when it's in the name of Christianity that preaches Christ, that does not preach Christ or the Bible as being absolutely trustworthy, that may use the name of Christ, that may refer to the Bible, but in fact places human judgment above that. And in doing that, speaks from its own authority. That is false prophecy. It's as relevant today as it was in Deuteronomy chapter 18. Now what I want you to see. Because hopefully you're here because you want to hear the Bible proclaimed by a church that believes the Bible from cover to cover. But what I want you to see is that Moses here says it's a very serious thing even to listen to a prophet who declares a false prophecy. And I think that our day we have lost the horror of heresy. But our day because of the rare things of relativism, we have not taken very seriously that when people derive Jesus Christ and they put the Bible on a lower level than God intends, they well, you know, they got some truth, they got a few things mixed up, but that's okay. We need to have a horror heresy to recapture the sense of what it means to know that false prophets condemn people to hell Moses says that a false prophet was worthy of death. 2 John says that when you and I hear someone come in the name of Jesus Christ and they deceive us by saying that Jesus was a good example or that Jesus was this or that or any other vulnerable thing. but he is not the unique and only Savior, the one and only way to be set right before God. And John says, don't even welcome, don't even bid of God speed. Don't cooperate with him in any way in the evil that he's perpetuating. Because it's a damnable lie. We have to take that seriously as individuals and as a church. Finally, the last thing is the warnings concerning the true prophet. Concerning the true prophet, he also warns us that it's one thing to rejoice in the fact that Jesus is my Savior and He's delivered me from hell. It's another thing to rejoice in His rule over my life as the prophet who tells me how to live, what my guys should be, what my direction of life should be even what it is against the things that I might incline to. Verse 15 says, When God says that prophet, you are to listen to him. He 's to have a final authority over your life. And then he describes the consequence of not listening to him in verse 19. Notice what he says: if anyone does not listen to him, to the words that my prophet speaks in my name, God says, Honor in my. Myself will call them into account. That I myself refers to that God described in verse 16. We read in Exodus, God says that when he came and he spoke to the people, the very mountain shook, and it smoked, and if an animal touched. Hebrews 12 tells us that just as that God spoke And the people were in such awesome fear that they said, Don't speak to us anymore or we'll die. We can't stand to have God speak to us. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that that is nothing compared to the authority that we're facing. Hebrews 4 says they came to a mansion in which God is speaking. But Hebrews 4 says, you come to Jesus. Jesus himself, the mediator of a new covenant, is a sprinkle blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. See to it then that you don't refuse him who speaks But they did not escape, for they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven. And at that time his voice shook the earth. But now his promise once more I will shake, not only the earth, but also heaven. The words once more indicate the removing of what can be shaken, that is, created things, so that what cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful. And so worship God acceptably with reverence and with awe, for our God is a consuming fire. When Jesus comes to you and he says, you'll never make it to God on your own. When Jesus comes and he says, as he said to a woman that I spoke to this week, He says, You're defiled. They gave her something to read, we've been talking about the gospel. She came back and she said, I said, what's that? What you gave me to read, you ain't got the wheelchair. It's as undefiled. I know I'm not perfect. But I mean that that really lays it on. The question then is, do you accept your own estimation of your value? I'm okay, you're okay, you know. People aren't here and there. Oh, if you accept what the prophet says, utterly, radically, you are vile. That your whole thoughts and tendencies are turned away from the desires of God. Jesus Christ comes to say, I can change. I can change your very heart, I can change your tendencies, I can change your root nature, but I can make it new. Do you accept his word? But he says, not really that bad. I think I'll hang on a little longer on my own. God says, if you don't listen to the prophet, I myself will into account. And that prophet speaks from heaven And he speaks words of life to offer to you. If you haven't trusted him, in the name of Christ, the true prophet, I beseech you this morning, trust Christ. Then finally, the last thing has to do with the ruining of your life then. You see on the bullets and outline the way I've stated it. Concerning our daily living, the question is Jesus really trustworthy in my daily decisions or not? Beware the tendency to adopt favorite parts of the Bible as having authority. Already over you while ignoring other parts as what some people push. You ever do that? These are the parts that I think God really must emphasize. I really love those verses. I put them on my wall, I write them on cards, I memorize them. These are tremendously. But then all those other verses and you hear people talk about those and you hear those doctrines preached and you hear those things about the scripture put forth and you say, That's just what you're pushing. That's your interpretation. Without really checking to see is Jesus saying matter isn't he? We all have those tendencies, we all have those imbalances, but God's word to us is become balanced people by listening to the prophet and not ruling out anything that he says just because somebody else pushes The question is, did Jesus say it or didn't he? And you and I followed the prophet, trusting him obediently, and obeying him trustingly for everything we do. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come before you to seek for your direction in our lives. We come before you, Lord, that you might direct our steps. Lord, we pray. Lord, were we to know what power that takes for you to deliver us? How grateful we would be and how secure we would feel to know that, Lord Jesus, you have made a spectacle of the demons. God, you have defeated them at the cross and at the empty tomb. Lord made me realize that you are so good and so trustworthy. How how can we possibly hold back in areas of our life and say, Lord, I just don't trust you. Maybe you really don't want my good there. Maybe you're going to make me miserable if I follow you. in this area or that area. Our Lord teaches how absolutely trustworthy you are. And what foolishness it is. For us to ignore your words in anything. Give us grace to follow you. Give us grace, Lord, that everyone here would be trusting you as Savior and Plain. And that our lives are becoming more and more what you want them to be. Through Jesus Christ, amen