As with last week, so it is the case this week. We have been in the Gospel of Mark for the last several weeks, but we also knew that we would not be able to finish Mark by the time Easter came around. And so we decided that we would stay in the Gospel of Mark and skip ahead to the Palm Sunday and the Passion Week events. And next week we will return back to the earlier portion of the Gospel of Mark. But it is the Gospel of Mark that is Very unique among the other gospels in that it is the most spare. He has uses the greatest economy of words. He brings things down to very straightforward, almost two spirit scenes at times, particularly when you compare it to John or Matthew or Luke, but it is for a purpose. Because you reach the end of this passage, which we will read this morning, Mark 16, verses 1 through 8, and it seems as though. If we didn't have any of the other gospels, we have no idea what the response is going to be. The disciples have scattered And these women are left startled and fearing what would happen next. And what is unique about Mark, as we've already seen and continues through the entirety of Mark, his purpose is to drive us to see the sheer humanity of the disciples as well as all the witnesses. They think they understand, but they don't. And at the same time, it's very clear, does anybody get what Jesus is saying? It is as though They are not sure of what would happen next. And it leaves us with this question, as we've looked at already before in the Gospel of Mark, what will you do with this Jesus? Indeed, the end of this passage, it's fear and astonishment seized them. What would happen? The question is the same for us this morning. Without the resurrection, everything we do here at the church, this church, is futile. Without the resurrection, this is simply just a group of people who gather together to say nice things to each other to encourage one another. But without the resurrection, we might as well not show up and give our money somewhere else and frankly go find something better to do on Sunday mornings. Yes, we could gather together, maybe encourage each other, but there are a lot of places that do that. What's unique about what we do here is we worship The risen King. And we are called to take the scriptures on their own merits, hear their own testimony, to ask our questions, to bring our doubts, but to hear what they're testifying. And you will see this morning in the outline that my desire is to simply lift two phrases from the passage this morning. He is not here in just as he told you. So we go to this word preparing to hear, what do the scriptures declare? Then how are we to respond? Ultimately. I put this before you. That the resurrection is not only the ground of why we worship, it also becomes the reason for our mission as a church It becomes our reason for mission as those who proclaim Christ as individuals. It makes all the difference. Hear now God's word about the resurrection, drawn from Mark sixteen verses one through eight When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices so that they might go and anoint him. And they very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us? From the entrance of the tomb. And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back. It was very large. And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who is crucified. He is risen. He is not here. See the place where they laid him. But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you. And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone. For they were afraid. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Our Heavenly Father, by your Spirit, Lord Jesus, by the promised Comforter, the Holy Spirit, may you open our eyes to see and our hearts to receive wondrous things in your word Help the teacher. It is in the matchless name of Christ we pray. Amen. As stated earlier, this passage is a straightforward telling of the events surrounding the resurrection. Each of the gospel writers had their unique personalities, and for Mark's purposes, he gave the most spare of the testimonies and witnesses of that which took place on that day. Part of the reason is that Mark wants his audience to deal straightforwardly with what will they do with regard to this testimony, this witness. How will they respond to this declaration that Christ is no longer in the grave? So as we look at the passage this morning, we'll see these two phrases. He is not here, and just as he told you, both of these phrases encompass the challenge that is before us because of the passage. But at the same time calling us to greater dependence on Christ alone. So let's begin. He is not here. One of the beauties of this passage is that it gives to us the absolute humanity and the emotion that was taking place. in this particular day. I say that because listen to what happens in verse 1. That when the Sabbath was passed, These folks, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. What were they doing? What they were doing is they were coming as those who were grieving, and they were also coming as those who were defeated. But they were also coming as those who love Jesus. All of those mixed together. They were coming as defeated because they believed that they were coming to greet death. For it was a part of Jewish burial practice that they had gathered these spices and they bought the best that they could. They gathered these spices to go to the tomb so that Jesus' body, which would have been in the tomb now for days, they would have sought to clothe it with more spice because of honor and love and dedication. to the one that they had followed, to the one who had taught them. But they were coming expecting to find death. And what they found was life where it wasn't supposed to be. What is so beautiful about this reality is that number one, of anyone who should have expected life where they found where they were expecting to find death was this group of people. They had followed Jesus, they had listened to Jesus. Jesus even said that this was what was going to happen, and yet we recognize we can be told all kinds of things, yet when something happens that shatters our reality. And the crucifixion most certainly shattered their reality. All was now lost. It changed everything. It's one thing to be told that you're going to give up your life. It's another thing to see the one who you had followed, the one you had loved, the one you had seen work miraculous things now hanging on a cross. That is what was now overshadowing their reality. It had shattered whatever hopes they had had. Jesus was supposed to make all things new. He was supposed to bring restoration. And now he's in a grave. They were expecting death. Yet they also loved him The reason why we need to hear this is precisely the reason we are a people thoroughly modern. In the 21st century, it's very easy to look back at earlier ages and certainly this time period and go, it would have been a lot easier for them to believe in resurrection. They weren't as advanced, they weren't as educated, a little bit more superstitious. That must have been easier for them. But nothing could be further from the situation or the truth. It was no easier for them to believe in resurrection than it is for us. None whatsoever. We know this because of the work many historians have done with regard to the views of resurrection at that time. For just a moment, one historian writes it this way. Now, their reasons, they would say, are different than our own for disbelieving in resurrection, yet it is nonetheless the case. The Greeks, which was the predominant reigning philosophy of the day, Greeks did not believe in resurrection. In the Greek worldview, the afterlife was a liberation of the soul from the body That there were many schools of philosophy within the Greek pantheon of philosophies, but all of them definitely agreed on this. Death was a liberation and a release. For the Greeks, resurrection would never have been part of life after death. What about for the Jews? Well, for the Jews, the same would have been the case. There was much disagreement among the Jews with regard to resurrection, but even those who did believe in resurrection believed that there would be a generalized resurrection at the end of history. That the Lord would restore all things, yes, but it would be at the end. And they most certainly had no concept of an individual rising from the dead. This writer says, the people of Jesus' day were not predisposed to believe in resurrection any more than we are. And so they went to the grave, preparing to find death. And instead, they found life. And when the one clothed in a white robe says to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen. He is not here. Those three phrases. Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified, part one Part two, he is risen. Part three, he is not here. There you have Jesus' story simply stated, officially summarized. Christ cannot To become sin, that we might become the righteousness of God. What does that mean? It means that Christ came to pay the debt of our sin Sin, because God is just, cannot go unpunished. It is a debt that was in debt to God who is holy and righteous and perfect But Christ in our place came to pay that debt. He was crucified. And upon him our sins were placed as a mediator, as one who was an atonement for us. given by God, given his son for us because of our sin. Now he was crucified. But if that were the end of the story, we would still be wasting our time without the resurrection. His death on a Friday afternoon between noon and three would have been nothing other than a martyr, like all the other martyrs before him and all the martyrs afterward. The only thing that separates Jesus' death is the fact that he is God, and if he is God, he would not remain in the grave, because he said that he would rise from the dead, and he says here, He is risen, He is not. here. There is the official story. As is my favorite practice this time of year, one of my favorite writers is a Catholic writer, Dorothy Sayers. She's written many things, but among them are some of the most beautifully written spare passages about the story of Jesus. I've read it to you before. I'm preaching again. I'm going to read it again. I hope you don't mind. Here we are. Here's what she says. And here's the point. The point is this that Jesus and his story, the official outline of the story, the tale of the time when God was the underdog and got beaten. When he submitted to the conditions he had laid down and became a man, like the men he had made, and the men he had made broke him and killed him. This is the dogma we find so dull. This terrifying drama of God, who is the victim and the hero? If this is dull, then what for heaven's sake is worthy to be called exciting? The people who hanged Christ never accused him of being a boar. On the contrary, they thought him to be too dynamic to be safe It has been left for later generations to muffle up that shattering personality and surround him with such an atmosphere of tedium. We have very efficiently paired the claws of the Lion of Judah and certified him meek and mild and recommended him as a fitting household pet for pale ministers. And pious old ladies. Those who knew him, however, he is in no way suggested to be a milk and water person. They objected to him as a dangerous firebrand. Jesus said, your sins are forgiven. Jesus healed the sick. Jesus taught that this is my father's house. Jesus said, I am the Lord. Jesus said, I will die. For you. I am the way, the truth, and the life, and I will be raised on the third day. He was a firebrand, and that firebrand is no longer in the grave. He is not here. The question is, do we think him dull? If we think him dull, the problem is not Jesus. It's that we've taken what has happened. For granted. It is why we renew ourselves as we celebrate the reality and the beauty and the power of the resurrection. Yes, Mrs. Sayers. He is not dull. And this is worthy of being excited about. But not only is he not here The angel also declared, See the place where they laid him, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee There you will see him just as he told you. We preach and believe this reality not because we say it is true. true, it is because we are listening to the scriptures that declare on their own that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. Just as he said, not as I say, just as he said, not as you say, but just as he told us would be the case. We've already read, heard, heard, sorry, heard, read eloquently this morning the witness of Luke chapter 24. Then on those who were on the road to Emmaus, Jesus opened up the scriptures. And when he did, he went back to Moses, the prophets, the Psalms. And demonstrated how they all pointed to him. And they say, don't you remember that our hearts burned within us? Why? Because what Jesus was doing is going back and opening up the scriptures and showing, you see, I told you this would happen, but guess what? It didn't start in the New Testament. I've been saying this was going to happen for some time. If you don't mind, just a few. Just as the Lord told us. I draw your attention to the book of Psalms and to one in particular, Psalm 22. Which is considered to be a messianic psalm because of what it declares and what it promises. But it's written by David, the psalmist himself, but it is also a prophecy. That points to Christ. Now we don't know whether Jesus in his teaching, these two on the road to Emmaus, used Psalm 22. We don't know. But it's not unlikely that he did. And even if he didn't, it is still a psalm that points to precisely what he said he would do. Consider these words. Psalm 22. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd. My tongue. Sticks to my jaws, you lay me in the dust of death. That is pointing to the death of Christ But the psalmist continues: Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. Verse 24. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. He has not hidden his face from him, but is heard when he cried to him. Verse 27. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations shall worship before you. For kingship belongs to the Lord. He rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship before him, shall bow down and all go down to dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him, it shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people not yet born. That he has done it. What has the Lord done? What has the Lord has done is he has cried out in a loud voice to the point of his being able to experience thirst. Jesus cried out on the cross, I thirst. And all the nations and generations, the wealthy and poor alike, will one day bow the knee. Though they cannot keep themselves from death, they will bow the knee and worship the Lord of glory. Why? Because he has done it. The Lord has heard his voice and raised him and saved him and rescued him from the sword. Jesus was raised to life. The psalmists declare it But even though the psalmists declared it, even though they said the Lord is the Lord of our salvation, the Psalms also talk about the dark night of the soul. Is the Lord going to return? Will he come and rescue us? Will he forgive us? Will he hear our voice? The psalmist declares this in Psalm 42 when he says these words. I am weary with crying out. My throat is parched. My eyes grow dim for waiting for the Lord. Likewise, we hear these words, My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me continually, Where is your God? Why are you downcast on my soul? Why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. This is the psalmist who knew and believes and professes that the Lord is salvation, yet his soul is downcast. Will he save us? Will he be victorious? The psalmist finishes when he says these words. As he comes out of this dark night of the soul, he says, Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause. Send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling. Then I will go to the altar of God, to my God by exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God my God. This is the psalmist saying, though my soul doubts, though I wonder, I know that you hear me, and I know that you will lead me in the light. And you will go before me. You will be my dwelling place. And I will go to your altar, to my God, with exceeding joy. Well, what was the joy? Though the psalmist could not envision it, what the psalmist was declaring is precisely what we hear from the words of Jesus. when he says these words in John the Gospel. Verse chapter 11, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies, and whoever lives and believes in me will never die. And then Paul would say, who knew the Old Testament, he says, We believe that Jesus died and rose again, so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep. Why does Paul declare these things? He declares them because Jesus told him, and now he declares it to us. What does the angel do with these women? What they do is they say, he says, this is what Jesus told you. What do we do with this testimony? Some have said, well, maybe they just went to the wrong tomb. Except there were guards. And there is the angel. Well, maybe this is just fiction. Okay. If this is fiction, as we looked at a couple of weeks ago, why is there no other example during this time of realistic fiction? There is nothing like this, the Gospels, anywhere during this time period. In addition, and it needs to be repeated at every time we get together and we celebrate Easter. If you indeed We're going to concoct a fiction, as some suggest the Gospels in the New Testament is, written by writers later on, trying to give validation to why we worship the way that we do, but it's not true and cannot be trusted. then why in the world would an angel declare to women as the first witnesses of the resurrection? Why would the gospel writer not only choose women as the first witnesses, but then go further and say, guess what? You get to be the first voice of the risen Savior. Go and tell the disciples. Why? Because women was their testimony in court of law did not stand up. It would not have been believed. But I believe the reason why they chose women, and the reason why the Lord designed it just this way, was to validate this is no fiction. This is me turning all of the expectations upside down. Go and tell. Go and tell. Just as I said, I am the resurrection and the life No one comes unto the Father except through me. Go and tell, just as I told you, He is not here. Mark ends this gospel in such a unique way. He ends with their astonishment. He ends with their being seized with trembling, and they were afraid. What's interesting is that the other gospels fill in a little bit more. Well, apparently they don't stay there. They actually continue to go. They get out of their amazement and their astonishment and fear, and they go and they tell the story. That gives to us a very clear sign. That the resurrection and the work of Christ isn't something just to be received. It becomes the animating power of the mission. of the Church of Jesus Christ. It becomes the story of the mission. And he tells them, go and tell the disciples. And so they do. And it is the same case with us. This resurrection. That Jesus foretold, because of his death, Christ has paid it in full and is now victorious over sin and death. Therefore, It happened in the middle of history, and it happened then, which means we're not waiting for something to start Resurrection, restoration, victory over sin and death has already begun, though it's not been brought to a full completion until Jesus returns again as he said he would. But between then and Jesus' second coming, we are left here in the middle with a mission, and that is a mission that is empowered by the resurrection. That because of God's love, that because of the mercy and grace of God in sending his son victorious over sin and death, he tells these women, Go and tell. The disciples are equipped and they say, Go and tell. Well the beauty is, guess what? These women could not wrap their brains around this reality. They couldn't have it all nailed down in logic and reason. But he looks at them, he says, go and tell. Be a witness. Go and tell. It means that the resurrection power begins to work its way out. We don't work it all out and then go and tell. No, it works itself out as we go and tell. Why? Because the resurrection means that God is about restoring all things. He's about bringing death to life, brokenness to healing. It first begins by each of us asking the question, what difference does the resurrection make for us? What difference does the resurrection make for our relationships? It is the power of God's restoration to bring healing in brokenness. It is the power of the resurrection That enables us to love our enemies because we have first been loved. It is the power of the resurrection that enables us to go and love our neighbors. Why? Because we who believe have been restored, reconciled, empowered, go and tell. Why do we go and tell? Because the Lord has chosen his church to be the heralding voice of the resurrection. Come to the Lord Jesus. Go and tell your neighbors. But more than that Yes, we're gathered together on an Easter Sunday morning, but tomorrow morning you're gonna have to get up and go to work. Whether it's work at home or work outside the home, regardless of what you do. Your work matters to God because of the resurrection, because it's not just about spiritual stuff. Jesus was raised in body and flesh. He's about restoring life. Which means your work and how you do your work and why you do your work and for whom you do your work matters to the Lord. It brings purpose. But more than that, why are we called then to feed the poor, the hungry, the thirsty Because in the death and resurrection of Christ, we have been fed. We have received drink that cannot be dried up. We become the hands and feet of Jesus. Why do we care for the widow and the orphan? Because it mattered to Jesus. And by his resurrection power, it matters to us. While we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. Now in his resurrection, we are called to be witnesses. But I say this in closing. You might be here this morning. And you might be suffering in various ways. Trials of kinds that I could not enumerate And maybe where you begin this morning is asking, Lord, how can your resurrection power bring light to my suffering? This mattered to the Apostle Paul. It mattered to the Apostle Paul not just in the midst of suffering, but why don't we find identity in our successes? All of it stems from the resurrection. Here's what he says. Indeed, I count everything as a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith, that I may know Him and the power of His resurrection, and may share in His sufferings becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. There is no darkness, there is no suffering, there is no difficulty that the resurrection cannot breathe hope into because the end of the story is not death, it's life The end of the story is not brokenness, but healing. He calls us to himself. He told us I would die and be raised on the third day. He is not here, just as he told us. Now go and tell. Go and live the beauty of the resurrection of the Son of God. Let's pray