Second Corinthians chapter five, and we continue in the fourth of six messages, and second Corinthians chapter. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, we'll read today from verse 11 to 21. Since then we know what it is to fear the Lord, we try to persuade men. What we are is plain to God, and I hope it's also plain to your conscience. We're not trying to commend ourselves to you again. But are giving you an opportunity to take pride in us so that you can answer those who take pride in what is seen rather than what is in the heart. If we are out of our mind, it is for the sake of God. If we are in our right mind, It is for you. For Christ's love compels us, because we're convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them. and was raised again. And so from now we want to regard no one from a worldly point of view. Though we weren't regarded Christ in this way, we do so no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation. The oldest wrong. New is come. All this is from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men's sins against them. He is committing to us. Use the message of reconciliation. We are therefore Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making his appeal through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. God made him who had no sin to be sinned. Focusing in on verses fourteen and fifteen during these weeks to see if we can understand something. Something of why Paul sees in the words that he states here the heart of Christian motivation, that it's the love of Christ that compels us. It's Christ's love that controls us, not the way that others treat us. Not the way they love us or the way they don't love us. It's Christ's love that compels me, it's his love that directs my responses and directs the way that I live and the way that I treat people. Why? Well, because I'm convinced with my mind. I have concluded something. I've looked at the evidence, I've looked at the facts, and I'm convinced of something. What am I convinced of? I'm convinced that if I saw the Nazarene carpenter nailed to a Roman gibbet, that it was not simply for himself that he Was dying, but that one died for all. That you have here a substitutionary sacrifice, something of cosmic significance. One died for all. He died on account of all. He died on behalf of all. And he died in the place of all, or instead of the all, as we took looked at last week. And therefore all died. That's the phrase that I want to look at with you this morning. Therefore, all God. You might understand it a little better by looking at it this way. We're convinced that one died for all, and therefore the all for whom that One died, died. All those for whom Christ died have died. And therefore, you this morning, if you are in Jesus Christ, given him your life by faith, the commitment of your life. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean to say that you have died? What does Paul mean when he says here, therefore, all died? I think in order to understand this, we first of all have to look at what it does not mean because there's an awful lot of confusion today about this idea of dying to sin or dying to self. And we need to look at first of all what Paul does not mean by that, and then take a look at what Paul does mean by that. First of all, then what does Paul not mean? Follow along in your bulletin outline as we try to follow rather closely the This morning, some reasoning so that you can understand what Paul's getting at you. I believe that first of all, the thing that he does not mean is that I die to myself so I have no more conflict with sin. A lot of people say that. Christ died, when you die with Christ, that means that you have died to yourself in a way that you have no more conflict with sin. A contemporary popular conference speaker puts it this way: He says, Is your service of Jesus Christ? Christ spontaneous and effortless this morning. You know, you sort of clutch yourself and say, No, no, it's not. Then he goes on and presses a little further and he says, uh, do you find that you're really inclined to obey him? But that's your whole heart's desire without conflict. It's a man asked on me. And he says, Well then, if in fact that's the case, if that's not the case, rather, if you are not Finding that you're serving him effortlessly, spontaneously, but that you find that you fight against sin, that you struggle against sin, that you're in bondage. And then my advice to you, friends, is that you die to your You need to write out your obituary, and you need to die to yourself and to your sins. And then in that crisis step subsequent to your salvation, that step this morning that you as a Christian would take. Then you will die to yourself and you will find a new freedom. You will find yourself on a new plane of a deeper existence in Jesus Christ, in which you will no longer have a conflict with sin. And your service of Him will be spontaneous and effortless. And I find that to be a very false and misleading kind of a dichotomy. I don't know about you, but when I've heard those kind of messages, oftentimes in the past, they'd be extremely intimidating and threatening, and I would begin to wonder if I'd ever known the Lord. The whole idea You begin to see the bubble, and I'm struggling against sin, so there must be something wrong with me. There's got to be something wrong. I haven't really died to sin, because if I died to it, then I wouldn't struggle with it. But you see, the problem with that is what Peter says. In second Peter chapter 1. Peter says to us that we have his divine power given to us, giving everything that we need for life and godliness, for a knowledge of him, and called us by his own glory and goodness. And through these, this power. That he's given to us. He's given to us his great and precious promises. So that through them we'll participate in the divine nature and escape the corruption of the world caused by its evil desires. We've got the victory. There it is, complete, simple. Now Peter goes on to say, verse five, for this very reason, Second Peter one five, for this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness. Until your goodness knowledge, into your knowledge, self-control, into your self-control perseverance, and he was on talking about the one running the race of faith. And he begins it by saying, Existently because you have all of the all of the resources necessary in Jesus Christ that you make every effort. So this idea that says that if you die to your sin you will no longer have a conflict with sin, I believe it goes counter to the Bible's teaching in general and in particular it goes counter To the teaching of this verse that we'll see in just a moment. The second thing I would say that this verse does not mean when it talks about our dying with Christ, is that it does not mean that I die to myself so I have no more personal desires. You ever heard that kind of teaching? It's a kind of a mystical detachment from the world. Particularly if you read some books that talk about suffering and how a Christian can cope in a deeper life with suffering, you have this idea of almost stoical resignation in which you die to sin and seek nothing. And in that seeking of nothing you find peace and you find tranquility because there's no longer any struggle. The secret To die to yourself into all of your desires. Well, of course, you die to every desire. You're not going to want anything, and that sort of stands to reason. And so this whole idea goes that uh, as I've heard, I've heard this kind of message myself, it's only a corpse that gets into insulted, you know. It's only a corpse of struggles. And so if you find that you struggle when people insult you and you're concerned for your reputation, you need to die to your sin because if you're a corpse, it won't bother you anymore. Well it stands to reason, I guess. But the uh the whole methodology here is a constant dying to myself so that I try to totally dissociate myself with all my desires, and in that I find victory in the spiritual life. If I find if I find that I'm feeling pain, uh then I should die to myself. This, by the way, is a teaching that has been very popularized by a man that uh has come under some uh great influence today, Archbishop Fenelon. He wrote a number of letters. He was a seventeenth century Roman Catholic Archbishop in France. And he wrote a number of letters called Spiritual Letters that have been republished, and I was shocked to see, rather recently, in Leadership Journal that one of the top evangelical leaders Within the church today has said that that is one of the most significant books in his own life to help him. And it is precisely this message that Benelon is trying to perpetrate. Penelon, by the way, was a counter reprobationist. He was against The Reformation and all that it stood for. And yet it's precisely his book and his year's spirituality that's having a great influence within the evangelical church today. And Benelon says that if you find that you're resisting, and finding you're having A struggle with sin, that the answer is for you to die to yourself. And there's two things that he says that go counter precisely to this verse. And I'm not just picking on old Archbishop Penelon. He can't defend himself anymore. I'm just saying there's an awful lot of people that follow this kind of teaching. And it's a kind of teaching which I think can be extremely confusing and burdensome to a number of us as we talk as we look at what it means to die with Christ. Two things that he talks about is one, the need to continually But Die to sin. He talks about the constant practice of dying to yourself. I don't know if you've ever heard that teaching, but I hear that an awful lot in teaching today where people talk about the need to constantly practice dying to yourself. But you see in verse 14 of 2 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul there says that one died for all and one for all died. It's the past tense. He's talking about something which has happened. He is not talking about something. something which continues to happen. It is true the New Testament talks about mortifying the deeds of the flesh, putting them to death, but that's talking about putting to death certain particular sins in my life on the basis of the fact that I have in the past already died. What he's talking about here is something that has happened, not something that you constantly practice. Verse 14, therefore all died, done, passed. Second thing that he and many others today talk about is the fact that the death to sin or the death to self is something that I do. That's absolutely basic to this kind of teaching. When you're involved in struggle with sin and you're finding The loss of victory, you need to die to yourself. You need to die to yourself in such a way that you will no longer have these kinds of desires. He says that the heaviest cross And trials demand the deepest kind of death to self. You must give yourself completely to be crucified with Christ. You see, it's something that I do now in my experience and during the That I'll gain victory. Listen, I got news for you, and I hope it's good news for you because I'm sure it's good news. And I hope it's good news for you. Anytime you hear someone tell you that the secret to your struggle for sin is for you to That's not the gospel. That's not good news. Because all that will lead to is the deepest kind of introspection rather than the deepest kind of death. Because you'll find Constantly be asking yourself, well, now I'm still struggling here, so I haven't really done this deepest kind of dying to myself. There must be something I have to put to death yet. There must be something I haven't really dredged up and dug up, and I haven't really died to. And so you begin to interest it. back and continue to think about what is it that I haven't really died to. I'll write out my obituary for the fifteenth time. And I continue to strive and to seek to place myself into death with Christ. But look what verse fourteen says. Verse 14 tells us that the good news of Christ's love is that one died for all and therefore all died. You see what that therefore means? It means that your death was controlled by Christ's death. It wasn't something that you do, it's something that he did. And when Christ died, therefore you died. I'll tell you that is terrifically liberating. Because it means that my death to myself is something That happened to me in Jesus Christ. He did it. I received it. That's the gospel. Now, therefore, then, if you can understand that much, then you look at the title and it says, The day of my death and you say, Well when is it that I died? When you died is not when you took some step of sanctification and wrote out your obituary, who said that today from now on Lord I'm going to die to myself and if I've never really met it before, I'm going to really mean it today and if I really meant it before, I'm going to really really mean it today. And if I only really really meant it before, then I'm going to keep swinging those really's on and cutting down to the altar and keep my chest or whatever I have to do so that I can convince you, Lord, that I really really mean to die to myself today. Rather it means the day you died to yourself was the day that Jesus died on the cross. And the day that you received him into your life was the day the Holy Spirit applied that to you and that It's the day you died. Not the day that some some subsequent step of confirmation or consecration that you took, but it's when Jesus Christ died on the cross, God saw you on that cross with him. Therefore, what does it mean? What does Paul mean positively now when he says, Therefore, all died? Well I believe it means two things. Now follow me closely in this, we can understand precisely what Paul's getting at. This. We hear so much teaching about it that gets so confusing that we begin to wonder if we can ever really understand it. And it's really not as difficult as I think we often make it. But we do need to follow closely Paul's line of thought. When Jesus died on the cross, God saw me related to him there. One died for all, therefore Paul died. One died for me, therefore I died with him. So, what did I die to? Well, that only makes sense. What I died to is what he died to, because it was his death that controls the thought that's involved here. Paul does not say. Say, you died, and Christ died after that fashion. He says one died for all, therefore they all died. So it's what Christ died to that I died to. So much is written today that speculates and picks up and says this is what really. Very simple. All you have to look at the Bible. What did Jesus die to? What he died to what I died to. Because my death was controlled by the event of his dying on the cross. Now then, what did Christ die to? Well, the Bible is very clear. He died to two things. He died to the sin, he died to sin, and he died to the law. Romans chapter 6, verse 10. Tells us quite clearly, Romans 6, verse 10, the death that he died, he died to sin. Romans 6. 10. The death he died, he died to sin once for all. Not something repeated. You didn't need to do. He died to sin a lot of times, you died to sin a lot of times. He died to sin once, you died to sin once, you died the sin once you died to Romans chapter 7, verse 4. So, my brothers, we also died to the law through the body of Christ. That you might belong to another, to him who was raised from the dead. You died to sin, and you died to the law. Two things are involved in that. One, you died to the penalty of sin. That's the first thing. You died to the penalty of sin. Christ's love compiles us because we're convinced of this that one died for all, and therefore all died to the penalty of sin. That's what he's saying. All died to the penalty of sin. Again, follow me closely to understand what he's saying. The law requires death for sin. Absolutely diversity. Nothing less than that can satisfy God's justice and his holiness. The law requires death. All sin, death is the universal penalty. Particularly your sin, my sin, the law requires death, absolutely nothing less. Jesus alone and all humanity was exempt from death. He didn't have Adamson, he never said it himself. God said, This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. No death penalty for him. Jesus came and he met the requirement of the law on my behalf. Well we talked about last week. In my place, instead of me. Jesus came, he satisfied the demands and the requirements of the law. Therefore, the law has no hold on you and me. Why? Could you doubt to it? When Jesus died to the law, since he died in your place, the justice of the law was absolutely satisfied. The sentence was carried. And you are dead to the demands of the law. I'm trying to maybe help us to understand this a little better. One time in my counseling, a man came to me and he said, I have a confession in it. He said, I committed a crime, and the crime that I committed, another man was arrested for. He's been identified, misidentified, but he was identified as me, and he's in jail. I said, what do I do about this? Well, this man was a Christian, came to me. So I said it's absolutely true, what you must do. You know much what you must do. You've got to go to the woman that you attack attacked, and we've got to come to that woman and you have got to seek For her forgiveness, then we've got to begin to work on this problem. This guy was a brand new Christian. So it wasn't something he'd been doing as a Christian for a while. We went to the woman, and she in fact graciously forgave him. She was shocked when he'd come. And the other fellow Was released. But then let's suppose that this crime had been a crime to carry the death penalty. And let's suppose that this fellow let that fellow stay in jail. And let's suppose that he follows him one day to the chamber where the electric chair is, he looks through the window, watches him pull the switch, and that fellow cries in his place. Now if the guy had absolutely no conscience, he might walk out of that prison and he'd say, I've died for the law. Because the law said that that was me there. That was the guy who was taken for that time and he just died for it. And therefore now the law is going to satisfy you. Not looking for me anymore. I'm free. Of course the analogy breaks down and it's limitation in it. Because the gospel is so much better than that. Jesus wasn't caught. He wasn't taken in misidentification, he was taken in absolute openness, and he gave himself. And Jesus came and he said, I will take the place. And so when Jesus died, the law was explicitly satisfied. knew what was happening. No question in this identification. And so the law comes and the law says Jesus has died and has satisfied the requirements of the law, and you and I go with a clear conscience. I now can step out of this room and the law is Never again looking for me. Because its demands have been satisfied. I have died to the law and its penalties. I've absolutely died. I'm dead to it. That's why Paul says in Romans chapter 8 that there is now there Therefore no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ the law of the Spirit of life has set me free from the law of sin and death. Why? For what the law was powerless to do and is weakened by the sinful In other words, the law could tell you what to do to satisfy God's requirements, but it couldn't enable you to do it. So all it did was make you guilty. And you look at me and say, this is what it means to live the Christian life. I can't live it. All I can do is show me my angel. Shortcomings. What the law was powerless to do when it was weakened by the sinful nature, God did, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be as an offering. So he condemned sin in sinful man. When he condemned his own son, glory that the righteous requirements of the law would be fully met. How? In Jesus Christ for us. Say see you look at Jesus Christ and say, He has met all the requirements. Because he's got all the requirements, the law has nothing to condemn me for. Absolutely free. Martin Luther wrote in his brief commentary in the book of Galatians, he said when he felt the law accusing him This is what he would say. Mr. Law, go ahead and accuse me as much as you like. I know that I've committed many sins and I can send me to sin daily. But that doesn't bother me. You've got to shout louder, Mr. Law. I'm drunk, you know. Talk as much as you like. I'm dead to you. My conscience is a lady and a queen and has nothing to do with the likes of you, because my conscience lives to Christ under another law, a moon and a better law. The law of grace. And that was the way Martin Luther dealt with a guilty conscience. That's the way you and I do deal with a guilty conscience based on the same gospel. One die after all, therefore all die. When we all died objectively, that means there's no warrant out for my arrest, there's no condemnation. And it means that when I am feeling trapped by a guilty conscience, I answer with the finished work of Jesus Christ. And I say, Law, Satan, as you accuse me with that law, one died for all. Therefore, I I died. And I'm dead to your accusations. I'm dead to your seeking to accuse my conscience. Now that's the first thing it means, but it means something also besides that. One died for all, and therefore all died. secondly, that we die to the power of sin. We die to the power of sin. Now again, follow me closely because I think this is an area in which preachers are often even more confused than the first area. When you die, you are no longer existing in the realm in which you lived. The biblical word death means literally separation. Physical death is separation of the soul from the body. Spiritual death is separation of the soul from God. The word death in the Bible means separation. When you die, you are separated from the realm in which you lived. You no longer are in leave that realm. Now, where have you lived all of your life spiritually? Well you've lived it in the realm of sin's control under the humanity of Adam. Adam Your head has set the example. And Adam has also been your representative in sin. And you had a poor example, but we followed it perfectly. We have lived our entire lives. under the realm of sin's control, under Adam's headship. Paul says one died for all, and therefore I'll die. And when you died, you died to that realm. You died to the realm of sin's control. Get that? You died to the realm of sin's control. You no longer live in that realm. You no longer live in bondage to sin as your master because you no longer live in that realm over which he is master. This is what Paul means in Romans 6, 6. In Romans 6, as you know, where he spends a lot of time. our time talking about what it means to die with Christ. He says in verse 6, For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin, now old King James Jesus said, might be destroyed. NRV is much better, much more accurate translation. But our whole self was crucified with him so that the body of sin might be rendered powerless. The Greek word means to make something inevitable. Effective, to make it inoperative. The body of sin has been rendered powerless so that we should no longer be slaves to sin. He's the master of the world in which we live. We have died to that realm. We no longer live in it. And we've been raised with Master Jesus to a new realm. That's why Paul goes on. Right at the same died for all, therefore all died, and he died for all that those who live. We're not simply dead. We've been raised to a new life. Those who died now live no longer to themselves but for him who died for them and rose under the head. You died to master sin, you've been raised to a new life. under Master Jesus. He's the Master of the New Life. You now no longer serve the law, you serve Jesus. You don't serve with the instruments of your body as slaves to sin, you serve as instruments of righteousness to King Jesus. And he is the one who has made you alive in this new realm. And in this new realm, sin has no legal right to bind you. You are not under its bondage anymore. Now, does that mean that you will never sin again? Well one day it will mean that. But even now, it means that you are no longer slaves under its control. Let me try to illustrate that. Try to give you some idea. In the next couple of weeks, we're going to say don't buy caterpillars around it. We're gonna see him on the sidewalk, we're gonna see him up and down trunks, trees, we're gonna see him on the bark and leaves. Gotta hear him crunching and gnawing and munching and everything else that seems to be in sight. In fact for the first time this year Howard County's putting into its budget uh some insect control because they're getting nervous. We're going to be crawling with caterpillars. Just see one of those caterpillar goes along on a branch and he falls down to the ground. And that caterpillar has all the aspirations in the world to fly and to be up in the air again where he'd like to be. But he can't. Why not? Well, because he's a safe from his caterpillar nature. And caterpillar nature restricts him to falling and munching and just sort of creeping along on the ground or on the sidewalk, as long as you stay out of the way of bicycles and everything else. But as long as you do that, they'll just keep creeping and falling. along and munch him. That's all he'll do. Because that's his nature. He's a slave to that nature. But then one day he survives all the rest of the pitfalls and birds and wheels and everything that can get him and flames and insecticides and all the rest of that. They'll get into a cocoon. And after he comes out of that cocoon, they'll have a new nature. And with that new nature, they'll be able to fly. Whereas a transformed caterpillar is able to fly as a butterfly, or as a moth, let's say in this case Butterfly, as he's able to fly as a butterfly, will he never again be on the ground? Well of course he will. As long as he doesn't exercise those brains that have been given to him in that new nature, he'll flop right back down again and he'll be on the ground. ground or the twig or the bark and be a caterpillar. But if you were to strip off those wings, you'd see something that resembled very much the caterpillar with a couple little legs hanging onto it. He's got a new nature, but there's still a remnant of his old nature. But he's no longer a slave to that old nature. Because now he has a new nature to exercise. That's what Paul's talking about here. One died for all. And therefore all died. And when all died, all died to that old slave. Sin-controlled nature that mastered them. And you, Christian, this morning, are not under its control anymore. You no longer have sin to control them, but Jesus is now your master. And he doesn't sin. simply tell you how you ought to live. By his spirit he equips you with a progressive, victorious sense of overcoming that sin, be able to know what it means to have that new nature operative. I hear this week of a man tell me how he's been an alcoholic for over twenty years, been in rehabs, been detoxed from the psychological psychiatrists, psychologists, counselors of every scrape and kind. It says there was never any victory. But I gave my life to Jesus Christ. As sin no longer masters. I'm not under its control. And I haven't had a drink for nearly two years. That's never happened before. And you can't simply put that down to psychological principles. You can't simply put that down. to counseling. You can't put it down to circumstances or environments, for all those things have un have been unchanged. And you can only put it down to one thing. One die for all. And therefore this one With the rest of those who in Jesus Christ has died. And he's died not only to sin's penalty, he's died to his power. You and I have been set free from the law of sin and death. Have you personally Possibly ever been united to Jesus Christ in his death? Have you ever been united to him in such a way that you can say the penalty of sin no longer hangs over me, for I have died to them? Or are you still trying to work it out on your own? Are you still trying to follow a set of religious principles that it will show you how to live? But give you no power to live. And your conscience isn't cleansed, and you don't understand One part of your hearts that it's guilty. And you know that if you were to stand before God today, all you'd have is the feeblest kind of hope cell, rather than any kind of assurance that God would say to you, you're acquitted. For the law has already carried out its sentence. Welcome into my heaven. If you have never come to Jesus Christ on the basis of his death for you, I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ that you don't put that off. One day Lord, that on this beautiful spring afternoon you come to him and give him your life. What about your conscience as a Christian? What do you do? How do you answer Satan's accusations when he comes to attack you? Concerning the sins that you're so painfully aware of, Paul says one died for all, and therefore all died. And you can answer the lies of the accusations that seek to drag down your conscience by the truth of the gospel. And the truth is simply this: I've died. Law, to your accusations. I've died to them. They no longer hold me. They can't convict me. For I have died to the penalty of the law, and I have died to its accusations of my conscience. I'm a son of God. What do you do when you feel powerless over a sin? And you say the gospel mocks me with its statements of victory, but all I see is a powerlessness. You need to realize that that is a lie. And you need to answer that lie with the truth of the gospel. One died for all, and therefore all die. The life which you now live, you live not to yourself, but to him who has given you a new life. A new night in which you have died to the realm of sin's control. And you can claim the victory of Jesus Christ in that particular earth as by a simple step of faith. You seek to obey what he says. And you simply seek to seek to experience the truth of the death that Jesus has died for you. Not another death that you white out and accomplish, but the death of Jesus for you. And the power of his spirit in you. But one died for all. And therefore all died. Have you experienced that death? Your identification with Jesus Christ. Let's go to Him. Each one of us stand together. There may be some of us who come here this morning and we're a little nervous. Because when we hear about the death of Christ for us, we're not really sure what that means. But we pray, oh Lord, that you would show. Any of you this morning who are not sure what that means, exactly what it means, that your death was in their place, so that the satisfaction of the law's requirement would be fulfilled in Jesus, or it never to be fulfilled enough. And that you would bring that person, Lord, to see the absolute futility of holding out from you and to renounce the free gift of eternal life. That you offer with yourself. Lord, we pray that you would grant that. We pray, Lord, that you would give fullness of mercy. And Father, we pray for those here who are burdened good conscience, who belong to Jesus Christ, but who find that again and again they're discouraged and depressed as they think of their sin. And they find themselves falling prey to the accusations of the law. Lord, may my name of Luther be able to renounce those accusations as those who have died to its claims, died when Jesus died. Died because he died, and died with him in his name, to any of the condemnation and the accusation of the law. Set us free, Lord, that our hearts would sing, and that we would triumph in the victory of Jesus. And Lord, we pray for those who this morning feel defeat in areas of their life. And those areas of defeat have become so overwhelming that they're no longer pockets of resistance of carnality. Father, they have threatened to consume. And now there is the uh the crying out as to whether The gospel really is good news. And whether the death to sin really does mean that sin no longer has control, for the control seems to be so powerful. We pray, Father, that you would set that person free. Set them free not by their thinking that they need to generate some sort of a psychological trip. But by simply seeing the truth, the simple naked truth of the gospel, that we have died to the realm of sin's control, and why do we live in it? We're living in the wrong realm. We haven't renounced the control of sin. Lord, help us as those who follow Jesus to realize that death. Realize that death has happened. And that you would give to us the power of your spirit that we might live in We pray, Father, for any who are having those areas of defeat, that you would give victory, a progressive kind of victory that will glorify you, that will encourage each one in our experiencing the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thank you for that power that can deliver from alcoholism, from drugs, from lifelong habits, from anything that holds us in bondage. For Jesus Christ is God. And he's our new master. Turn to hymn number one twenty. And I think uh you'll find this uh hymn also uh has a lot of the thoughts of Al's message, in particular the second verse regarding our freedom. the penalty of sin. Let's stand and sing in number one twenty.