Turn with me to Luke chapter 11. Luke chapter 11. Remember that today is the last day of our experiment. in discussions of the sermon after the refreshment break. And that group that wants to do that will meet with me right here in the front of the room. And we said we would try this in May and see what kind of interest there was to have some idea. of uh whether to plan this kind of thing in at any time in the future. So if you're interested in either sharing about or discussing the message this morning, asking questions, uh working on applications of it, uh Remember there will be that opportunity after the refreshment break, uh, right up here, this part of the room at 1110. I want to invite any of you who want to come to that, even if this is your first Sunday, if you're just visiting, whoever you are to come and join us for that. Today is Pentecost Sunday. As you've heard, it's called Git Sunday in the Anglican tradition. Maybe Sandy would prefer to call it that, but uh we call it Pentecost Sunday here in our tradition. Seven weeks after Easter, marking the time when the Holy Spirit came to fill the church. At that time he inaugurated in a new age, the age of the Spirit. When the terms of the Song of Songs, it was at that time that the heavenly lover gave to his church the Spirit as an engagement ring, a pledge of his love, who was waiting for the wedding. in heaven. And so we have the Spirit now. And I want to therefore, because we marked that time, at this point of the year, when the Holy Spirit came upon the church, to speak to you about the Holy Spirit and in particular To speak this morning about prayer and the Holy Spirit. Prayer and the Holy Spirit are two key themes in the books of Luke, Acts. And Luke brings together these two themes of prayer and the Holy Spirit in chapter eleven of chapter eleven of Luke. And so I want for us to notice that as we read this now and ask that God will give us good attention to his word and then help us as we examine it to apply it to our lives. Let's hear then God's holy word, Luke chapter 11, and I'm going to begin at verse 1 through verse 13. One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray. Just as John taught his disciples. He said to them, When you pray, say, Father. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us and lead us. not into temptation. David says to them, Suppose one of you has a friend and he goes to him at midnight and he says, friend, lend me three loaves of bread, because a friend of mine has come on a journey and I have nothing to say before him. Then the one inside answers, Don't bother me. The door is already locked, and my children are with me in bed. I can't get up and give you anything. I tell you, then I will not get up and give him bread because he is his friend, yet because of a man's boldness, he will get up and give him his bread. much as he needs. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given thee. See, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be open to you. Everyone who asks receives. And he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks the door will be open. Which of you fathers, if your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead? Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion. If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit To those who ask him. Now let's try to understand what Jesus is saying here for our lives. You notice this whole incident begins by Jesus' praying. And in just that we see an example for us. That Jesus was teaching by modeling. He didn't sit down one day and say, okay, fellas, the lecture for the day is on prayer, and then I'm going to begin to teach you now how to pray. He was a thirst in them by his own prayer love. And so the disciples saw him and they said every time they look at this fellow, he's not teaching or ministering or doing something else. He's praying whenever he gets an opportunity or sometimes he just takes opportunity. But there is a high priority for him. And so finally it got to them and one of them comes and he says, Lord, we see you pray them all the time. Teach us to pray like you pray. And the Lord Jesus then used that opportunity to teach them. He used that teachable moment to teach on prayer. And so he begins to open up this matter of prayer to them. He gives them, first of all, the pattern for prayer in chapter 11, verses 2 to 4. abbreviated version in Luke's gospel of the Lord's Prayer. By the way, uh some people wonder why that's so brief, you know, and they say, Yeah, you know, sort of left some things out there, Lord, and then you forget, you know, you forgot the hour and, you know, thy kingdom come, thy will be done and all Well, you see, I think among other things this is to teach us that the Lord's Prayer is not a set formula. And so you have two different versions here just to show us that there isn't one exact thing that the Lord wants us to repeat. There are concepts here. as a pattern. And so it gives us a little different, abbreviated pattern here. I'm sure you could have expanded on the one in Matthew 7, twice as long as that. But these are two examples. And then it goes from back to verses 5 to 10. to encourage their persistence in prayer. First the pattern for prayer, and then an encouragement in the persistence in prayer. In verses five to ten in that little story of the friends. And then by encouraging them in that, he then seeks verses eleven to thirteen by a comparison to encourage them and give them direction in their friends, to encourage them and to give them direction by a comparison, which then comes to focus in verse 13. And that's what I want for us to concentrate on this morning. So say it again. If you then, though you're evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give the Holy Spirit? to those who ask him. Now before we consider what this does mean for us, we have first of all the clear way to brush and understand what it does not mean, what Jesus is not saying in this. And so you see those two points in your bulletin outline. What it does not mean, and then what it does mean. First of all then, what it does not mean is that Christians are to seek for the Pentecostal baptism with the Holy Spirit. It does not mean that many Christians are confused at this point about the teaching of Scripture. Many Christian leaders would instruct us that we as Christians are taught here in Luke 11, 13, to ask for the Holy Ghost. Spirit to come in some way that he's never come into our lives. But a person might be a Christian who's saved, who's been forgiven, who belongs to Jesus Christ, but he doesn't have the Holy Spirit in any real way. He has not been baptized with the Holy Spirit. Even such notable as R. A. Torrey at the turn of the century, writing in his book What the Bible Teaches, had this to say. The baptism of the Holy Spirit is given to those who have already believed in Christ and been baptized with water. In answer to definite prayer, according to Luke 11, 13. So Tory is saying, that if you're a Christian and there's lack of power in your life, and you're saying, I just don't seem to have the joy and power of what I should have, then Luke 11. Luke Luke 1113 tells me that what I need to do is I need to ask for the Holy Spirit. Well, we take Ralph Riggs in his book, The Holy Spirit Himself, uh, an influential book, uh, writes concerning Luke 11, 13, that it uh Concerning that verse, he says, the gift of the Holy Spirit is without money and without price, but he will give it only to those who ask for it. He then talks about the fact that we must ask, according to this passage, importunity. persistently. If the spiritual evidences of Pentecost do not follow prayer, then either the faith or the prayer of the candidate must be inadequate. So we must ask and seek and not, he says, for Particularly we must seek and knock God's requirement of importunate prayer. This is God's elimination test to determine whom he considers worthy to receive this priceless gift. So you see that we're taught here that if you ask sincerely and persistently enough, then God will account you worthy as one to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And at other times, the fact that it Pentecost, the remarkable thing Luke tells us, is that he doesn't even tell us that the disciples were praying. If you look in Acts chapter 2, there you see that uh the disciples were simply together, wouldn't say anything about it. The fact that they were afraid, or asking, or seeking, or knocking. They're simply waiting. In fact, the only condition that we're told that is in place for the fact that the Holy Spirit came upon the church was the fact that Jesus had Risen. This is what Paul says in his sermon when he says now let's account for this. Why is it that the Holy Spirit has come? He says, Because Jesus was worthy. Jesus lived the life that was approved by God. Jesus was the one who died. as you crucified him to the tree. Jesus rose again. Jesus was exalted into heaven. He was received by the Father. And if the Father put a stamp of approval on him and he said, My son, you are worthy. The work is finished. You've accomplished it all. I therefore give the gift of the Holy Spirit to your people, we who are unworthy in ourselves, simply because Jesus is worthy. It was when Pentecost had come. We saw last year, that sign of the exaltation of Christ. And at the beginning of the world harvest of bringing people to himself. That's why you received the Holy Spirit. And so from the very moment that you received Christ, at that point you were baptized in the Holy Spirit. Because it depends on what Jesus did. Not only what you or I do. And even though it may be that in our lives we become more aware of him, we may become more controlled by him. We may become more filled with him. We are always baptized in him. with him, by him. That is because of Christ. And when you have Christ, you have all of the Holy Spirit you can ever have. And therefore if that's true, then what does this verse mean? If that's what it does not mean, if we don't have to worry about getting the Holy Spirit or the baptism of the Holy Spirit because Christ has already secured that force. What does Jesus mean when he says, if you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask for him. And what does that mean? I believe that Jesus is teaching through this two things. He's teaching us direction in prayer and he's giving us encouragement in prayer. He's teaching us direction and he's giving us encouragement. And both of those come through the Holy Spirit. And you see, concerning this matter of direction, this is where it helps so much to understand how to use your Bible. If you have a cross-reference Bible or you have a Bible that shows you parallel passages, you'll notice that connected to this passage is a parallel passage in Matthew chapter 7. So take a look at Matthew chapter 7. seven to see where Jesus taught the same thing, same lesson, different incidents, little different circumstances, but he's doing the same lesson. He's teaching about prayer. And he uses a very, very parallel time And notice how he words it in Matthew chapter seven so that you can see the Bible interpreting itself. In Matthew chapter 7 and verse 7, Jesus is giving the same instruction to ask To knock, to ask to seek, and to knock. Very similar to Luke chapter 11, verses 9 and 10. And then it says in verse 9, now which of you will ask for bread and get a stone? You see, in Luke he talked about asking for an egg and getting a stone. snake or a fish and getting a scorpion uh or it's a the only way around is the uh fish. He asked for the fish and he gets the scorpion. Never get those things straight, you know. He asked for the fish and whether it is the S or the S. Fish and he gets the snake and the egg and he gets the scorpion. Scorpion, okay? Whatever the connection is. Alright. Now in Matthew he's talking about asking for bread and getting a stone instead. It's the same kind of idea. And then he says, For a fish you get a snake. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, How much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit? No. How much more will your Father in heaven give what? Good gifts. Good gifts to those who ask him. Hey, see a lot of people would say, Hey, I like Matthew's version better than Luke's version. I can really get into this good gifts thing, you know. Uh God says right here, that's the kind of promise I need. I wonder good gift. I asked my Father who'll give it to me. And he's saying, Now your heavenly father, how much more will he give you good gifts? That I can understand and relate to. When he talks about giving me the Holy Spirit, I don't understand what he means by that. But I understand what he means by good gift. Because I have a very clear notion in my own life and mine, what are some good gifts I'd like to have. But to understand that then, you need to understand what the Bible means when it talks about good gifts. And so you take a look at some other uses of that. And Luke chapter 1, for instance. Now we're back to Luke's music. And in Luke 1, where you have Mary's song of salvation, sometimes called the Magnifica, where Mary had heard that she was going to bear the Messiah. She sings the song of praise to God. And in Luke 1, 53, She uses a similar phrase, good things. And she says there that he, the land, has filled the hungry with good things. But he has sent away the rich empty. This the sort of salvation and the good things that those who are humble seek from the Lord are promised them, spiritual things in context. Contrast to what the rich who don't seek those things will ever get. They'll be sent away empty. Immaterial things are already rich. They don't need those things. It's talking about spiritual things. And he says they'll go away spiritually empty. Or in Hebrews chapter nine. In verse 11, you have the same phrase. When Christ came as a high priest of the good things, for they're already here, he went through to the greater and more perfect tabernacle was not man-made. Seven of the good things of which Christ was a priest, salvation. The good things that are the promises of God that come of the Holy Spirit as He applies those things to our life. Or in chapter ten of Hebrews, verse one, the law is only the shadow of the good things that are coming. Not the realities themselves. The law is a shadow of the salvation, the spiritual blessings, all those things that are wrapped up in Christ. These are the good things that he's talking about. And so you see that Matthew and Luke already talked about. What they're really saying is that every good thing, every good gift that you have, every desire that you have has a spiritual dimension because you're a spiritual being. And so when you and I seek For good things from the Lord. Those good things are summed up in and given to us by the Holy Spirit. He's the summation of the good things. Galatians 3, 13 and 14 says that the blessing Of Abraham that came through Christ are to us the promise of the Spirit. They said the Spirit is the summation of all of God's good things. Well, you see, that's very important because when you pray for something, it helps you to therefore say, is this good thing that I'm praying for summed up in or somehow mediated to me by the Holy Spirit? Let's say you know it's exam time just passed, and you're saying, Lord, give me an A on that exam. That's a good thing. Well then you ought to stop and you ought to ask yourself, now why do I want that A? Why is that a good gift? Do I see any connection between getting that A or just not drunking that exam and the Holy Spirit? Because if I don't see any connection between the Holy Spirit, it's not the kind of good thing that God's talking about. The things that the good things that the Father will give are so summed up in the Holy Spirit that in Luke, in a different version, he says the Father in heaven will give the Holy Spirit. Now that giving of the Holy Spirit, you see, is not giving him for the first time in his presence. It's giving his ministry. It's giving all that he has to perform in your life, to be mediated to you. That's what he's talking about. He's saying that when I ask for a good gift, the Holy Spirit is the one who's going to give me that gift. He's the one who's going to bring it into my life. And so I ought to say, well now Lord the reas that I want an egg or that I don't want to flunk, depending on my aspirations, is so that I can be approved by you in the career that you're calling me to serve. And so Lord, I I believe that it's that it's going to be honoring to you need to do to get a good mark in this, so that I can serve Jesus, so the Holy Spirit can use me. Well you pray before we start out on the trip. Lord, give us journeying mercy, you know, that sort of subcultural Christian praise, you know. Keep us safe. Lord help us Just return safe at home now. We pray that in Jesus' name. Now, why? What's the connection between that and the Holy Spirit? Well you see if it's just you're saying I don't want the inconvenience of a car wreck or you know, I just couldn't take and reconcile between uh getting in an accident. And the fact that you're good, you may be missing something. If you're saying, because I'm more effective to you than I am if I'm going to be all broken up. And I'd like to serve you a little longer here, and so I'd like to remain on earth. But by your Holy Spirit. May your Holy Spirit, so He can use me, keep me safe. You begin to see the connection. When you pray for good gifts from the Father, soon the Holy Spirit enters into that. Prayer. And if he does, claim it. If he doesn't, they ought to re examine what you're praying. Because the promise is that the Father will give you the Holy Spirit in answer to your prayer. And that the Holy Spirit's the one who's going to mediate to you those desires of your heart. Well not only does it give us in this direction, but it also gives us encouragement. Gives us encouragement. Encouragement first of all, because since Pentecost I already have the Holy Spirit. You see, Jesus taught this before Pentecost. But now since Pentecost, you and I have the Spirit. And so when we're in trouble and we're in difficulties, we can say, Lord, remember what you're saying. just said in Luke 1113. That when I as your child come to you and cry, Father, here's my need, did you give your Holy Spirit? And at Pentecost you fulfilled giving your spirit to me. Now I pray that you will mediate his Then he will take what he is all that he has in Christ, and that he will give of that now. Because it's already mine to claim. See, because you already have the Holy Spirit, you can claim what it is that is to give in Christ. You're saying, Lord, I'm under a lot of stress at work this week. Oh, Lord, I just don't know how I'm going to get through this week. And then you can say, Lord, but I thank you that you've given your Holy Spirit to me. But as a child, I am a child. Child of my father, because the Spirit is the Spirit of adoption. He's the one who's made me your child. He's the one who enables me to cry, Daddy, Romans and Galatians tell us. And so, Lord, I cry to you now. That spirit that you've given to me is the spirit of peace and wisdom. And so I claim that spirit's peace and wisdom in my life. Give me that joy, that peace, that calm. And enable me now, Lord, to serve. out my priorities. Spirit led priorities for this week. Maybe maybe a couple things I'm just not going to do. I'm just going to have to jettison them. But Lord help me to know that your spirit in me can enable me To sort out those priorities and to go through this week in confidence that He's in control. That's asking for the Holy Spirit. You see? In your knees. That's what Jesus is talking about. And he's encouraging you that because you have the Spirit. You can expect that God will answer that prayer. And then secondly, he's doing he's saying this, he's encouraging us, not just because we had the Holy Spirit, but because of our relationship with the Father. So it has to do with the Spirit. through the Son and the Father. Because you notice the drift of the thought here. Verses five to ten, he had told us about this friend. And through this this climax he's giving us, as you see in the outline there, friend Earthly Father, Heavenly Father. And he's saying the Heavenly Father can never refuse your needs. Now remember he started with the earthly friend. He says uh, you know, it's Memorial Day weekend and somebody was just passing through We're close to I-95, you know, and so we get everybody that's going from Maine to Florida, you know, and they say, oh, we're just a few minutes off. And it was getting kind of lazy, and they pulled in, and there they are, and they knock on the door, and they say, hi, you know, thought you'd be glad to see us because we're on our way back to Massachusetts or something. And you know you probably just stop off and you said, Oh my gosh, I was just gonna go to the store on Tuesday, and I you know now it's a thing in the house, so what am I gonna do? So you go right over to the person in your small group that's the closest one, you know, and you knock on the door. And it's midnight, yes. We get this guy out of bed and he say, hey, I don't have anything in the house and my friendship. Could you please give me some food? I'll I'll give it back to you on Thursday or Friday or something when I get to the store. Give me something right now. You know, and the fish, great, glad to boy, I'm glad you called on me. That's what fellowship's all about, you know, just be able to get I'm out of bed at midnight and go into my refrigerator and see what I have to say. He's a friend when he's gonna say, ah, come on, back tomorrow. We're in bed, forget it, out, go. And Jesus says, even though he's your friend, he won't give it to you. Why would he give it to you? If you don't want your bugging until 1 a. m. , that's why he doesn't want to that's why he'll give it to you. And so Jesus says, simply out of your persistence and your boldness, you'll get that bread, won't you? Not because he's your friend, but because of your boldness. Jesus says when you go to prayer, go persistently, expectantly saying, Lord, I've got to have this. I'm going to ask and keep asking. I'm going to seek and keep seeking. I'm going to knock and keep knocking. And I'm That I ask as if I've gotta storm the gates of heaven to get it Then he says, now wait a minute. I don't want you to think that that means that God is there resisting on the other side. He's in bed. He doesn't want to get up. He doesn't want to be bothered by your request. And so then he gives us the other side of the picture, the heavenly side of the picture. There he gives us ever view of the father. He says, Now let's take a look here. They said, Think of your own father. And he says, picture two meals. Let's put Matthew and Luke together. He pictured two meals before you. On the one side here, you got a meal of burn. scrambled eggs hot you know with a little bit of ham or bacon in them and they're sort of sizzling over there you know. And then you've got some nice fish, maybe you think of some crab or you think of some uh clams, you know, or something like that. And there it is all the lamb on it And then it's got some sauce there already. And then there's some fresh baked bread. You know, the kind that mom used to make. You know, there it is, bowls of bread, homemade, and you know the smell of that. I mean that's so good the realtors always say, you want to what sell your house, you always put some whole baked grip in the other and when the people come and then they can't resist. And there it is getting all delectable, sitting there ready for you to gobble it up. Now that's one wheel. Then you look on the other side and here's the other wheel. And there's a nice big stone, you know, there it is. It looks like a blooper, a brown stone, but it's there with a rock laying on it. And you look a little closer and you see curled around that stone is a vapor. There's a snake whale around there, you know? Sort of like Temple of the Doom, if anybody saw you know. there's the stuff all snittering off the table, you know, and there's a snake wrapped around this rock. And then you look over beside it, and there's a dead spider. Really looks luscious, doesn't it? You know, our big hairy eyes on them. Well maybe in that culture we're not used to scorpions around. but they had scorpions, which are even worse with this big old stinger. And then Jesus is saying, now think of your dad. And you're coming in and you say, Dad, boy, I'm hungry. What do we got to eat, Dad? What do we get out of the refrigerator? He says, now which meal do you think your dad would put before you? Hey, if you're gonna give you this nice egg and the crab and the bread over here, what are you gonna say? You gotta start me now and you look at this thing and all the while you stick your teeth in, they break your teeth off, you know, and say, Dad, that's not bread, that's a rock. And then you look and here's this snake coming. out that bites you on the hand and you're just recoiling from that and you look at the other hand and here's a scorpion crawling up and he stings you on the arm. And Jesus said, you know what, maybe you have a father to start do that. Maybe your kids, your your parents would give you that kind of a meal if you said you were hungry. You think, nah, you better your hand down. You won't do anything. You think you got a bad meal yesterday, boy, wait. The key was saying, of course not. He said, even though you're sinful and selfish, there's none of us as parents would give that kind of a meal when our kids are home. Then he says, but sometimes you wonder if your heavenly father would, don't you? Don't you? I do. Sometimes I think I can trust my friends and my family. More than I can trust God. Somehow I believe that they know and care more for my needs, and the things will make me happy than what God knows. It was a couple months ago that I decided to switch what I was going to do and to preach this for Pentecost. And at that point I had no idea how surging this text would be in my own life. It was just a week ago that We found out that our son Dean has juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Now, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is the number one crippling disease among children in America today. And I saw Dean go in two days from a father that could run. around, leap and play, to crawling from his roommate or the kitchen. On Monday we were out in the backyard and he was standing on a log and he said, Dad, see I can still jump. And he tried to jump one foot off the log and he fell on his face. And my heart broke as I saw his knees swell up to triple and quadruple and five times the size. And I saw that knee stiffen. And I saw that he couldn't walk anymore. We talked to people and found out what could happen in that disease. And I cried out to God, Is this a good gift? And I thought, No If the universe is an impersonal universe, this is a horrible joke for me to preach on this this week. But if in fact you're there, if in fact what Jesus is talking about about here is really true. And it's the most appropriate thing I could have ever looked at. Because I had my doubts. And as I looked at that, I said, Jesus, one thing for you to say, oh, the Father will give you good gifts and the Holy Spirit. You never had juvenile limitoid high grace. And the Lord spoke quietly back to me to his word. But the good things of my father meant for me a cross. And while I said, Jesus, you never bore rulatory arthritis, he said, But you've never worn a cross. And somehow I could see through That. But the Lord's idea of good things and what his Holy Spirit has for us is much deeper than my superficial notion of what would be good. But somehow, in the Council of eternity. And his purpose, as Dan so ably opened up last week from Romans chapter eight. His purpose for me is in Christ. To be conformed to his image. That's his purpose for deeds. And therefore, within that purpose, he has to do some things that we don't understand for now. The good gifts will come. The Holy Spirit will have his life and will accomplish. And so I began to see that the Lord is trying to teach me in this a deeper understanding of what's good. But he's also trying to encourage me in a deeper understanding of prayer. And I can see that I so often just play with prayer. So often I think we come to a text like this and we think that it simply means if you just shout out to heaven, Lord, give me this thing that's on my heart now. That means that God is somehow supposed to send it down. And he spoke to send it UPS quick footedly, with no second asking. But then I notice again that the entire context of that verse is persistence. It he says here In verses five to ten, you get from your friend what you want by persistence. Ask and keep asking. Seek and keep seeking. Knocking, keep knocking. And I began to see that there's a balance here. If Jesus had only given to me verses 11 to 13, I would conclude from that that all I have to do is just call up to heaven and I should expect it to come immediately. If he only gave me verses five to ten, I would think that God is reluctant to give me anything good. But by giving me both sides, we helps to receive that the Father, through difficulties, through things that may break our hearts, will bring us crawling to him as children, persistently, saying, God, I have confidence. You will hear me, but I must come to you again and again and again. And so my family and I have pledged ourselves to consistently, persistently with confidence, come to the Father. You pray, Lord, don't let debilitating, crippling damage occur during the attacks and the case. Lord confine the problem, as he's graciously done so far, to one joint. It could go to other systems, it could go to the heart, the lungs, the eyes, all kinds of things. Lord, confine that. Lord, bring about remission. Bring about healing. You're a loving father. I cry to you persistently that you'll do that because I care. Lord, teach us the things you want us to learn today. Give us grace. To change our lifestyles if that's necessary. To do the things that we need to do so that we will learn more what you mean by good gifts. Then Lord, honor yourself. Honor the name. Jesus somehow. Whether by healing and answered prayer, whether by things you do in our family, things you teach me in my life, gentling me, giving me more compassion, whatever it is, Lord, honor yourself through that. But we will not give up. Because we believe that you are a loving Heavenly Father. You don't have those gifts because you come to them as a friend. You don't have those gifts because you come to them as a you come to an earthly father. We have these gifts because of the covenant of grace, because Jesus saw us in our deepest need that he was willing to sacrifice his life. And how shall we not then with him freely give? Us as a church this means that as we look at our facilities, we don't simply say, Well now we got a comedian they're going to find somebody and isn't it nice? We say, God, we've been trusting. in this area. As a community, we need a facility. And so we've called upon you as small groups to set aside fifteen minutes a week from now till the end of June to persistently cry unto God, a loving father. Who's pledged himself to you by his Holy Spirit, giving him to our church? And he will provide for us a right facility. And we can come with confidence. What does this mean for you? your life, for my life, and for our life as a church. Let me finish by simply mentioning that as we've cried to God just in this week, God has been so gracious. On Wednesday and Thursday Dean began to recover Some. On Friday he was able to walk again. Actually, by Thursday he was able to walk. And so by now, by the weekend, his swelling has gone greatly down. He's responding to the aspirins. He has to take six of all aspirins a day. To those tremendously. He's not had the side effects that could be that could come from that kind of dosage. It has been contained to the one joint so far. We don't know anything about future attacks. Right now he's well recovered from what he's done. And it's such a joy to see him walking again, to see him even be able to straighten his leg. And to know that our Heavenly Father is a good Father. Lord, each of us in our own ways in our own lives have ways that we have been tempted to doubt whether we could really trust you more than we could trust friends or family. And Lord, sometimes we've thought that our friends, our earthly father, would never give us the stone and the snake and the scorpion. But maybe you would. Maybe you have a twisted notion of what good is. And Lord, we've become so distorted that we have forgotten that we're the ones who have the twisted notion of what good is. We simply want our bellies filled and filled quickly. And we want it to taste good. Lord, we pray that you would humble us, that our lives might be submitted to you. We might be ready to receive what you give, not as those who are stoics. But as those who affirm your goodness and have confidence that when we come to you, you really do hear in kindness and receive us. Lord, teach us as a church. to persistently ask and seek and knock. We might learn to get what the Holy Spirit has for us, whether in facilities or in our own spiritual lives. for our corporate spiritual life. Lord, we have so much we need to learn in this. Teach as we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.