From Holy Graham. It will have several weeks I have referred often to the sufferings and the death of Christ for us, whereby he was justified and forgiven So this morning we're going to come to consider those sufferings and our death face to face. We also think of the sufferings of Jesus Christ and his death for us in physical terms. the spurgeon, the beating , the preception. Sometimes we go beyond that to consider something of the spiritual dimension of this. The fact that Jesus was separated from his father, he with whom he has dwelt in close and imminent fellowship from all eternity, rather than receiving his love, now bore his curse But less often I think do we consider what is in fact a very prominent emphasis in the gospel Concerning Christ's death and resurrection, concerning his death and his suffering for us, we're focusing on the marking that Jesus received for us. This was a very major part of his suffering for. It's a horrible crime and travesty for it to realize that God, who made it for himself. would be ignored by us as a people who would go around living our life as if we didn't matter, not receiving his rework at some How infinitely more horrible, how loasty, how unspeakable, for this God who had made us it To simply worship him, to fall down and adore him, which is our rightful place before him. To simply such a sit at us to despise it and to mock it. Some of us can picture who have read or have seen recently on television rely on the week in the world Remember when I asked when that regal lion comes to the stone table, he's tied up, he's muggled, his great and glorious name stays in his head. And all the ghouls and the hags and the witches begin to mock him. They begin to taunt him as he knows they're muzzled. And they say to him, How many mice did you catch today? City, would you like a curse few of you? And they begin to taunt him, like rude lines, and to tear them limb from limb, laying purpless and suckers But our hearts recoil if we see a theme such as that that means the fixed force for that. How much more To see the king of kings, the king of love and peace and power and majesty, quantity, and mock and despise Yes. All the gospels make quite a point of this. Matthew, for example, gives one verse, almost a closing reference to the fact that Jesus was crucified. But again and again in his account he refers to the mocking and the insulting of people. Notice this as I read our scriptures of this morning, the Matthew 26 and 27. I'm going to read from Matthew 26, verses 57 to 67, and then skip over to chapter 27, verses 27 to 54. Notice the mocking and the insulting and the emphasis on this in Matthew's account as I read this story. Matthew 26, beginning with verse 57. Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the High Priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome. The peace priests and the whole San Region were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. They did not find any. So many false witnesses came forward. Finally he came forward and declared, This power said I'm able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. And then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you? Jesus remained silent. The high priest said to him, I charge you under oath by the living God. Tell us that you are the Christ, the Son of God. Yes, it is as you said, Jesus replied. But I say to all of you, it is in the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the mighty one and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the priest tore his clothes and said, He has spoken blasphemy. Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? He is worthy of death, and And then they sit in his face. They fucking without things. How do you fascinate? He said, not for some things, Christmas. Chapter 27, beginning verse 27. Then the governance told you, this is after the sentencing now, the governance soldiers took these according to the Praetorian. He gathered the whole company of soldiers around him, and they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and the robe a found of thorns and set it on his head. They put a fast in his right hand and knelt in front of him and mocked him. Well, king of the deed, they said. They spit on him. They took the staff and struck him on the head again, again. After they had mocked him, he took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. And then they led him away to crucify. As they were going out, they met a man from Tyrone named Simon. They forced him to carry the cross. So they came to a place called Galdata, which means the place of the stall There they offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but after tasting it he refused to drink it. When they had crucified him, they divided up his clothes by casting left. And sitting down, they kept watch over him there. Above his head they placed a written charge against him. This is Jesus, the king of the Jews. Two robbers were super side with him, one on the right hand and one on his neck. Those who passed by hurled insults on him Taking their heads and saying, You are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days. Save yourself. Come down from the cross if you're the Son of God. The same way the two peace , the teachers of the law, the elders, mock them. He can't save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down from the cross. If we believe in him , he trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him. He said, I'm the son of God. And in the same way, the robbers who were crucified with him also peaceful on him. From the sixth hour until the ninth hour, darkness came over all the land. But about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloy, Eloy, Lama Sabasani, which means my God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? Then some of those standing there heard this and said, He's calling Elijah. Immediately one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with wine, vinegar, and put it on a slip and offered it to Jesus to drink. But the rest said, leave him alone. Let's see if Eliza comes to save him. And Jesus cried out again in a loud voice. He gave up his fear. At that moment the person of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth took and the rocks split. The tombs broke open and bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. So they came out of the tombs, and after Jesus' resurrection, they went into the holy city and appealed to many people. And when the centurion of those with him, who regarding Jesus, saw the ocean and all that happened. There was telephone and explained to one become a friend. And noticed in that account, again and again. The reference to the market. The Mark in Hymn is a caucus in verse 57 and 58 , chapter 26 In chapter 27, in verse 29, we see there again, and the proposals put a fast in his hand, and they mocked him, saying the alternative. After they had mocked him, verse thirty-one, they took off the words. Uh in verse thirty one verse forty-one After he's on the cross, the chief priests and the elders mocked him. You see, verse 39, they hurled insults at him. Verse 44, they keep insults at him. As we look more closely at this, we find that in fact Jesus was insidiously ridiculed and mocked precisely in those three offices. That were his claim and his glories. His claim to be prophets, priests, and saints Satan's venom and peace was focused preference on the very heart of his saints and his glorious. And precisely it was deeds that were in the belief in his resurrection. That's what we want to take a look at this morning to the power of this design. First of all then, let's take a look at how Jesus was marked in his passion, in his suffering, in his trials, his death. First of all then, see how he was mocked as a prophet. After the arrest, we read in verse in chapter twenty-six Jesus had been taken to the high to the palace of the high priest, and there was a marked trial in which false witnesses were brought in. And during all of this wailing and raging, Jesus stands majestically silent, and the only one who's in control of himself. Significantly, they are unable to accuse him of anything, except his claim to be the Son of God and the Messiah. Once that is dictated and he is accused of blasphemy, he is then turned over to the palace door. Now begin the insert , violence, and debate. And so we read in verse 67 and 58 they stood in a face and they suck into their state. And others asked him and said, Satisfy him , so he tells us that they use also many other insults along with me to buy As they insert him in it, they mark him to the same thing and his no response No bailing back, no threats, nothing of ambitiousness or briefness comes from his lips. And they begin to put on. Send a mind once a number of years, my late six weeks He was years ago with walking down the street with Washington D Street. He was a white man and he was walking down the street with a black man. Little person was very pretty at that time. If somebody came along and saw the sea walking the water , he couldn't. He said he was never sitting in anyone like that before. He comes to the Reason is Saturn in the face. I dare say it probably fewer has ever been Saturn in our faces Without some insight, it was only there to the off-scaling of the earth, to the greatest defense that you can possibly say from. Sitten the thing. If someone said something about me now of this, here's 30 30 a. m. Again and again. You have to get pretty close. Stare them right in the eyes. Sit in his face. He still. No retelling on the part of the out if they simply throw it up their evil to the ugly that it is, if they spit it in, and they simply look for them. They come under an idea of slavery. What flying for them? Because they put a blind fade on him, so he can't do. And then they smack him, slap him in the face. Close your eyes and quickly yourself the iron fade And then feel the thing of a slap upon your feet, a slap across the face, around your nose. You don't know where it's coming from. It's unexpected The planet, the power they must have paid and respected, if they slapped its fillers that running down your gates He tells they continue to slap, he did it. And if they slap him in the still doesn't stand The fact turns to blow. And if blows turn to horror , doubtful in his nose and his ears in face A fifth of rays begin to be fair and sweet and side. They still be snowed up. And someone decides to tap off this lovely dream with an argument from the very critical side They say, he's saying the prophet, remember? Okay, let's play a game, Paul's prophesy. Go here, you're listening than if you can tell Jesus or Lipter. So somebody distant on the sin or on the treaty and say, Who was at that time, Christ? Who was at that time, you prophet? Two history. And again and again they dumping and smacking and they buffeting back and forth from left to right And it's going to keep raining upon some people who are from the very pit of hell motivated to carry out all their raids and sins and all of the raging of their stars and lighting out of Jesus' name. What would it be like if you were to watch your son or your daughters be fed on by a band of puff? The blindfolded the spaniel resorted and began to feed on them, began to slap and strike them until their teeth were knocked loose and their nose was muddy and spurting out mud. Until their eyes were swollen and their whole face green and black and green. Did he stand to watch it? He just followed you The Father watched those men to his son. And although we would think that all heaven must cry out in any being , heaven's silence. And God does nothing to intervene if they beat upon his sight. In fact, the God Himself is the one who is fighting and cursing his own sight. while this is going on. The God the Father is not passing him as he's active in. He himself is laying the blows upon Jesus Christ and cursing him. Because Jesus Christ at that point had become sin. Jesus Christ at that point was bearing your sin and my sin and the Father of the Christian. You and I would recoil. We would have to intervene. We can't even bear to look at this scene. We must turn around. Like a father wants And the father's thing. We see then the Jesus went on to be marked with King. He brought before power. The dissentant is finally reluctantly passed down as she tried to pass him off to hold and bringing him back Palace , finance , mythological sentences. The Jesus is the king of the Jews There's nothing that refers more to His Majesty than His Office to the King. It has particular reference to His Majesty. But just a few days before, when he had come into Jerusalem riding on a donkey, he was fulfilling the prophecy of Zechariah 9-9, saying that the king would come riding on an ass. And the very next verse says that this one who would ride into Jerusalem on an ass would be the one who would be the king from sea to sea, and whose rule would extend to the very ends of the earth. And now he stands sentenced as a criminal. Sentenced to receive the absolute worst punishment conceived in the mind of man And Pilot turns him over to the soldier, to be spurred. See the whipping post there, flat with the blood of criminal illegal games. Last with blood clotted and stained upon it as they've been lashed again and again. See the rough iron collar, coarse and food, it will be fastened around Jesus' nest. And then see that we receive 39 lashes from a width, embedded with rip of smoke bone, and metals. To carve away the flesh from off his back, to dig into the muscle and the finished. Until after 39 last years, he took 15 minutes to administer. But a bloody man of muscle and fists and blood pouring out. His back is ridden. Then the fall is taken We knew that they brought him in, the soldiers in verse 27, into the Pictorian and gathered the whole company of these Roman soldiers around him. So they slipped them and put a scarlet orb on them, and then they wore the crown of storms, probably from the long spike storm books, not little sickness, but long storms. Wove a crown and set it on his head. And they put a staff in his right hand and knelt in front of him, and they mocked him. Say, hear thou king of the Jews, and they inherit his claim to be the king. Is this what the point of the sentence? If they hear him, then they sit on it They took the staff and they struck him on the head, borne him with rooms, and seated him. And after they had mocked him and take off the robe and put his clothes on him and let him alone to cleanse the place. The robe was probably some old stylist discarded robe from a Roman cohort weed. So they take it in its rags and they put it on. Place it on that bleeding back. with all the tissues so that the very passages and thin and smart and they just lay that rough paper and then they sit them down They take that crown of stickers and they jam it down on his hand. They take a rod and they hold it in his hand and they hear him, mocking him Mocking him who had made them, him who had no right to receive anything but their adoration and constantly worship They mark him who by the very word of his power upholds them in their life. Then he sold his fire again. The game turns ugly in their city, in their mountains. And somebody snatches the rod out of his hand and they begin to see those crowns of going into his stuff. They do this. These are not gentle men, these are rough Roman soldiers. And it's a very ugly dream. They beat the crown of thorns down into his scalp And they begin to to bucket him, to feed him with his gifts. And then they fire a dance When they're frenzy of attacking one who's helping, who they see is one who doesn't dare straight back at them. psychology for that kind of thing will will produce a greater and greater strange weakness. They lay upon the victim greater and greater weakness. And finally they rip away that rain that has begun to infuse with a spot that's mud on the glass. And then you rip it open, rip it off, and take off all of those spots of mud in there. And the back is flooding blood out of them. And they put it on the flavor back on. And he's not away. Pilate takes him out onto the caves. But Pilate himself, a hard Roman soldier, when he sees his face , has his own heart turned within his head. You remember Power brings them out to the people. And he says, but hold them out. What more do you want to do to him? How can you suffer them out? And Pilate attempts one more time to affect Jesus' release. But the crowd says, We don't have anything to do with that. And Pilate goes, This is your king The Buddha sarcasm. And they meet her sarcasm, the king sarcasm back, and they say, We have no king to see them. And he says, Then what am I going to do with your kingdom? Take them out and crucify them. Crucify the king. So take him out Here's where we come then to last mark, the marking of three. Uh even if two notice when he Taken out onto the cross, the sign that they place over him, we read in verse thirty-seven. It said he is the king of the deeds. We read in verse forty-two that the elders when they passed by I said, if you have a king of Israel, come down and they continue to mark him as king, even in the speech of it. But particularly on the cross, he was marked as peace. Jesus was not explicitly mocked as priests for a very simple reason. The Jews did not see the Messiah as a priest. They did not understand his office with peace. They saw the Messiah as primarily king and secondarily as a prophet. And yet even without knowing it, they marked the very part of his word, as it seems. The priest conclused he was to offer a service For sin, to offer a sacrifice so that a person could be forgiven and restored to them. And here we see Jesus, who has offered himself was the sacrifice for seed. He's the land, he's now being slaughtered. And if he hangs upon the sea, he is the once-for-all sacrifice. And he reads in verse 39. They passed by and they hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, You're going to destroy the temple and build it in three days. Save yourself Come down for the cross if you're the Son of God. When others say he saves himself, but he can't he saves others, but he can't save himself Let him come down from the cross now. He trusts in God, let God rescue him if he wants him. He said, I'm the Son of God. This is practical quote in Psalm twenty-three, predicting their mocking and their insight. The Psalm points to a picture, a prophetic picture of Christ's crucifixion and his suffering , lays particular emphasis on his marking. And so you read in Psalm 22, verses 6 to 8, I am a worm and not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people. All be seen. mock him. They hurl insults, shaking their heads. He trusts in the Lord, let the Lord rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in it. How did it be stuck in his mouth? Because he thought they hurled where the very worried of sickness. Hurl was the one who was the truth often himself as given. This you see is why Jesus in verse 46 quotes from the very first verse of this psalm. Many people are perplexed why Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken us? And they say, Was Jesus confused? Didn't we know what's going on? No. We are just so simple. Jesus, his mind was so succused and so fascinating with strictness that he realizes that this is a fulfillment of Psalm 23. And so Jesus, even with all the pain of lacking his body and his spirit, chooses to take the first verse of that psalm and use it as an expression of his own argument. And so Jesus, who had an insult and marking through him, hope from that same sound, rhetorically calling out to his father, my God, my God. Oh, why is he forsaken that? Indicating that he is fulfilling in that all that is demonstrated and he is expressed in the horror of that song Jesus isn't conceived. Jesus is crying out in his soul. The one who is mocked in Psalm 26. And so they continue to talk. Save yourself. If you're the Son of God, what a priest you are. You can't even save yourself, let alone save other people. Of course that's exactly the point. In order to save our earth, he couldn't save himself. But the only way that he could save us is to not save himself It would have been leading since in all the world with Jesus to come down from the cross. Let's not for a moment think that Jesus had no choice in that moment. That he was somehow helpless you might have. Jesus remained on that cross and here after the world Jesus remained on that cross because if he had come down, you and I would have been walking and without hope in the world. Give you something a great sacrifice of an act of love for somebody else. And then that person not only misunderstands your motives But they totally split what you did and they throw it out to me. But something like that would hurt. But it hurts people. Here we have Men who are mocking, he 's hurling back at him , Allah, if he is demonstrating in remaining upon the cloud. And they insult him and they mock him and they fling back in his face the very sacrifice of these performing for them. All the Jesus had done say He's coming down from the throne of heaven and taking upon himself the descriptive form of a man He's growing up as a child, as a teenager, as an adult, and never aga never once disobeying the Father. He's performing of his miracles and of his healing, his preaching of the kingdom, who's enduring the temptation of Satan. His going to Jerusalem, his withstanding the trial and being mocked and suffering and scourged and being hung on the cross, all of that would be to no avail if at this moment Jesus comes down off the cross Because at this moment he says, that's enough. I've had it. These people don't care for what I'm doing. They totally are appreciative of it. There's no there's not an ounce of gratitude or understanding on your part. And I am not going to hang here where I can simply come down If he had come down at that moment, all the rest would have been to no avail, and you and I would have no hope to all eat anything. If at this point he weakens, will he come down? No. Because his love for you and to me was sufficient to him to understand all of his marks and his insurance and the disputes Do he received and with repent while he suffered for us? Are you praying on him about Jesus received his We completed successfully designed to succeed. And then three days later he was in the future. Vindicated in precisely these three offices when he raised from the death. To vindicate means to sustain, to justify, to verify a person's claim or honest. with regard to them, to defend it or to secure it against any assault, to vindicate somebody is to support them, to see if correct what they say To justify, to uphold and to prove all that their claims are. This is what the resurrection is The resurrection vindicated his place. And while you and I celebrate this morning the resurrection as a life that is for us because Jesus is right. And let's also remember that the resurrection vindicated Jesus in his three offices. It showed that he was the true prophet, priest, and the king. How did he do that? Well notice first. The prophet. How is a prophet vindicated as being a true prophet of God? There were three main attempts at the script of days. Number one, the fruits of their life There must be a godly life consistent with a man sent from God. Secondly, that they would not lead others away from the true God, according to Deuteronomy 13. And the third test was that if they made predictions, their predictions would come true. Deuteronomy 18, 21 and 22. Now at least three times Matthew records before Jesus' death, he had predicted that he would rise again. Take a look at Matthew 16, verse 21. Jesus says here on his on the way to Jerusalem some weeks before. From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, peace priests and the teachers of the law. But he must be killed. And on the third day he raised the light. This is what he fancy. Chapter 17, verse 22 And they came to Galile to Galilee. He said to them, The Son of Man is going to do these things in the hands of men. And they were filling, and on the third day he'll be raised to life. The third time in verse in chapter 20, verse 18. We're going up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man will be betrayed and the chief priests and teachers of the law by them and they will condemn him to death and will turn him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and slogged and crucified. And on the third day to be raised to life And on our Easter morning, at our first resurrection morning, Jesus Christ was raised from the dead in fulfillment of his promise. Here are those two three days before, lax him, sit on him, and beat him and say, If you're a prophet, tell him he's hitting you. But he was silent as if he had nothing to say But what does his answer to? His answer is three days later that Jesus Christ is walking about as a risen Lord and their mocking has fallen to the ground. They who have pointed him now see that he said, I will rise from the dead. He didn't say during the course of his career. My last and ultimate escape will be that I shall contact you and come back from the death. And you believe he's still going to And he contacted Maya. Jesus Christ said, I will conduct from the death. And alone of all men in history, Jesus Christ fulfilled his prophecy. He is the true prophet of death, for his comeback from the dead, and he's living to death. He's indicated also as king by his resurrection. Even during his humiliation, there were glimpses of his exality that broke through. Do you remember when he said, when he was assured by the high priest, I tell you if you are tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God? And he said, Yes. But he couldn't stop this, and he went on to say, You shall henceforth see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven in majesty. And they marked him as king. They marked him. And Jesus said to Prophet to Pilate, then he asked him, Are you a king? And he said, Yes But to this very end I was born to reign and to rule with him, but my kingdom blooded with his And so we read in Romans chapter fourteen and verse nine. That to this end, for this purpose, Jesus Christ died and was raised from the dead That he might be the Lord, the King over the dead and the living. Philippians chapter two tells us that this season He was obedient even unto death. The God raised and highly exalted him. So there's the name of Jesus Every should bow. We've given him a name that's above every name, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth. And every tongue that day will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, is King. To the glory of God the Father. To that very end, for that purpose, Jesus Christ has risen from the dead that he might be Lord, that he might rule, for he has conquered death, and that is the last end. He's ascended and he's on the throne. That's what we celebrate this morning. And that Jesus Christ is vindicated as king. That by his resurrection he has ascended the throne, to rule, to king, he has established a kingdom that you and I are citizens of. He got kings, wisdom, kings. Thirdly, he was vindicated as a priest in his resurrection. Here dies the priest, who offered himself as a sacrifice for sinners. But the question still before it is, will that sacrifice be accepted? Will God see that sacrifice as acceptable on your behalf and my behalf? Or is there something that is not right about that sacrifice? Is the victim not perfect? Is there something not acceptable? And still all hope of eternity is lost to you and to me. And Paul, writing about this, says in Romans chapter four, concerning Abraham Satan In Romans chapter 4, Paul's talking about the fact that Abraham was justified by his faith in God's provision for sin. And then he says in verse 23, the word that it was credited to him, that is, Christ's righteousness. was credited, justified, what we've been talking about these last weeks, but it was credited to him were not written for him alone, but also for us to whom God will credit righteousness. But as of us who believe in him, who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. Now what's the point? You see he was delivered over to death for our sins And was raised to life for our justification. Well, when we see that Jesus is raised from the dead, that we know the process on the death Because when we see that Jesus walked out of the tomb, that we know the sacrifice is complete. The work of the priest is done, and Jesus can now sit down And not stand daily ministry, but he's working sacrificing once for all. And as priest he's been vindicated His work is finished and his resurrection demonstrates that for all to see that you and I are justified. God has credited the righteousness of Christ for us because Jesus lives. And it's satisfied Sacrifice the success and accepted since that's what we celebrate the same. So in your life and in my life right now, Jesus is either honored or not Let's apply it. So we see on the back of the bullet commands we filled the first one to be filled on the front Notice that we celebrate his resurrection not only because it's life for us, but also because it's vindication for him. We anticipate that day of his ultimate vindication. God 's very name and honor were at stake in the resurrection. If Jesus Christ did not rise to his dead, the mocks and the points and the contempt were justified. And Jesus Christ who never answered one syllable to those calls, answered them in his resurrection. Jesus Christ walked out of that tomb and because of that dishonor is indicated. And that I would suggest to you is more important than our life. That in the cosmic significance of the universe is more important than the fact of the resurrection that God is independent. That God was shown to be who he claimed to be. That Jesus is all that he claimed to be. It would be well for you and for me to continue to see Jesus' mark. And never shown in the sea of the vertical with the anticipants, the first fruit of that day when there will be no more marking When we'll never hear our friends and our family curse him again, when we'll never hear anyone ever despise Jesus and his truth And your nose to be solved and completely been to us. Beyond that, this morning, we also honor and mock him We honor or motion with our lives of prophets, peace, and kings, in the way that we do and act Let's pray that God will enable us to honor and not mock him as our risen prophets. He just proclaimed to tell us, you see, what God is telling. Have you and I ever mock him with prophets by saying, Well yeah, Jesus, you uh show me in the Bible what God is like, but that's not enough. Somehow I just really wish I could see God and know what He's like. I wish I could know His nature. And Jesus says I've seen you his nature. I've revealed to you all you need to know about what God is like in his will for you. Oh but that is not enough I just wish I had something more. You don't really satisfy in what you tell me about what God is like. Your your word is not sufficient for me to know your will And remarking a property with those kinds of thoughts and attitudes and means. Rather let seek to be satisfied with his revelation is full and sufficient. But if Jesus is our prophet has revealed to us all we need to know. You want to know what God is like? Look, it's Jesus. That's all we need to know. But secondly, let's pray that God will enable us to honor him and not mock him as our priest. This touches on what we've been dealing with these last weeks, that we don't seek to add to his sacrifice. by our own works of righteousness. Those offerings that we conjure up to say, God, show and you'll accept me a little more. Than this person or that person, if I do this for you. God, I can earn your favor by consistent obedience, by my quiet time, by my search attendance, by any other good work that I do for you. We mock in his peace, and we seek to earn God's praise in our own behind. Rather, let's honor him at peace But so your work was sufficient. Your work was complete, and that's all I need to rest in what you did on the cross, and rest gratefully on adoring you in what he says. And finally, let's seek to honor him and not mock him as our king. We mock him as our king when we seek to run our own lives, as if he didn't matter. Rather he is my king to rule and range over every decision, every value, every decision and opinion and idea that I hold in my life. To be purged and worked through by Jesus as my sin. For if I call him my Lord and my Savior, and I seek to run my own life independently of him, I mock him as my sin. Let's not beat the insults in our own subtle ways upon him, but honor him as our prophet, our priest, and our king, to adore him who is mocked for us. To worship him, to revind the truth of our prophet, our truth, and our sin. Let's say