I love that song. Thank you for doing it, everyone. Full band. Jeff Corbett even giving me a guitar solo. I love that because it's a rejoicing thought, is it not? Listen, to see the law of Christ fulfilled, completely fulfilled. Not based on your works. It's based on his work. To see the law of Christ fulfilled, to hear his pardoning voice. Full forgiveness. Your sin blotted out. It does something. It has effect In the life of the believer, to see the law of Christ fulfilled, to hear his pardoning voice It changes a slave, those who are enslaved to their impurity and and unrighteousness, who've given their members over to uncleanness, changes a slave. Into a child. Adopted. Not born into the family, but chosen to be brought into the family. Adopted. Given full right as son and daughter because of Christ again to see the law of Christ fulfilled, to hear his pardoning voice. It changes a slave into a child. And it takes that obligation, that weight of the law from duty to choice. I know what's pleasing to my Lord now. I know it because we don't discard the law. Because the law is good, it is perfect, it is holy, and altogether righteous. And so I see the law as that which describes for me what's pleasing to God. And because the law has been fulfilled, I am free then to obey the law. That's the b It's the gospel. What a great song, William Cooper, who pinned those words, that lyric was Oftentimes tortured by doubt, oftentimes tortured by discouragement, had spent time in uh what they used to call the insane asylum William Cooper pinned those words because whenever he was in those black times of the heart and mind, the cross brought him to a realization that he was free in Christ. What a great song. The song's a summary of the gospel. It's a summary of the book of Galatians. It's a summary of our life's blood, the law fulfilled in Christ. And now the law able to be kept. Then because I've died to the law, remember Paul's words in Galatians 2, I live for God now. So we continue uh the third sermon in a short series of four in the book of Galatians. I'm going to try to do the whole book. in four weeks. Um what manner of insanity is that? And yet the the overview, we still get a chance to camp out and and and see these precious truths that Paul laid down for the people in Galatia, the people he loved, the people he called his dear children, his beloved. He did not want to see them stray. from the gospel that they had come to embrace. Because there's no life when you stray from the gospel. There's no freedom. There is no joy outside of Christ because Christ is the foundation of our joy. I want to look at the idea of the gospel is a way of life. I don't want to be misleading in the uh little bulletin title there. I've decided to do away with outlines for this month. Now, that's just my executive decision because I'm the only teaching elder on staff this month. But it's so much better, so much freeing, if you will, for all of us If as we read through the book of Galatians, we simply get to immerse ourselves in the truth of Galatians when we come here on Sunday morning. And it helps me to have happen what happened this week, and that was I was really serious about taking us to Galatians 5 and having this week and next week be Galatians 5 and Galatians 6 And this idea of the gospel is a way of life. I still believe that. And Lord willing, next week that's going to be our focus. But to get to Galatians 5, we must go through Galatians 3 and Galatians 4. And so the if you will, if you cross through the number five there and write three-four, it'll help you if you like to do the blank fill-in thing. 3-4, we're going to look at a couple of truths from chapter 3, one powerful truth from chapter 4, and then a verse from chapter 5 in conclusion. To set us up for next week. The gospel is a way of life. The father of the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther, intensely studied Paul's letter to the Galatians. In his lecture to the Galatians, his lecture on Galatians, he spoke about the freedom that was purchased for us on the cross of Jesus Christ to be justified. To be declared righteous by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. These are the tenets of the Reformation and why we have the title Protestant. We protested against the abuses of the gospel. And Martin Luther was preaching this, and it was recorded that the Duke George of Saxony, when he heard Luther's teaching from Galatians, he complained, quote That this is a great doctrine to die by, but a lousy one to live with. To be justified freely by God's grace alone is a great comfort when we contemplate our own death, when that final judgment comes. It is appointed under man once to die and then to face the judgment. And in that judgment, your righteous record and my righteous record will be examined. And if you do not have the righteousness of Christ, you are without hope in that judgment. And so Duke George's words are certainly ringing true. What a great comfort in death. Instead of trying to tout one's own record And say all the good things that they've done and all the bad things that they've not done. You simply rest in the completed, finished work of Jesus. And yet the complaint of Duke George misses the point. Paul teaches the Galatians Certainly a comfort in death, but it is our life in this present age as we Wait between that first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ. His first advent and his second advent. The New Testament describes that. time as this present age. And in this present age we live by faith. By faith in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. His complaint, Duke George's complaint, misses the point that the gospel makes a difference. The gospel has transforming power, and it should affect our lives. We should be changing, growing. That's the teaching of Paul to the Galatians This complaint from Duke George mirrors our own sinful heart. Maybe the question that came to you as I get people through the back door. But what do we do? You believe. That's the gospel. I'm not making this up Believe it. But if we're sinners saved by grace and not works, then how, or maybe better, why would anyone live for God? See, that's the question. We always want to achieve something. It's what you and I wrestle with. It's our sinful nature. We want to get some glory for ourselves. That's the works mentality. That's what Paul's addressing Remember the tenant when we, you know, the high schoolers can tell you this when we teach over there in the basement of the Potter's house. When you interact with theology, you've got to ask yourself a question What and who does this theology exalt? If this idea or notion exalts man, elevates man Then more than likely it's not of God. If this theology exalts God to a high place, to a lofty place. The God who describes himself through the prophet Isaiah that he will not yield his glory to another, if this theology, this notion, just gives God the glory, more than likely it's of God. And I can't think of no better God-glorifying truth than the one that says that salvation belongs to God alone. And we gracious recipients of it live lives of worship, praise, adoration, service, and obedience. In response to what he's done. That's the gospel. That's what Paul is so adamant to get across to his beloved in Galatia. Believe this, beloved, that when God begins the work of regeneration, brings a sinner to an awareness Making him aware of his need of a savior, that sinner will turn. God does. Turn from their sin and live for God and bear fruit. Fruit in keeping with repentance and bear fruit in keeping with resting in Him. That's the picture. It's a tough way, it's a narrow way. It'll be confronted by our enemies. We've got two enemies without. The world. The world hates God, hates the people who love God. Those ideologies that fly around the world and Satan, the enemy of God, from way back when, corrupting God's people, bringing temptation to bear So that we would fall into temptation and plunge ourselves into a death sentence. Two enemies without An enemy within our flesh. Paul makes that point clear to the Galatians. The spirit within you, believer, wars against your flesh. And there is a battle raging. I was talking to Rick Bellivo before the first service. He gave me a great quote. He said, People expect to be victorious without a fight. We expect to have it here, now, and completely here and now, without any fight on our behalf, or from our behalf. The work is complete, but make no mistake, the battle is on for your soul. And that's why we received Joe and Sue Proctor into our fellowship today, and we gently, but lovingly admonish them as we do ourselves whenever we receive a member. To make every available use of the means of God's grace. That's the way God grows his children. Sit under the preaching of his word, read his word. Prayerfully meditate on his word. Get into a group of people who study his word. If you've got questions about his word, ask them. Pray. Pray to God. Lord, show me what you mean. What is this? And make every use of that table of the Lord where Jesus Himself offers you his body broken. His body broken for your sin, his blood shed to cover those despicable, disgusting things that you and I do and run to. Make every use of those means of grace, ordinary means of grace, but the way in which God grows his people. So when you don't come to church, hopefully somebody calls you. Hey, I missed you Because we need that Jesus said that all that the Father has given to him will come to him. These are the promises that I rest in on a weekly basis, sometimes daily basis. as I interact with my own flesh, but also with your flesh. The promises of Christ are too precious to pass over. Jesus said, I will in no way lose any of them that the Father has given to me. They will come to me. And Paul Gets on that same train of thought. He who has begun a good work in you will be faithful. He is faithful to complete it unto the day of Christ Jesus. You see the first advent of Christ, the second advent of Christ, and how we live in this present age. We live by faith. We live in the gospel. It's a way of life. We have uh a special thing that happened in our house this week. There's uh two benchmarks that I've been hoping and praying for. The first we've already met. Six children, I longed for the day that we were diaper free. And many years ago, by God's grace, we were diaper free. But the second benchmark Somewhat almost on the same par, in my view, talk to me later about it if you got concerns, is to be training wheel-free. We love riding bike. You can't tell it by looking at me. But we all have bicycles. We like to ride around our cul-de-sac. We like to play you know, sharks and minnows and get scraped up and all kinds of stuff. And this week when we were cutting the grass, I saw Kyle, my little five year old out there, the only one left with training. bright green brike and purple and pink training wheels because we interchange parts and all kinds of stuff. And I'm watching him jump the curbs and, you know, do all this fancy stuff on his training wheels and I said, Con, you know I really think you could probably go without the training wheels. You want daddy to take your training wheels off? Now when I've asked the the girls that, I'm not gonna go into much detail here, but It's always kind of a debate and struggle and different things happen. Kyle's first answer and only answer was, yes, Dad. So that I'm expecting now running around ninety-eight degree weather and all this other stuff, I'll have to run around and do my usual speech. You know, just pedal, pedal, pedal harder, pedal faster. All I did was Get him started. And he took off and he's been riding ever since. That's a mark of maturity. Some things happen at different paces for different people. But just as you look for diaper-free and training wheel-free and other things, you mark growth And in the life of the believer, we mark growth. We should see growth. And when we don't see growth, we need to see the cross. We need to see the cross. How about you? Where do you see yourself On the gospel journey. Where do you see yourself? Here we are. God calls us by his grace. We understand that we're sinners, that we deserve full wrath for our sins, that those sins separate us from fellowship with God, that our relationship has been cut off And then we hear the gospel truth. Jesus is described as a friend of sinners. Friend of you and me. He would have dinner With a prostitute, tax collector, despised, despicable sinners, that Jesus is a friend of sinners. And our sin problem is dealt with through his life and through his death. He's met the law's demands on our behalf. He freely forgives our sin debt. He freely gives to us his righteousness. Just as if, that's justification, just as if we had lived the life of Christ. That's wonderful news. And in order to prove that Jesus was who he said he was and is who he claims he is, God raised him from the dead. He didn't stay dead. Three days later, he rose from the dead. And he lives today giving to you and me that continued effect. From the cross that purchased us. Continued redeeming growth, and growth takes place He sets us apart to serve in his kingdom. We find ways that we can share this wonderful news with others. Or we work to support those who are sharing this wonderful news with others and have a part in that kingdom work. And growth takes place. We start to see humility and love. It shows up in our life. And We kind of step back and are surprised. Peace and patience become a part of the way we handle the trials of life. People take comfort from the faithfulness that is evident in us. Our lives are marked by joy. Self-control replaces impulsive, rash behavior. Kindness and goodness show up where there were once manifestations of selfishness. Fits of rage replaced by gentleness. Growth takes place We see this kind of growth, and we have no other response except thanksgiving to God, because it's not natural to us. These are the fruit of the Spirit. It's not something that you and I can grow on our own. And so we marvel at a God who would grow us. Then there are those times when our flesh rears its ugly head. We have to have our way, and we sin. If you're visiting with us here today, we are a church that believes that Christians sin. We're not sinless. But we have a Savior for sin. And so when Christians sin, we know it's sin because we haven't discarded the law of God. The law of God shows us our sinfulness. We read the scriptures and it condemns our lawbreaker status and it drives us to the cross again The law shows us what's pleasing to God, so that when we sin, the Word of God, the Spirit of God, the Church of God all work in tandem to bring our attention to those sins. And the Spirit of God at work in us produces repentance and rest again in the finished work of Christ. It's often a very painful process. Correction always is. The writer of Hebrews reminds us that no discipline is pleasant at the time, but painful. But for those who are being trained by it, it will produce a harvest of righteousness and peace. And growth takes place. What do you need to to have that? What do you need to do then to have that? The answer from this letter is believe in Christ. Live as if these promises are true, because they are. Acknowledge your condition before him. Submit yourself to the Word of God. The Word has powerful, it has a powerful presence in the life I came across a a quote this week as I was studying for this sermon Martin Luther, I mentioned him, the father of the Reformation, in one of his biographies is recorded by uh Professor Timothy George from Southern Seminary in Louisville. He quotes Luther in a book called The Theology of the Reformers, as Luther was talking about the role that he had next to the role that the Word of God had in the Reformation. Listen to Luther. Quote, I simply taught, preached, and wrote on God's word. Otherwise, I did nothing And then, while I slept or drank Wittenberg beer with my friend Philip and my friend Amsdorf, the word so greatly weakened the papacy that never a prince or emperor did such damage to it. I did nothing. The word did it all. End quote. That's why we've encouraged one another this past couple of weeks to read through the book of Galatians. I hope you've been able to do that. We start on our third time through as a church tomorrow. Chapter 1 on Monday, Chapter 2 on Tuesday, and so on and so forth. Because God's word is powerful to do God's things in the life of believers. So I said I want to focus our attention on that. We look at uh the way the book of Galatians is structured, chapter one and two, it's Paul's Personal apostleship, he's basically saying, I met Christ personally and he made me an apostle of this gospel That which now I will give my life to protect. In chapter 3 and 4, Paul says that this gospel didn't just spring up out of nowhere. It is rooted in the deep Truths of the Old Testament, the theology of the Old Testament. And Paul says there's definite ground from which we on which we stand as we proclaim this gospel of Christ. And then in five and six, hopefully look at in detail next week, Paul says the gospel is a way of life. The cross of Jesus Christ and Christ's empty tomb, the resurrection power, applies to the life of the believer daily. That's why we join a church. That's why we align ourselves with a fellowship. That's why we tough it out with one another. Because we can't go it alone. And Paul knew that. And when his brothers in Galatia and his sisters in Galatia were turning away from the gospel, he pointed them back to the cross. Remember how cross-centered Paul was. First Corinthians Paul asserts boldly that the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. It doesn't make sense. But to those who are being saved, it's the power of God. First Corinthians one and twenty-three, Paul says that when he pre preaches Christ, he preaches Christ and him crucified. Because that is the power and the wisdom of God. First Corinthians 2, Paul says that he didn't try to come with lofty speech or eloquent words, but he made it He committed himself to know nothing among the Corinthians except Christ and him crucified. Maybe you read last night in Galatians 6 and verse 14 that Paul said, I will boast in nothing except the cross of Christ, through which and by which Paul was crucified to the world and the world to him. He's been set free from the bondage of sin and death through the cross of Jesus Christ. So it's no surprise. If you have a copy of the scriptures, then turn to chapter three Fasten your seat belts because the scriptures, the gospel is a bumpy ride for your pride and mine. Paul 3, Galatians 3, Paul says, You foolish Galatians, you're going to try to perfect yourself by the flesh? And he reminds him of the cross in verse 2. Verse 1 and verse 2 there. Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Remember last week we looked at this this participle here is in the the present uh the in the perfect tense. The perfect tense in the Greek has completed. Action with ongoing effect for those who are under this truth. The crucifixion of Jesus Christ is a historical fact. With lasting eternal effect in the life of God's people. Philip Riken, the pastor at 10th Presbyterian Church, says it this way. That to preach Christ having been crucified, the literal translation of that perfect tense there, to preach Christ having been crucified is not simply to preach him crucified, it is also to preach him risen. Jesus is no longer on the cross. At this very moment, he is a risen and living Savior. who is able to grant forgiveness to everyone who believes in him. The Galatians were forgetting that truth. They were letting themselves get caught up in the ear-tickling teaching of those who would seek to add something to the gospel. Adding something to the gospel gets glory for man, you see. And Paul would have none of it. And so in chapter 3, in the first five verses there, we see four rhetorical questions. Paul just wants them to know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that it is a work of God's Spirit within them. Question number one, Paul says, how how did you start this journey in the first place? Is something you came up with, you who were dead in your transgressions and sins? Verse 2, he says, Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing of the word with faith? Remember Paul to the Romans, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. Verse three, Paul raises another question. How are you going to finish the journey? Did you begin by yourself? Okay, if you began by the Spirit, are you going to finish by yourself? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? You foolish Galatians. Paul raises another question in verse four, a reality check. Because trials will come into your life and mine. Pain is not just possible in this life, it's promised. Jesus promised it In this world you will have heartache, trial, trouble, but take heart, Jesus said, for I have overcome the world. And Paul says, Listen, ultimately, what is the meaning of the trials you've gone through? Verse 4, did you suffer so many things if indeed it was in vain? If you throw the cross out by adding works to the gospel, you've thrown away the meaning of suffering Beloved, hear this. The God who in his wisdom Places his son on the cross to suffer and bleed and die for sin is a God who never wastes pain. That pain was with purpose. And so the pain that you and I experienced in this in this life If we have a view of the cross, that pain has purpose in our lives as well. This is what Paul means when he talks about the fellowship with Christ in his sufferings. So Paul says, because all the suffering that you've gone through will be indeed in vain. And the fourth question he raises How about your religious experience, the miracles and all this such? Is that a product of your works, or is that also a gift of God's Spirit Verse 5, he says, Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do that by works of the law? Are you getting God obligated by your good deeds? No wonder he says, you foolish Galatians. And yet we think like that, don't we? Paul goes on in chapter 3 to talk about the role of the law. We've talked about that. It is confusing sometimes. Someone before the first service today said, I think it's clicking this relationship of law and grace. I've never seen that before. And I just stood there with her and praised God. Because I said, then praise God because the Spirit's giving you that. This is all he requires of you. Remember we just sang that. What? To feel your need of him. This he gives you. This he gives you. Tis the Spirit's rising beam. Right? Paul says, no one is going to be justified by keeping the law If you place yourself back under the law, these good works to get God's favor, then you're obligated to keep the whole law. Galatians 3. 12 So Rick rightly read from Romans the law is good and it reminds us that we need Christ. I got an email this week from someone. I could give you an illustration from my own life, but I'd rather give it an illustration from your own life Email, person sitting at the computer, relational conflict in their life, and they were just about ready to hit send on a scathing email to someone And I want to read the email they sent to me instead. I've been reading through the book of Galatians, it says And just as about as I was about to hit send, the Holy Spirit convicted my heart with Galatians 5. 22 I realized that not one single thing in that email was peaceful or kind or good or gentle or any of it. What a reminder to me of my frailty and how much I need Christ. I just took a moment to thank God for my continuing sanctification in the midst of such trying circumstances. And for the grace that paid for all this anger and vengefulness that spills out of me right now, God is so true to his word. It will not return void. but continues to rebuke, correct, and train me. Pretty cool to see that at work, even though it's painful and humbling at times. End quote. That's powerful stuff. It's happening right here with us regular people Ordinary people with an extraordinary God and an extraordinary Savior, an extraordinary word that penetrates the soul and the spirit, divides and discerns our motives. Brings us back to the cross. What a wonderful Savior. Paul reminded the Galatians of the work, the good work of the Spirit of God. In chapter 4, Paul says it's that perfect providence of God. See there in verse 4 and chapter 4 and verse 4 and 5 and 6. In the perfect providence of God, Jesus Christ was born. Paul says this: the gospel in a nutshell. God sent his own son, the full deity of Christ in view, born of a woman, the full humanity of Christ in view, born under the law. The righteousness of Christ is that he fulfilled the law that you and I couldn't Why? Twofold purpose. To redeem those under the law. You see it there? To purchase for us, to pay our sin debt. to satisfy the law's demands, to redeem those under the law, so that secondfold purpose, so that we might receive our adoption as sons. So that we might receive our adoption as sons, as children, chosen by him. He chose us. He chose you. And Paul says, that's what it's all about. You see how Paul takes the doctrine of justification by faith and he weaves it so beautifully into the doctrine of our adoption. And he presents the beautiful Savior again. The doctrine of justification by faith, far from this stodgy old, cold theology, some seminary somewhere, it's our life. Paul says it's like cool, crisp, clean water for those who are parched and choking on the condemnation that the law brings into their life. You cannot keep the law and the condemnation that comes as you attempt to keep that and earn God's favor. Paul says, drink deeply of the life-giving water. Of Jesus Christ on the cross, who is the Son of God, who took the curse of the law onto himself and be freed from condemnation. Maybe you're being choked out from the doubts that assail you. It's too good to be true. Maybe it's it's good for them, but it can't be good for me. How could he care about me? I know who I am. I know what I think. I can't even pay attention for this 30 minutes My mind has wandered 15 times since Tim got up there. How could God care about me? And the cross is lifted up for you to see again that God's love is not distributed based on your works, but it's demonstrated powerfully. And a God who loves you and gave himself for you. Maybe the discouragement of this life is about to choke the life out of you. It's too overwhelming. Some weeks I go home and I think if I if I hear just one more thing about the effect of sin in the life of the people of God, I don't think I can take it. Life is tough. It's a confusing, tough, painful, bewildering journey. And the cross is lifted up. Because when I'm confronted by the effects of the enemies the world and Satan and the flesh. It's good to know that not only was the debt that my sin record demanded nailed to the cross, but remember Paul from the Colossians. Verse we looked at last week, Colossians chapter 2, Paul says, not only was your uh sin debt nailed to the cross, but in that act, Jesus Christ made a public spectacle. As he triumphed over the rulers and authorities, when you're discouraged, lift up the cross and see again that every enemy that you and I face. Has been defeated through Christ. Amen. That is so so comforting. And so Promise you we get there. Chapter 5. I just want to read one verse to hopefully prime the pump, get us ready for next week as we see the life of the body worked out. This love for one another and all these things. But Paul makes the point that it is by the Spirit. And ver in chapter five and verse Five, Paul says, For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. It is through the Spirit, by faith, by faith in Christ and the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me, by faith in the good news of the gospel, it is by his Spirit. Through the Spirit, by faith, that we eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. Between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ, the way in which we live is the gospel way. And Paul says we eagerly wait for that day, for the hope of our righteousness. I can't see God. You can't see God. I can't touch Him. And so we live by faith, not by sight. And the image here is so uh so wonderful that Paul adds the eagerly to the word wait. I've got a ten-year-old daughter in my house. She's ten today. Have you ever seen a ten-year-old girl wait for her birthday party? That's the picture. Now, have you ever seen a 10-year-old Florida girl wait for her birthday party at the pool party in Glen Burney backyard? Because there's a bushel of crabs at a Glen Burney pool party. There's three pounds of steamed shrimp. At a Glen Burney pool party. And there's two grandmas that have money to burn, it seems. They the gifts were numbered in the tens So when we did our party yesterday by the way, because my son's going out of town today and we wanted to do that, but when Anna came to me Friday, she was a picture. Of what Paul says is the believer's heart, awaiting the hope of righteousness. I can't wait for tomorrow. I can't wait for tomorrow. I wish tomorrow was here. I wish tomorrow was here. Oh, I wish it I wish it was here Why? Because she had every good reason to believe that that birthday party was going to be exactly what it was. And that's just a pathetic human example. When Paul describes the way we live by the gospel, and the way we rest in Christ, and the way by faith we hope in the righteousness. He says the same thing. I can't wait for that day. Oh, I can't wait for that day. I can't wait for the day when all the sin, it no longer has an effect. I can't wait for the day when somebody on the other end of the phone is crying because someone has crushed them because of sin. I can't wait for the day And I want to ask you, when you think about that final day, when you think about the day of Christ Jesus, does your heart soar? Do you say, oh I can't wait for that day? I can't wait to get there. Or does your heart step back in fear? Is there a tremor? Is there something going on? I respectfully submit to you. If that's there, if that's there. I would encourage you to look at the source of your hope in that day. It may be that you're looking to your own record, and God forbid. Let me pray for us. Father, help us, please, to um to receive you, Lord Jesus, and to rest in you and to rejoice in the finished work of Christ. And Lord, in a congregation like this to live it out, we pray that you'd work that out in us. For the many who today are their hearts are soaring and they eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. I thank you for that. And Lord, I pray for the ones who maybe there is a bit of caution. And their hearts don't soar. Our hearts don't soar. Lord, I pray that you'd meet them, us, at the point of our greatest need today. And be our vision of Christ. We thank you for that in Jesus' name. Amen.