Well, as you've heard, today is Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit was given in his fullness and in his power to the Church of Jesus Christ. And in celebrating this, we have been considering for these past three weeks three misconceptions the Christians commonly hold about the Holy Spirit. All that are addressed in that key verse. that uh came from the day of Pentecost, Acts chapter two, verse thirty three. The first misconception, you remember, two weeks ago we saw was that there is something that you and I need to do, some special condition. Especially after conversion, in order to receive the baptism of the Spirit or to receive the Spirit in his power and in his fullness. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Spirit. And that he we saw refers to Jesus. Jesus alone fulfilled the conditions that are necessary for receiving the Spirit in his power. And he fulfilled all the conditions. And therefore he has poured out what you now see and hear, and that is received by you and me by faith alone. And so that basic, all-important principle It is faith in Christ that releases the power of the Spirit in your life. It's not your diligence, it's not your self-discipline, it's not your self-effort. It's faith in Christ alone that releases the power of the Spirit to enable you to love and to serve Jesus Christ In the way that he wants you to, in the way that in your new heart, if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith, that you want to. Then last week we saw the second misconception that it's something that we as Christians need to do once we have settled this matter, that we have the Spirit, there's something we need to do And in our in our inadequacy and in our helplessness, there's something we need to generate. And we saw that the Spirit in Acts 2. 33 is described as the promised Spirit from the Father. Somebody calling? Answer your whatever it is. Thanks. That there is a the spirit is the spirit of promise. And you remember we saw last week that that phrase, the promised spirit, The spirit of promise is in contrast to the law, contrast to anything that you or I do in order to get more of that power available in our lives. And again The point is being made that it's faith in Christ that releases the promise by grace of the Spirit, not anything that you or I do. Now last week when I sat down after that message All of a sudden it hit me as soon as I got to the seat. I had left out the best illustration to bring the point home last week. So I whispered that to Kathy, and without a pause, she said, Well now you get right back up there and give that. So I thought, well maybe that wouldn't be a very good idea at that point. But let me tell you the illustration that I was going to give to try and bring home that point that I've been trying to make in these first two misconceptions, which are closely related. Johnny Erickson, the well-known quadriplegic author who was paralyzed, when she was in the hospital, said that there was one fellow that she noticed. uh during her stay there who was severely crippled. He could only walk, even move around at all, with the help of a walker, and he had several diseased joints They he was in there so that they could perform radical surgery, which they did, and they removed and replaced several of his joints. Some days after the surgery, Johnny saw this fella still walking around with a tremendous limp. In fact, weeks later, he was still walking around with a severe limp And she said to one of the doctors one day, it's really too bad about that fella that the surgery didn't take for him. And the doctor said, Oh no, the surgery was perfectly successful. He only limps by habit. He doesn't believe that he's been really healed. He's so used to limping that he can't get himself to believe that he's really been cured. And how like us in our Christian life is that man? Jesus Christ, we saw, has released us, redeemed us, not only from the curse, but the power of the law in our lives. And yet we continue in the bondage of sin. Why? Because his power is not sufficient? Because his power is not available? Because we don't believe that he's sufficient. Is that the case? And so we walk in bondage by habit. We walk in bondage to our sin because we really believe that we're still the same old people, and our self-image is locked into our pre-conversion state. But Paul says here that he, Jesus, has been exalted to the right hand of God and has received from the Father new identity. You are now a child of the Father in heaven. He has adopted you. You have a new identity. And he's given you the promised Holy Spirit, who he's poured out. And you now, Peter says, see and hear this. It's observable in this life. Now, you know, you're all sitting there like you don't believe that. I hope that there's a little more going on. You believe that? Amen? You really need to lay hold of that, brothers and sisters. And if you haven't trusted Christ Then you need to lay hold of it all the more to see the reality of what I'm talking about. That's what we tried to talk about this last two weeks The third misconception that I want to speak to today is from that last phrase there that you see in verse 33. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father The promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. And it's from that verse and others that we speak of the pouring out of the Spirit. And so I think many Christians of us view the Spirit as some kind of a liquid or a vapor rather than as a person. You know, he's sort of poured out, you know, people are filled with the spirit, sort of like a cup, you know, and you pour it out until it's filled up, and then he's filled with the spirit. And so you have all these liquid, vapor-ish kinds of terms he's been called in the past, the Holy Ghost, you know, it's sort of a abusive thing. So you get these ideas that depersonalize the spirit and make him some sort of a holy liquid. Now it's kind of hard to relate to a liquid. And so for many of us, we think, you know, no wonder I can't relate to the Holy Spirit. I view Jesus as a person. He walked and talked, and I can understand something of him. I understand something of the Father. Because there's an image of the relationship that's going on there. But I can't relate to the Holy Spirit because He's poured out and fills up and does all this stuff. And I can't relate to somebody that's just poured out all the time But you know that doesn't de-personalize the spirit. Paul in 2 Timothy chapter 4 spoke of himself as being poured out as a drink offering. He didn't mean that he was going to become a liquid and get poured out. He was referring to a symbol, an image of what he was going to do And the Bible is very clear that the Holy Spirit is a person. He's just as much of a person as the Father and the Son. So why then does the Bible speak of him as being poured out? That's the first blank there So why is he poured out if he's a person? And the answer is very simple, actually. He's spoken of as poured out because his work in our lives is pictured By two symbols in Scripture which both involve pouring. It's his work, it's what he does for us that is pictured by pouring. And those two symbols are oil and water. Oil and water. Now this morning I want to focus just on this water symbol. We could some other time focus on the oil symbol and easily take a message to focus on that because oil is the picture in the Bible of holiness, of sanctification, being set apart for some special service. And so it's in his function or his pictured as oil that's poured out that the Holy Spirit anoints his people as prophets in the new age. To be able to interpret and to be able to speak the Word of God to ourselves and to share it with others. It's as oil that He's pictured as the one who anoints us as priests who have direct access to the Father It's his oil that he's pictured as the one who anoints us as kings, so that we have that special exalted privilege of ruling in Jesus' name and enforcing his kingdom and helping to bring it in in this age. But we're not going to deal with all those things this morning, the oil symbol of the Spirit. We want to deal with this question of water. Why is the Holy Spirit pictured in terms of water? And it's because of two things that he does for us. Number one, because he is a life-giving spring or rain. He is life-giving spring, or you could say rain. Each of those. Sometimes it is pictured as a spring, sometimes he's pictured as rain. But in each of those cases, you have that picture of the Spirit in his function as refreshing water, life-giving water. For instance, when Joel in the Old Testament was speaking about the people of God having become complacent and gone away from their God Having shut them out of their lives so that their lives became dry and empty without him, he describes their position as that of a desert. In fact, God literally brought a drought upon Israel just to show them their need of him. And Joel in describing that pictures the drought of the people of God. In Joel chapter 1 in verse 10, he says, The fields are ruined, the ground is dried up, the grain is destroyed, the new wine is dried up, the oil fails Verse 12, surely the joy of mankind is withered away. We had uh a couple of summers ago a drought Do you remember how depressing it is to see everything turn brown? Leaves turn brown, the grass turns brown, creeks dry up, water levels drop. In the west that's a major problem as they drain lakes in order to to try and provide enough water for thirsty Southern California never seems to be able to get enough. Southern California never seems to be able to get enough of anything, but we'll let Steve tell you about that But nevertheless, drought is a depressing thing. And the Bible speaks in Joel of the people of God in a spiritual drought. We live today in a time of spiritual drought. We live in the desert of secular humanism within our country. And the drought, the thirst, is pervasive. We are a people seeking to quench our thirst in all kinds of ways. It's a thirsty time. Just this week I was reading. about the problems of broken homes within our society. Just consider this one statistic In 1965, 26 % of black children were born out of wedlock. Currently, 61% of black children are born out of wedlock, and in some urban areas it approaches 80%. That means only one out of five born to a married mom and dad. Back in the nineteen fifties, the likelihood of a black child Living to age 17 with both their natural parents was 52%, just over half. You know what it is currently The likelihood, if you're a black child in this country, of growing up to age 17 with both your parents is 6%. 94% broken homes And white and other racial and ethnic groups are following the exact same trends with just different percentages, but the trend is the same way. Brokenness in homes, a desperate thirst for love and for stability, for a thirsty, thirsty land. And so many people seek to quench that thirst in things. If I can only acquire, acquire quickly, maybe that'll fill the void. Experiences or things And so uh a cover article in U. S. News and World Report just this week was on the boom in bankruptcy. Did you know that for the first sixty years in this country The rate of bankruptcies was about two to three per thousand of people that filed for bankruptcy. Two or three, except during the Depression years, and the high during those years was a little less than five people per thousand per year filing for bankruptcy. You know what the rate is currently? Well not currently, in the last ten years, in the nineteen eighties. Over eighteen people per thousand filing each year for bankruptcy in this country. country. People saddled with death that has absolutely crippled them. Four times the rate of the peak of the depression currently in this country. Because of a thirst, an unquenchable thirst of something in my life that I've got to have. And things are used to try to fill them With no discipline and no ability to put off because there's something better than I'm looking for. We're a country of addiction More and more you see articles about uh people just simply choose their compulsive behaviors in our country. And so there's a addiction to shopping that may lead to bankruptcy, addiction to gambling. There's addiction to chemical substance abuse, addiction to sexual perversions and compulsive sexuality, addiction to pornography. Addiction to all kinds of behaviors, addiction to food , anorexia, and bulimia, so that we become a compulsive nation. The people who believe that I am unable to control my compulsive desires when I'm under pressure And it begins by my justifying that I deserve this, or it's a little bit of relaxation, or whatever it is, and what is it really? It's a thirst. It's an unquenchable thirst that leads to compulsive behaviors. And every one of us know we have an inclination to certain areas, don't we? There's certain things that when you are under pressure, you tend to want to justify as your compulsive behavior. What is it in your life? It reveals a thirst. A thirst that comes from the fact that we're in a generation of people Who have cast off restraint, cast off authority. We don't want God ruling over us. We say, I know what's best, what will make me happy, and I must have it. My independence is prized above anything. And so we become enslaved to our own compulsive behaviors because we're thirsty. Joel goes on to say: in this thirsty land, God had pity. And how does he describe that pity? He describes it in Joel chapter 2, by God pouring out rain. He said, God's going to have pity on his people. And in verse chapter two, in verse twenty-three and twenty-four, he says, Be glad, O people of Zion, rejoice in the Lord your God, for he has given you the autumn rains in righteousness. He's going to clear up the drought. He sends you abundant showers, both autumn and spring rains as before. The threshing floors will be filled with grain. The vats will overflow with new wine and oil. And then he speaks of a new day that's coming. And he picks up that image of the rain that God is sending upon this drought-ridden land. And he says in verse 28, and afterward I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your old men will dream dreams. Your young men will see visions. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days. So do you see? He picks up the image of rain and he says, that's like the spirit. The spirit to the soul is like rain to the desert. He's the one who quenches your thirst. He's the one who satisfies by applying the finished work of Jesus Christ to your life. So that you're delivered out of the bondage of your compulsive behaviors, out of your guilt and your needs, because Jesus Christ is able to come in and to satisfy what nothing else can do. Isaiah describes the same kind of thing. He describes Israel as a desert Until he says in Isaiah chapter 32, 15, until the Spirit is poured out upon us from on high, and the desert becomes a fertile field. Or in Isaiah 44, verse 3, God promises, I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground, and I will pour out my spirit on your offspring. If you see it again and again, the Bible connects rain and springs, giving life to drought into desert, to the work of the Spirit in your life and my life. And that's why he's pictured. As being poured out because his work is symbolized by water. Water that we need to drink. Water that you come to on a thirsty day. And God is saying only the Spirit can provide that satisfaction. Have you ever been playing or running in a park? And you're thirsty, so thirsty that your mouth feels like cotton. And you see a fountain up ahead. And the fountain is there, and you run up to it and you kick it to turn it on, and it goes No water comes out, just air. How do you feel? You want to kick the thing out of the ground, don't you? It promised to be able to satisfy But it delivered nothing. God says that's the way with the things in this world. They'll promise a lot, but for real satisfaction Of the quenching of our thirsts, only the Holy Spirit applying the work of Christ to us is going to satisfy. Isaiah speaks of this in Isaiah 58, verse 11, in terms of a spring He says, The Lord will guide you always and satisfy your needs in a sun-scorched land. He will strengthen your frame, and you will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring whose waters never fail. And Jesus picked up on that very image in John chapter 7, when he said, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. And whoever believes in me as the scripture has said, referring to Isaiah 58, remember he spoke on that some months ago. He said, Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within. You'll become a garden with a spring inside you, an invisible source of contentment and joy. So that rather than appearing to others like a parched desert that they avoid, your life becomes like a garden that's attractive to others because they want to And Jesus says, if you're thirsty, come to me And I will make you like a well-watered garden with a hidden spring. And then verse 39 says, By this he meant the spirit. And those who believed in him were later to receive. But this time the Spirit had not been given since Jesus had not been glorified. But the Spirit has been given because Jesus has been glorified. And so there's nothing that you or I need to do to get that spirit and to enable us in your current circumstances. To be a garden rather than a desert. All you need is faith in Jesus Christ. Do you believe that? Do you believe that your circumstances don't have to change, but that the Spirit of God in you can make you a garden that blossoms with the grace of Christ so that others are able to Is your life more like a desert or like a garden this morning? There's nothing to do, but trust Christ For the power of the Spirit to give you his promises, to direct you in his word, that that word will satisfy you as the Spirit applies it to your service. Circumstance. Claim the promises. Live what it says, not in your strength, but in the Spirit. So the Spirit gives life from death, and we call that regeneration. That's regeneration. The giving of life from death, abundant life, life that transforms us from deserts to gardens. But secondly, he's not only that, but he's also a life-giving purifier. That's on the back side of the bulletin. He's a life-giving purifier. As spring and rain, he gives life from death. That's regeneration. As purifying water, he cleanses you from defilement. That's what the Bible calls sanctification. Sanctification, the cleansing, the setting aside from that which is corrupt to a holy and unpolluted God. Making you holy, setting you apart for God's use. Now here we would slip over into the use of the or the picture of the Spirit as oil, the oil that sets one aside and apart to God's service. But let me just observe just for a moment here, that that oil which sets you aside, which sets you aside as uh separate to God's service, is also spoken in a number of places in the scripture as the oil of gladness. I think we view sometimes that sanctification makes you a sour puss. But the Bible is very clear that sanctification Produces the oil of gladness and joy in your life and my life. Serving Jesus sets us free from the bondage of those things that would enslave us. And if this morning you find that you're not very happy in the things that you're trying to do, if you've been living your life the way that you think would make you happy, but you're not very happy, maybe you need to re examine And maybe the fact is that you're not letting the Spirit of God control you. You're not looking to Jesus Christ to direct you. And you're trying to add a veneer of Christianity on top of your own self-will and self-direction. The Spirit of God wants to cleanse and redirect you. He wants to root out the dirt. He wants to make you clean. He wants to give you a spiritual bath. That's what's pictured, along with the water that gives life by drinking in the baptism. That's what's pictured in that sprinkling that comes. That you saw upon Marcy and Marie just a few minutes ago. That picture of their cleansing. Because the Holy Spirit cleanses you from your filth. We live In a day of filth. I mean, it's so bad now that not just Christians are clamoring about it, the secular media are clamoring about it. U. S. News and World Report some weeks ago had an article on the current rock groups. They said, just consider the names. of some of the current rock groups that are performing. Now I'm not going to give you any of the names, but let me just give you some of the categories in case you haven't been listening to rock music or checking out the albums much lately. Thirteen rock groups are named after male genitals, six after female genitals, four after sperm, eight after abortion practices. Ten after various sexual acts. Six rock groups are named after vomit. Their themes are rape. Sexual violence and racial hatred in many cases. I'm talking about the far-out, cultic , uh hard rock kind of groups now. It's not the thing that you'll necessarily hear on Q107 They even consider some of the rap that you hear. Full of double entendres and sexual meanings and sometimes overt sexual activity and violence. Celebrating the use of cocaine and killing cops. various of these groups uh so much that uh Time magazine just a few weeks ago did a cover article called Dirty Mouth Isaiah said, we dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. Isaiah didn't dwell in anything compared to what Time magazine is talking about in today's media. uh music uh full of profanity and obscenities and hatred. A comedians doing their stand -up routines now and every other word and line is using uh the F word and Using all kinds of obscenities to try and outdo one another in simple uh gross and shocking behavior There was an article on that just uh this week in Time magazine about a woman who uh tries to outdo the others in uh the bizarre and sexual behavior that she acts out on stage Or you go to the movies and you see uh people uh in every scene doing nothing but using profanity Hollywood discovered some years ago that if you had a scene was kind of dull, if you just sprinkled in some obscenities into it, it got a few chuckles and titters, and so you would spice up a dull plot. And they've gone wild with that, so that now they're coming to the place where they don't know what to do anymore, because you come to some movies and uh every other sentence is just a constant string of profanity so that we become dulled and desensitized To how filthy all this is. Irma Bombeck wrote in an editorial that she was sick and tired of the whole thing. She says, I'm a prudent. I may be the last one in North America A prude who flinches when she hears a speaker pepper a lecture with four-letter words. A prude who is still shocked when a television show in prime time uses words I used used to get my mouth washed out for with soap for using The prud is not amused by children whose conversations have all the imagination of restroom walls. This country is becoming bilingual. English and profanity are spoken fluently by children and adults alike And she goes on and on to talk about the degeneration of language within this culture. The article was written in July of nineteen eighty three, seven years ago, and what we've progressed since For a nation of filth. And it comes from what's on the inside to be expressed on the outside. And you and I are people with filth on the inside of us, and we can look so clean and neat here this morning. We know that our hearts on the inside are dirty and corrupt. But the Holy Spirit has been poured out. So Peter says in Acts 2. 33, Jesus received And by faith he's given him to those and he's poured him out as that cleansing, life-giving water to wash you. And to make you clean, to make you new, to wash away the pollution and the guilt Robert Fulgham, in his best-selling book, All I Really Need to Know, I Learned in Kindergarten. It's a terrible book. It's uh Fulgham is a uh Unitarian minister And the book is really uh a list of short, catchy Unitarian sermons, little observations on life. He has a he's a clever writer, and of course there's a lot of things that are very cleverly put to make you think But I found one of the most interesting of the things that he stated was some observations he had when he was in a laundromat one Saturday night. He had to go to a laundromat, hadn't been one since college, and here several years later he found himself having to do his wash in a laundromat on a Saturday night. And he says, sitting there waiting, I contemplated the detergent box. I used cheer. I like the idea of a happy wash. Sitting there late at night, leaning against the dryer for warmth, eating a little cheese and crackers, and drinking a little white wine out of the thermos, I came prepared. I got to brooding about the meaning of life and started reading the stuff on the cheerbox Amazing. It contains ingredients to lift dirt from clothes, anionic sulfactants, and to soften water, complex sodium phosphates. Also agents to protect washer parts, sodium silicate, and improve processing, sodium sulfate, small quantities of stuff to reduce wrinkling and prevent fabric yellowing, plus whiteners, colorant, and perfume. No kidding. All this for less than a nickel an ounce. It's biodegradable and it works best in cold water, ecologically sound, a miracle in a box. Sitting there watching the laundry go around in the dryer, I thought about the round world in hygiene. We've made a lot of progress, you know. We used to think that disease was an act of God, and then we figured out it was a product of human ignorance, so we've been cleaning up our act, literally, ever since. We've been getting the excrement off our hands and clothes and bodies and food and houses. If only the scientific experts could come up with something to get it out of our minds. One cup of fix it frizzle that will lift the dirt from our lives, soften our hardness Protect our inner parts. Improve our processing, reduce our yellowing and wrinkling, improve our natural color, and make us sweet and good. Don't try cure by the way. I tasted it. It's awful. But at least my tongue is clean. And yet Peter has the news to us on Pentecost That the Spirit has come to do exactly what Fulgham wishes could be done. For he's come to be poured out as that pure water that penetrates and permeates your life and my life. And cleans us from the inside. Do you feel dirty this morning? Do you feel defiled in your conscience? Defiled in your thoughts and your motives Jesus Christ offers his spirit to cleanse you. He speaks of this in Ezekiel chapter 36. For God says that in those last days I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities. And from all your idols, and I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you, and I will remove from you your heart of stone. And I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit in you, and I will move, and I will move you to follow my decrees, and be careful to keep my laws. You will live in the land that I gave your forefathers, and you will be my people, and I will be your God, and I will save you from all your uncleanness. In chapter 39, in verse 29, he describes that: I will no longer hide my face from them, for I will pour out my spirit on the house of Israel, declares the sovereign God. That's exactly what Acts 2 is all about. That's why Peter said, just a few verses after this, when they said, What do we do? We're defiled. We are filthy. We're guilty. What do we do, Peter? He said, repent and be baptized, and you will receive the gift of the Spirit. Be baptized in the name of Jesus. Just as Marcy and Marie were this morning. And the gift of the Spirit will cleanse your life and your heart. So if you've been baptized, think of that as God's feel that He is cleansing you and He has promised to cleanse you and nothing can keep Him from fulfilling that. You see the note there. Both meanings, life and cleansing, are pictured in baptism. That's why we believe sprinkling or pouring are most appropriate. It depicts that work of the baptism of the Spirit in giving you life and in cleansing you and making you a new people. Are you thirsty this morning? You feel dirty this morning? And come to Jesus. For he's received the Spirit because He has accomplished all that you need by His death on the cross. For your sin and for your guilt. And he is able to make you clean by the work of his spirit in your life. Why go on a day longer with your compulsive behavior when Jesus Christ stands ready to cleanse you by his Spirit? Let's pray. Lord, we have looked in many places for satisfaction. For our thirst. And some of us who have never come to Christ are still looking for that. We want to cover our bases. And so we're here this morning. But we've got to be honest with you, Lord. We have never really come to you for that cleansing. We've never really come to you to give us the life from death. And so we come thirsty this morning. We come dirty this morning. We ask that you would provide by Jesus Christ and his work. For that quenching of our thirst by your Spirit, for that cleansing of our lies , by His life-cleansing power. Lord, for those of us who are captured in compulsive behaviors, deliver us, we pray, by turning us to look to Jesus Christ and his power, for the power of your spirit. and work to free us from the bondage of our sin. Whatever that is in each life, Lord, you know it, and you know what each person's thinking now. You know what it is that they're afraid to give over to you and that they hold back from Lord, overcome that fear and deliver them even now. In Jesus' name