Good morning, my beloved brothers and sisters. We have missed you When we were last year on a Sunday in September, we would have never dreamed that it would be nearly six months before we'd be with you again. All of our traveling has been good and necessary, but we hadn't really anticipated what it would mean in terms of our time away from you. We've looked forward to this weekend, and we're glad that it's now come. And we're looking forward to being here with you again on Easter and having no responsibilities whatsoever. After that, it may be a while again But we thank God for you and for your love for us, expressed in many ways as we've crossed paths over the past six months. When I was in Japan, I was asked on occasion if I was a priest. Usually it was a case of a mistake in word choice. The person didn't know the word pastor. Now I grew up going to the Catholic Church, and so to me, when I hear the word priest, I think of a tall, thin man wearing a black collar with a white tab in the front. I also lived in Japan for three years, and so the word priest makes me think of a short, rotund man kneeling in a darkened Buddhist temple Surrounded by the glittering objects of idolatry. How should I have answered that question? Am I a priest? What about you? Are you a priest? According to the Bible, the answer is yes. Let's ask God to teach us now as we learn about it from His Word. Our gracious God and Father, we worship you this morning. We bow before you as the creator of the universe and the giver of our lives. We worship you for your power and majesty. We worship you as the one who has life in himself. And we worship you for your mercy shown to us, though we so often refuse to live under your authority. And that we're so often ungrateful for your blessings and goodness to us. We pray as we come to your word this morning that you will release your power through it to teach us and transform us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2. We'll be reading verses four to ten. First Peter chapter two, verses four to ten. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, See, I lay in Zion a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious, but to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become the capstone. and a stone that causes men to stumble, and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. So, you're a priest. What exactly is a priest Well, at the same time that God gave Moses the law, he also gave Moses instructions for the establishment of a formal priesthood. Aaron and his descendants were to serve God as priests Now it's significant that God gave the law and the priesthood together because it shows that he anticipated with the giving of the law there would come the transgression of the law. And right from the beginning he made provisions for dealing with the tr transgression of the law. The priest's role was primarily that of a mediator between God and man In some instances, he acted in behalf of man toward God, such as when he offered sacrifices for the forgiveness of the sins of the people of Israel, seeking God's mercy and forgiveness. In other instances, he acted on behalf of God toward man, such as when he pronounced members of the Israelite community ceremonially clean or unclean. In addition, he conducted the ritual practices of Israel's worship in the outer room of the sanctuary called the holy place. This included the burning of incense before God, the setting before God of the showbread, and the lighting of the lamps on the gold lampstand. But the main duty of the priests was the offering up of sacrifices to make atonement for the sins of the nation of Israel. The priest was to make a daily sacrifice, offering a lamb in the morning, and another at twilight On the Sabbath, an additional two animals were to be offered, and each month, on the occasion of the new moon, another eleven animals were to be offered. In addition, there were annual festivals at which sacrifices were made, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks, the Feast of Trumpets, and the Feast of Tabernacles. The Day of Atonement was Israel's most solemn day of sacrifice. On that day, and that day alone , The high priest and the high priest alone entered the inner sanctuary called the Most Holy Place to offer sins, um offer sacrifices for the sins of both himself and the people He took some live coals from the altar on which those sacrifices were offered, put them in a censer, to which he added incense And then he entered the most holy place. And the smoke from that incense filled the most holy place and covered the mercy seat where the cover of the Ark of the Covenant. Next he went out I'm sorry, he sprinkled some of the blood from the bull in front of and on the mercy seat. And then he went out and he sacrificed a goat to make atonement for the sins of the people of Israel. Next, he went back into the most holy place, and again he sprinkled the blood from that goat on in front of the mercy seat. And then finally he went out again, and he laid his hands on the head of a second goat, which was called the scapegoat, and he confessed over it the sins of the nation of Israel. And then that second goat was driven away into the desert, symbolically carrying away the sins of the nation. The book of Hebrews makes it clear that the priesthood of Israel was insufficient. It pronounced the priests themselves as insufficient because they were subject to weakness. They were sinful and had to offer sacrifices for their own sins as well as for the sins of the people. And their priesthood was temporary because death prevented them from continuing in office Not only were the priests insufficient, but their ministry on behalf of the sinner was insufficient as well. Though the sacrifices they offered sanctified the believer so that he was outwardly clean. Those sacrifices were not able to clear the conscience of the worshipper. Those sacrifices repeated endlessly year after year. could never make perfect those who drew near to worship. They were merely a reminder, but it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. The priesthood of Israel was merely a type of another priesthood that God would later reveal. The priest of Israel served in a sanctuary that was a copy and a shadow of what is in heaven. God would later reveal another priesthood, another priest who did not enter the man-made sanctuary that was only a copy of the true one. He entered heaven itself, now to appear for us in God's presence. We now have a great high priest who has gone through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Jesus' priesthood is sufficient because Jesus is a sufficient priest. He himself is not subject to weakness, though he is not unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet was without sin. Therefore, he does not need to offer sacrifices for his own sins. And because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood. Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them. Jesus' priesthood is also sufficient because the sacrifice that Jesus offered is sufficient. Jesus offered the sacrifice of himself. He was both the priest and the sacrifice. The animals sacrificed by the priests in Israel were always perfect, without defect. The sacrifice that Jesus offered was also without defect. He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth. And his sacrifice was acceptable to God. Unlike the other high priests, he does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. He sacrificed for their sins once for all when he offered himself. He has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to do away with sin by the sacrifice of himself. We have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Jesus' sacrifice is final for those who trust in its sufficiency. By one sacrifice, He has made perfect forever those who claim that sacrifice on their behalf by faith. God pronounces their sins and lawless acts I will remember no more. And where these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice for sin. What does Peter mean when he calls God's people a priesthood? And what does he mean when he says, we will offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ? The idea of believers as priests is not something of which only Peter speaks. In fact, when God called Moses from Mount Sinai, Before he gave Moses the law and the instructions about the priesthood, he told Moses to say this to the Israelites. You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, and how I carried you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant Then out of all the nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. And in the book of Revelation, John says that Jesus has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God and Father, and that we will reign with him. I believe that when Peter speaks of the priesthood, he does so to reveal to us something about who God has made us, the position that He's given us, and the work that He's given us to do. Only the priests in Israel were ever permitted to enter the sanctuary where God's presence dwells, and only the high priest was ever permitted to enter the inner sanctuary. When the high priest entered the sanctuary, he did so wearing a special priestly robe. And around the hem of that robe were gold bells. And God instructed that Aaron must wear the robe when he ministers. The sound of the bells will be heard when he enters the holy place before the Lord, and when he comes out. so that he will not die. In addition, it said that when the priest entered the sanctuary, he did so with a cord tied around his ankle, and that one end of that cord remained outside the sanctuary As the priest ministered in the sanctuary, the sound of the tinkling of the bells could be heard by those outside. If the sound of the bells ever stopped they might conclude that the priest had been struck dead in God's presence, and they could use the cord to pull his body out without themselves entering the sanctuary. What if you were the priest? What would it have been like for you to enter God's presence in the sanctuary? Even in your clothing is the provision for your possible death. Imagine how unthinkable it was to the average Israelite to ever conceive of being in God's presence. Yet the book of Hebrews must says some things which must have been inconceivable to its Jewish recipients as they read them. It says that the Levitical priesthood is set aside because it was weak and useless, and that in Christ's high priesthood a better hope is introduced by which we draw near to God. Draw near to God, it must have sent chills down their spines. It says that because we have Christ as our high priest, we can approach the throne of grace with confidence to receive mercy and to find grace to help us in our time of need. And it must have been even more stunning to read that we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. Do you think Aaron ever entered God's presence with confidence? With those bells on his hem and that cord around his ankle Having seen two of his four sons consumed by fire because they offer offered unauthorized sacrifices before God Yet God says that we may come into his presence with confidence, that we may enter the most holy place. Now we can't enter on our own merit. The high priest never entered the sanctuary without blood to atone for his own sins and the sins of the people. And when we enter God's presence, we can only enter on the merit of Jesus and his blood shed on our behalf. But the message is clear. We can enter God's presence with confidence. And notice when Hebrews says that we can enter. Hebrews 4, 16. Let us then approach the throne of grace with confidence. So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. Hebrews 10, 22. Let us draw near to God with a sincere heart in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience, and having our bodies washed with pure water. When can we come into God's presence with confidence? To receive mercy, to be cleansed from a guilty conscience, to be washed. Do you ever punish yourself for your sin by remaining distant from God? Sometimes I do. Perhaps I've just really lost it with somebody in my family. My anger is boiled over and I've said something positively hateful. Then I think, well, I can't go to God now and have my quiet time. I've got to let myself settle down, let some time pass, treat that person kindly for a little while. Then I can go back to God. How completely absurd. It's when I'm in the midst of my sin that I need to go into God's presence and receive mercy. And that mercy is offered to me only on the basis of the sufficiency of Jesus sacrifice for me How offensive it must be to God for me to think that some cooling down and some kindness can make me more worthy to come into his presence. No amount of kindness or anything I can do can merit me anything before a holy God. All my righteous acts are filthy rags. We Christians make these two mistakes again and again. We're hesitant to come into God's presence when we've sinned. Yet that's just the time when we need to come, and we can come with confidence, carrying the blood of Jesus. And we deceive ourselves by thinking that we can do something to make us more fit to come into God's presence. What an insult to God and to the sacrifice of Christ. I believe that when Peter says that we are a priesthood, one of the things he's saying is that we have the access to God of a priest. Even better than a priest. We can come into God's presence at any time, but only by the blood of Jesus. I believe that Peter is also saying that there are certain priestly works which we can do before God, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Now, before we get into some scriptural examples of what those sacrifices are, it's important to make two assertions. First Those sacrifices are acceptable to God only through Jesus Christ. If not presented to God along with the blood of Jesus, nothing we can do, no matter how good, is acceptable to God. It's all filthy rags. Second, these sacrifices have no part whatsoever in atoning for our sins. Our sins are taken away only because of the priesthood and the sacrifice of Christ. Anything else is an affront to God. Scripture offers a number of examples of works that we can do, which are described in priestly terms and imagery. Many of them are described using the same word that the Bible uses elsewhere to describe the sacrifices that the priests in Israel offered. Let's look at some of those. To begin with, let's go back to the book of Hebrews, chapter thirteen, verse fifteen Through Jesus, therefore, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise, the fruit of lips that confess his name. One of the sacrifices that we can offer to God is the sacrifice of praise. Now in part that includes our own personal and corporate worship of God, but I think it includes something else as well. The scripture is full of exhortations like this one. Give thanks to the Lord, call on his name, make known among the nations what he has done, sing to him. Sing praise to him, tell of his wonderful acts. Part of offering to God the sacrifice of praise is telling others It's evangelism, and it's evangelism among the nations or missions. And it's with this in mind that we can understand why Peter says um that God has made us to be a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God. that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. And thus Paul speaks of the grace God gave me to be a minister of Christ to the Gentiles, with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God, so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. The sacrifice of praise is intended to be offered privately and publicly, before our fellow believers and before non-believers, within our own nation and among the nations. For the next example, let's go to the next verse in Hebrews 13. And do not forget to do good and to share with others, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. Here the writer seems to have in mind a practical outworking of the thing that marks us as Christ's disciples, love for our brothers. If anyone has material possessions and sees his brother in need but does not have pity on him, how can the love of God be in him? And our Lord Jesus Himself helped us to understand these things as an offering to him. when he said, I tell you the truth, whatever you did for the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me. The next example comes from Paul's letter to the Philippians. In chapter 4, Paul is thanking the Philippian church for a gift that they've given to him. Starting in verse 15, he says, moreover As you Philippians know, in the early days of your acquaintance with the gospel, when I set out from Macedonia, not one church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except you only. For even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent me aid again and again when I was in need. Not that I'm looking for a gift, but I'm looking for what may be accredited to your account. I have received full payments and even more. I am amply supplied now that I have received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent. They are a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. Paul calls their giving, and their giving to his missionary work in particular, an acceptable sacrifice. In his writing to the Corinthian church, he makes it clear how such giving is an offering to the Lord when he commends the Macedonian churches for giving first to the Lord and then to us in keeping with God's will. They gave to God, even though Paul received some of what they gave. Another example comes from Revelation chapter 8. Starting in verse 3, we read of a scene in heaven with strong priestly imagery. Another angel who had a golden censor came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne. The smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of the saints, went up before God from the angel's hand. Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and hurled it on the earth, and there came peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake. I didn't know until about a week ago that last year Alan Harris preached on this passage. The message of this passage is that our prayers, the prayers of all the saints Your prayers, my prayers, are mixed with incense, the sacrifice of Jesus, and are thereby made acceptable to God and powerful. And fire from heaven, God's power is released on the earth in response to the prayers of God's people In Psalm 141, verse 2, David asks, May my prayer be set before you like incense. May the lifting of my hands be like the evening sacrifice. For the final example, let's go to Romans chapter twelve, verse one. Therefore, I urge you, brothers. In view of God's mercy to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God, this is your spiritual act of worship. What is to be the sacrifice we offer to God? We are. Everything we do. As Paul exhorted the Corinthians, whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God. Jesus died for us, that we should no longer live for ourselves, but for him who died for us and was raised again. In her book, These Strange Ashes, Elizabeth Elliott recounts learning this lesson during the first year of her missionary work in Ecuador. She wasn't yet married, and she and another single American woman were sent to Ecuador in 1952. They were sent to help two English women with their missionary work among the Colorado Indians. After studying Spanish for a period of time in Quito, the capital city, where one of her classmates was Jim Elliott, she and her co-worker moved to a small village called San Miguel, which was near where the Colorado Indians lived. The language of the Coloradoinians didn't yet have a written form. It was Elizabeth's job to learn the language, to figure out a system for writing it down, so that someday the Bible could be translated into that language. God was gracious in eventually providing her with an assistant, an Ecuadorian Christian, who was the son of Spanish-speaking parents. but who had grown up with Colorado children and so therefore was truly bilingual in Spanish and Colorado. They had several productive months of working together, but then her assistant was killed in a dispute over a piece of property. This was a tremendous setback, but still by this time Elizabeth had made enough progress with the language that she could continue her work by speaking with whatever Colorado speaker she could get time with. It was much more difficult this way, and her progress was much less consistent, but still by the middle of 1953 she had developed a system for writing down the Colorado language. By this time, she was engaged to Jim Elliott and had decided to join him in his work with another tribe elsewhere in Ecuador. She explained the writing system that she developed and uh taught it to the two English missionaries so that they could carry on with the task of teaching it to the Colorados themselves. And that so later the Bible could be translated into the Colorado language. Then she headed off to begin her study of the language in the new tribe that she would be working with. Just a few weeks later, Elizabeth received a letter from one of the English missionaries telling her that a suitcase containing all of her Colorado language notes had been stolen as it was being transported on the bus. The thief was probably looking for valuables and likely was disappointed to find only papers and probably discarded as trash all of Elizabeth's priceless work. Elizabeth tells of her struggle in coming to terms with that loss. Why? When this was clearly the work to which God had called her. Why, when the work she had done could bring about so much good? She writes, To be a follower of the crucified means sooner or later a personal encounter with the cross. And the cross always entails loss. It was only gradually during the months that followed that I had dec that I saw that to God nothing is finally lost. Elizabeth had to come to the point where she could see that her lost work was valuable just because she had done it for God. It was an offering to him, made acceptable by the blood of Jesus, and pleasing to him, even if no lasting fruit ever came of it on earth. We missionaries in Japan have to wrestle with this same issue as we labor among a people who have been so slow to come to Christ. We know that God wants us there and that it's important for there to be a Christian witness. And we know that the fruitful places like Korea and Africa saw many years of patient plowing the soil before the harvest became abundant. We know that our job is to proclaim and that only God can persuade. We must remember that God is pleased if we are faithful and obedient. We must resist the temptation to measure the value of our work by the results or by how it makes us look. That's been especially difficult for us recently with the situation in Makuhari. As Alan told you, we went to Makuhari in early 1996 because our team selected it as the site at which it wanted to plant its next church. And so we were to start English classes, a cooking class, a a seeker's Bible study, to begin building a base of contacts out of which that church would come. Our year and a half in Makahari was the best of our three years in Japan. By the time we left, there were 97 Japanese people having regular contact, either with God's word or with his people. Of those 97 people, 65 were adults, 14 men and 51 women. 32 were children, and 96 were non-Christians. We found a Christian. But the couple who was supposed to replace us in Makuhari couldn't come because of health problems at the last minute. Others from our team covered what classes they could the best they could in addition to all the other things that they were doing. But I heard last month that in our three Saturday English classes, which had 15 students and all five of our men's students, now only four students are left and just one man. It's very discouraging. It's tempting to think that that time in Makuhari may have been wasted. But it wasn't wasted. It was done before God. It continues before Him as an offering to Him. You, Holy Priesthood What are the sacrifices that you are offering to God? Declaring his praises in worship, evangelism, and missions. Doing good works and works of mercy for others. Giving to God of your finances for his work. Praying. Giving yourselves and everything you do to Him as an offering. The Bible says that these are acceptable sacrifices to God and pleasing to him. Are you consciously offering them to God as sacrifices, or are you just doing them? I'd like to encourage you to think in your heart as you do these things that this is an offering to you. which I give you with joy out of my love for you and out of my gratitude for all that you've done for me. And whatever ministry God has given you Whether it's parent or child, spouse or teacher, leader, evangelist, discipler Are you able to focus as you minister on offering it to God and not on the results or on the people to whom you minister? It's easy to shift our focus from the most important thing to lesser things. May God enable us to fix our eyes on Jesus. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are both the one who is pure and the one who makes pure. Only you are pure enough to offer a sacrifice to atone for our sins. And only you are pure enough to be the sacrifice for our sins, which was fully and finally acceptable before God. We praise you for your holiness, righteousness, and purity. And we thank you that you have purified those of us who are trusting in your sacrifice. You've made us forever perfect, forever holy, forever pure. We thank you for the access to God that you've given us. And for the privilege of being able to offer ourselves and everything we do to you as sacrifices, we pray that you would continue your work of purification in us. Purify our works and our motives for doing them. May they all be for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.