We were blessed earlier to hear the account of the resurrection from the Gospel of John. For the message this morning, we're going to look at the account in the Gospel of Matthew. So if you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to Matthew chapter 28. I'm going to begin with verse 1 This holy week we've been looking at Matthew's Gospel. We looked at Matthew's Gospel for Palm Sunday, the Triumphal Entry, Chapter 21. We looked at chapter 27 on Good Friday, and we looked at Matthew chapter 26, where Jesus institutes the supper. And now we're looking at Matthew's gospel. When it comes to the resurrection of Jesus from the dead on that first resurrection Sunday. Before I read for us verses 1 through 10, let's come before our Lord. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word. Lord, we thank you for the hope that it gives us, for the joy that it imparts. Father, we also acknowledge that sometimes he convicts. Indeed, it is a sword that divides bone from marrow. And Father, we pray that you would bless it to us this morning. Lord, that the reading would be something you use for your glory and our blessedness. Help us to see you, Christ, in all that you are and who you are and what you've done And Father, we pray also for the preaching that follows the reading. Lord, we pray that you would bless the preaching too. And in as much as it is faithful to your word, Lord, we pray that you would make it useful and memorable. Father, we ask these blessings in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Matthew chapter 28, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. Now, after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb, and behold, there was a great earthquake For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. This ends the reading of God's word. If you had been listening carefully when Luke and Micah read for us the Gospel of John's account of the resurrection, you might have noticed that, well, it wasn't exactly the same in all respects. You might wonder why that is. Each of the gospel writers, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, tell us the account of the resurrection with very specific purposes in mind. And they can all be harmonized quite easily if you put them all together. And imagine if you had a series of numbers, one through fifteen, and four of you each had uh Well, four doesn't go into fifteen, does it? Math was not my major. Let's say 15. And five of you each had three different numbers. And one of you told the story or presented the series as 1, 7, and 15. Another presented 2, 3, and 8. Another presented, well, I'm going to lose my way here and forget what digits I used. But you get the idea. You can put them all together and realize that the events of Easter Sunday were pretty complicated. Lots of things happening. Why do certain authors give us certain accounts? Why in the death of Christ do certain authors tell us only certain words of Christ? We know Jesus Christ said seven things from the cross. Well, in the Gospel of Matthew, we really just have one. Eli Eli Lama Sabaksani, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But in the Gospel of John, Jesus was quite talkative. He gave three different statements from the cross. Now When we look at this account of the resurrection, and in fact all of the gospel accounts of resurrection, We notice something that's very different from the way the resurrection is dealt with, say, in the book of Romans or 1 Corinthians. You see, as the church looked back on the resurrection , They recognized the theological eternal significance of the resurrection. But the Gospels, because of the very form of what a gospel was, really the account of the life of Jesus They really focus on biographical who Jesus is, how he calls us to live. The great theological explanations about how since Jesus was raised We now have a high priest who is in heaven. That's in the book of Hebrews. The fact that since Jesus is raised, we have definition, a definitive statement that God the Father has accepted the payment for sin. It's if he's the receipt for our salvation. Well, we find that in Romans and in 1 Corinthians. But what do we find in the Gospels? Let's look at this Gospel again. It's dawn. The first day of the week, or just before dawn, right at the time when it's starting to get a little bit of a glow, but the sun hasn't crested the horizon. And Mary Magdalene and the other Mary go to see the tomb. And they get there, and they're frightened. And they get there, not only are they frightened, the guards are frightened. Everybody's frightened. And an angel tells them what has happened An angel says, Don't be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. Now, I want to notice that the very first thing about the gospel accounts is that every one of them, including Matthew, presents the resurrection as an historical event. He really died. He was crucified. He really was laid in a tomb. There are witnesses, the women, the guards. Everything about the details, if we had lived at that time, could be verified. Now, sadly, we can't go back and verify in the way that we would like. Everything about the details is given so that we can have things like time, crack of dawn, place, the tomb, witnesses, people, who's there, what's happening. And it's important to remember that just as life is real and death is real, so is resurrection. So is the fact of Christ's resurrection. Nowhere does the Bible suggest that we are at liberty to imagine that the resurrection of Christ is just some kind of a figment that has some moral for us. Nowhere does the Bible suggest that these things were not real and true and actual historical events. Rather, the emphasis on detail, witness, all of that underlines the fact that this is a historical event that actually happened. And we know from places like 1 Corinthians 15 that Jesus appeared after his death to over 500 people who were still alive at that time. There are accounts outside of the Bible of the resurrection of Christ. Google it. You'll find them. From unbelievers, non-Christians. Jesus was raised from the dead. But that brute fact doesn't just stand by itself in the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew includes a couple of things that really focus us. on some some of the details he believes are significant enough that the church until Christ returns needs to know these things. And that's why I state here as a second point that on Easter we need to remember that the resurrection of Christ is an historical event. of spiritual significance, and dare I say great spiritual significance. In every single way it is miraculous. At the pancake breakfast And I had a chance, I think, to talk to everyone who was there, which was a was a win for me, and there were even still pancakes left after I was done. Uh Finn, sorry Finn, I'm dragging you into this sermon. Does he just sit over here somewhere? Wherever you are, Finn, hey, he asked me an outstanding question. And for those of you who don't know it, Finn is in sixth grade. He's gonna be a theologian one day. Maybe he'll be uh a pastor of this church when he's older And Finn said, Pastor Bob, I have a question about Easter. And I said, yes. He said, when exactly was Jesus raised from the dead? I said, well, you know, that is an excellent question. Because do you you know, according to the Gospels, it's not like Lazarus in John chapter 11, where Lazarus came out of the tomb. We don't actually have someone seeing Jesus walk out of the tomb. In fact, in the Gospel of Matthew, the tomb is ro the stone is rolled away. And the tomb is empty. In the same way that Jesus could appear in a room when the door was closed and locked, Jesus could leave a tomb. When the door was truly and properly closed and locked. The miraculous power of a resurrected life. The power of the Son of God who took on our flesh. I told Finn that theologically, I believe, three days and three nights, Jesus would have been resurrected sometime in the last quarter of the night the last three hours, uh so sometime between 3 a. m. and 6 a. m. That's my best estimated guess. But the Bible only tells us that Jesus, who was dead, was now alive. And that life was as mysterious in its resurrection as the new life that comes when we put our faith in Christ and we are regenerated by the Spirit of God who blows and we see the effects. But in the ancient world could not be understood. Not only is it miraculous, Matthew wants us to understand that it's powerful for living. There are a couple things that happen. Three things that happen in this account. And as I prepared for this Sunday, I I was just uh really, really surprised. I learned new things every week when I study to prepare messages for you. First , Jesus says, greetings. Second, he goes to meet Mary and Mary. Third He says, tell my brothers to meet me in Galilee. I want you to think about the fact that he says greetings. Because I have sort of an inside lane on the track because I have lots of time and I'm paid to study the Bible and there's sources I have that you all can come and Plunder my library at will. You just have to give me back what you borrow. So that's plunder with a small p. There are two words generally used for greeting. One is used 69 times, and it was one of the first Greek vocabulary words I learned back in 1991. So I know Natalie Strand is just going to start seminary, so write that down, spatsomai. Spell it in Greek. And uh spatsomai occurs 69 times. And it can be translated greetings or I greet you or hello. It's a common everyday greeting There's another word. This word appears some 70 several times, 74 times, I believe, in the New Testament, but only nine times is the word translated greetings or hello And that's the word Cairo. And that word is usually translated joy. It can be translated fellowship. In some contexts, it has to do with a warm, winsome embrace. And that's the word Jesus used when he says greetings. And that's the first time Jesus ever uses either word. And what's so remarkable about this word? This word, as I noted, is only used nine times in the New Testament to translate the idea of hello or greetings. Matthew uses it three times. All three occurrences are during Holy Week. The first time someone says greetings to Jesus, it is Judas Iscariot in the Garden of Gethsemane. He has worked out with the guard that is gonna arrest Jesus. That it will be the one he greets with a kiss. And so Judas walks up and he says to Jesus, he says, Charon. Greetings. A word that's supposed to have the underlying connotation of fellowship and joy, but is in utter betrayal. Well, the second time the word appears in the Gospel of Matthew. is when the Roman soldiers beat him and put a crown of thorns on him and say, Hail, King of the Jews. What they're saying Is Cairo. Greetings, King of the Jews. You see the irony? The bitter sarcasm. In neither case was there ever even an inkling of fellowship or joy or happiness. And the third time is when Jesus rises from the dead, and he simply says, greetings. And notice how Matthew sets that word apart. Jesus met them and said, greetings. And they come and take hold of his feet, and then Jesus says something else. The word is isolated, underlined, thrust before you for consideration. And if we were all reading Bibles that had the original language, we would have noticed that Jesus takes a word that must have been fresh in his memory as a bitter, bitter experience. And he turns it into the first word he utters after his resurrection. What does that mean for you? We are a strange species of people. Sometimes we have bad associations with a person who liked a certain musician. And so we can't even listen to that musician anymore without getting a sour taste in our mouth. Think about Jesus and this word, Cairo, greetings. This word that would have captured the betrayal of his own, both at the level of his disciples and of the world he came to save And he resolves that that word will not be a word consigned to the tongue of Satan and his minions. He redeems it and expresses it. We think often about the book of Joel, and I've many times heard Christians talk about the text that says that God will repay to us the years the locust has stolen. He'll also give you back the words the locust has stolen. He'll give you back the music. He can give you back the relationship. How many times I've heard a Christian say, I will never, I will never, I will never. with respect to good things, blessed things, joyful things. How easily Jesus could have excised that word from his vocabulary. But instead, he embraces it and forever makes that word, the first word of the resurrected life, the very word of betrayal. That speaks to the power of the resurrection to overcome bitterness. And we again see that Does this shock any of you? Then Jesus said to them, Mary and Mary, Do not be afraid, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. What is shocking in that text? I'm going to share with you something else I learned this week That is the first and only time Jesus in the Gospels calls his disciples brothers. And I want you to think about that fact for a moment. When you read the gospel accounts, when Jesus is betrayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, they run When Jesus is in custody, the one who dares to go to an outer courtyard to try to figure out what's going on denies him three times. When he's crucified , The disciples were at a great distance. The disciples didn't stand up for him You could argue that they failed him. Not only did they not pray with him or even stay awake to be concerned for him in the Garden of Gethsemane When he went from weeping as great drops of blood to actually bleeding, they were nowhere to be found. And it is after that that the first thing Jesus says with respect to those men is the highest honor he could give them. Indeed, an honor he had never before assigned to them. He called them brothers because of the resurrection. Because of the resurrection, when Jesus died on that cross and said it is finished, and all of their sin is once and for all canceled, the path is opened up for rebels. Deniers, failed Prey Warriors Cowards in the face of crucifixion. The way is opened up because of the resurrection for people like that, people like us, to be members of the very family of God. The resurrection is powerful. The resurrection not only enables us to overcome bitterness, the resurrection also constitutes us as a family. with Christ himself as our elder brother. There's another thing about this text that I learned too late to make the bulletin. But since it's Easter, I know none of you would mind if I go over Behold, Jesus met them and said, This shocked me when I learned this. Throughout the Gospels, people meet with Jesus. People are always coming to Jesus to meet him. This is the first time and the only time in the Gospels that we're told Jesus went to meet somebody. Jesus in his resurrection glory made it a point Overcoming the potential for bitterness. Overcoming the betrayal because he has a new life. He is alive. He is God incarnate, raised from the dead. He comes again to us, and he goes to meet these women. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is an historical event of great spiritual significance that calls for action. There are two primary groups of witness here. Some look at the angel as another one. I don't count him with no disrespect, but the text really focuses on the guards and the women. Both the guards and the women, their response is fear. But they both end up doing very different things with it. They both end up doing opposite things with it. The guards are afraid and they flee. The women are afraid and they worship. And what is the difference? The difference lies in this. Jesus met with them and said greetings. Do not be afraid. What will you do? Has Jesus met with you in the preaching of his word on an Easter Sunday? Maybe in a Wednesday Bible study or prayer meeting, a Friday night community group, has Jesus ever through the instrument of people like me and your Sunday school teachers, radio preachers or personalities, Billy Graham, maybe a spouse? Has he said, greetings, do not be afraid? And will you stop running from Christ, but instead fall down and worship before him? the one who has no room in his heart for any form of bitterness, and the one who takes people like us and exalts us to the highest status we could conceivably attain. to be brothers and sisters of the Lord of glory. Will you worship on this Easter Sunday? As for me and my house, we will. We will not choose fear that leads to running We will rightly fear the Lord, but we're going to take that and fall down at Jesus' feet and worship All of you, I would invite to join. Let us fall down at the feet of Jesus and worship this resurrected Savior. And let us in imitation to him lay aside every inkling of bitterness, be quick to forgive and to exalt and to embrace, even after great hurt. And let us be like these women and accept the role to go and tell others where to meet this Jesus who is everything. Not just to me, but to you as well. Let's pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. Lord, as often as I open it in my office, I'm reminded that it is a storehouse from which new and old treasures are constantly brought forth. Oh God Almighty, by your Spirit, make us more like your risen Son, our Savior. Lord, help us to know a resurrection life that is free from bitterness, that is quick to embrace. Lord, that loves as brothers. Even people who by human standards do not merit such a title. Lord, bless us. Help us to be like our Savior. And Father, if there are any here this morning who do not know you as Savior, Lord, we pray that you would meet with them Lord, that whether by a a disease and a conscience or a an an echoing of the phrases of Scripture, somehow, Lord, make them mindful of the fact that you are even today calling people, meeting with people. Saying Cairo. Greetings. Hello. Do not be afraid O Lord, help us to worship. We ask these things in the precious name of Jesus Christ our Savior. Amen.