Don't you hate it when somebody uh reads the scripture in sort of a uh monotone or even worse, perhaps a uh religious tone? Something like uh, I will exalt you, O Lord. Lord, for you have lifted me out of the depths and did not let my enemies gloat over me. Uh I don't know about you, but that's kind of a pet peeve of mine, because the scriptures were written with feeling, particularly the Psalms. written with very deep feeling. And they should be read with feeling. They contain much emotion. And that emotion should somehow come through when we read the Word of God. I don't think that it's giving God reverence to read it in some separate religious tone. I think he's honored when we read it, with all the gussy feeling that was put into it when it was written by flesh and blood human beings. So I would like you, as I read Psalm twenty eight, that we have been studying for some weeks now, To particularly this morning notice as I read through it the emotions that David had when he wrote this. And to notice also the contrast of the emotions as they change through the Psalm. Notice this then as we read together. God's word. Listen and follow as I read it. To you I call, O Lord, my rock. Do not turn a deaf ear to me, for if you remain silent, I will be like those who have gone down to the pit. Oh hear my cry for mercy. As I call to you for help, as I lift up my hands toward your most holy place. Do not drag me away with the wicked, with those who do evil. Who speak cordially with their neighbors but harbor malice in their hearts? Repay them for their deeds and for their evil work. Repay them for what their hands have done, and bring back upon them what they deserve, since they show no regard for the works of the Lord. Lord and what his hands have done, he will tear them down and never build them up again. Praise be to the Lord. So he's heard my cry for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I'm helped. My heart leaps for joy, and I must give thanks to him in song. The Lord is the strength of his people, a firm. fortress of salvation for his anointed one. Save your people and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherds and carry them forever. Now you notice There's quite a contrast in that song. And this morning we're going to focus in our thinking on that fourth thought there in verse 7. Verse 7 is what we've been looking at for some weeks. But the fourth thought of that. That is, my heart leaps for joy. That's a statement of emotion. My heart leaps for joy. Literally that Hebrew word. Yep, words are pictures. And uh kids use Kind of alone, I hope, in school, but words are friends. And uh I have words that are friends, and uh this word is one of my favorite friends in the Hebrew language. Because the word literally means to hop up and down like a little child who can't contain himself for joy. Just leap up and down because you you're just busting inside. You know, it's leaping because God has done something. You may never remember the message, but do remember when you see that word. That idiot up there that's jump up in the air and it gives you a picture, you see. Now if we wanted to illustrate this even further, I could have a couple of you kids come up and I could say, now come on and illustrate this word, leaping up and down because you can't contain yourself for joy. Can I ever be one problem? And the problem is If I ask you to do that, if I picked out one of you kids then and said, Come on up, you'd come up and you might do it, but you'd probably be tempted to just show off. And so you'd start leaping around and do a little dance, you know, because you wanted to show us. should look like. But the problem is that this word can't be faked. It's an emotional word that comes from inside. Something that stirs you. So that you just can't contain yourself. You're not trying to put on You're not trying to prove something to somebody. You're certainly not trying to show off. You simply say, God's grace is so powerful that I can't contain myself anymore. I think of our son Dean. Uh Dean doesn't walk. Whenever he transports himself, whether from one room in a house to another or from one part of the street to another, he has to dance, uh jiggle, uh move, uh somersault, something, but he'll never walk because he can't contain himself. I think when I think of this uh word, uh probably most of Julie, my daughter who is just the epitome of joy. I remember driving down the street a couple of weeks ago and uh she had no idea I was there. She was coming home from a friend, and I was driving down the street, and there was a beautiful autumn day, and the sun was just going down, and you could see it filtering through the trees. And I could tell it was her a block away. Her blonde hair was just waving back and forth, and she was skipping and dancing all Over the street, coming home from a friend. Unable to contain herself, couldn't walk if you made her, put her in a harness, because she just was so joyful. And that's the picture that David is portraying to us in this plot. My heart leaps for joy. I've trusted in the Lord. He has helped me. And my heart leaps for joy. You see, the idea of this word is that it comes from a state of mind. It doesn't come from something that we're supposed to perform. If I said to you as a congregation, are are we a joyful congregation? When visitors come in to be with us, do they go out and say, that's a congregation that knows how to celebrate? Or do they go out and say, Well, I never invite a Presbyterian to a party? Do we have a joy because of the grace of Jesus Christ? We know I could I could belabor that and I could uh elaborate on that for a while and tell you how you ought to have joy, but you know the effect of that wouldn't be to give you any more joy. All it would be to do is to make you feel guilty and miserable that somehow here's all these good things and maybe you don't feel 'em and so you ought to be feeling 'em and you ought to be Smiling more when you sing hymns, and you ought to be expressing physically somehow more joy, but you don't and so you just feel guilty and miserable. Because joy will never come from seeing that you ought to feel joyful. Joy comes from a state of mind out of a truth that you realize. The word is used in three kinds of circumstances in the scriptures that I think are instructive for us when understanding how to get joy. First of all, the word is used about circumstances. Circumstances when God answers prayer. When God answers a prayer, something that your heart has been set on with all your heart, and you're desperately concerned that that thing is accomplished, and then God does it. The word is used to describe the results. For instance, in David's situation right here in Psalm twenty-eight. Remember how desperate a situation David was in. He had lost his home, he had lost his friends. God had said, I'm going to set you on the throne and he said I had a better deal when I was a shepherd in Bethlehem. At least I had a home then. At least I could be with my brothers and my parents. But now I have nothing. I'm a fugitive in a desert. And I have Saul and all his armies after me. And I've gone and I have delivered these people in the city of Kukila, and I've saved their lives with my men at the risk of our own lives from the Philistine raiders. And now these people have betrayed me to Saul's army. And they're entrapping us. Like we're in an absolutely hopeless situation. And then David cries out to God, Oh Lord, hear me. Oh God, I cry to you for mercy. If you don't answer, we're supposed to run out of the pit. We've had it, we're dead. And then God remembers, swept Saul's armies by a messenger that came with an even more urgent message than getting David. And then God enabled David to go up to Saul sleeping and even take his jug and his spear. And David says, God, you've delivered. He's answered my prayer, and my heart leaps for joy at the preciousness of that. I think it's Hannah. You remember Hannah? You think you have domestic difficulties? Try doubling the number of wives in your house. Hannah and Panina. And Panina has several children, and Hannah has no children. And Panina is constantly assaulting Hannah's self image as a woman. Constantly saying, You're worthless, you don't you can't produce as a woman. nothing that you can do, it's essential to your very being. And Hannah's absolutely miserable. And she cries out to God for deliverance. That God would give to her a son. And you remember God was gracious. God answered her prayer. And he gave her not just a son. He gave her Samuel, a very special son. And so Hannah records a song in 1 Samuel chapter 2. And Hannah prays, and she says, My heart leaps for joy. It's the same word used here in Psalm twenty-eight seven. My heart can't contain itself. I'm hopping up and down, leaping for joy. In the Lord's and the in the Lord my horn and my strength is lifted high. My mouth boast over my enemies. she hasn't mind there. But I delight in your deliverance. And how to say, God's been good, He has heard me or nobody. And He's answered my prayer. What about you? Has God answered a prayer of yours? recently, so that you can identify with that and you can think of what God has done and your heart can leap for joy in that precious way. I think of somebody I was talking to in our congregation here this week. He said that uh He had to go on a trip and needed six hundred dollars of airfare money. He didn't have that money and was determined not to go into debt to get that money. He prayed that God would provide the money. Then checked into his office and found that there was some back pay there. And that back pay came to nearly five hundred dollars of unexpected income. Took that home and told his wife and she said, Yeah, but the uh bill is uh six hundred dollars, not five hundred dollars. He said, Yeah, you're right. Keep playing. The next day, there was a check there was a letter in the mail, certainly unexpected. It was from the state's attorney. The state's attorney was saying that uh the car that you bought four years ago, uh the dealer has been indicted for price fixing. There's a check rebate for $135. And there it was. You know, that's not something you'd write up in Christianity today or Eternity Magazine or something like that. It's a personal thing, but it's a precious thing. And when we cry onto God and lay our knees before Him and He hears us, your heart just has to leap for joy. You probably thought a little tingled just hearing about this brother and his family here and what God did to him. You can identify in your own experience. And you say, yes. When God hears an answer, my heart leaps for joy. Because it's so precious. It shows that he's so much of a father to me, to take care of my personal concerns, that he listens to me. That's amazing. So often it's sad that you hear the saying of a person who uh missed out on an opportunity, saying, That was a great prayer that God answered. Too bad I wasn't praying. And those that were involved in praying are ministered to be. If we hear God answer. But there are those times that we have to be laying our needs before Him, expectantly, in order to see Him work and answer. But that's not always true, is it? There are those times when God doesn't answer our prayers in the way that we pray. And maybe you hear these things that I'm saying and you say, Well that's fine for those that are seeing their prayers answered, but I've been praying this matter for five years. It's a long time to be praying something. I've been praying for a few months and I've I'm desperate and ready to give up. Or ten years, or whatever it is, and I haven't seen God answer. What about me? Well, you know, the second circumstance that's described and recognized in Scripture. catch God off guard. You don't say, God, you promise you're going to answer all these prayers. And what happens when you don't? That contradicts your word. No, it doesn't. God uses this word to describe situations where prayers are not answered in that person's life. in any way according to the way they prayed. And so the second circumstance the way this is answered is uh the way this word is used is when a prayer isn't answered in the way that the person is prayed it, but the person gets a bigger picture of God as a result. You think of Psalm eighty eight, a psalm of unremitting gloom. The only Psalm I know of in the whole hundred and fifty that doesn't have one note in it of reprieve of all of the problems in that psalm. And yet the psalmist trusts the Lord in it. Psalm eighty nine is a psalm in which the psalmist is struggling with attention of the fact that God has made a covenant with David and he's going to have one of his he's going have a descendant of David on the throne forever. And the psalmist is ready. He says, there's no well, there's no descendant of David on the throne right now. We're in exile. It seems like it's been nullified. How can God reconcile that he has promised this? And yet I look and I see another contradiction in my experience. He had no idea at that point how that covenant was going to be fulfilled in an everlasting table that was going to come through Jesus Christ. Well you look at Habakkuk. Habakkuk also wrote during the time uh of the exile and that time, that whole period when Israel was under Babylonian domination. And Habakkuk says, I've got a real problem. problem with us. I mean, God, I know that we're not the best, you know, but we've got our faults. Yeah, there's problems. Sure, things could be better. But come on, Lord. I mean compared to the Babylonians, yes. We smell like roses. And you've used those people, those creeps to judge. And so Habakkuk cries out and says, God, why is it? Why have you done that? And God doesn't answer Habakkuk directly. He doesn't tell you. Tell Habakkuk, uh, yeah, well, you know, hang on Habakkuk, uh, next week I'm going to answer this prayer. You're going to see it all work out. But God answers Habakkuk the way he answered Job. He gives Habakkuk a bigger view of himself. For instance, in chapter 2, in verse 13 and 14, he says, Now has not the Lord Almighty determined that the people's labor is only fuel for the fire, and that the nations exhaust themselves for nothing? For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. It's going to come a time, Habakkuk, when you're going to understand all this. And you're going to see justice. You're going to see how futile those nations are which think that they can ignore me. And there's going to be the knowledge of me and my ways is going to It sort of reminds us of that time that Abraham cried out to God. Remember, we heard that God was going to judge Sodom. And God said, uh, that's where your nephew lives, Lot. gonna judge that city and I'm telling you that, Abraham, because you're not simply my servant, you're my friend. And Abraham struggles with that. He cries out, God, what if there's fifty righteous in that city? Are you going to judge the fifty righteous along with those? That are unrighteous? God, are you going to wipe them all out together? Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? God, how can you be like that? Surely you must distinguish. You can't just go in and wipe them out wholesale. And he struggles with what God says. And he remembers the prayer fifty, forty five, forty, thirty, twenty, fifteen, you know, it goes on down to ten. But he's struggling with God's nature in that case. That reminds me of a passage from John White's excellent book, Daring to Draw Near. prayer. Where he identifies with that. He says, You cannot have a relationship with God without standing at one time or another precisely where Abraham stood. I stood there late one night as I grappled with the apparent apparent injustice of a God who chose Jacob and rejected Esau. I stood there another time as in my morning devotions I read of God's deadly anger against Uzzah, whose only fault had been to reach out to prevent the Ark of the Covenant from tumbling off I was in the middle of a student evangelistic campaign at the time. I remember kneeling on the boards of an old church hall, begging God to show me that he was not the God of 2 Samuel 6. How could I preach of a saving mercy if he were in fact a petulant tyrant? God has never defended himself when I have come to him in my perplexity. I can well understand Abraham's torment, for it is a torment that I had felt. I love God and I wanted him to go on being the God that I had always known. I was frightened both by what I seemed to be seeing and by my own temerity in daring to question the judge of the universe. And yet with tears and sweat the question had to come, Lord, how could you be like that? And his answer has always been to show me more of his self than I had seen before, so that my tears and perplexity gave place to awe and worship. And so Habakkuk, after he has seen that vision of God, Finishes up his prophecy in Habakkuk 3, in verse 17 and 18, saying, Lord, now I see that even though the fig tree doesn't bud, and even though there's no grape On the vines, where the olive crop fails, and the fields produce no food. Oh there's no sheep in the pen, if there's no cattle in the stalls, you get the picture, everything's gone to pot. Abacuck says, Yet, I will. Rejoice in the Lord. You know what that word rejoices? Guess it's the same word in Psalm 287. Habackuk says, even in those circumstances my heart will leap up and down, unable to condemn. I will be joyful in the God of myself, my God my Savior. The Sovereign Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the feet of a deer and enables me to go on the heights. Why? Because I know I can trust him. And he will vindicate himself. And his mercy is everlasting, and that he has all these things in control, and all of it will work out. But I'll see it in the end. Most frequent source of joy. The most profound and enduring source of it. And the way the word is used most frequently in the Old Testament is in singing the song of salvation. The word Hopping up and down, unable to contain yourself for joy, is used again and again in connection with the song of salvation in the Old Testament. Give you just a couple of examples of that. In Psalm 68, Psalm 6 68. Beginning there with verse 1. David says, May God arise, may his enemies be scattered, may his foes flee before him. smoke is blown away by the wind, may you blow them away, as wax melts before the fire, may the wicked perish before God. But may the righteous be glad. But rejoice before the Lord. May they be happy and joyful. Sing to God, sing praise to his name, extol him who rides on the clouds. His name is the Lord, and rejoice. There it is finally. That's the word there. The last one in verse 4. Hop up and down before him. With joy. able to contain yourself. Why? Because the Lord's defeated his enemies. Those enemies that rob of peace. Those enemies that rob of justice in the earth. God's David says, God has defeated the enemies. They're like smoke that he's going to blow And God is reigning. And so he's able to hop up and down for joy. Well you take Psalm ninety-six. Psalm ninety-six speaks of creation hopping up and down. It's a fantastic picture there. Psalm ninety six. beginning with verse ten. Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. The world is firmly established, it cannot be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity. Tell me see, here's the earth that can't be moved. It's solid. But there's a few things that are moving in here. Let the heavens rejoice. Let the earth be glad. Let the sea resound and all that's in it. Let the fields be jubilant. That word jubilant in the NIV there in verse 12 is that same word in Psalm 28:7. Let the fields hop up in the earth. Down. Because the fields can't contain themselves. Then everything that's in it. In fact, all the trees of the forest are going to sing for joy. Why? Because God reigns, you see there, verse 13. He's coming. He's coming to joy. judge the world and hear it in righteousness. God's on the throne. And because God's on the throne, we can celebrate and rejoice. And even creation rejoices because God is in control. Or you take Psalm 149. Psalm 149 becomes even more personal. In Psalm 139, beginning there, verse 4, the Lord takes delight in his people. He crowns the humble with salvation. Let the saints rejoice in his honor. There it is again. Let the saints hop up and down, unable to contain themselves because of his honor and sing for joy on their beds. Why? You see? Because he delights in his people. Amazing? You say God delights in me. All the things that I've blown in my life, the kind of life I live, and the coldness of my heart, and yet God delights in me? He then dressed the light in and take a look at the life. Zephaniah. Now that's the one after Habakkuk. If you found Habakkuk, you're won. Just move on a couple pages, you got Zephaniah. If you don't have it, I'll read it to you. Zephaniah chapter 3, verse 14. Zephaniah says, sing O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O Israel. Be glad and rejoice with all your heart. There it is again. Be glad and hop up and down with joy, with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. Why? Because the Lord's taking away your punishment. He's turned his back. He's turned back your enemy. The Lord, the king of Israel, is with you. Never again will you fear any harm. Verse 17: The Lord your God is with you. He's mighty to save. He will take great details. delight in you. He will quiet you with his love. He will rejoice over you with singing. You know that in verse 14 and 17, those two verses alone, there are six different Hebrew words for joy. Used there. I'd ought to tell you something about our salvation. God has saved us to be a rejoicing people. He uses six different words to describe all the different facets and shades of joy. And it's not Just us who are rejoicing in what God has done. Verse 17 says that God's rejoicing in us. He takes great delight in us. He rejoices over us with sin. That sings to the heavens and to all those who Isn't that amazing? That's staggering. No wonder Zephaniah says, hop up and down when you realize that this sovereign God who hates sin, this sovereign God Sovereign God who can't stand sin, who never becomes desensitized to sin, who never looks at sin like you and I do and say, Well, that's not a big deal. Who never looks at it and says, Everybody's doing it, it can't be too bad. Thank God who hates it. with an absolute lightless abhorrence of all evil, says, Your punishment is God. I take great delight in it because of my mercy, which has been shown in Jesus Christ, because God took his own soul. And he took all of that wrath and that cursing, and he poured it out on Jesus in your place. And Jesus himself rejoiced to take it because he loved you. And he loved me. so much. Do you have that joy because of realizing that? Let me conclude with just three brief suggestions for feeling the joy which is ours. We have It's our right, but often we don't feel it. Three suggestions. Number one, get in touch with reality by realizing just how great your salvation is. This is on the back of the bulletin outline. Realize just how great is the severity of the judgment of an awesome and holy God who is never desensitized to evil. And then look at the greatness of his mercy to forgive. I believe that this is one of the greatest reasons. For having a daily quiet time, that daily time in the Word and in prayer. Because no matter how much you and I realize salvation, it becomes so quickly removed to a cognitive and intellectual level of assenting to certain things. about God's justice and Jesus saved us and isn't that nice we have heaven. But in order to continually feel that and have the joy of it fill you, you've got to meditate on certain aspects and focus in on things about it. I'll give an example just in my own life this week, Friday. I was reading from Proverbs chapter 9. And I noticed that verse again where there is the promise of salvation. Notice in Psalm 28, after he's talked about his is leaping for joy. He goes on to say that God is the slave of his people and he's the fortress of salvation for them, a shepherd who will carry us forever. Now thinking about that. Psalm Proverbs 9 is eleven says that uh wisdom's promises, through me your days will be many, and years will be added to your life. Now let's just imagine that wisdom came and wisdom said to you, Would you like to gain a few years? Yeah, you know, I'd like two years. Yeah, I'll promise you ten years at it, whatever your life whatever your life expectation is here now. There it is, written in the book, book of heaven, in the uh what if mortality charts there, you know. There it is. Whatever there is on there, we're gonna add ten years if you follow the ways of wisdom. And not only are they gonna be ten years, they're gonna be satisfying years. But these good years, sure you've got problems, but you're gonna have these satisfying years. And your health is gonna be good in them too. You know you're not gonna get any sicker. You're not gonna get noticeably more creepy and and uh achy. That'll be good ten years. Wow, that's a terrific deal. Where do I sign up? I'll follow wisdom. He said, but I'll I'll even sweeten it some. I'll give you twenty years. you really follow me. Hey really follow me closely. I'll give you twenty years you follow my word. Satisfying years. Years of good health. That's a tremendous deal. Sure. How much more closely I gotta follow you? Yeah, what what's in the fine clip? What do I got to do? And then he says, Well now, let me give you the ultimate offer. Perfect wisdom. Follow me absolutely perfectly. No flaws. Never mess up. Not once. Perfect. And I'll add to you what comes from perfect wisdom. He simply extrapolated. If wisdom will add years to your life, what does perfect wisdom add? Infinite years. Eternal life. I'll give you eternal life. And it's not going to be simply satisfying. It's going to be perfect. No problems. Absolutely greatest satisfaction. Guaranteed. And your health is not only going to be good, you're not going to age at all. In fact, you'll probably get better. Better looking, operate better, everything's going to function better than it does now. Now, how's that for you? Fantastic, it's impossible. And then all of a sudden it hit me. That's exactly what the gospel is. 1 Corinthians 1:30 says, Jesus is my witness. And Jesus has kept the law perfectly, and because of that, because of Jesus, God has reckoned to my account perfect wisdom. And so I have been given eternal life with perfect satisfaction. satisfaction and no each change. But I'm going to tell you that if you look in Scripture and you think on the truths of salvation, you will begin to feel them and your heart to leap for joy. The second thing is very briefly, But I would suggest that we cultivate what I call a passionate honesty with God. A passionate honesty with God. What I mean by that is I think that sometimes we don't take our problems seriously enough so that we don't see the joy. Come on, you've got to be kidding. I mean if there's one thing I take seriously, it's my problems. No, I don't mean it that way. What I mean is in crying out to God about your problems. Often I think the way we take our problems seriously is to mop about them, is to stew over them. But notice what David In verses 1 and 2, we see him crying out to God. He says, God, this is a terrible situation. I'm headed to the pit. God, you gotta hear me. And so he's so worked up about that. He's so passionate and is honest with stating to God what the real situation is. is what the tension is. God, your honor's at stake in this. God, hears your promises. What are you going to do? But then, you see, when God answers, he goes from the pit, from the valley, up to the mountain. I think so often we as Christians don't experience the mountain. Because we don't get out of the pit of wrestling with God over sin, over what we're struggling with. We need to develop that kind of straightforward, childlike, passionate honesty with God that gets upset about sin in our lives, that gets upset about the things that we see that are wrong. So that when God works, then we get worked up because we've had such an investment of emotional energy in that, that God loves us. And so we don't go along like this, sort of, yeah, you know, that's a problem. Ah yeah, that was nice. God did that. But we go, yeah, boy, that was terrible. Look at what God has to do in this situation. Wow, that's tremendous. Look what he did. And we develop that capacity for joy through feeling deeply with God's promises and his word. And then finally The last one didn't make the voting just like those announcements. But the last one that's also would be the final suggestion would be to take risks which will force us to pray, so that as we see his deliverance, those risks turn into our joy. Jay Grimstead in his book Let's Have a Reformation said that courage is more precious than holiness in our day. And I believe that's true. We need to be people who will be in the kind of a support system where we'll be willing to take risks for Jesus Christ. And as we take those risks We increase our capacity to see God's answer so that our hearts will leap for joy. Why was David here? Because he was willing to face Goliath. And because he was willing to face Goliath, God raised him to the position. of responsibility that he had for. And that's what put him in the danger. And that's what caused David to cry out. And that's what caused him then to be able to see God's work. I think of Elizabeth of uh Edith Schaefer again and again in her autobiography of her Life with Bansa Schaefer. She says, Our life was like a fog. We can only see one step at a time. And yet God worked in ways that increased again and again their capacity for joy. The Christians and the churches that I know. Who strike me as having the greatest capacity for joy are not those who look secure. Sometimes their lives look like utter chaos. But they are taking God at His Word. They're willing to follow Him in obedience to the Lord. and basic alliance if he comes, but not compromise with Jesus Christ, and then cry out to God and let God deliver. And your heart leaps for joy when he does. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning and pray that you would speak to us in our own situation, for we know, Lord, that your intention and desire for us is joy. If there's someone here, Lord, who doesn't have that joy of sin forgiven in Jesus Christ, we pray that you would give them that joy. Lord, if there are those of your people here who are lacking that joy because they have forgotten how great the salvation is that you purchase for them. Remind them of that and give them that joy. We pray, Lord, that you would give to us each that willingness to be honest with you and to follow you where you lead us, that we might see your work and accomplish great things for your name. That we might rejoice as your people and celebrate the salvation we have in Jesus. Amen.