As they're making their way there, two things I learned about this wonderful conversation congregation just this morning. One, who knew that Wayne Coke could sing that well? And and secondly, it's I haven't heard my nephew play the oboe since he was like in sixth grade. It's gotten uh quite a bit better. Thank you. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 1. This morning I'll be reading for us, beginning with verse 26. Almighty God, bless this reading of your word. Father, we are In awe of the truth and beauty of your word. And Lord, we are truly humbled that you would deign to speak to us as one of our fathers in the faith, John Calvin, put it. In the scriptures, you baby talk to us. You who are the God of all creation, who with a glance not only recognizes but thoroughly understands, because you designed everything from the human genome to All the algorithms that determine the orbit of every satellite and the entire unit. Lord, all of this lays before you like an open book. And Father, you whose language must be as sublime as your nature, come to us and speak in simple Hebrew. Aramaic, Greek, determining by your sovereign goodwill that what you say is and can be translated into the language of every tribe nation, language, every culture. And Father, we take our place this morning in the great stream of the history of your people from Adam through today. And we listen to your word, Red. Bless it to us. Give us humble ears and hearts. And Father, we pray that in the preaching that follows the reading of your word, inasmuch as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, Lord, bless it to us that we might know you better. And walk in your footsteps, Lord Christ, that we might honor you and truly bless our neighbor. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 1, beginning with verse 26, the Word of God In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David And the Virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored One. The Lord is with you But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her This is the word of the Lord. I finally got that right. When we think of the Word of God, the Word of the Lord, the different books of the Bible, and there's 66 of them, oftentimes I, as a pastor who delight in studying the Bible, I'm just amazed at how the Holy Spirit, inspiring this divine word from heaven, is at work in and through a particular person, in this case, Luke. To give us an account in this case of the life, the doings and teachings of Jesus the Messiah that is just so Most of what many of us do in our life is in the very nature of it ad hoc That's Latin for you barely know what you're doing and throwing it together as you go along Most of us go through our life not giving particularly close attention to which fork we grab out of the utensil drawer or what color the pen is out of the mug on our desk. When we come to the Gospels and Luke in particular, there is a very careful arrangement of everything. And there is a very, very careful arrangement of these first four chapters of the Gospel of Luke that show us the coming of Jesus the Messiah. And it begins with John the Baptist's coming. It begins with an announcement of his conception to Zechariah at a time when God's people are praying. And what we have in this text that I just read for us is a parallel in which some scholars have found up to eight deliberate echoes of what God said about John the Baptist and Zechariah and Elizabeth And what it says about Jesus and Mary, the Virgin Mother. And in every one of those comparisons, It's as if Luke, led by the Holy Spirit, wants his readers to be prepared to understand that as remarkable and as amazing as John the Baptist was, because remember they would have already heard of them, this is well after the fact. Jesus is better, fairer, greater in every single way The thing that makes that notable to me as a Christian man and as a preacher is that God, by his spirit has orchestrated the very announcement of this new beginning, this new age, so carefully and so deliberately. He has left no detail unremarked upon in order to draw attention to the beauty and the glory of the life and the ministry that Jesus will usher in Now, I have been told on many occasions that I sometimes use family as sermon illustrations, and I shouldn't do that, so I'm going to keep this one anonymous. I have a brother-in-law He married Mara. And I'll I'll never forget when that fellow and again I won't name him. When he decided that he was going to start a new chapter in his life, when he decided that there was going to be a vast step up in the redemptive experience of his living on this side of heaven. By proposing. I don't know that I have in my life heard a story of someone who was as careful to orchestrate every single detail of that day. I'm not going to tell all of his story. It would probably embarrass him because I would embellish in ways that might not be okay. He arranged to have a suit of armor. Guys, how many of you did that? Not me. Uh you know, I I was so in awe of the how he proposed tomorrow that when it was my turn to propose to Carrie, I was just like, ah, forget it, I'll never do that well, babe. You want to get married? Uh He arranged to have his ring hidden in her desk drawer. He arranged to have her office staff know when to show up and help him get into said suit of armor. He arranged to have this ministry center reserved and a whole host of young people serve a how many course meal, I don't know. I don't know why he didn't want me to be part of the food preparation. Uh I could have cooked a mean grilled cheese. Everything about that night was just so, in such a way that it would communicate to his bride. the lovely Mara uh Williams at the time that her life was going to be different and changed and great. And I want you to think about something like that. And think about how, although we often miss it, that is what God is doing in presenting the announcement of the birth of Jesus. He is doing everything he can to highlight and to underscore how awesome, how great, how incredible this was going to be, and nothing would ever be the same again. I haven't picked out all eight of the contrasts, but I have picked out three things that I think are very important for us to see so that we can truly appreciate. Just how incredible it is that we have Jesus. And I hope that by the end of this message you will with new eyes appreciate how amongst every option of every redeemer, every savior with a lowercase R and a lowercase s, compared to the whole field of humanity and throw in every angel you've ever heard of. There is no one like Jesus. You see, Jesus comes distinctively. as one who is great. And the very first thing that distinguishes Jesus from John the Baptist is What I'm calling in the notes here, kids who are following along, the greatness of the child. That's in two ways. First, in his being. Notice how John the Baptist is introduced. In verse 14 of chapter 1, we read the angel Gabriel saying to Zechariah, You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his John's birth. For he will be great before the Lord. That means he will be great in the eyes of the Lord, as some older translations put it. Now hold that thought. He will be great before the Lord. Gabriel comes to Mary six months later. And he comes to her and says, Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great. And will be called the Son of the Most High. For over a thousand years, Bible teachers and commentators have noted the difference of the derived relational form of greatness that is decreed upon John the Baptist as opposed to that of Christ who will simply be great. He is the genuine article of greatness. He owns greatness as an attribute of being that is essential to who he is. He doesn't have it in light of how he conducts himself before the Lord. He has it because he is the Son of the living God. Greatness for him isn't something that is declared upon him or stretched over him like a veneer or a righteousness that is somehow attributed to him by grace through faith. His is a greatness that goes straight down to the very marrow of his bones. Jesus is great. Indeed, he is fairest. Fairest of 10,000. When we think about 10,000, we get a little bit jaded sometime. And that language comes out of the Psalms, comes out of Song of Songs. And I want to remind you, especially you aspiring mathematicians, that the biblical languages, both Greek and Hebrew and Aramaic, they don't have a word for million. They do not. They have a word for multitude, the word myriad, which means many, many, but their word for thousand is the biggest word they have. Thousands upon thousands or tens of thousands. That's the biggest numerical conception that they can vocalize in conversation. So we're not simply saying that with Jesus' fairest of 10,000, that there are only about 100,000 people like him in the world today. That's how the math would play out. What we're saying is there is no one like him. Never has been, never will be. Your Jesus is great. Not simply in his relationship to God, but because he is God. And he's great not just in his being. Not just in the greatness that he has, but in the way he stands in relationship to holiness. You see, John the Baptist is filled with the Spirit even while he's in the womb of his mother. In his mother Elizabeth. Jesus is not holy because he's filled with the Spirit. or because he is consecrated through Nazarite vows. He is holy because he is conceived by the Spirit. The Jesus you worship is God from eternity, intimately united with Father and Spirit. And he comes in his being already completely sanctified. He is holy. In the same way that he is great, the holiness that he has is not a holiness that is affected upon him by God. It is something that he constitutionally already possesses Imagine if you were to say, Bob Bjorkis, I think you'd look better if you were blue. And you took a can of spray paint and you just sprayed me blue from head to toe What color would would I be if you cut into me, kids? Probably some pretty yucky colors, right? Pretty gross. Probably a lot of red. You got down deep enough white for the bone, right? But picture this as if greatness or holiness were something, an attribute declared about Christ. You could never get beneath or behind or below the holiness of Jesus Christ. He is holy. He didn't become holy because of an act of God. He didn't become holy because of a way that he lived, or a dress code he adhered to, or a diet he uh restricted himself with. He is holy because he is divine. And he's also far greater than John in the nature of his calling. Not just in his being, but in his calling. Everything we read about John the Baptist career, his ministry, if you will, has been about how he's going to prepare for something else. Now, if I say that you are called to prepare something, I have automatically put a shelf life on your ministry, haven't I? If your job is to prepare for something, once that thing comes into existence, your role is ended, is it not? It used to be back in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and this church was an OPC Church 20 years ago And they still, I love the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. That's what I grew up in and was licensed by, but they had a way of planting churches. where you had church planters. And church planters were people that were specifically gifted at gathering people, at evangelistically proclaiming the gospel, of inviting people to come to Jesus. with repentance and faith, to be forgiven of their sins, to baptize them, to be established in Christian life, to start discipleship. And God has specially equipped some people to be these kind of church planters, gatherers, missionaries. But sometimes that same person who's gifted and called to do those things is not necessarily the one who's got all the gifts to work out the tax forms for a 401c3. Often works out that way. And so they had a distinction between a church planter and what they called an organizing pastor. And there was a very smooth transition and handoff over and over and over again in church history. of these men like Jonathan Mayle, a man who planted eight churches in the far west, uh who planted churches from Texas to Colorado to California. I I met his widow. I have about half his library in my library. Uh Interned at one of his churches that he planted, a great man. But he was called to prepare churches. And the minute they were ready to become a church, His ministry ended. And another pastor's began. You see, John the Baptist was like that. His ministry had a shelf life. He simply prepared the way for Christ. Preparation, preparation, preparation with all of its limitation and its time constraint. But what about Jesus? The things we read about Jesus' ministry are very different. He will be great. And he will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. You see how the point is doubly made. His ministry will never end. It's a sad thing that whenever God blesses us with great men and women in our life who are going to have a key role and a great influence There's a shelf life on all of our ministries, isn't there? We retire, we move, we grow old, we die Every John the Baptist you've ever had in your life who has helped you prepare for your great interview with Christ, where you long like me to hear well done, good and faithful servant, every one of those aides and helpers. and blessed servants who have beautiful feet who proclaim the gospel to you. That's temporary But brothers and sisters, the Holy Spirit, speaking through his servant Luke, wants you to know that the great ministry of this great and holy Messiah will never end. And you have a champion who gave his life for you, who will not for a minute cease to be your friend and deliverer. What a comfort. What a comfort to people like me who struggle with how temporary so many relationships are, with how fraught with difficulty they can be. That when Jesus says, I will cast away none that come to me in John chapter 6, he doesn't mean for a season, he means for eternity. The greatness of the child is remarkable. So is the greatness of the miracle. I mean you think about Elizabeth. Elizabeth is introduced to us in chapter one as someone who's advanced in age, right? That's a very political way of saying she's an old lady. She's not going to reasonably be expected to have any kids. Zechariah is an old man himself. And they're promised by Gabriel that they will have a child. And while this is a wondrous act of God, it is not an unknown act of God. Think back to the scriptures. You know, in Genesis chapter 21, verse 1. God says to Abram and to Sarah that you will have a child by this time next year. And they were both the same language, advanced in age. Beyond the normal expectation of having kids. Think for a moment about Samson. We have the exact same situation where they pray for a child because they can't have a child, and we know that she was considered barren, but we don't know that they were of great age when they had Samson, and yet this miracle, this wondrous birth A child is born. Consider the birth of Samuel in chapter 1 of 1 Samuel. It's the beginning of that whole history of God's people in the era of the kingship. Samuel is born to an older couple after prayer. So you see, the birth of John the Baptist, while being a remarkable and incredible and wondrous miracle of God, is something that was not utterly unique and distinct. The same is not true for the birth of Jesus. The birth of Jesus is presented to us this way You have found favor with God, Mary, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Now, Mary's response to that piece of news is, how can this be? Since I am a virgin. And the angel Gabriel makes it clear that the Holy Spirit himself will overshadow her, and she will conceive a child without any sexual union. This will be a miraculous birth that is suede generis. It is without equal. It is utterly distinct from any other such miracle. It is a direct act of creation of the living God. There is none like him in this detail of his birth and conception. Utterly nothing. You see, in the birth of Samson, in the birth of Isaac, in the birth of Samuel, God miraculously used existing biological means to produce a child. when such was not ordinarily expected. God did not use ordinary biological means In bringing forth the Messiah. And this is utterly unexpected by the people of God. You might think, well, wait a minute, Pastor Bob, didn't Isaiah chapter 7 say that the virgin would give birth? Yes, it did. And for those of you who maybe have an interest in biblical languages, the word for virgin in Hebrew, na'ara. Could be translated young woman or virgin, depending on context. And in every single instance. instance of what we call intertestamental reflection upon Isaiah 7 in the rabbinic traditions, in the Mishnah, in every single instance in which Jewish scholars and rabbis looked at Isaiah chapter 7. Between the time of the second temple, when Ezra rebuilds the temple after the captivity in Babylon, all the way to the time of Christ, there is not a whiff of suspicion that the Messiah would be born of anything other than a young woman So astounding would be the miracle of a virgin giving birth that that was not even expected. What God clarifies and says, oh no, when my Messiah comes, it's going to be born of a N Ra. but of the most refined, narrowest, impossible sense, because that is the lesson God is trying to drive home to you and to me Think about what Gabriel says. Behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who has been called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God. It could be argued that with older folks considered barren, a birth was highly unlikely It could not be said that a virgin birth is highly unlikely. A virgin birth is impossible, but not with God. You see, the miracle that God performs is so much better and different than everything else. That's as if everything else is a guy showing up with flip-flops and blue jeans asking for a date. versus showing up in shining armor and giving a diamond ring. There is nothing about The announcement or the birth of Jesus Christ that is not utterly distinct and supreme in every way. We also have the greatness of the faith of Zechariah and Elizabeth on the one hand and Mary on the other. I want you to think about Zechariah and Elizabeth. And I will again quote Charles Spurgeon and say, we are poor creatures to critique such a man as Job. And we are even poorer creatures to critique such a man as Zechariah or his lovely wife Elizabeth. But yet we see something of a doubt that required a chastisement from God that should humble us. We don't see a glint of that with Mary. And think about the difference between the mighty acts of God that he performed in and through Zechariah and Elizabeth on the one hand and Mary on the other. When Gabriel the angel appears to Zechariah and Elizabeth, he says, Here, God is going to do an incredible work, and I'm going to remove you from the category of dishonor and shame. And bless you with a child. And that was hard for them to believe When he comes to Mary, he says, Mary, you are a young woman and a virgin betrothed, and I am going to deliver you from a situation of honor and hope and joyous anticipation to a category of scandal and embarrassment and reproach. And she said, Yes, Lord, I'm your servant. You see, the nature of the two faiths, one who struggles to believe good news, the other one who embraces difficult news. Is nothing short of remarkable. It's one thing for you to have the faith to take advantage of a great opportunity or an exciting new privileged status or rank. It's a whole nother thing for you to have the faith to embrace an experience that is debasing, demoralizing, and will be considered a scandal by all who see you And yet we have Mary's faith highlighted here. The spotlight of the Holy Spirit's inspired scripture shines directly on her faith. I want you to notice we're going to see this more next week. Look down at verse 45. And his beautiful snapshot of women's ministry in the early church. And his Bible study between Elizabeth and Mary. In the six months after Elizabeth has finally shown herself publicly and publicly declared God's goodness to her. She says to her young relative Mary, Blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord. Because she believed immediately, quickly, spontaneously. We read that the minute Mary heard this, she basically gets up and goes to visit Her dear kin, her relative Elizabeth. The faith of Mary is immediate, and it is despite great emotional and practical hurdles. The greatness that we see in all of the details surrounding the announcement of Christ's conception and his upcoming birth. should give us a sense of wonder and awe at what God might be doing in our life. I want you to think for a moment about your life. You can think about mine too if you'd like. Have you ever received a gift so perfect that every single detail of its delivery was carefully curated, planned, executed? to help you appreciate just how wondrous this gift would be. I know my wife never had anyone show up with uh armor, at least not that I know of. If she did, she said no She had a stumbling bumblin' mumbling fool who had to be asked if it was a question And I don't do a great job of wrapping presents either. In my early marriage I was not quite chastised, but looked at very quizzically when we went on our first overnight trip and I just threw a bunch of clothes in a brown paper sack. And thought that that was an adequate presentation to carry through the reception of a hotel. I want you to think about a time maybe when you received a perfectly wrapped gift in a gift bag. The timing of the delivery was planned down to the nanosecond. Who else was in the room was given attention? The right song was playing. It was the right time of day. The weather was exactly so. Literally every detail of Christ's being given to you was orchestrated by God to draw your attention to the priceless nature of the gift. The answer to the rhetorical question I asked is, yes, you have received a gift, so carefully prepared and delivered. And that gift is Jesus Christ. And the question that we have is how will we respond? Will we with Mary humbly say, let it be to me according to your word? Or will we say, God, the jury's still out? I'm months away from accepting that you might do something great in my life. And by great, I don't mean something that'll make you popular or wealthy or healthy. That wasn't true of Mary. By great, I mean something that God is doing to advance you one step closer to Him in your pilgrimage. And take you one step further outside of yourself in serving others. And what a thought. that we have this teenage girl leading the way, showing us what this humble embrace of this priceless gift would look like. Nothing is impossible with God. And God has done incredible things through this mighty Savior Jesus who is great and holy to the core. He is the Son of the living God who will reign forever for you. And he is the one who will walk with you and in fact lead you. Across mountaintops and into dark valleys alike, because his purposes, beyond finding out in detail, will lead to our fellowship with him forever. In the language of the old Puritans, close with Christ. That means do business with him. Make it your point to say, I've been offered this opportunity to accept this Christ who comes, who is great and holy, divine, ever-reigning, life-transforming. And let it be to me, O God, as you have said. He will be my Savior. Here I repent of my sins. I would live for Him And join with your brothers and sisters in this incredible pilgrimage. The most exciting life, the most difficult life, the most noble life, the most exhilarating life, the most rewarding life. That a child of Adam and Eve could ever hope for. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the blessed hope that's ours in Christ. Lord Jesus, we thank you that it was so important to you. By your Spirit to highlight for us the remarkable circumstances that draw our attention to the greatness of Jesus Christ. That son of Mary and Joseph by adoption, who is our spiritual king, our savior, our friend, our leader, our elder brother. And Father, we pray that you would help us, like Mary, to be humble and still before you and to receive that gift of so great a Savior. That we are never changed, that we embrace both the scandal of the cross and the glories of having our reproach removed. that we embrace both the awkward nature of seeming out of step with the world around us But the blessed hope of knowing that we have a foot firmly planted in heaven itself. Hear our prayers in Christ's name. Amen.