Last week we began and this we conclude the story of being Christian and Nile But even knowing Jesus is master. At the very moment that Jesus was unto God , Jesus Christians. And three years. And it was over the burning. Luke chapter twenty-two. Remember their verse six people that the Lord turned them up just read it, Peter. Then Peter remembered the word that the Lord had spoken to him before the Anybody outside? Don't worry in our life learning what to do with our failures. The thing that in your life that you're most ashamed of Peter hasn't much to be ashamed of that night. The story is so important. We're instruction to you and to me as well as They don't have they all fit together. And so uh what I did uh to briefly this week is to My bracket only together all these four accounts to give you the story with the particular detail of each plot. Uh, this is what happened that evening. After Jesus was arrested, he was taken to the house of the high priest They are at gone want to see what they're going to do with Jesus, their master, and so they have gone. Jesus, uh gone was known by the high priest and actually came in and led the crowd that brought Jesus into the portier. Peter had to wait outside. The gun came back and he spoke to the girl who was on duty at the gate to let Peter in. To tell us for an evening , so I'm not kidding fire. Peter tries to indispect to us that you like that the fire. After a while, the female doorkeeper and the server The cavalry. Peter immediately reacted. Probably a couple more interchanges at that point and the matter is dropped. And the risk approves. But Peter's getting more nervous, so he makes for the door to leave. Apparently, this time the clerk gets involved. The second one at the door together. Then the better group possibly a friend of the first dead and becomes that worse, and still that Jesus of Nazareth Perhaps a couple of others joined in. Peter wasn't the very person that you would have noticed. response to the man when he says at this point. The angel us all gives slightly different accounts. They're calling different And then that represents a thing watch what's going on all at the same time with confusion. And I thought it was back and temporarily Yeah, if I was noticing more of the two girls who were in the front who were up in the stakes. I think if I had quieted down again, we're likely a new disturbance converting Their attention. Peter is increasingly nervous because back inside. I can burn out for about an hour. Peter can still be some Simply to confidently assert perhaps in response to something that Peter said he never could keep his mouth shut. Well , it has been husband because of the speech and back center and words betrayed and everything That uh make Peter nervous enough now on the mouth of the servant of the high priest who is here. Peter had just called earlier that evening Come over and go into it. Hey! Oh pressed and somebody earlier believed me. Now these are truly bad. And begins to curse and swear. Happened. Number one , arrest her crude for the second time. And Peter remembers these words before a wrist or crude twice. You will divide me three times. The second thing is that Jesus turns and looks at Peter. Turn and look at That but the love , but the look of process , collects to bring Peter back to reality. God has lessons for us to learn from. And so we began to look back and we get three lessons to learn from this story. The first question was followed. Anyone. Not just anyone. You 're coming all. I can still. Look at Peter, you fix them all. Remember the planet we could have four reasons, number one because Peter seemed to have the Insight and faith. Otherwise we should have just greater faith than insight that Jesus keeping in Holy Bord. The fact that Peter had been specifically work , running about anything, about falling into temptation. Do you think it was hurt? The precise of the bicycle is the evidence of empty cycle. And so the second thing is Second point to learn is why did he fail? The second point, why did he fail? We looked at the first of the three reasons. Last week we saw that Peter was What 's my problem too much? I could be thinking. He could everybody else. remain regular. The contrast to that with John, who never made any side vote as the fact that all but John uniquely the way he referred to himself By the grace, remember, I am the disciple that Jesus loved. I'm the disciple of this Jesus. I'm the disciple that Jesus was. They said to me the other day. Not that we love to heart, but that he gave up the heart and set us on to be an atonic sacrifice. So for some of you , you're not standing for the Lord Jesus. Peter den Ivan. John followed him. And to focus on your lack of love , you're a lack of things. No, I thought me such a thankful I'd like to be such. So my first paper chesters last week was to read the record and found that to me The key to learning for him is to focus not on your mother again, but on his luck again. Your spirit and your soul. The imagination comes from very spiritual very the people that Peter But it does not hear. It fails. It's temptation for you. But the reason you're not so much focused on skiping, looking at what your heart is really like God was a decent person with some aberrations, some acceptance, and times when you're you know let down and you And went better than it was because Peter was finally in touch with his heart. Peter was finally seen, but he was at the core. Actually, you are going to stand that. You are pride, you're in vision, you're out of protection, you're protecting Your right to be the center. Order the land and that we can willing to take that off Turn it over and look at the side yourself. Probably never be very excited about the fact that you have a discipline that changes the class. I am the disciple that he was But the first thing is helpful. The second thing is they neglected to pray. Neglected to pray. And the disciples back at Gethsemane. And again, absolutely exhausting day. And there's certainly nobody more than Jesus. teaching the attention, the interaction with the crowds that come to the Passover. He just watches them like the state. He spends hours teaching them and mastering to them. They go out and No, we need to go pray. All right, Lord. So I go to get something they will pray. And then they got Peter and want Peter Kings and Arts. Please come with me. They didn't care that much. Look what he says in verse 46 Why? But this is here is an according to Peter, specifically Peter. You need to pray, Peter, so that you want to fall Why is it more? He does it down, Mr. Bray. He comes back and finds the sleeping. Okay , good. Okay. Okay. I won't stand up when it's not coming. I am what I'm doing. You can trust me. I have strong willpower. I'm gonna have some time to do that. That's good, you know. I can think of whatever. Somebody says something. That that is that that's not true. That's not very good and aspiration. Temptation comes when Satan has to take ready to in the flames Why don't you pray? It's not like you take it on the break. I'm saying that this is the stuff I've got to do. And I just don't have time to pray. What I'm saying is I can handle the day without the prayer, and these things are important. That's what I'm saying Yeah, you know that I would have to be fair animal advanced. I can go to that one from that or whatever. That's not the idea. The length is measured by the weight. It's the weakest where he is Christ. Realization or inadequacy, the fact that you like to have a belief. That's a bad one for the weekend. I say, Lord, I need to pray. I need to cry out to you at the beginning of my name. Deliver me from temptation. Help me. The temptations of all campaign. And that's very much, by the way. That was the last one too. Um, I've been encouraged in a congregation of other people So we're gonna do this on thirty months of mission until April 18th I can't go here because we 're on reception at five o'clock, three thirty to find that afternoon, Sunday afternoon. Anybody wants to come here. Pray for the plan of the spirit for God to come and reveal us. And let me get back to the plan of the spirit and what that means. God is leaving the bad point. You can look at those things and you say, I need to pray I can go to that with my brothers and sisters put me up and take all that. What happened to me? People need the working situation to provide Jesus at a distance. Well first of all, you've got to give it to them. Please follow them. But he hasn't been followed in a bit of place, that is, it hasn't been What happened to him, but they wanted to be at a state sentence, not closely identified with him. Blessed the song or unblessed as the man walks not in the council of the ungodly, stands in the legislators, and sits in the seat of the minds. I still recall many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many years ago when I was a teenager. That um I was very connected with the Christians. And I wasn't told you really crazy background. Like the volunteer in Italy. That's a big break. I don't want to turn it on the outside, but I might have been down the both sides. and rest. And remember , welcome an apologies as a pests, but a conference. I still remember hearing that speaker of Bob Holmes. I still remember Mr. All my kids is taking a stand for it. And I've been really convicted by that message. What do you think about common love? But the message I have here is for the complexity now to be more than the work to the world and met the conflict. I'm not thinking about this. They're writing. I'm finding other words. I don't know if it's very great. And I grabbed the hand of that beam and just the moment at the girl of one of those groups strike the ball. I'll remember that woman, don't let that die. Put her hands on our shoulders, put her back and said , obviously that means Thank you very much to you. Oh, you only know that I like going into my chat. You only know. I think like God and I felt like that from Red Give my life to Jesus Christ. I got choice. Come on again. Eric Speels. Stephen Saddle. I'll get to the standard. Well on the boat. Oh And then he's there and he's always kind of close calls and everything. There's a there's a girl that's problem. Can't get this away. And love the lie. Where are you gonna go? Where are you gonna take me? We get to worry more and more about the other people that need to pass them. Is there a company? Why would the world less conversation? differently great feeling. Butter specter probably something was cut off and changed forever and ever. I don't mind butters What do you want to restore? Restore the place of musicalness and service. How did that happen? Three reasons. Number one. Because Jesus praised before you cross Jesus prayed before you. What does that mean? Satan has a second. Satan doesn't have to hire. The weight is heavier than the chair, and the heavier blow the weight, and the chair blows away and the weak drop that's like the wheat of the chair. So I 'm gonna shift. I have prayed for you, son, that your faith may not fail Every time you have to wait for me. I gotta take care of my little stuff, I gotta deal with it. I have prayed for it. That faith may not fail. You have turned back. Just stop it in the colour. And if he's feeling that all is lost, there's no reason to come on. Absolutely everything is hopeless. He remembers Jesus' words. Because the second reason why the restore wasn't Jesus, for that place , Jesus. I don't want to hear it up here. Peter Peter's place. Peter 's take the place of the head of Jesus. His favor Because it's death is the fact Bring it back to himself. That's what I mean. Celebration just service with the leader and his own and remember that his death was for youth. That is the Jesus recommissioned Peter. Because they went to women down to the tree. They come back to the disciples and they said the two things. And and the disciples are always said, but who wants to take along? Here we go. They got that, they got back it out. Here we go, back to the people. Sometimes we have to that 's what that's a slide and we're looking at that next Sunday, Easter Sunday. That Jesus appeared to the first of the twelve. Doesn't look tell us to know that twenty-four. Verse thirty. Verse 34, that the disciples went to a man to them as for This person in his work shows who we are seeing. Right back to the eleven disciples and they say, That's true. It is three person appears That explains was so sacred and holy that I wanted to leave it private between Peter and Jesus community. To see Jesus before. This morning. You must have called him back. Remember, we do have a record for other account cases that peer accountable. But I told them that updated three times. So maybe the guy wants to call Jesus wants to keep so shame in the one Why don't you talk about it and raise it, maybe a ministry and focus here, or maybe a large supplement, maybe the people in your small group, maybe the people in the color of one or one that is Whether one understands, one person is like, I am the Lord. And Jesus loves it. Let's say that together. I'm the disciple that Jesus was. I am the disciple that Jesus was. Artists victory. I commit all to you in Jesus' name.