Rather than this be the book maybe for a course if people who think they're interested in it, give it to 'em to read and see whether or not they have really have the vision. Yeah. Would any of you recommend using this for an attack? I think it's basically with this is supposed to this book is basically just a membership but it has a lot of defensively regular defendership. The thing that we I don't even miss these And I'm supposed to be teaching somebody else Yeah. Well, I think the audience too. The audience definitely of the book is for elders and deacons and pastors. Yeah. It's not for really the layman. Yeah. Yeah, good point. Okay. Um I just depends upon you though all the time because what else do you have? Because it's the physical so helpful more. Yeah, that's that's the thing. If there are some things that you don't find in anything else put together that way. About the closest thing you should go. to just grab two seven or something and water that down. Yeah, we no, I didn't look at it closely enough, but I had to see I miss another session. But we could be good if we were working with a group in the or fairly young and material for life, but it would it be something would I feel like I was just sort of fitting my relationship into a mold if I tried to use that requirement? Well if you yeah, if you did that. I mean, if if we use it, it wouldn't be with the idea that we'd all be taking our people through that step by step. It would be with the idea that here is a here's a way of looking at a training program. And you know, it sort of works out kind of the four things that you know in the spiritual profile and some sort of priority, right? Just be aware of that and we can sort of just take that as a pattern. But, you know, there's pros and cons to that too, because then say well goodbye to what I was uh I don't know. I'll just think about that well. Let's get to thirteen uh close we're uh out of time. But I do want to hear your thoughts on it. is really the bottom line question that I'm interested in. We started with eleven people, basically we're down to four. Is it realistic to train a class in disciple making in seven? This is what we have. We count like our first Friday and then the Saturday as two sessions. We've had seven sessions over nine weeks. Is the taste that you got worth what we put into it or is this classroom seminar approach counterproductive? Uh sound like you have some ideas or two of you more on one. And it's not realistic to have it this short. Mm-hmm. And it's worth something to have it. It's worth a great deal. Because otherwise as what ends up even as it's pointed out in the book, it ends up on the pastor and maybe the elders and deacons shoulders for everything when it's supposed to be the whole body working together. Mm-hmm. So it's definitely worth something. Um the classroom seminar approach is counterproductive if it's too short. Mm-hmm. And because we didn't have time to deal in depth or to really to develop. I took most of the time just getting to know Scott. Mm-hmm. And and just getting to know Scott and to really understand him and start getting him on track and getting the same way as linked with him took most of ten weeks. Yeah, and I really came up with a a vision or a thought of really this class had has to be interrelated with other classes. Would you like for me to share what I have just I just kind of set up a timeline and kind of thought of it. this way is you start out at some point I'll be able to take this this is when you're this is yeah this we can so explain it so I don't have to take notes for that thing. Okay. I said at some point in time you start arbitrarily with an evangelism course preparing people who are interested in in outreach ministry. And then shortly after that you begin the cycle by having a concerted effort at evangelism, including open meetings and other methods. to bring new believers to the Lord and also to ignite the lives of cultural Christians mhm and also to train the body in outreach. Mm-hmm. 'Cause you gotta have that experience. I've never done evangelism. I'm scared to death of it. Mm-hmm. And so looking at Dan Iverson coming, probably I will try to get involved if he comes. At least part of the time and find out whether or not I can stand up to being in doing evangelism, right? I've been scared of it. I stay away from it. You know, and then just to repeat the outreach as frequently as there are people workers available to do the harvest. I mean the call to the harvest to get the workers accused. Mm-hmm. I mean you can't overwork people but as often as there's opportunities and people available mm to continue outreach. But the next phase is to have begin the disciple making course and spend more time to cover the basics and the bases, whether longer weekend, you know, our retreat. setting where we just all go away. Or you know, a few weeks where we just meet and we're not meeting with somebody. We're just meeting to go over all the material first. Mm-hmm. Because there's a lot of things that we've got the last couple of sessions would have been really nice to have those first couple of sessions. Right. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Can I may I answer us for just a minute or so? point because I have to leave until that. Um in in connection with you had mentioned about the fact, you know, sorry, here we have one, two, three, four hours. how many you know, what might have been done differently to require the drop off rate. And I'm just wondering, you know, apart from this, because I think you had some really good point, that it probably would have been helpful. You said before that you kind of handpicked this Because would any of us been here had you not opened it up? You know, I mean we got some good people maybe. I might have picked it too. No. But I think that it probably would have been helpful for you to meet on a one to one basis with each individual prior to the beginning. Half an hour, an hour, whatever, going through initially actually a little bit what they ha the expect expectations that they have for the course. What do they see? Why are they signing up for it? A little bit of what you hope to achieve and kind of come to some sense is this really what this person wants? Is it realistic to expect that this person will be able to complete the course? Because I have a feeling that a number of people got into it not really knowing what they were getting into. Right. Yeah. And so it probably would have been helpful since you had opened it up and you were getting people that really were sort of out of the blue. Um and probably when you invited people you had done that explaining time one on one talk there about it. Yeah, it came out of previous times that you had met with that individual so you kinda knew where they were. Um so I think that I think that's just ten minutes. classes I don't think we had anybody drop off. From the beginning to the end. We started eleven with with ten, ten and eleven, elephant. And it was that how many three can we just I think somehow expectations of we didn't fully understand what was what we were Yeah. Even the recent and the bulletin seems a little bit like well, team come to the course on Saturday and if you want to disciple someone and commit yourself to the other weeks, then okay. That's right. Mm-hmm. I think some of us took hold of that. You see again, they realized the difference of this one. It was designed for the small group leaders. They were the ones who I knew, who I invited, who said let's let's do this instead of the regular meetings. And none of them are here. You know, so they're the one and it was kinda like, well, since we're gonna do it, then we'll open it up to whoever else wants to and that's kind of a fringe benefit, you know. But these are the guys that are committed to it. So now we're gonna have a meeting in January. Do you remember that meeting back in June? And then you know, find out what's going on in there. Mm-hmm. Along with that, you might even find it worthwhile to if possible, even meet with the person that wants to be this high school person. Um By the way, just to clarify and that's so you don't get the wrong impression, of the small group leaders, there are four AFC leaders, three of the small group four had been to the course before. So they had already had but they said it'd be good to have a refresher if we'd like to go through it again. The fourth one had not and just uh saw on the schedule, you know, if the call came So I I can't. So I knew it before we started, he couldn't. Uh Jerry hadn't been he wasn't a leader but he was involved in that and he tried and then you know what happened with him. The two two AFGs both had math training and apparently perhaps thought they had so much of the similar stuff they didn't see when the push came to show that it was much of priority. So that's actually what happens, you know, because we you know had a bunch of guys all committed themselves and they think out. But still that's different from what the discussion. I'm not all together sure what. This is another idea. What do you think about once you want this than a once a week? Over a year or something from I I never finished. I live. Not that I'm not interested in what she has to say, but I really I don't think I'd help for that. Yeah. Um if I think it would be helpful if you would be let you let us know that she would be more available Mm while we're having recourse to talk to on a one to one basis priority. Possibly even say setting aside a particular time that you could be available, that we would want to come in and talk to you about specific problem, you know, uh that we were having that we might not feel free to bring up in the entire group. But I think having it in this seminar, in this class and situation takes away the opportun opportunity for us to really work with you or you work with us as individuals and I it would be helpful to have at least some opportunity or some some level of availability. I recognize with your schedule that it couldn't be as much as probably want I think we need. Well, but not necessarily. Because you know, if if you're willing to do this, then there's gotta be a kind of a contractual buy and commitment where I say, Okay, for these weeks I will make it a priority. spend time with you and not spend time with others. Uh, because you're willing to do this and of course if you do this you'll be multiplying yourself and you will see in the lives of others so it pays real dividends. I mean so that's a valid point. That's something to consider and to think about. But then that bears on how long you don't. It couldn't be actually a year if it would be for a year. Mm-hmm. But somewhere in there you do balance out. Before the cooking of course and have been maybe to meet with someone, maybe sometimes it could really be giving up the course. Robbing we have that finding a lot of meeting with somebody else. to spend time with someone who's already gone through the training that is presently decided on someone so that we can sit down on your sessions and see what they do so that we can sort of have a visual which is how some people do it. Good point. Somebody who's been through the course before you chart. Yeah. Well somebody even if they had a went through the course, somebody that did know that you can't identify. Somebody that it's technically deciding that you know they would be a good teacher. Mm-hmm. Okay. Sure. Yeah, we're already past time. I'm not supposed to just look and jam. Just walk me through that another two minutes and then I will take it and probably the best thing is to get back to you with my questions. Okay. Okay. Well, begin the disciple making for it and you kinda the way I envisioned it was to go over the bulk of the material before anybody meets. Mm-hmm. And then just as you getting done with the disciple making you have a a discipling seminar or a Christian basic Christian living seminar and you get out of that people that group of people you could get people who are interested in meeting and growing. And you get a you get a opportunity to evaluate those people. Mm-hmm. And then hopefully you'd have a core of people coming to be to be worked with. Mm-hmm. These are the people who've been evangelists. Evangelized and doing evangelism. Some of them might be people doing evangelism, some of them would be people who had been evangelized and and brought in. And then the disciple making class would meet with some of these people. and you begin a long term disciple making discipling program where what happens is is the people who are graduating and are want are further committed from discipling move into disciple making. Right. And you just keep, you know, building. Do you remember the um curriculum I had outlined the two year thing, the first course for the first day? Yeah, sounds not far from that kind of thing from the start with Mm. But the thing needs to be continuity you're saying between those there needs to be the continuity between the classes to pick up and pick the people you know. You've got to pick the people initially. to the disciple making, but the people become obvious who should be in the disciple making as opposed to the just discipling. And then have the course run six to twelve months. and have no minimum number of students. I mean, even if one person wants disciple making, mm uh except one. And have a practical limit. Mm. And then you meet the disciple making class meets once every three to four weeks on a regular basis during that six to twelve month period. Plus, of course, there's always putting out the brush fire coming to you or coming to somebody else who has experience. How old frequency did you say? Once ever once a month or every three week three to four weeks. For six to twelve months. That would take a lot of pressure off of you too, 'cause you had a lot of pressure for nine weeks. Mm-hmm. where if it was just a few sessions going over all of the things and not interfusing it with dealing with people's problems with but with dealing with the concepts And then dealing with concepts in action and dealing with problems as they develop. How in the in that bulk of material, how's that handled? Two or three weekends like we did or 'cause if you get into doing it on a weeknight you have the same problem, right? Well seven sessions. How many sessions is it open? Okay. I think it probably could be done in one if you did a full retrieve and all day. Saturday and the evening, Friday night. You might get most of it done, probably could get all of it done in two weekends. And that might even be an option is the Once a month might be on Saturdays. Or on a Friday night or a time when you don't have a time pressure or appointments. And people have to be willing to commit to that. time we learn. In second sessions we could use it out so that you might crank in it so much and we can get more into the depth of what we learned. Which might help get it into somebody's I go to a seminar that lasts eight hours. By the time the eight hours is over I'm down and Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. But if you have seven seconds where you didn't have people saying, Well th what do I do with this person or what do I do with this situation? So we just want our material. We just need it out and emphasize those things that we need to be emphasized and and exaggerating things that want to be very member. Those that Kelly and Bill Burton are back here with us for the weekend. Welcome to you two. All your friends can rush up and grab them and see how their marriage has been doing since they left here to go to the house. Rhode Island. If anybody here has a white Toyota, your lights are on. License number nine five seven eight so all the people with white Toyotas don't go running out of the room. We celebrate Thanksgiving because a particular congregation of a hundred and two Puritans called the Pilgrims sent on the James I in England. They fled on a little ship called the Mayflower, hoping to settle in the new land somewhere between the Delaware River and the Hudson. They claimed that they were driven north by contrary winds, and so in November of 1620, instead, they landed on the tip of Cape Cod in what is now called Provincetown And then spent about a month searching for a decent place to settle. They finally settled on a place which became known as Phillips, Massachusetts, and there they put down their roots. The first winner was an unusually mild winner by New England standards, and yet they were totally unprepared. By spring, fully half of them had died. With the help of some Indians who were friendly. And some remarkable answers to prayer, God gave them a good harvest in the summer and fall of 1621. And so at that time, Governor William Bradford. called for a day of thanksgiving unto God for his mercies to them. It wasn't simply a Thanksgiving day, it lasted several days. And if you ever look at the menu that was recorded from what they had there, you'll imagine that they probably All roll home after it. It is a great time of rejoicing and feasting. That's my point. My point is that our Thanksgiving Day is rooted in American history, not Into being a biblical holiday. And yet the scripture speaks of the thank offering that was offered in Israel. And Hebrews 13, verses 15 and 16 speak of a Christian thanksgiving. And so what I would like for us to do is to take a look at those verses to understand something about the Christian thank offering that God calls upon us to give. A few years ago, I examined This passage and notice its link with the bank offering in the Old Testament. And I was amazed at a couple of insights that it gave me into Thanksgiving. And so I would like to share those with you this morning. Let's first of all take Take a look at God's word and see what He says in Hebrews thirteen, fifteen, and sixteen about the bank offering. Through Jesus, therefore, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice. of praise, the fruit of wits that confess his name, and do not forget to do good and to share with others. For with such sacrifices God is pleased. Now you may say, I don't think anything about Thanksgiving is there. I want you to follow closely. Take a look at your bullets and outline, and I want you to follow particularly closely this morning so that you catch the meaning of this. Because if you catch it, I think it's beautiful. But you need to follow closely to understand this. So I don't want to lose you. You notice there in verse 15 there's that Both phrase in the NIV, a sacrifice of phrase. You see that there? Now that phrase, a sacrifice of phrase, is a single Greek word, and that Greek word is the same Greek word that's used to translate the Hebrew in Leviticus eleven or Leviticus seven in verse twelve, where it refers there to the Old Testament bank offering. If you take a look at Leviticus chapter seven, verse eleven and twelve. You read these are the regulations for the fellowship offering a person may present to the Lord, fellowship offering or peace offering. If he offers this fellowship or peace offering as an expression of faithfulness, That along with this bank offering, he is to offer cakes of bread, etc. , etc. Now, the phrase there, an expression of faithfulness. In Leviticus 7, 12, when the Greeks translated that, the rabbis translated what is called the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the Greek word that they use there for express. Of thankfulness is the same exact word that we had in Hebrews 13, 15, where it's translated a sacrifice of praise. So that sacrifice of praise is an expression of thankfulness. It's that kind of thing. So you could read Hebrews 13, 15. Through Jesus, therefore, let us continue to offer to God an expression of thankfulness, the fruit of gifts, to confess his name. And I'd like for us to see some of this two things about Thanksgiving. Two things that make Thanksgiving distinctively Christian. First of all, it's confessing Christ, and secondly, it's giving our ourselves. Let's take a look at those two things. First of all, it's confessing Christ. You see that there again in verse 15, Hebrews 13. Through Jesus, therefore, let us continue to offer to God a sacrifice of praise or an expression. Expression of Thanksgiving, the fruit of lips to confess his name. See, those are parallel phrases. Let's offer to God this expression of thanksgiving. What is it? Well, it's the fruit of lips. Not the fruit of our fields or the fruit of our flocks or our herds, it's the fruit of our lips, which confess Jesus. That's the sacrifice. That's the Christian thank offering that we give. Well I appreciate that, you need to understand that in the book of Leviticus there are three main kinds of sacrifices that were offered to God in the tabernacle and then in the temple. There was the burnt the sin offering, the burnt offering, and then the peace or fellowship offering. And the thank offering with a particular a kind of peace or fellowship offering. But those offerings had kind of subsets to them. There were different kinds of them. So the thank offering is one kind of peace or fellowship offering. And so that shows us But in the thank offering, the focus is on our peace with God. And what Hebrews says that in the thank offering, what are we doing in our expression of thankfulness? We're confessing his name. But in that what we're doing is we are confessing Jesus as our peace. We're saying, He is my peace. My bank offering is the confession of Christ as my peace with God and my confession of Christ As the God who gives me his image, the peace of God. First of all, the thank offering then confesses Jesus as giving me peace with God. Now, again, to appreciate that, you need to understand that of the three sacrifices that I just mentioned to you, the sin offerings, the burnt offerings, and the peace or fellowship offerings, they're to be offered in a particular order. First of all, you had to offer the sin offering. The sin offering was the offering in which you saw the blood of that birth of them. Goat you saw a throat cut and you saw the blood rip sticky blood off flowing, gushing out of the circular vein. As that animal lay dying, bleeding there on the altar. Perhaps you had frolicked with it, prayed with it, you knew it, you had taken it by a rope up to the temple to be offered, and you saw a third cut and the blood became From the neck of that animal was to cover your sin. It covered that sin, and the picture of that is that the sin that you have in your guilt before God For running your life in your own way, the kind of thing that Gary described, saying, I simply I knew a lot about Jesus Christ, but I was going to run my life my own way. That blood covers that guilt For the God to look with favor upon you. Then the second offering took the third offering That offering was born with those that you brought up, and again the throat was cut. But in this case, it was not to cover your sins, but it's an expression of surrender to God. He's covered my sin unexpression. accepted. No, I give this gold, this goes, as an expression of surrendering my whole life to God. And then, and only then, go to the third offering, the thank offering. As part of the peace or fellowship offering. And that offering was an expression of my peace and my fellowship with God The sin offering covers sin before God. The burnt offering pictures surrendering myself to God. And the thank offering pictures my fellowship and my peace with God. Before we can have fellowship with God, there must be the covering of sin. There must be. And that must be done through the offering of Jesus. Look at how Hebrews 13 expresses that. Notice the first words of the verse. Through Jesus, therefore. When we come to give thanks to God and we want to give Him a bank offering, Christian bank offering. Offering and we want to say, Lord, thank you for what you've done for me. God says it's through Jesus that you offer those thanks. Because it's through Jesus who has made your peace with God That you can offer him thanks at all. It's through Jesus that you have had access to God to enjoy his fellowship. You're standing outside the temple and you're only allowed in the courtyard and you see their before you is a holy place. And beyond that holy place is the holy of holies beyond that great veil. Only the priest can go into that holy place. You're only allowed in the courtyard. And he must go in there with blood to allow To enter into that holy place. But beyond that holy place, there is the most holy place. Where only the high priest can go once a year. It is so sacred. And there he must go with blood. That symbolizes the very essence of the presence of God among men. And could you think if you're standing there and see all the ritual and the solemnity of this and the blood being carried in that you know I think I just want to walk in the holy place and see what's in there. Sounds like a pretty neat place, you know. I mean if God himself is there must be pretty neat. Oh just gotta hack my way through the van, you know, or break down a door and just walk on in As ludicrous as that may seem, so how is it for you to sit here this morning and say, I'm going to thank God for my blessings this Thursday, but I haven't bothered to come through Jesus. That you can get into that holy place, as Hebrews 13, 15 says, peace through Jesus. You're so hacking your way into God's presence on your own merits. It's through Jesus. He is our peace with God. And that's the first thing beyond all things for which we give thanks. The bank offering is first and foremost an expression. that we can have fellowship with God because Jesus has established peace with the wrathful judge Who looked with anger upon our sins and has now become our loving Father, who's adopted us into his family. But not only is he our peace with God, he also gives us the peace of God. And so we see that. The sacrifice here also pictures not only the relationship we have with God, but also the experience of that relationship. You see, the bird offering that was offered, and then after you offered the burnt offering and you gave the peace offering or the drink offering, part of that Was to ascend to God in flames, fat, all of the fat, and part of the meat. Because Leviticus tells us that the right shoulder and the right thigh Were to go to the priest. He was to eat that. You know what about the rest of it? The person that offered it. Did you see the picture there? God says, We're going to sit down here and I'm going to consume part of this bowl or this goes. And the rest of it you're going to take home and give away to eat. Because that's a symbol of preachers of the fellowship that I have with you. That you have my own presence with you to give you peace whatever your situation is. You know, you can sort of think about this and maybe share that there's a good Mr Elma, this Third place, you know, here you gotta sit down and have a bird there, it's not gonna be a board joke probably, you know. If you got this bird, can you imagine what it would be like? But I would say now, I'm going to consume part of the fat or the skin off of this, you know, and I'm that's gonna be my And I want you to understand that I'm sitting right here at the table with you, and you're going to have the rest of that bird. And the reason that I want to show you that is because I want to show you that I delight in you. I want you to know my old presence at your table this Thursday. I want you to know that I've come into your home and I want to bring my peace into your situation. Whatever bad news you've received recently, whatever tensions or struggles or discouragements you're going through. God says, I want to give you my peace, which comes with my own presence, and that's pictured in the bank office. Because God has part of it, and you have part of it, and Bellship Neil in Scripture is a symbol Of the communion between the two parties who are eating together. You can't eat with Jesus Christ and not have his peace. Not only is the bank offering a picture of the confessing of Christ as being my peace with God And my peace of God, but it's also secondly the giving of myself. Forgiving of myself. They see that in the very word. Thanks. Giving. It's giving And you do that in two ways. First of all, it's the giving of ourselves to God, and then secondly, it's the giving of ourselves to one another. First of all, it's the giving of ourselves to dance. Think of the offerings. The burnt offering was a picture of surrendering myself to God. Then I would offer the bank offering. The bank offering was given, and when I gave that to the The Baker says that what I was to what I was to do is to lay my hands upon the head of that David, that boy. I put my hands on his head. And that's my identifying with that animal. So that when it's slain and it's given up to God and its fat is burned up to God and becomes what God says is a sweet aroma rising to him. identifying with that animal, in giving myself to God, in thanksgiving, in thankfulness. And then Leviticus 7 also says in verses 12 to 14, you can look at it later, that with the thank gospel of the animal, I am to offer you fine flour mixed with oil. Oil, the symbol of holiness, of being dedicated to God. Fine flower, the symbol of the best of my substance, of my wheat that I've grown. Wheat is the symbol of luxury. Remember we've looked at that in the past. And so I give the very best that I am and the very best that I have to Jesus Christ. I'm giving him the sacrifice of free, the fruit of lips to confess his name. And I say, Lord, I'm yours. Psalm 116 is a picture of a thank offering. And what is the bank offering? The Psalm that says, Lord, I am your servant. I give myself to you in thankfulness. Romans 12. 1 is the picture of the New Testament burnt offering, where by the mercies of God we give ourselves as a living sacrifice to God. Romans 12. Is the new covenant burnt offering. Hebrews 13, 15 is the new covenant bank offering. And those two go together. It's the giving of myself to God in thankfulness. But this doesn't go in just some vague and abstract. It's given in a very concrete and practical way for you and me. And that we see in verse 16. It's the giving of myself to others Look again at Hebrews 13. In Jesus. Therefore, let us continually, let us not just periodically, again, whatever your circumstance. Ephesians 5. 20, giving thanks in everything, in all things, every situation. Continually, you and I are to enjoy the peace of God. We offer to him an expression of thankfulness, the fruit of our earth, the confession. His name as being our peace, then he goes on. And do not forget to do good and to share it with others For with such sacrifices, God is pleased. What does he mean by that? How do we see that into bank offering. This is what I hadn't seen until some years ago I studied this and I've never seen a commentary explained to this. But to me as I thought about it, it seems like it's obvious in the text that this is what God intended. You know, sometimes The Lord, I believe, has a sense of humor in the way he gives to us his directions and commands. Now if you don't believe that, notice what I'm about to say now, and then go home and read Leviticus 7 and see if you may not see God's sense of humor in this. You're thankful, right? Okay, lay a thank offering. We say, okay, Lord, here it is. What do you got? I got a bull or I got a goat, and I bring that thank offering, and I put my hands on it. The priest takes it into the holy place. He brings up the facts to God. He cuts it. And so the priest takes that and he says, Okay, here's the rest of it. And then he takes a look at one more provision in Luke in Leviticus 7, verse 15. And it's this. his fellowship offering of thanksgiving must be eaten on the day that it's offered. He must leave none of it until the morning. Now just in case you missed the point there, in chapter 22, verse 29 and 30, it says again. When we offer a drink offering to the Lord, sacrifice it in such a way that it will be accepted on your behalf. Do it according to God's word. It must be eaten that same day. Leave none of it until the morning. I am Jehovah. That means that's really important. All right. So now you take that and the piece of it, here it is. Jehovah and J say, okay, you know, you haul the thing up on your shoulder, and you carry kids again. It's okay, kids. I hope you're really holy. today 'cause we got a whole pool to eat. Hey First I sits down, you know, and uh they say, Hey I don't think we're gonna pull this off. I mean I thought I was really hungry. I mean you may think you're gonna finish off the whole turkey on Thanksgiving and I can see you know 20 25 pounds That's nothing, you know, they disappeared. People go back at eight o'clock and they sat tell and I hack off some meat for the family today. What meat? You know, it was all gone by four o'clock All right, you may be able to finish off a curtain. But can't finish him off a bull in one minute. You may come back here and say, Well, I think I'll have a few hamburgers now, you know. All right, you know, and then it comes back by eight o'clock right now. We've still got about you know sixty, seventy pounds. to this thing up. Come on, you gotta be dirty, you know, so well you know, if you need a steak or two, you know, I'll try to see if I can possibly get it in, you know, well no, you gotta you gotta have ten more steaks by midnight. Well you know, it's six o'clock the next morning. You got the rest of the night. God says whatever you don't finish, you gotta throw away. And all of a sudden it dawns on you. Maybe God wants me to share this. Maybe, just maybe that part of Of the bank offering, he showed my gratitude by sharing with others. And all of a sudden it begins to dawn on you that that's part of the essence of a grateful heart. So that when the city consists you've got to eat the whole thing in the morning, and God doesn't say, that's what I find when you say. And nobody, I've never had a commentator that ever pointed out what God was giving at. Well God says you gotta eat the whole thing by the morning. So I don't say how we do it, you can call in all of Israel. I don't care, but you gotta eat the whole thing by the morning. And it wasn't on a particular day, so it's staggered. You see everybody else wasn't having their bank offense You are doing it, and God's saying, find somebody who's hungry. Find somebody who's lonely. Find an international seed. Who's looking for what a Christian family is like? Find somebody who doesn't have a family to spend Thanksgiving with. Think of the bank offering you've been reading about in the bulletin in the last weeks, giving to worldwide outreach for the Great Commission of Jesus Christ. And God says if you really just want to understand Thanksgiving, Then verse sixteen says, Don't forget to do good and to share with others. So with such sacrifices, God is very pleased if it's through Jesus. You see, birth giving The simpler response to grace. Thanksgiving glorifies grace by confessing Christ. And thanksgiving imitates grace by giving ourselves. How does God want you to do that? And for me to do that this week. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, help us to understand what it means to offer the Christian bank offering. Lord, as we gather to thank you for our leisure and our employment and all the good things that we enjoy, our families, the material things that we have been so blessed with. As we thank you for health and strength and all the other things, Lord, some of us can enjoy any of these things that are not necessarily everyone. The Lord, your word calls us back. To the one thing that we all can share in common, to confess Jesus. And that we have peace with you. And we have your own peace as you sit down with us, picturing that in the bank on. Offering to give to us your very presence in the meal of thanksgiving. Lord, help us to understand Help us to confess Jesus in our thanksgiving. Help us to glorify your grace by reveling in Jesus. Oh Lord, may there not be anyone here who would have an empty, vacant thanksgiving, thinking they can hack their way into your whole life. place by their own offerings. Oh Lord, may we come through Jesus. Every one. Lord, wrestle with our heart that's still standing against you. Father we pray, if you would give us grace to imitate your grace. Doing good and sharing with others that we see and need. Those that can't return our mercy and our grace and our generosity, so that we know, Lord, that we're doing it out of gratitude for you and not what we'll get out of it. Lord, give us grateful hearts. You have given us so much in Jesus. Bigger parts, Lord, that we might offer to you the sacrifice with which you are well pleased. For Jesus. Amen.