When's the last time you read 1 Corinthians 13? I know some people who read that regularly. Some people I understand even read it weekly just to keep those precious truths before them. of the priority and the pictures of love. So let me remind you of what Paul says there. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but have not love I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flames, but have not love, I gain nothing. And then follows 15 descriptions, 15 pictures of love. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud, it is not rude, it is not self-seeking It is not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. Now, if you're at all like me, you hear that list, and you're convicted, right? I am not patient. I am often not kind. I keep records of wrongs, and especially when I'm stressed It's helpful for me to see how somebody acts or reacts when they're stressed to see what love would look like. I remember reading An example from Paul Miller where he talked about how his teenage daughter was stressing him. She was rude, belligerent, disobedient. He was tempted to simply restrict her and ground her and let her have it, and instead something prompted him to probe a bit as to what was produced in that behavior. And um turned out there was a lot of pain, and he was able to hear and minister the gospel. And I thought, you know, that's helpful because I can identify with the situation. Any of you can identify with that kind of situation all And uh I was able to then see how I would normally react and how that was different. Now, I would say even further, you really don't know somebody until you know how they react under stress. A person can look loving and kind until they're stressed, until they are threatened. And then you see a different side of them that they couldn't cover when they were in control. I have a friend who works with the same team of people over and over on big projects And says that that's really helpful because we get to know each other and I get to know how they react under stress and when they're threatened with loss. Well, if you look at these descriptions of love You've probably heard that you could replace each of them with the name Jesus. Instead of love is patient. Love is kind. You could say Jesus is patient. Jesus is kind. Jesus doesn't envy, Jesus doesn't boast, and on and on it goes. But what would he look like under stress What would a real flesh and blood Jesus look like if he was threatened with loss? And has it ever occurred to you that God has given to you a perfect example of love under extreme stress and threat of loss? Some years ago, I read through the passion narratives of the Gospels, looking particularly to simply see how Jesus reacted to people during that time. And I must say that of all the studies I have done of the Gospels, I don't know of any that has affected me more than that study of how Jesus is so different from me. And to see how Jesus illustrated First Corinthians thirteen in his love For his disciples and for others during a time when he endured the greatest stress imaginable. What I'd like to do in the next three weeks is to share with you some of the fruits of those meditations as we come to the time of Easter. I've numbered 12 examples. Of perfect love under incredible stress. Four of them have to do with the time of the Passover. That's this week. Next week, three examples at the time of his arrest. And then finally, Palm Sunday, five examples during his trial in crucifixion. To observe how he illustrates 1 Corinthians 13 under these trying circumstances, and then to see also how he loves you and me Because he reacts to you and me the same way that he did to those disciples. It's not different Especially to see how he reacts to you in your sin and in your failings. I think we have a dichotomy, many of us. That says something like this, that Jesus is loving and patient and kind. Except when I mess up. And then he is exasperated and irritated and distant. We need to break down that kind of a dichotomy. If you were to finish the sentence, when Jesus looks at me, his expression is, how would you finish that? Or if you could draw, how would you draw his expression? Would it be kind, tender? Would it be with a tinge of exasperation, endurance Or if you finish the sentence, when I sin and I fail, Jesus' reaction to me is. What would you describe as his reaction to you? What I want to do is to look at concrete examples of Jesus in those kind of situations. And then for us to finally see a model for your living and my living out, 1 Corinthians 13, by his power, having seen his example. So today we want to look at the first four examples from Luke chapter 22, which you just heard Tom read And see him in the Passover, his tender patience and his love for his disciples. First example. Luke chapter twenty-two verse fifteen, his earnest desire for their fellowship. His earnest desire for their fellowship. Look at verse 14 and 15. When the hour came, Jesus and the apostles reclined at the table, and he said to them, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. That is an amazing statement. It's only Luke that records that. It says that he is not above them, removed from them, as Savior and God who's about to die for the sins of the world. He's not simply their teacher and their savior. He's their friend. His affections are wrapped up in them. He desires their company. I have vigorly desired to eat this Passover with you. That's an insight into his heart. It reminds me of Revelation Chapter 3, verse 20, for instance, where Jesus says, I stand at the door and I knock, and if any man will open to me, I will come in and I will eat with him, and him with me. I desire your fellowship Or in John 17, you remember the prayer of that same night that he was betrayed, where he praised, Lord, Father, I want them, my disciples, to be with me, to behold my glory. He's kind of saying I can't wait until that day when they're all gathered to be with me and will never be separated again. Yes, Jesus is here. He's with us But not in the closeness of the fellowship where we see him and we're in his immediate presence revealed to us. He desires that. Occasionally it will occur to me while I'm out praying on Tuesdays, particularly, and I'm just trying to get alone with the Lord. Um And I'm kind of all thinking, you know, all right, just got a little bit of time here. I need to get busy, got to start praying for CPC, start praying for the world, that Jesus is desiring my fellowship. He actually desires my presence. Not just get busy and start praying, start interceding, be productive. But he's saying, I believe at times, hey, oh, hey, stop. How about we just enjoy each other for a bit? Do you believe that Jesus delights in your presence with him? Some of you have grown up in families where You felt like the best thing you could do was to be absent. I was talking to a woman recently who said, I felt like the best thing I could do for my father was to be absent from him. My presence was always trying to him. Some of you feel that way? If you do, it's hard, isn't it, to believe. Jesus really desires your presence. He doesn't want you absent. He'd rather have you right there with focused attention Can you believe that Jesus is fond of you? Yeah, he loves me. Fond of me? Not so sure. That's pushing it. I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you. That speaks volumes of his heart And you see, what's so amazing is we operate out of the reason I am loved is because I am lovable. The reason I love other people is because they're lovable. So if I'm not lovable, I'm not capable of being loved. Just like I won't love you if you're not very lovable. And so it is nigh to impossible for us to believe someone who eagerly desires to have our presence, who is fond of us and delights in us. simply because he has set his heart upon us, not because of what we do for him. What did the disciples do for Jesus that night? Were there any insights that they had to offer during his trial? Were they understanding his heart? Were they supporting him? Absolutely not! Nobody bothered to wash the feet in place of the servant. Jesus had to get up and he washed their feet. He talks to them about giving his body and his blood for them, and they start arguing about who's the greatest in the crowd. They make false boasts of their loyalty. And when he takes them out to the garden, the greatest trial of his life in Gethsemane, and says, Come, Peter, James, and John, support me. What do they do? They fall asleep. There are no heroes here. There's nobody who's ministering to Jesus. And yet he says, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you. It 's not as if he's thinking, well, that you guys are really going to minister to me and you let me down, but I was hoping he knows their hearts. But he still eagerly desires their fellowship. Secondly, notice even more his patient response to their thoughtless selfishness. It's patient response. You remember the institution of the Lord's Supper that you have there in verses um Um seventeen, uh well verses um sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, but particularly notice from verse twenty, the second part of it, uh after the body. The cup. In the same way, after the supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table. The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed, but woe to that man who betrays him. Unthinkable, sobering words I'm going to shed my blood for you. One of you is going to betray me, whose hand is on the table with me right now. Woe to that person. And what's their response? Verse twenty-four, twenty-three. They began to question among themselves, which of them it might be who would do this. Who of us would that be? Who is it that could do such a thing? But then, verse twenty-four Amazing it is it is, look at this, verse 24 follows right on the heels of verse 23. Also By the way, there was something else going on. But the conversation quickly changed from , could I be the one? Could be the betrayer To a dispute arose among them as to which of them was considered to be the greatest. You see how it turns? Oh , could it be me? No, no, it's not me. I'm loyal to Jesus. In fact, I'm more loyal to Jesus than you are Oh no you're not. No, I'm more loyal to I 'm loyal. Oh no, no, yeah. And they start arguing. Now is it just me or is that a particular characteristic of men? You see what I it's it is me. Uh thank you. Let me explain what I mean here. I I don't think if the disciples were a group of women around there, the conversation would have gone like that. See, I don't think a group of women would have said, Is it me? Is it me? They would have started speculating, who around here has done this? And they would have noticed, at least some of them, who did not have a connection with Jesus. I I'd noticed her, you know. I I just knew she didn't have a connection. I could see it, that the distance was building, you know. You see the men are less observant, but they're more competitive. So they begin to argue, you know, no, it's not more, you know, on and on and on. Now consider how exasperating that is. First of all, just in itself, it's ugly I mean pride is always ugly. But I mean you know the business. If I'm better than you, I'm more loyal than Jesus is thinking after all these years how little you know your hearts. I mean I started Back there three years ago, Sermon on the Mount, blessed are those who understand the poverty of spirit. And you guys still don't understand. You're bragging about how great, how rich in spirit you are. So that in itself is ugly. But it's even worse because this isn't the first time they've done this. In fact, I would suggest you scratch out scratch out the Matthew references I give you there. And and really it's clearer if you look at Mark 9 and Mark ten. In Mark 9 They say the same thing, who's going to be the greatest? Jesus teaches them about greatness isn't about stature and all this, you know, it's about serving Mark 10 elaborates even another uh another instance prompted by another incident. He does it again. So this is at least the third time That they've said this and that he has responded. See, worse than that, because right at the beginning of this meal Nobody gets up to wash the feet, and Jesus gets up, puts on a pal, he washes their feet and says, This is what the kingdom's about. It's about serving. I am your master and I serve. So just maybe an hour before they had heard the lesson on this, and they still don't get it. So it's at least the fourth time That they've had the lesson. And then finally, he has just said moments ago I'm going to give my body for you. I'm going to shed my blood for you. And somebody here is going to betray me. And so does their attention, oh well, let's think about Jesus now. You know, I mean I I think that that's important. Somebody here's going to betray him. He's going to die. What do they do? Once again, back to the same old pattern. I'm better than you. I'm more loyal than you. No, you're not yet. I mean, you talk about something ugly, inexcusably, shamefully despicable. And I can't think of a better example And how does Jesus respond? Now get this. If Jesus is trying to love them Like you know, you and I we try to love people in our family that I ought to love, I ought to try. Sometimes they're a little hard to love, but I will try to love them. There is no way that Jesus could have surmounted That trial , that provocation of the disciples. But notice first of all how gentle he is. There's no hint of temper. Jesus said to them, the kings of the Gentiles lorded over them. Sound familiar? Oh yeah, man, that's why I heard that before. Three times. And so Jesus begins to teach them. He's gentle. Secondly, he's patient, repeats the same lesson. The Gentiles, Lord, kings of the Gentiles, lorded over them, those who exercise authority over them call themselves benefactors, but you're not to be like that. I mean even that, you are not to be like that. How many times has he said that? But he says it patiently again. You are not to be like that. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who rules like the one who serves. For who is greater, the one who is at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who is at the table? But I am among you as one who serves. He had just washed their feet. But then notice, even beyond that, he is encouraging to them. Not only does he restrain himself from giving them a withering blast of a rebuke , He then encourages them. Verse 28. You are those who have stood by me in my trials. He acknowledges Their faithfulness. Now you see the underlying message here. You all have stood by me in my trials, and I confer on you all A kingdom just as my father conferred one on me, so that you may eat, all of you, eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on my throne on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So Jesus not only does not rebuke, blast Teaches patiently, but he encourages them in what they have done. Now, do you see Jesus' heart toward you like that? Today it's hard for me to. It's hard for me to believe that anyone could know me and love me like Jesus. Brothers and sisters, it even gets more astounding. Who is it? That is going to hurt Jesus the most that night. Not Judas It's Peter, one of the inner three, who will deny that he even knows him. So, in anticipation of that, of the fact that Peter will be the most likely To faint from despair in his denial of Jesus Jesus in verse 30 makes a particular point of encouraging Peter. Simon Simon Satan has asked us to sift you as we have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers. Did you get that? When you have turned back There's no doubt, Peter. You're going to need to remember that. Because you're going to despair and you're going to wonder if you are irretrievably lost and there is no hope. And I'm going to tell you right now when you turn back. Satan will not have you. How Peter must have clung to that word in the hours ahead And then he says, then strengthen your brothers. Your sin will be a major opportunity for ministry. My grace is so amazing that I will take your greatest failure and use that as an opportunity for your ministry with your brothers. They will see in your life the extent of my grace to strengthen their faith. And Peter writes his first epistle out of the experience of the care and tenderness of Jesus. I I yeah my heart can't wrap itself around that. Can you conceive of such patience, such gentleness, as Jesus expressed in that situation? Yeah. How's Peter respond? Now Peter's just been arguing, I'm one of the greatest, you know, so he comes Lord, I'm ready to go to prison with you. I'm ready to go to death. No, no, no, no, no, Lord, that's no, you got the wrong guy, it's not me. And so Jesus has to get even more specific. I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you even know me. So that when Peter sins, he will remember. Jesus knew this. He knew what I was going to do. And he still loves me. One of the hardest things for some of us as Christians is not just our sin before we were Christians. Okay, I was not a Christian. Jesus forgave that. Hard to believe. But for some of us, what's even harder to believe is, but the things that I have done since I've been a Christian. The ways that I have been ashamed of him in public places, the ways that I have denied him, the ways that I have compromised. The ways that I brought disgrace on his name, if he had only known what I was like , you see? Saying, yeah, I know. I knew exactly what you were going to be like. I had no illusions. And I chose you knowing that. I set my heart on you, knowing what you were going to be like. And I still love you. I still want your presence with me. Can you believe that? Do you see why the gospel is life-changing? How can you believe that? And not be different. And then finally, there is his warning To pray in Gethsemane and the gentleness he has when they fail. His gentleness to Peter and His gentleness to the disciples in general. Verse 39, Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. On reaching the place, he says to them, Pray that you will not fall into temptation. Mark adds that Peter, James, and John were asked to go along for support, the inner circle. He's so alone now as hell is closing in on him. And what do they do? Do they join him in prayer? Do they pray for him? Do they seek to encourage him? They've never seen him so agitated, so weak. How do they respond? What do they do? They fall asleep, that's what they do. Not just once, but three times. Jesus comes back. They're asleep. Oh, oh yeah, Lord. Okay. All right. Go ahead. We're with you. Go ahead. Second time. Sleep. Third time. Sleep. Now I mean you can think, even if I can imagine getting through the evening to that point. Certainly at that point, I would lose it. You guys, at every point tonight You have failed me. You've let me down. I mean, you can't even stay awake when I am coming against hell for your sake, and you can't even stay awake from me? I imagine that Satan in the temptation in that garden used their behavior. Can you imagine Satan hissing in Jesus here? And you're gonna lay down your life But those guys, they can't even stay awake for ya. They are not worth it. They are pathetic You are so stupid to give yourself for them. And Jesus comes back. And not simply without exasperation, but his concern is for them. Pray so that you won't enter into temptation. You better pray. A time of great trial is coming. Pray a second time so that you won't enter into temptation. And he goes to the cross to give his life for them who couldn't stay awake for him Brothers and sisters, I can't understand that kind of love. And I hope we had a great discussion about it in the middle hour Do you want to come next week? Continue the discussion. Going to continue the same ideas. How do we get our minds and our hearts wrapped around that kind of love So in conclusion, let me just mention, see how patient. Think about it this week, how patient Jesus is Not just with his disciples then, but he's the same Jesus right now, this day, toward you, toward your sin, your stubbornness, your stupidity, and mine. So that you might feel secure in his love for you, because his patience with you is no less than that with Peter. To alter your view of him. Break down the dichotomy. Here's how Jesus is in general, but toward me, don't think it works that way. When we go into Matthew 5 and we see strong, difficult words, remember it is this Jesus who speaks those words to you out of love. So that you would worship him for the perfection of his love. You know, I really believe that there are some of you here as Christians who need to think less about your sin. Why? Because you need to think more about the love of Christ. Satan's first strategy for us is to get us to not think about sin, to excuse it, blame shift it, all the rest of that. But if he fails in that For some of us, what he tries to do is push us the other way. That's all you think about is your sin. And you fret about your sin and you obsess about your sin and you think, boy You know, I'm a rotten person, but at least I'm aware of how pathetic I am and on and on and on. But the fact is you're still missing Jesus. As long as he can get you thinking about yourself, he don't particularly care whether it's about how good you are or how bad you are As long as it's just all about you. So a woman has written a book called Generation Me a few months ago. It came out She talks about the self-centeredness of the current generation. How we're all wrapped up in ourselves. She says the motto of this current generation is broadcast yourself. MySpace, YouTube, whatever it is, I love me. And then she talks about how this obsessive, compulsive narcissism Is leading to profound levels of alienation, depression, anxiety, loneliness That's what we're like. And as long as it's all about me, whatever we're thinking, good or bad, it's not about Jesus, and we won't change. What changes you is not thinking how rotten you are. What changes you is thinking the love of Christ for you in how you are So this week, try thinking a little less about your sin for some of you. If you're not thinking about your sin, I don't want to discourage that, but if you're find yourself obsessing about your sin Focus more on the love of Christ and then finally see here a model for your applying 1 Corinthians 13 to contrast how you react. Go back through those situations. How would I have reacted? How does Jesus react? And to then worship him, to confess that difference, receive his forgiveness, learn what love looks like. And as you receive it, pray, Lord, help me to reflect it. Help me to love you and in loving you so much that you know I just want to be more like you, Lord Jesus. I want to be like you toward the people that I encounter this week. My family, my friends, my co-workers Because he is the divine artist who is repainting and reshaping your life to become more like him. And you know what? When he comes, you will be like him. You will love just as these examples, only without the sacrifice and the suffering. In that day when he receives us to himself. Let's pray. Lord, we can't imagine your love, let alone imagining loving like you We pray that you would break our hearts, Lord, to see how we just focus on ourselves and how we need to see The patience, the kindness, the gentleness of you, our Lord Jesus, even for us. Lord, uh, as we talked about in the middle hour, Lord, it it it takes your spirit to get our hearts to wrap around us. We can't absorb it. We just so unlike that. So help us to believe the gospel, to believe your love and to be transformed by that love in gentle restructuring, reshaping of our hearts and our attitudes, to love you and adore you and worship you and delight in you and to know you want our presence and not our absence. That you are fond of us, and that our hearts would respond to such a love. Oh Lord, how could anyone here not be moved by such a love? We pray that you would break through to us to show us the love of Christ. Amen.