Today we have time at the same place , completely impossible to help change the staff and this means that Last week up and for give us compassion for the lost, and we ask God to give us partners. Today we are going to part message on the weakness of guilt and value. Peace is the Lord turned and looked great at Peter, then Peter remembered the word the Lord Interesting to note giving the twenty-four hours before Jesus were actually three trial to First of all, there is the trial of Jesus , and the trial that has several parts to it. First of all, before the high priest, the green and violent During the best out of the route and those claims of the five. Whether he 's supposed to do that. Whether he 's cool. Whether he looked at the back then Okay. Some of us believe that other people succumb to the temptation to betray and to discover their best. And then the result itself The third trial is that Peter. Peter is on trial as a disciple for the opinion of a few girls and a couple of men. And Peter again fails. The difference between Peter and Judas is that the Judas remorse and hopelessness That was also the everyone that's going to wanted these truths. Those who are trying to intend to kill him, but you never at any point acted or back down. Peter talked about the label of the And he came to an toilet different. Perhaps it would be a few girls, perhaps at the earl of And just make the party of what is going on in the terrain. At the very end Private land was clarified. The battery tries to Jesus must have that prophecy. They for the writer is Christ and over Christ. I don't know how much we've looked at comments here. Familiar with it, hear about it. So we're having the best study to see that what's going on here, which one of the people statements do we have about Jesus or If you read all four accounts I did last year when I met the eastern time. You'll find out a number of apparent contradictions and difficulties those involved events what's going on. So as I looked at that and began to study, if I put the four counts in parallel began to look at them, I was once again deeply impressed by the nature of the surgery. Obviously, no collision, no effort to make the different accounts fit. But when you actually set them side by side and see what's going on, you see that you'll have independent And an eyewitness account of something that is happening for each supplement. And all of the other coming out the other account. And there is a fact No contradiction. But that's what you would expect in reality. Or adults that you have to work at that reconciled to see what really happened. So what I did was I wrote out my harmonization of those counts. At the same time, rather than try to just kind of you know recall it and miss a bunch of I would like to bring to account that are open by medications. And we try to put together the story and one continuous blood so not working at this. Look at the story and then learn some things. This one has just been arrested by the temple war. Just mechanism for the questioning. There are lots of rumors and speculations that are implied about a very important person and what it's going on. Children is known to find Christianity. And I expect the case with a crowd and Jesus. Peter had to wait till that. So now he comes back and just makes up the time on doing everything to what Peter again It's a great spring even. So there's a lot of people to fire. They sit and go. After a while, the female doorkeeper wanders over and looks at Peter Intent. Like when she stands to the person. Peter and Peter Peter. I don't know what you're talking about. Probably there's a couple of more exchanges. matter is dropped and originally. So he went for the door to leave that. Apparently this time a work gets involved. The same girl sat the door and charges again. That 's a little bit. Now another girl tossed the wicked friend Yeah. That's probably for that piece of battery. Perhaps a couple of others joined in records. And then it's quite tier of responsibility to man. Probably there's a fair amount of coup-up at this time because evangelists never only done and work itself which comes from P are direct eyewitnesses and they recall different people as prominent in the second exchange. Because that just prepare is Wait, a lot going on expecting and agitation. And remember that other guy who kept agitating in the rear and not about him at the two girls. I guess by that by a damn yeah, that more likely the middle disturbance to the constant attention. There is nothing more significant about it now. Democratic Bells up. They are still democratic. That is just accidentally as long as we pray. Didn't say against my teams and the public as it This does not make Peter nervous enough. A relative amount of the service of a high priest whose Peter Peter has just cut off the air that is being comes on. I mean, earlier this evening. Now Peter. And be dangerous to be purse and square. I don't know what you're talking about. First operation of curves. The second time. And two remembers And that looked upon together. To bring Peter back to reality. So you 're just on the crowd, out the door, and over the darkness. All the bravado is well. He's has to play his beautiful legs , a cow. And a bill. He saw the break was delivered to the hospital. Until he went to the hospital. And there I got more to your life. Shame on it. That was a key message. It can almost get intelligence that they might learn. I want to begin before again, I'm going to conclude it after we clear it. It was a colour. That 's an eye baller. Right here. That shadow of the mouth. Let me fight to the most pain. He had preaching to the crowd that the disciples had finished the full life in that boat and that thing 's about it. Chapter 13. Jesus first the disciple at the Mariah hand dropped the lesson. Disciple said Okay. Just a few minutes to have so many fashion with the boat begins. Brought to us these or go away from this. For the presence of the circle excessive. Well, you remember the game is what they were supposed to work. The temples thought they were all doomed. They thought the boat would swamp and flame. And then they So there's no 're black figure coming across walking on the water and Jesus says it was like very good. That's really you. You're thinking it come out when you're in the water. Well, the rest of them are covered out of the boat that pee goes out. But the ways again the same thing, I'm not sure I've been out there a lot more. Mr. Speaker, you had the faith. So is it everyone just thinking that or is it not taking things up to people say below? Immediately , immediately say Understanding that the science things have a craft in it, you can have a back of other That's a powerful, elegant type. Not only that, you need to be more Exactly that's very problem. It was more specifically by Jesus. Jesus said. All of you are going to fall away from me just like out of here. Seriously. About the danger of the temptation. Francis was the first of all the plaintiffs. The temple door against around the teeth. The crowd was there. And they were gonna work by themselves in the phone and stuff like that. And they're having one of them. Don't tell him they've come off his ear. Don't come up to think that he'd hang in here. He had a glancing blow. There it is. Overwhelming a lot of people bargain here. What a glory thing to do. What courage, what bravery. One disciple identifies it as a peer. John. Because John wasn't there. And he wanted it to sell. The cowardice of him tonight wants you to know. And to drop forth the same thing, the Lord Jesus. Finally, let us think it is commander witness I know I've never liked it. So they get as close as possible to continue without being completely. Of the show in going into that triple four action. I know about you. When I look at my own life and I have I had that kind of interest, that kind of faith, that kind of courage. I think more than specifically that might have that kind of love for future. And I think if you're on it , it'll make Peter stands out beyond our own level. I would you think that they just don't write your extent to mention Which reason is that a very important question. If all these things are true, why? Why is it And we can soon and what to do about it wrong from that. They can't try only for the first one. Why did Peter fall in the second lesson? Why did Peter fall for his that he was overly still? He was overly itself. Remember again when it must have supper. Jesus had all of his claims of all of that light. Peter , I'm gonna be posted in order to assure the Lord. Don't worry, Lord, I'm with you. Don't worry, I will stay with you. Unless you want to remember the pieces became even force. Speaker, now it's here. you're going to deny me three times. So at that very moment there was an instantaneous decision. So somebody says something that you know that you're being I can't believe this. Help me Help me know that you can just or if you try to lots of fight for it. So it's all the entertainment I think. I will be all the rest of the I had to find it. I never go. I became a person many years ago. I'm guessing they'll have a particular influence on my first couple of years of personality records and principality. contrasted Peter and Joan. He pointed out, I don't know if you ever heard this point that um that Peter the focus is Or if it was a magic spending, I looked up liberally. In fact, it's interesting if you read the country writing precious bones of any expression of God. In fact, do you recall how John Ici advised himself in his God? He never referred to himself by me. How is that referring to a start of the last time? It's at least five times to convert to himself to the thing that well in that before and the time just after Jesus' death and resurrection. Chapter thirteen, for instance, in verse twenty-three describing the pass over. In John 's post of John, chapter thirteen, verse twenty-three Jesus says, What are them? Great God says, what of them? That the speculation Jesus was reclining next to him, actually. How can I speak of what he's talking about? To get a better accurate as possible. Chapter 4. And then in chapter 4, verse 10 , John To be said this is not not that we have done Or failures like data like reading. An audio sacrifice is a sacrifice that paints held in place. The person who committed the sin. And the means by which the judgment and the wrath are poured out of the sacrifice, which is That's what an authority sacrifice is. Sacrifice for failures. And so but you never guess that John 's supposedly unique through his gospel and through his letters is not what he has but for Jesus. Again, there's a lot of his being over there who went to the crosses We don't have to pass it because John tells us in John chapter 19 in verse 25 we read near the cross of Jesus. His mother's sister. Mary, the wife of Clocas, and Mary Maggie. The biggest son of his mother there. And He said to his mother. Nearby. Some of you are failing to live conditions for expand for the resistance temptations we can identify with I like that to get into the pressure of the crowd. Jesus when it comes to standing as a disciple of Jesus. You're ashamed of the custom. You're ashamed of what people will think of you. Maybe it takes a bit to point out the moment to continue this crisis. Or maybe that you're focusing on your life. You look at your love and you say, Oh, my God is so weak. So up and down and hot and cold, and I'm such a poor disciple. I I want to love him more. How can I love him more? How can I trust him more? And you might be able to see what the Lord's supper is intended to go for you Every month to get your eyes off yourself to simply look at Jesus and urge that look of Jesus. You and I appear that help any common. Because he still is the heart of what it really was. And there are times when you see your heart, and times when I get a glimpse of my heart And we we 've energy. But the problem is that if you look at me, they say, Laura, I can't believe that I'm like that. That's not really me. I think that would be that only vision of what I could be like, what at times I might be like and all the That is what you are feeling like. You are finally in God. Now is the time when you can look away to life's sun and see the gloriousness of the Bible and be love You must vote for you. But the button never fails. Take the other part. And the following back being very intense. Because we have to still work. So this morning. Maybe the word is polling. So it is not the playing hand. Stop the fraternity. That we are able to create some words of the Nevertheless, I live and yet not alive with Christ. Live in me and the life that I now live, I live by faith in the fellow God And where they can be doing as much small way as well, confidence Our attention, turn our focus from ourselves, we're telling us to focus on the view and our best identity The library for stuff focused. The victory comes in the faithful man to the process