This morning I'm going to be speaking from God's Word on one of the most important topics. They can occupy the Christians' conversation, thought, study. It's the topic of temptation. And before I read this text, I'd like to read you one from 2 Corinthians chapter 2 that has always got my attention and been of some concern. Paul writes to the church after there's been a little bit of difficulty at Corinth, and he says this, Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been forgiven for your sake in the presence of Christ, so that we would not be outwitted by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his designs. Now, that's talking about a situation where someone offended Paul and Paul forgave them and he's telling the rest of the church you need to forgive them too. That's not what gets my attention as much as this. Evidently, it is quite possible for an entire church to be outwitted by Satan because they are ignorant of Satan's designs. As the old NIV some of us grew up with, we are ignorant of his schemes. And is it possible that we as Christians are oblivious to exactly what temptation is or what temptations are, because we're going to see that they're manifold complex things. Is it possible that we go about being regularly outwitted by Satan because we have not familiarized ourselves? With the strategies of the great enemy Satan. Is it possible that you Are suffering spiritually because you have been regularly outwitted by Satan because you've never really studied. To discover what his schemes are. Well, both in Matthew chapter 4 and in Luke chapter 4 We are given a very detailed account of the temptation of Christ, who was tempted even as we are, yet was without sin, who suffered when he was tempted just like we do. Hebrews chapter 2 and Hebrews chapter 4, so that we could get a look at what Satan's schemes are when it mattered most to Satan. If I wanted to scout a Major League Baseball pitcher, I would not waste my time looking at film of how he pitched to Bob Bjerkes. All he has to do is get it over the plate. I'm sure to strike out in three pitches. I would want to see how he pitched against Hank Aaron Well, this is how Satan attacks the Lord of Glory, the author of life, Jesus of Nazareth. Here we see him at his best, at his worst, at his most deadly, when everything mattered. And here is where we can learn how to stand in the day of temptation. Please join me in prayer before we read this text. Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you that this has been a day so far that's been just full of joy and excitement. Lord, we've gotten windows into our children's Sunday school hour. Lord, what a what an amazing ministry that is. We give you thanks for those who serve and for those kids you've blessed us with. Lord, for those young men who graduated and the others who weren't able to be here today for the recognition, Lord, we keep them safe. Lord, give them good friends in college. It will bless them. But Father, for all of them and for us, we pray that you would help us to know how to rise to the occasion temptation presents. And so we ask that you bless this reading and the preaching of your word to us. For we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter four, beginning with verse one. Ah, that's why I couldn't find it. I'm on the wrong page. There it is. The word of God. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness, for forty days being tempted by the devil And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, and said to him , To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will. If you then will worship me, it will all be yours. And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you. And on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. And Jesus answered him, It is said, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. This ends the reading of God's Word. Temptation. When I was in middle school and in high school, someone in Columbia, Maryland had a bumper sticker, and I saw this car on several occasions. And I recall riding around with my buddies Danny and Paul and we'd see this and it really made an impact on one of my friends. The bumper sticker that some uh resident of Columbia had on their car said, Lead me not into temptation. I can find it myself. I want you to think about temptation and how it's really everywhere you look. And even if you're trying not to look anywhere and close your eyes, it's in your own head and heart. Temptation is everywhere. And yet it's something we spend very little time thinking about I want you to think about how often you've been in a in a state of spiritual doldrums or in a little bit of a funk. And oftentimes when we're down low like that, we're thinking about good things that we need to add to fix us. We're looking for the The supplement, the little sugar packet of spiritual goodness that we can pour out on our drab life and all of a sudden have flavor again. But too rarely do we think that, as Paul writes to Titus, the gospel teaches us first of all to say no to all ungodliness. You know, it's It's a shock to a culture that is so addicted to comfort, so addicted to whatever I'm authentically feeling right now is good and right and justified. In the moment, who I am, however, whoever I am, whatever I'm feeling, we we we're stuck in a situation in which it's very difficult for us to wrap our head around this thought. The thought being that if I am following Christ, self-control, self-denial, saying no to myself, Recognizing that some of the things I think and feel need to be shut down as quickly as those fiery darts of the enemy suggest themselves to me. And sometimes when I'm in a little bit of a funk, it's not that spiritual saccharin that I need to give me flavor. It's a little bit of housekeeping. It's not that I need something added. I need to kick something out. And at the very beginning of Jesus' ministry He shows us in some detail exactly what it looks like to keep Yucky stuff out of the life of the servant of God. And what about you? When's the last time you seriously considered the temptations that so easily entangle? Because according to Hebrews, if we are to run the race we're called to with our eyes fixed on Christ , That can't be done unless we put off the sin that so easily entangles. Well, what is that sin? How does it entangle us? If we would not be outwitted by the schemes of Satan and be tripped up and bound, well, what are those schemes? This is not going to be one sermon on this one text. This is going to be five sermons on this one text. So I'd invite you to stay tuned for all of them. But today I want to look at this text and address three issues that we need to be mindful of when we think of temptation in its most general general terms. First is that it has uh an occasion associated with it. It has a purpose that's very complex, and it has a nature. Well, what is the occasion of temptation? Sometimes we think that we're just tempted when we're down, and that when we've gotten bad news or experienced frustration, then we're particularly susceptible to temptation. I want you to think for a moment about the story of King David, our father and the faith, the man after God's own heart. It is after the Ark of the Covenant is brought back to Jerusalem and after he has subdued all of his foes, both domestic and foreign, that he is incited to take a census. And to demonstrate a confidence in the strength of his kingdom, not the faithfulness of his God. It's after every success he could have imagined. That he falls into that grievous sin. And what about another one? Let's talk about Jonah. It is after Jonah has experienced a very unique calling in the history of the prophetic tradition of the people of God. And after he had been restored, after he rebelled and fled in a boat, and he was divinely sovereignly saved by a great fish. uh cast upon the banks of the the Mediterranean, made his way to Nineveh, had an outrageously successful mission, forty more days and you'll be overturned. Watched a whole city come to Christ, as it were. And then he falls into what is his worst sin. The bitterness of spirit. The people he would have preferred to have been destroyed will instead be sharing heaven with him. What about the Apostle Peter? We all like Peter. Many of us gravitate towards him because he's the kind of guy that often would speak first and think second. Peter is very impetuous, but Peter is the guy who got it right on when when Jesus in the gospel sets his face to Jerusalem and all of the conversations are happening on the way to the Mount Transfiguration. They're talking about who Jesus is and he he says, Well, who do people say I am? And the disciples are kicking around different theories. Some say John the Baptist, some say Isaiah, some say a prophet And but what about you? Jesus asks plural. And Peter speaks up for the whole for the whole crowd, all the disciples, and he says, the Christ, the Son of the living God. And upon that rock, that good confession, the church will be built. That was Peter's shining moment. What's the very next thing out of Peter's mouth? Oh Jesus, you don't need to go and die. And the response of Jesus is, get behind me, Satan. What about Jesus? The high point in his ministry, up till this moment in his narrative is on the banks of the Jordan River, when he is numbered with the transgressors, when he steps into the crowd of the other sinners, and he submits himself to a baptism of repentance in their place, a baptism He didn't even need to do. And the heavens open, the spirit descends like a dove, and the voice of God Himself, the Father, says, this is my Son. And it is after that mountaintop experience that Satan throws his best and worst at him. You see, the occasion of temptation, dear friend, is anytime. If you're looking at your bulletin and you're one that likes to fill out blanks, write it in all caps. Any time. There is no time that you are immune to temptation. There is no time that your spiritual growth or success or progress makes a particular temptation irrelevant to you. There is no time when temptation loses its power. Temptation is a brutal, ugly thing. And it can come after you on your best days, and it can come after you on its worst on your worst days. And it will do both. You might think, well, if I'm really led by the Spirit and really spend a lot of time in the Word, well then I won't be tempted. Jesus Christ was tempted even as we are. That's what Hebrews 4 says. In the exact same way you are tempted, Jesus was tempted. You can take it for an absolute gospel fact that if you want to understand temptation, study this text. Luke 4, 1 to 13, Matthew 4, 1 to 11. The temptation of Christ shows us that as he, Jesus, is led by the Spirit, he is tempted. Do you think you've ever been led by the Spirit so purely and so truly and so undistractedly as Jesus was led by the Spirit on that day? I don't think I ever have. And yet Jesus himself was tempted. During a period of consecration to ministry, much like those 40 days of Moses. A time to be set apart to begin, to lay the foundation for three years of service to God's people, culminating in his sacrifice of himself for us. And even there Especially there, Jesus is tempted. So dear Christian, temptation is a part of your life. And I hope that just this brief look at this first verse of chapter 4, verse 1, shows us that temptation is going to be a part of your something you're going to have to deal with on every day of your life. What is its purpose? Some of you might know from other pastors that the word for temptation in your Greek New Testament is prazzo. And I know it sounds like a fancy, you know, Italian uh natural bubbly water or something, but it's not It's a word that means temptation, but it's a word that also gets translated trial, and it also gets translated test. Now we don't think about test and trial and temptation as if they're all the same thing. But all of those words kind of nested together in the mind of the first century Hellenistic pilgrim or early Christian. And you see, whether something is a trial, a test, or a temptation has very much to do with who is administering it and what they're hoping happens. Give you an example of that. If you accused me of rooting for the Yankees I would love to have that put to the test. I would love for you to comb through my Facebook feeds and see when I've ever said, let's go after the Yankees win any game. I would love for you to go through all of my baseball card collections and see if I ever, ever cared even a little bit to collect the entire team in any given year. In fact, if you were to do that, you would come to the conclusion that Bob is indeed a mature godly man who roots for the Orioles. I would love that test. Wouldn't be a trial. It wouldn't be a temptation. But what about another thing? What if I wanted to what what if I was a really, really bad father? And I really didn't want my kids to be going out somewhere so Carrie and I could go out and I so I wanted to ground my kids. And I very deliberately left a bunch of chocolate cake out on the kitchen counter and told 'em not to eat it. And my intent in doing that was that they'd eat the chocolate cake and then I could ground them and then Carrie and I could go watch the ne the next Star Wars movie. Now, first of all, I'd be a bad parent, guys. That's a terrible way to parent. And I didn't do that. This is not a true story. But the intent is to see the one sitting through the exam fail. Satan tempts. That's why God says in the Bible through his servant, James, he says, when you're tempted, no one should say, God is tempting me. Because God doesn't tempt us. God doesn't put us in situations where his hope is that we're going to fail. God does arrange and ordain for us to have trials and tests. And if you're looking at your notes, I know that we've had a very full Sunday today, so in your small groups and on your own, I'd like you to look these texts up, 1 Peter 4, James 1, Romans 5. God gives us, perazzo, tests and trials. Remember, Jesus suffered when he was tempted, even as we do. That's the end of Hebrews chapter 2. Temptations can involve a lot of suffering, a great weight. They're hard. And they were hard for Jesus too. But the purpose of that, from God's perspective, is proof. The nature of temptation, uh the purpose of temptation is proof. God, see, in both of the texts that we find uh in uh James and in 1 Peter. We should rejoice when we suffer trials, perazzo, of many kinds, because they result in the testing of our faith is what the language of your Whether you have NIV or ESV or a modern English translation, that's a different word. That's not the same word parazzo. The testing, trial, temptation, that word parazzo of our faith results in our Passing the test, our demonstration that we knew the right answer, did the right thing. didn't do the wrong thing, remained faithful when it was difficult. God 's purpose in us being tested and going through trials and in having moments of parazzo is so that being successful we can be strengthened humbly more dependent upon the spirit. I want you to think about this as if you were my lacrosse team and I was your lacrosse coach. I don't make you run wind sprints at the end of practice because I delight in watching you collapse in a heap and puke your guts out. I really don't enjoy that. I do that so that you can become stronger and be conditioned and develop endurance so that on game day you can win. And God arranges for us to go through seasons and instances of great trial and testing so that we can be proved to ourselves, to the watching world. To our family, to Satan himself, that we belong to Jesus and we are growing My son Christopher J. he's a uh wildlands firefighter in California. And I was talking to him because Carrie and I took a quick turnaround trip to California this week because my third child graduated with his got two AA degrees. And uh we got to see all three of our boys and my son Cubby I was asking 'em it's a seasonal job, so he just got his call up And I said, You've been staying in shape? And he said, Yep. He said, but I'm a little frustrated. You know, those guys are always working out because they carry chainsaws plus forty pounds of gear and they have to run for miles and miles and miles. And and I said, Well what are you up to in Lifton? And he's telling me what he does in his dead you know, deadlifts and everything. And he said, Well, I think I could hit 225 benching, but I haven't tried it yet. But he's evidently, you know, cranking out reps of uh 185 and he's not worried about it. So he I don't know where he got that from, not me. Uh How do you get stronger? How does my son get stronger? He gets stronger by putting more weight on the bar and lifting it until he can't lift anymore. Have you ever wondered if spiritually those aren't two dots you need to connect? How do you grow spiritually? By being called into situations that are uncomfortable and cause your spiritual muscles to burn and your bones feel like they're going to melt and make you want to quit. That's how you get stronger. Is that not the case across the boards? The Proverbs teach us that if you falter in times of trouble, how small then is your strength? You don't know how strong you are until you can no longer lift a single pound. And you now know that, well, I max out at 120 , whatever your weight is for benching. Spiritually, God wants us to grow and be stronger, and so yes, of course, from time to time he'll, as a good coach, put an extra plate on the end of the bar. From time to time, he will put you in a game situation where you might feel like you're overmatched, but he has confidence in you. The temptations that you experience, yes, Satan wants to do you harm. He is like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. But God, who superintends all of it, sees it as an opportunity for you to rise above that place, that need, that pain, that experience. Like Shadrach, Meshach, and Tebed to go. Meet your Savior in the fire. Like Daniel in the lion's den Continue to pray and know that you'll be with the Lord. God 's purpose is great. Satan's intent is evil. What a great motive for you to think seriously about the schemes of Satan and want to pass the tests set before us. What about the nature of temptation? If you go back to that verse I read from 2 Corinthians chapter 2, for we are not unaware of his schemes. Or in the ESV Bible, it says we're not unaware of his designs. But you know, however you translate that word, in the language of your New Testament, it's plural. It's not just one scheme. It's not just one design. It's plural. You know, when I go fishing in Minnesota, and by going fishing I mean fill the boat with a bunch of second cousins three times removed who are ankle biters and curtain climbers, and I untangle their lines and cast out their bait But when I go, I bring a tackle box, do you think it just has one hook in it or one lure? Oh no. Not not at all. I have different size hooks for different fish. I have different size and style crankbaits that will quote unquote swim at different levels that have different color patterns based upon the time of year and what the fish were going after. They like to catch northern pike. The the the color schemes to resemble different bait fish, different brightness of the same color schemes depending on the water quality, which is a function of when it's rained most recently. I have schemes and designs when it comes to catching fish. Have you ever stopped to wonder? At the depraved intellect of Lucifer himself. He doesn't have just one fifty-year-old rusty roppola bait that he throws out in front of you He is constantly making sure that he is throwing in front of you that lure, that temptation that's going to be the most visible, most obvious, clearest, most appear to address your needs. And he'll even use one temptation that he figures you'll pass to set you up so that you fail at the next one. Let's go back to the image of the pitcher. He's going to throw you a couple of brushbacks. Pitchers that come real close to you. So you step back in the batter's box a little bit away, and then he's going to get you on the outside corner and strike you out His goal in throwing those pitches he knew you'd step back on wasn't that had anything to do with those pitches. It was to set you up for the third one. We're going to see over the next weeks that these temptations Satan throws at Jesus are connected. You ever stopped and thought that Satan tempts us in a way that is very, very clever? And his temptations are not a bunch of isolated one-off moments where he's trying to trip you as if he's just like a bad guy from a PG movie. Home alone. Just trying to break a window or no, he's got a whole plan And he's very careful in his execution of it. The moments of this temptation that Jesus endures for us are interrelated, and in fact, they carry on. Jesus himself, as we'll see. refers when he's talking to his disciples as his entire three years of ministry, as his time of testing. this entire period of life. And so think about temptation, Christian. Think about how temptation is something that's presented to you all the time. That God intends it for you to be established and strengthened and to have proven to you and the watching world, spiritual and natural alike, that you belong to God, that you are indeed his child. And that it's a very complex. That's that last blank for those of you who've taken notes. It's very complex. Satan never sleeps on us, we should never sleep on him. Resist him and he will flee from you. Do not be outwitted by him. Recognize that he has schemes and designs that run deep. And are a regular part of our daily life. By way of application and just thinking about temptation, I would close with these two thoughts. In the words of 2 Corinthians 2. 11, are you unaware of Satan's schemes? We haven't talked about any of his particular schemes yet. We've only talked about the fact that he has them. And we're going to see in the temptation to turn rocks into bread, the temptation to throw himself down, the temptation to bow down and worship. These three sort of representative temptations. Give us as full a picture of the tempter's strategies as we need. I would invite you to give careful consideration over the next weeks to those schemes and see how they're relevant to your life. And do you live out a dependence upon God, asking Him to lead us not into temptation and deliver us from the evil one? If you go into the Sermon on the Mount in the Gospel of Matthew and find the text of the Lord's Prayer, you'll see that that is indeed the word. We tend to say, lead us not to temptation and deliver us from evil. Well, it literally says, from the evil one. We recognize that Satan is behind our great temptations. We say, O Lord, lead us not into that. Don't help us fall into it. Help us to rise above those paras, so not fall into them. Help us to Recognize the tests and trials and help us to count them as joy and be proven and established in our faith. Do you recognize, dear Christian, how essential it is for you to be in daily prayer. Daily prayer that you pass those tests and rejoice in those trials. Jesus didn't say, oh, by the way, pray for my kingdom to come and ask him once a year to provide you with all the food you'll need for the next year. He says, give us this day our daily bread, and lead us not to temptation. Daily. Deliver us daily from the schemes of one who would outwit us. I have on many occasions both myself been and as a pastor counseled Christians who have been badly outwitted. Badly outwitted And praise God, amen. When we are caught in a sin, we can, according to Galatians, be restored gently. None of us can say we were without sin, lest we call God a liar, but he is faithful and just and will cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We need only repent Ask for forgiveness. My heart's desire as a Christian man. is to become better and better and better at resisting temptation and passing tests. Why? Because Jesus Christ died to set me free from the power and the guilt of sin. And I am called to find out what pleases the Lord. I'm called out to work out my salvation with fear and trembling, because it is God Himself by Spirit who is at work in me. To will and to do that which is pleasing to him. What about you? When Jesus Christ died on the cross for you, it wasn't simply To forgive your sins. It was to free you from them. And to help you stand on that day of temptation. And like me, you will fail. But like me, you will grow. Amen. If any of you are struggling with a sin, a temptation, and you would like to pray with one of the elders or a member of our prayer team in that back corner of the sanctuary, we'll have people that would love to pray with and for you And if you are caught in a sin and you you just don't even know which way is up anymore. I would plead with you to talk talk with the elders, talk with your Bible study, talk with a small group leader. Talk with any of us elders during the week, and what a blessing it is to hear the words of the gospel. And if you are weary and heavy laden, come to Jesus, lay that burden down, and he will give you rest, and he will help you to stand In the day of trial. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord Jesus, we marvel at your great love for us. that you came not to live a simple, happy, joyful , great life. With no bumps in the road, no struggles along the way, and then just have a horrific death at just one moment at the end, Lord. You came and you You suffered when you were tempted, and your life included all the same kinds of temptations that we deal with every day. The difference between you and Us, Jesus, is that you are without sin. And we are not. God Almighty, forgive us for our sins. And we do pray boldly, lead us not into temptation today That we can resist the evil one. Lord, help us to live to your glory. Help us to be a people who are really growing spiritually and what that looks like in our marriages, in our families, in our careers, in our neighborhoods. And in our church. Make us a humble, repentant, joyful, and obedient, gracious and loving people. We pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ our Savior. Amen.