I'm going to begin the uh message this morning with a riddle for you kids and you adults. This was suggested by Betty Rushing after hearing the message the first time, first service this morning, so you get the benefit Okay, here's the riddle. What is the only thing in heaven that is man-made? Right? Kids think about that? Adults can think about that too. I will tell you the answer to that at the end of the message. What is the only thing in heaven that is man-made Another Christmas is coming going. Some of you got Bibles for Christmas. Anybody get a Bibles for Christmas? Okay, that's good. Congratulations. You put your name in it You know how many Bibles we find around here on the left with no names in them? I can't believe it. Maybe if you can have an old Bible, check, make sure you got your name in it, because uh It's always surprises me the nice Bibles. We get a nice collection. And uh that's especially important to me now because I haven't seen my Bible since Christmas Eve. And mine has its name in it I've been preaching out that Bible for twenty years or so, and it is gone. I don't know where it is. So if anybody finds this black Bible that says Alan Harris in it, then uh appreciate getting it back. You don't need it I was able to find another Bible, but it's not quite as good. In fact this morning, a couple minutes before I came over here to the service, I realized I left my notes at home also. So I'm um preaching without a Bible and without notes. And I was back in the kitchen there during the break and enjoying my tea so much they forgot to let me out and I thought wouldn't even have me. So but I do have an outline, I have some things I have down here from before, so I think we'll get through it. This is that message that I promised you. Fifth message, um, an extra message on Christmas this year. And uh that's because I've never been able to persuade myself to preach this message before Christmas. And uh that may seem a little strange because uh the text is perhaps one of the, if not the clearest texts in all of the Bible on both the full deity and full humanity of Jesus Christ. So it is a text that uh is most pointedly about the incarnation. Uh and yet uh I've never heard a Christmas message on it. I've only ever seen one message on it ever. And it was In his old volume I have is a message preached in the early nineteenth century by a pastor J. W. Alexander in New York City I'm sure somebody else has preached on it, but uh the text is Romans chapter nine verse five. Now, have you ever had uh a Jehovah's Witness or Mormon or somebody that you're in discussion with about Jesus and they say to you, well, you know, the Bible never says that Jesus is God Some of you had that kind of thing, you know? And so what do you do? You know well then you go to John one and you get into the whole business of the word was with God and the word was God and they say, Well that's There's no definite article, so it's a God and you get on you know. And after a while you get so confused and disoriented, you're beginning to wonder yourself, does the Bible ever actually say Jesus is God? Maybe it's something that, you know, we've just sort of assumed and maybe they're right, and so it can be very disturbing to a person's faith. I must uh admit to you, part of the reason I'm preaching this message this morning is not just for you, but it's to get it on tape, because uh this is one of those resource messages that you sometime may find a friend of yours has need for or you may want to go back. to get, but it's good for us to be able to look and see does the Bible ever actually specifically, explicitly say that Jesus, the man, is also fully God? If you look at Romans chapter 9 Verse 5 says that. But now let me warn you that as we get into this morning, I'm counting on the fact that those who come to worship on the Sunday between Christmas and New Year's are the committed core. Alright? You're not those that are wandering all about. You know, you're not here for Christmas. And so I can lay some heavy theology on you guys. We're going to do some deep looking at a passage in a little more depth than we generally do. And that's part of the reason why I don't preach it before Christmas when people like stories better. We're gonna get into some deep water here So please follow along. I hope you will find that it is worth it to be able to get the gems of what Paul gives to us and to celebrate that as a number of people went out of the first service doing. In Romans chapter 9, you have to start at verse 1. Remember, this is after Paul has given the gospel in which he comes to this grand climax of the fact that we are more than conquerors. And that uh God uh who has brought us to Himself will never leave us, no matter what the circumstance And then he backs off and he reflects on the fact, kind of like Isaiah 53, 1, why has Israel not believed this? And so he says in verse 1, I speak the truth in Christ, I'm not lying. My conscience confirms it. In the Holy Spirit, I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were cursed and cut off Christ for the sake of my brothers, those of my own race, the people of Israel You see, because after all the glorious message, he's saying they by and large don't believe this. And then he states seven privileges that they have had but rejected. He says, theirs is the adoption as sons, theirs the divine glory, the covenants, the receiving of them all, the temple worship, and the promises. Theirs are the patriarchs, and from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ, Messiah. Who is God over all? Forever praised? Amen. Amen. That's all there is. Hey, right? But meaning can you get any more specific than that, can you? Christ, who is God over all, forever praised. That statement is so powerful, so radical The people have looked at that and said , can't really be saying that. Maybe there's another way you can punctuate And you see, in Greek there is no punctuation. You know, I mean commas and periods, so you have to put them in where you think they ought to go. So, what translators have done is they've said, well, you know, there's two other ways you could punctuate this verse. And that would make it a little bit more reasonable, something we could believe and accept easier. So you see those in your sermon outline. You could put the period after the all In fact, if you have an NIV Bible you'll see it gives us in the footnotes, I think the ESV and ANASB, I think they all give these alternatives. But you could put the period over the all, so it would read, There's are the patriarchs, and from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ who is over all. Period, God, be forever praised. Or God be blessed unto the ages. That's one thing you could do. Or Other people have proposed you could put the period after Christ or Messiah. So uh it would say something like uh there are the patriarchs, theirs are the patriarchs. And from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ, Messiah. Period. God, who is over all, be praised forever. Amen. Where you've seen your bulletin outline, Christ according to the flesh. Period. God the one being over all be blessed unto the ages. Amen. Now, which of those is correct? Which of the three possibilities? Obviously, only the first really teaches the deity of Christ Now if you look in the sermon outline also above those two translations, you see that I've put down as literal a word-for-word translation of the Greek as possible. Sometimes Greek does not put in a verb where we put in a verb, they just kind of have it understood. So the verbs and this are in brackets indicating it's not there in the original, but it's understood. So a literal rendering would be of whom are understood the fathers of the patriarchs, and from whom is, the is is understood, The Messiah, Christ, according to the flesh, the one being over all, God blessed unto the ages. Amen. So the whole thing rests on where you put the period. Now That's very important, as I say, because only by putting the period all the way at the end of the verse do you have the full teaching of the full deity of Jesus Christ. So what are the arguments for putting the period at the end, for translating it in the traditional way? And this is where you need to think hard with me because I want to offer to you five arguments. They're not proofs, they are arguments, and you will have to weigh in your own mind uh how persuasive they are, uh, but five arguments for the traditional translation or the one that you find in the NIV, the ESV, New American Standard The ones that are in the main text. Five reasons. See if you can follow these now. Number one. If it's a benediction at the end In other words, it's blessed is God forever, rather than speaking of Jesus being God. If that's just a a doxology, a benediction at the end then the word blessed should come before the word God, not after it. Because wherever else you have blessing of God. And I give you four examples there from Matthew, Luke, and Ephesians. It's always blessed be God. Blessed be God. Blessed be God. Blessed be God. In this case it says God is blessed. Well, you could say that, but nobody ever does. It's just not the way they spoke then. However, if the word blessed, which is, in fact, um after the word God, then it makes sense to say The human ancestry of Christ, who is God over all, forever blessed. Praised, blessed, same word. Alright, so that's the first thing. It's not a proof, but it says you pause to think why would they do it you so different this way Secondly , they get a little weightier as they go. Secondly, to end a long statement about the privileges of Israel who are then cursed because of their unbelief with a benediction seems a little likely unlikely. I mean in other words, what Paul would then be saying is I could wish myself cursed because of my fellow Israelites who are cursed because they have rejected the gospel and all the privileges that have been theirs. And he goes through, you know, the promises, the covenants, the temple worship, the ancestry, the patriarchs, and Christ who has come, the Messiah from the lion Praise God, you're going to be cursed. Well, yeah, he could say that, but it's not exactly what you would expect him to end the sentence with. What would make a lot more sense is, and they have rejected even the Messiah, who has come from the patriarchs and is their God You know, then it's a climax, you see. Makes sense. Thirdly, you look at the uh where it says there at verse five, uh trace the human ancestry of Christ, the next word, who That who is a problem because the word who there requires an antecedent. Who's the who referring to? The who doesn't go with God that is after it. It goes with something before it And so, if in fact the sentence says from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ, period, who is God blessed forever? It doesn't work. You see. So at least it needs to say, is traced the human ancestry of Christ, who is overall God forever priest So at least that word who requires that there is an antecedent, something before it that it's referring to, that it's identifying. And that means you can't just start the sentence with who. So it's got to be Christ overall, at least. And of course what makes more sense is Christ, who is God overall. Forever praise. So if it was to be translated like those two alternatives, you wouldn't have that word who in there. You just take it out, then it would make more sense Who requires the continuation of the sentence? Fourth point, if you're still with me on these , Somebody said they need to get the tape and hear it a couple times. Fourth point is that the point of the verse is Messiah's relationship to Israel in his human nature, implying that there's another side to Christ to speak of You see, if what he's saying is, theirs are the patriarchs, and from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ. Then, God who is over all be blessed forever. Well, why did you stress the human ancestry if there was nothing else to follow, if there's no other side? Let me illustrate that for you. Suppose you were to say that in his human ancestry Alan Harris is descended from two presidents , Conn Adams and his son, which I understand happens to be the case. It's a true statement. But I suppose you just said that, you know. In his human ancestry, Alan Harris is descended from two presidents Say, well, why in his human ancestry? What other ancestry does he have? Unless you're going to say in his human ancestry, Alan Harris is descended from Jewish presence But you see, there's something else about it. You know, it just it's left hanging. If you say, in his human ancestry, Messiah was descended from the patriarchs. And he is God blessed forever. Two natures, you see, being brought together. It's required to make sense out of the sentence. Now that's so powerful, so explicit, you see, if that's what Paul is saying, that theirs are the patriarchs and from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ who is Other side of his nature, God over all, forever praised, the people have said, well, it can't really be saying that because Paul's never that explicit about the deity of Christ. I mean he hints at it and goes around this way and that way, but he never really comes out and says it. So why in this of all the writings would this be the only place he ever does that? Well is that really true? And so my fifth argument is this really does fit what Paul says in other places. For instance, in Colossians chapter 2, in verse 9. Paul says, For in Christ the Messiah, all the fullness of deity lives in bodily form. That sounds like a pretty strong statement to me. All the fullness of deity dwells in Christ. He is fully deity. Or what about Philippians chapter 2? In verse 6, where Paul says that this attitude, your attitude, should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, who, being in very nature, God did not consider equality with God something to be grasped for. It was essentially his. He was in very nature God. Pretty clear and specific to me. Well, what about Titus chapter two in verse thirteen? Where Paul says, while we wait for the blessed hope, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. The Bible, and Paul particularly, never speaks of the appearing, the coming of the Father. He never speaks of looking forward to the appearing of the Spirit Gale speaks of the glorious appearing of Jesus Christ, but how 's he described there? Our great God and Savior In fact, God and Savior are joined together to describe, be very absolutely clear that it's referring to one person, God and Savior, Jesus Christ. It's pretty explicit to me What about 1 Timothy chapter 3? In 1 Timothy chapter 3, Paul is talking about the church. which he says is the pillar and the ground, the foundation of the truth. Now this is the church of the living God. Then he goes on, beyond all question, the mystery of godliness is great. He appeared in a body. Who's he? Well the only noun before that that it could refer to is the living God And then it says, he appeared in a body, was vindicated by the Spirit, was seen by angels, preached among the nations, believed on in the world, and taken up in glory. Well who is that but Jesus? But it starts out that he is the living God who appeared in a body. Well you remember a couple of weeks ago it talked about Paul's Closing speech to the Ephesians before he left them in Acts chapter twenty, in verse twenty-eight Where he says, Keep watch over yourselves and all the flock of which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. Be shepherds of the church of God, which he bought with his own blood. God bought the church with his blood. How does God have blood? Except he's become flesh in the person of Jesus. Obviously, that's what he's referring to. And so it seems to me that Romans chapter 9 verse 5 is just one other instance of one of the many ways that Paul describes unequivocally that Jesus, the man, was fully God. And of course it's not just Paul that says this. There is the Well known passage in John 1, beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. By the way, it says Word was God rather than God was the Word, because God is more than just the Word. He is the Word as well as the Father and the Spirit. So John is very precise in the way he states that. But John also says in his letter, 1 John 5, in verse 1, I mean excuse me, in verse 20, just before the end of the of his letter. He says, we are in him who is true, even in his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. 1 John 5 20. Again, what could be clearer? He, Jesus Christ, is the true God and eternal life. We're take Hebrews chapter 1 Not written almost certainly by Paul. In Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, the Son Is the radiance of God's glory, the exact representation of his being, sustaining all things by his powerful word. What could be clearer as a statement about the one who is man than that he in his essential being is the exact representation of the fullness of deity? Even Isaiah, 750 years before, we've been stunned by how precise Isaiah's prophecies have been of the work of Christ. But no less true is it about the person of Christ. When Isaiah described him, do you remember back in chapter 9 in verse 6? He says, For unto us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called four names, wonderful counselor , mighty God Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And then he describes his government, his dominion, which is both infinite and eternal. But the middle two designations, mighty God and everlasting Father, clearly indicate deity. You can't, as a Jew, call someone, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, and say, well, we didn't really mean God by that. No. It's exactly what Isaiah is saying. And so deity runs throughout the New Testament and is also indicated even in the Old Testament. So when you come to a passage like Romans chapter 9 In verse 5, theirs are the patriarchs, and from them is traced the human ancestry of Messiah, who is God over all, forever praised. Amen. You do not have something that's unique, something that doesn't fit the rest of the testimony of Scripture. It is saying what is absolutely necessary for Jesus to be Savior, that he is fully God and fully man. Why is that necessary? And people say, Well what's the big deal here? You know, I accept he's my Savior and why do we have to go into all this theology to get all this nailed down? Isn't that Being a little pickyon. If Jesus isn't fully God, he cannot be your Savior. Why? Two reasons. There's others, but there's just two you see there in your outline that I touch on this morning. One, because our Redeemer must be innocent. Anyone who is from Adam's race inherits Adam's sin. He has Adam's sin nature. Therefore, he's guilty from the start. Such a person would be in as much trouble as the rest of us. He would need a savior. And so what you need for someone to come to be able to be eligible to die for your sin and my sin is someone who is not of Adam's nature. Which is why the angel said to Mary, announcing his birth, that the Holy Spirit would come upon Mary. Because apparently in Scripture's testimony, the line of sin passes through the male line. I may have been went into that a couple of years ago and all the women cheered. It doesn't mean women aren't as sinful, just you know, you understand that But you have, you see, the Holy Spirit coming together with human flesh, so that Jesus literally is the Son of God. He is now the beginning of a new race of people. He comes now to bring human nature without sin. Not only is it necessary for him to be innocent, but it's also necessary for him to be infinite in his capacity to suffer. If Jesus were simply a human being, and he was innocent, that'd be great for the one other person who he would choose to die for. Because one person can substitute for one other person, one sinless person for one guilty person. Only if you have in Jesus the capacity to suffer not just as you and I suffer But the capacity to suffer infinitely for sin, because you have infinite condescension of all the fullness of deity Encapsulated in a human body with infinite capacity to suffer, can that substitution be for an innumerable host of people? Jesus must be God if he is going to be eligible to die for you and for me. But it's just as true that he must be fully man. He can't simply appear to be man. He must fully be man because if he is to be the representative of a group of people that he has represented it in his death, then like Paul says in Romans 5, as in Adam who represented the human race all die, so in Christ, the representative of the redeemed human race, all are made alive. So he must be fully human in order to accomplish that. That's exactly the point of the book of Hebrews. In chapter two, where it says, Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death, that is the devil, and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death. For surely it is not angels he helps, but Abraham's descendants. For this reason, he had to be made like his brothers in every way. In order that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God and that he might make atonement for the sins of the people. He must be under the law, as Galatians 4. 4 says. God sent forth his Son in the fullness of time, made under the law. Why? Because he must, like Adam, pass a probationary period faithfully showing that he is obedient to the law. God is over the law. The law reflects God's character. God doesn't reflect the law. The law reflects God. But Jesus has to come and become man So that he is obedient to the Father. He's obedient to the law. Therefore the law declares him innocent And that makes him eligible as an innocent, infinite substitute to take your sin and my sin fully and completely. Thirdly, he must fully be man, of course, so that he's able to suffer and die. Die a real death, not like the Muslims say, that he appeared to die, but a real death. And this is what Hebrews 2. 14 says. Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity, so that by his death He might destroy him who holds the power of death. And these two natures must be fully united So that you do not have two persons, but you have one person with two natures fully fused together, so that when you're looking at Jesus, you're seeing the face of God. Jesus is God and man together. You say that's impossible. How can God, who by his very nature is omnipresent, who is spirit Become man. And we say that's impossible. And the angel said to Mary, remember when he announced the birth of the one to come, he says, for nothing is impossible with God. And so God has done the impossible for you and for me. Now what does that mean to you? Three three thoughts to reflect on as we conclude. Means number one That for you to respect Jesus, to say that you even have Him as your Savior, and you believe that He's come to die for your sins, and you accept that But that you don't worship him is not an option. He is essentially Lord, because he is God. Can you imagine God in the flesh coming and saying, now if you want to accept my sacrifice for you, that's okay. You can live however you want. You don't have to obey me. You don't have to live under my rule and authority. I just want to have you on my side, and I'm just glad to be able to say that I've died for you and take you to my heaven. I don't really need to have authority over you. You see, every statement that praises him and says that he's wonderful and he's respectable and all the rest of that is just so much blasphemous condescension. Unless you're ready to say, I worship him. My life revolves around him. He's my savior. He must be my Lord. He must be the one that I obey, that I want to come to know, so that more and more his rule is reflected in my life as a offering of obedience to him. Let me ask you, have you personally ever bowed before Jesus? Not just acknowledge that He is a Savior, that He is somebody that you highly respect, but that you worship. If not, I I urge you, I beg you, I plead with you. Don't continue to deceive yourself that you have the option to have him not at the center of your life, but in some corner of your life, the Savior from your sin, without worshiping him as Lord. And secondly, if in fact Jesus has come to give his life to die for you, that is God who has given his life to die for you. What unfathomable love. A fellow by the name of Louis Limao, Louis DiMayo lived in Africa And uh one day an African teenager, fifteen years old, fellow by the name of Kwassi, came up to him and said, She shine, sir? And he looked at the frail fella and he said, Sure. And he took off his shoes, for he and the way they do it is take off your shoes, and the little boy said, uh Here, while I shine, you use my flip-flops. And he looked at the worn, filthy flip-flops and thought Would I be willing to put those on for a few minutes rather than to shame him? Would I be willing to put those on to identify with him? Maybe for a few minutes, but then he was overcome by the thought, would I consider putting on those flip-flops and living in his world? Would I be willing to put on those flip-flops and enter into his life if that was a way that I could save him? And he realized how paltry was his love compared to the love of God. Brothers and sisters, don't ever mistake it. God did not become flesh for 33 years to get the job done. And then when he returned to glory, he shed the body. When God became flesh at a point of time, it was forever God 's essential nature changed because he became flesh in the second person of the Trinity. And he continues today in flesh and will continue to eternity You know, whenever I say that, I think, you really are sure you're not going too far? Because it seems so incredible that God would love me And love you enough to change his nature and be confined in a body forever in the second person of the Trinity. And if he has done that, you approach him as a God who is not afar off. But a God is close. I have a habit in my praying to kind of uh focus in alternating on a three-day cycle between coming to the Father, coming to the Son, Jesus, coming to the Spirit. When I come to the Father, I'm particularly conscious of the fact that there is a Father of infinite, omnipotent compassion for me When I come to the Spirit, there is the sense that here is a cheerful, all-powerful being who is able to help me in any way that I need that brings me more to reflect his glory. But it's only when you come to Jesus that you know that this one of the Godhead feels what you feel. And he doesn't feel it as a distant memory, the rejection, the burdens, the pain. For he's outside of time, and he feels it as if it were yesterday. And he, Hebrews 2. 18, says, has done this So that he would be a priest that could sympathize with us Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted What is the only thing in heaven that is man-made? It's the wounds By the nails and the spear that Jesus continues to bear. For unlike Allah Majestic in his aloofness, our God has wounds. And when the other gods look at the wounds of our Jesus They slink away. Your God has come to suffer for you To bear your sin, to bear your pain, to be approachable for this next year Some years ago in Rwanda, when all the bloodshed and brutality was going on, there was a day when they had piled all the corpses up in the town square. And a Western journalist approached the priest who was ministering there. And he said with deep passion , How can you see this and still believe in your God? To which the priest gently answered, How can you see it and still believe in man? For unless God comes from outside our history into it to suffer for us, we have no hope. But praise God, brothers and sisters. The incarnation is about the fact that God has come into our history. He has borne our wounds. He has carried our sorrows. He has redeemed us. He has risen and he bears our nature, the form of flesh, flesh itself forever. But he is going to one day make us like him. And we will share in his glorious body forever. And until that time, he will never leave you. And he will be with you all this next year to help you. And to be with you in every circumstance. Let's pray. Oh Father, open our eyes that we might see that you Uniquely, the God of the Bible has come in flesh and have rooms for our sin and our pain and our death that we deserve. And have delivered us, that are with us, to sympathize, to feel with our suffering, and to know whatever it is Lord, in this next year, whether it's further terrorist attacks on the nation or whether it is pain and difficulty in our lives individually, we can never say you don't understand. For you, our God, have come and suffered and died for us. We thank you and we worship you Give us eyes to see that we may trust you and love you. In Jesus' name. Amen.