How do we cover the best case of bad five inference? It's about five instance. So there is no question on the new platforms. Well we'll be calling for weapons that we can see that fast in the main platforms. So there is no lesson's weapon The infants are baptized in the ensettlement. Rather than the believers. Because in all settlements, God commanded the infants of believers to be circumcised. And in these are three title cards, like the pair fabulous with the hair cover, so the second paper is bad skills. One of the keys happens to have the proceeders is really important to Plancy chapter two, verse 11 and F. So let's look at those verses in this handle. And we can go through them along to see verses 1 to 16. Matthew chapter 2, voted one to 15 for me by around. They read these voted from God works. I want you to know how my thing for me for those that maybe My purpose is that they may be encouraged and heart united in life, so that they may have the full wishes of complete understanding, in order that they may know the mystery of God, learning Christ. And who may hidden all the treasures of wisdom in mind? I tell you this, so no one over pleased with fine sounding arguments. But I am absent from you and body, I am quite a goodly and spirit and delight to feel how older we are, how fine is great and price is Hold on, scarcely he refused, I think that his word continued to learn it, read it, very good. And all this time is fantastic. In Christ, our quality of beauty lives in body world. And you've been given so in Christ. You've been heard over every In him, you is the earth is circumcised. In the full earth is the principle, not with a circumcision done by the hands of man. But with the perfect reason done by itself, having been bathed with him and back with him, and wave with him, see your faith in the fire's light. He raised him from the death. When you were dead in your sins and in the uncircumcision of your sinfulness, God made you alone with your sins. People that all our things have a tens of written page of its regulation. It's good a page for it He took it away, nearly to the plan, having the very departure and authority made a public subsequent Therefore, to consider that I've text the nine verses eleven and six. What we just said, an examining would be not primarily to establish infantry. But you see the work of Christmas. Well that's so happy that these voters are presenting concerning the million of baptism and here before. Can I only see this name? So these two verses are skippable Pineese type doses. That is they're not verses which you can understand by the same superfaces because we're reading of them. But rather they're verses meant to speak And for meditation. So we've got to consider it carefully while the car is getting us. And I think the key to understanding these things is is that one thing is preferencing a Yes. That's what they days before that. You were circumferenced With the circumcision of Christ. If you boil it all down, that is message to you and to me and those who vote it. You have been circumcised. How? You performation of faith. That's how you like to get a classic. Every believer here in Jesus Christ, every one of you who have put your face and Christ in Jesus Christ. Have been circumcised with the circumcision of Christ. Don't talk about Bible's going and the effective witness and up to the baptism, but that's because the message is I want folks to understand diagnosis by breaking it down into screen terms. You see them there and you've put some outlines. First of all, I want us to notice the mark of circumstances, which is a cut. Secondly, the latest the means of allocation provisions would be fine. And thirdly, the latest the pindus of our token provisions would be self-pogent. The mark of circle, the meaning of circle, and the symbol of circumcision. So for them, the mark of circumcisions as far. In the Old Testament, when we read of God making a covenant, what the Hebrew literally says is God takes the covenant. Speaking in benefits, chapter 15. In those instance, that's perfectly our coffee. So take a look for anonymous meaning of this important carpet for understanding of Colossus chapter two. In Galicus chapter fifteen and verse eighteen, we read that on that day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham And literally, what do you do, dear friends, is the Lord covers of covenants with a Literally, that's what the Hebrew word means. He cuts. God cuts the heaven. But that's a very important word to Because it's the very first time we read of God making a covenant with Asa. All I am who could be the beginners of a new wave. And so let's take a look for a moment at the circumstances of Babylon, which we saw see good guys. Do you remember the chapter begins in the beginning of Chapter 15 with Avon My son, my son, who promises in your son, serve in the God, believe your promise, and we believe we believe that even believe so, that would be put it away to who the can And uh that's dealing with the terms of the stone. Then beginning with verse seven, the question of the land comes up. What about the same time? I don't have a full thing. What about that? And the rest of the chapter views are the promise concerning the land. Now, uh, notice what the land says. T safety uh elegants in verse nine isn't really animal actually three animals and two birds, uh a heifer, a goat, a lamb, and a dog and a young kitten. And so Abraham is welcome to the Lord and what did he do? So they brought each other and he put them in too. And he arranged their heads and The birds he didn't cut in hair. But the animal can cut in hair. Rather than doing that. You see, this is a human these animals would be cut in two. And the point of that was that the people who were doing that were saying, So may it be to the person who broke this covenant, would be dismembered, would be cut apart. You'll be cut off and you'll be cut in pieces if we break this covenant. Well, so we don't think we're very drinking parking things, no day is cut the one in the left and you say we're going That's how you cut the covenants. So everyone cut you down, and I can believe that the words came down in verse eleven and the private took the covenant. processes and we can bag and all these people. And then your son comes down to basic things. And even comes into a deep deep, a kind of a nightmare colour, a kind of power of darkness. It's very and then look the Lord in the next couple of verses promises pathetically what's going to happen. He's going to have these people who combine Egypt and leave the land but then God will bring these people. back into the land. He said, This is what I saw the fears and this is what's going to happen. And then notice in those seventeen, when the sun had set, darkness had fallen A smoking fireside with a blazing fork it feels. A kind of a smoking cloud and a blazing fork. And of course if you read an electric system you find that the idea of smoke and clad. and so are symbols of God's presence. And so God in his reason why is picturing himself. It is all from pictures. A glory and house evil, a smoking star and a fire. And what does it say? Notice, verse 17. The food is the beast. What that does? That says, That's me, Aben, you kept those animals and black. And now, Abraham, may I Jesus numbers. May I be cut in pieces if I break my guarantee and don't then you can break? But we're kind of building because uh properly got a uh that's a real thing compatible, you know, very clear. I mean you can start with it. Yeah. So the hen got the points. You can see it's trusted in part of it because of me doing cut and beauty As it is, we think of me breaking our science, we violate our minds, we don't think that's the thing. But we wanted to adapt to that That's a heart that's going to cut their back. He's cursing them back. You see that? God is cursing through those pieces. So I am going to be cut in pieces. No different. Why is this? Because the news as as it covers is he's practically We kept the covenant. And without picking up on the asking that question for a moment, notice how there established the symbol of the covenant in chapter seventeen. In chapter 17, when it says Abraham, you should take the mark of his covenant. What does that next? Chapter 17 that says in verse 12 and 11 This is my covenant with you and we decided you, the covenant with you to see every male among you shall be circumcised. You have the only third circumcision and it would be the claim of the covenant between you and you by circumcision. The four things is cutting. It's cutting the fortune for the mayor. And in that cutting, the mayor is more. But that's he is a mark known for the rest of his life. He is cut off from the world to rest. Because what about mark that's about to know? Because I said that's clear we could cut you off from the nation. You to belong to the east. You don't keep the covenants What can that be to look like the rest of the nations? I find it to be the find that you start being expect Lady verse 14. Any uncircumcised male who has not been circumcised in the flower will be cut off from his people for he is broken my covenant. And then God did hear to say in the prophets later on, particularly in Jeremiah, just be circumcised in the So circumcision is a kind of head. People are more faithful. But if they're in the same thing, if they're doing the things, uh the left a very last time uh did we He wanted they did not want to be. They did not want to be a distinctive mask people to God. And so it was pressed now at our time to end the day a change of course, a change of uh a process by just circumstrating the big students. So that when they played in the Greek names and of course in the Greek frames and actual and they played um so The problem for the Jews is see what they were not. They were about to call that they were Jews. They were cut off. They were separated to God. They didn't want to be that. And so they had that hidden. Because the thing, the essence of this covenant, is that covenant. Either cut off from the world to die, or if you deny the covenant, we are cut off in God. And it's previously. So when you come into the New Testament. And after the Old Testament has come up again And again, how the people of God have been circumcised in the flesh, but they have not circumcised their lives. They have not kept the covenant. They have again and again violated the covenant becomes into the new testament. And you read in Christ's chapter two. You have been circumcised. Notice what it says. Not a physical circumcision. Paul can start to see, Paul says in verse 11, you are circumcised in the putting out of the same formation, not with the circumcision. So You can circumcise her in him. What is the beginning of verse 11? In him we were circumcised. It was spiritual circumcision. It was a circumcision that didn't simply remove the piece of things in your life Rather it we need the whole body of flesh, that is the whole information. Normally translated. The information, literally it is the body of flesh, normality family translated, literally body of flesh. Either one is correct. Body of flesh is the literal, but the meaning of God used to that means the information. That whole thing has been removed from Jesus Christ. That's the truth. By the program season of first. I think about it. What's the program season of first? I would suggest you that I'm a man. First of all, Jesus became a man. Said that he could be circumcised. God can't be circumcised. It couldn't take someone about it. That body was typically circumcised. The indication can be female and identify with God. That circumcision also indicated circumstances that he was under the law. And Jesus fulfilled that life. He was circumcised and he fulfilled the middle of that circumcision. He already got cut off in the breath. Jesus has really cut off from the world, he is fine. He was totally cut off from sin. He totally belonged to the Father. He kept the covenant fully and completely and safely. Those very good properties of Genesis 16. The views of the cards of the very light, the view is the need, and we cut the covenant Therefore, the earth we are describing the covenant. Will be the violence, covenant breakers who ever He would give perhaps an inspiration from the body's opposite. And spurs to you as a measure. He that gets the fulfillment of our point passing through the peace and the leaders. And who gets to prophesy? And at that point he's very close to you and I because our sin. But you and I are cut off from the father's present because of our sin. Music is cut off from the father's But if you and I could be saved to the human to be being saved, being cut off from the world. Oh, six. When you have people of time become visible smart, that's some mark that identify these to the people of France. But we've never told me to use this hand for Jesus. My only hope is you're quite hard for me. He was the last person in the world who could ever be coming out. He could. Well the answer has to be proof that you have to be free to break to the picture of this Notice the input Colossus 3, 11 and 10. Paul says in him you, if you accept the Jesus Christ You were circumcised by the circumcision of Christ. What does that mean? Who took you to use in that verse in those two verses? Later, those who love Because he was cut off in his circumstances by the removal of that whole body, of the Yes, the removal of the symptom. You see, no conclusion of both is not so much good. The circumcision of churches, the circumcision then sounds like it is the circumcision that is unfortunate. And I identification with you. You are simply the release and do the same time if you belong to it This is one of those stars and he says, You were going to your king. You were raised again with him. Before the key victory by the removal of your body's length, and you would bury your and you burst with deep It means that you will circumcised your influence. Your influence. You have been cut off within this. And because of that, really no longer have any power in this. Well now I wanted to be touched When no longer has the million or power will be realized because of that radical game. You have found the game. You have been standing to it to a race to a new life. Because you are certainly friends. Why would you be too shifting for having to understand the party body? Simply very often you get conclusions when you talk about buying price and rising to them and what that means. Good example to help you to understand the paragonist in these versions. When he says you are no longer under the power of sin, when you thank you, it you are justified that it can no longer condemn you. Your God has been removed. It's been taken away. Let's suppose that you come into a post. And you're falling before a God. And over you look at the form The few children. And it's a long, long lift. You get all this lipstick size and the black side. How do you feel for these things? And you guys I've done all those things into And it does say because of these time to be up to seed tomorrow at nine o'clock in the morning. So they take the house the next morning, the up to seat. And then let's suppose that you're very again to a meanlight in another world. Because your life is in another world. You no longer live in that world where the dead could come down to you and it put you to death. You're in a new world. But I suppose he can three bass without no other three weeks below. And now it's a week later. And the God through bath and his road. And he said, hey Harris, we found some more charges, some things that we didn't execute before. We're going to have to bring up the body and we're going to execute you again. So what I did. You only executed me. I can only buy once. He've already killed me. I can't die again. That's the way you are under the life. It can't happen. You've got die again. You've already been executed in Jesus because you were He is so radically cut off, the Bible says that you are ways to a new life in this time. It's a life that's in Christ. And in that new life, you can never be executed again. Because you died, you already executed. Okay, Bible says he wishes, sin no longer has power over you in your present mind. You can't find this habit, this attitude. And there's no way that I can achieve. I can't confuse because it had hold of my life for 10, 15, 70 years, and there's nothing I can do to overcome. I can't do it, man. You just hopefully. You die. You will die. You will raise your life. So has power over you if you cannot accept. Okay, we have Okay. Well they have this master. I suppose the good master never asked us to the only thing it wants. But it's very, very exactly. And he's looked at beauty forth day after day to go on, where I look to be. And there's never ended Day after day we've got to carry out these duties and day after day we're filled with a fill with a things of our obligations and the things that we've never thought for filled with So let's suppose I'm going to reject. And you guys I don't appear back in while the works. He has different life. A light in another dimension. Another spirit. But now let's suppose that in this case, the old man. He gets up to us in this new life. We'll grab the hold of you as a place. You've got to wash the floor. You forgot to do this and you forgot to do that. What did you do? She said, I'm by. She had a mask well today. I've got a new mask in there in this one. And this last year is difficult. You're not my last anymore. Get out of here. I don't have to save you. God died for you. dominant him like he no longer serves him beside us And your life is now new. And it needs to make it. It needs fear. I see this feeling I can only move it if I failed at this point. Then he would come to the end of this and give us my faith. You have to be reminded of this thing. Right now you're gonna have power faith. Remember, you are circumcised. in the affected people of Jesus. And because of that he does and he's doing those. Not like that Christians. I think because that is your We have been to all to a penalty and to a power. And he's after we like to be honest. What is the spinal about 136? The finger about 1336 is the same thing. He says very 11 says, in Jim you need to alter circumstances. Don't go down to the play with a new balance. Going after the information. Not a circumcision on my face, it's a serious circumcision. The little circumcision of Christ, literally, because you know it's something that is really circumference. With the circumcision of twelve. Now it's the circumcision I believe then five times, and it's the second season then two times. Can I give you a minimum reason? It's the second prison of friends. They device haven't been buried with women backwards. Yeah, it's noticed this. All the explanations of verse 11 talks about an introductive 12 as an explanation of what it means. But when you go on to verse 12, that's Still explaining that in this statement you were circumcised. So it means like this. In him, you were also circumcised. Just an explanation of what that means. Having been buried with him by baptism. You were circumcised. How? Having been buried with him by baptism. And then raise with him to refer to the power of France. See that first death is television power you were furnished. Now notice that I stated in the bulletin. So that is absolutely true. I just silent over that because I want to be free to give it a sense. Second thing, the old factory was a sign of you with the covenant God of Israel, as we thought, since this Genesis chapter seventeen. Baptism, those thought, is the sign of union with Jesus Christ in a second reservation. That is having been buried with him in raises into the central character. Your spiritual circumcision has been symbolized by a gospel which identifies you with the covenant God in Christ. This is more custom Identified with our God by perfect people. So new presence, we identified with Jesus Christ, the fulfillment of our covenant by telling us that. Read a system. As pertension, however, was no guarantee of driving, but a time as likely or person to carry out. There's no guarantee of having no listening. Providing a task, nothing resistance to the one promoter. God commanded the rich man who is to be cut off from the covenant, what to be given. He commanded each other, spoken together, who invaders, what to be cut off, and who can be cut When we baptize our children, we don't presume because they're by passing. Therefore they pass in those with Jesus Christ in his death. But they have been free. That is what we are given to them is the chance The feeling that goes to them. This is what deeper And when you believe in God. Let it take us, having been dealt with him by baptism. Baptism is that it is done through you. Well you're giving me three months. Your face. That says that there is a symbol, a hand, and a feel of God's completed work to be given to you. But in order for that to be effective in your life It must be mixed with or blended with, supplemental, it must be received by your faith in the power of God to raise him to us. Not living without grace is okay. That's living with faith. That people before or don't with the question. That similar before is so important to the Christian, so not a part of the Christian, but Paul identifies the Christian here as one who is baptized. You who thap The circumcised have been both passed. You have been circumcised. Symbol of it? What are the symbols? We put them first God has given us a spot. Do you have that? Like people are closer. God is very peaceful from the body. What I do now have to be. Have you been to us to be confused? Have you been circumtrend with the circumcision of stuff? Is that totally true? Can apply to your life? So you play face out on peace and find. I broke our covenant. I've broken his laws. I violated him again and again. But Jesus, the circumcised, he was made under the law, and he will cut us from leaves. Think of that. You take them to yourself the prayer. Grassy. You see that indication of But we see the left hand up to you, God will see your word. And if you have in both and But what about the old lens? Do you live? Would it work it is if you die for the old lens? Did you die for the old man? And the sin no longer has power over your mouth. So I have keep an awful lot of power in my life. It will have conducts for that. We have a control. We have a mercy. We have a new life. You'll be mad at the message. You are sent to the mountains. And you are real and be Jesus is the father. The other star, not against. And the other the new master who goes to be. He lives the battery go by the night. And you find it again and again, you put yourself back under the man, tap under the harshness of the man, leaving with joy And you delayed in the world. But we give a nice card of the feel of the covenant of Lord. You give them. Have you given to them that sign with such democrats as those who are cut off? As those who have the sign of being cut off from their own. And to the Lords. Those who are because of that the story of these other sins and people from the sun He said, but what did that guy mean to them? They weren't representing it. And even how can they look back on that because that is a kind of what we asked him? That's very quick. You speak to them of what that's kind and that CMS. And you describe to them that in that process they were being cut off from the world and codified to Jesus The those need to be circumcised seriously with their identification with him in his death and his very own revolution by faith in the power of the God. Okay, is one kind of example? Sorry about the name of David Keys. He was a United Methodist. By the way, not that's the green last week. And his kids just princible for very well with these children. And he's not been baptized, and he said the Christians have their baptism. And years later his son, whose name happened to be Sweet, said that when he looked back on those pictures, many times to his few years, he was decided to mean that. the phonics, all the kinds of things that we do about it. He said if he looked at he would look at that picture. And if we looked at that picture, he would say to himself, we can't do that. That temptation is not an option to you. Because you've been baptized. You've been set off from that. Because you've been baptized, you can't do that. And time and then we forgot how to recognize the view that are not paid for help the beauty of the be the real. Okay, so I don't know about that. How often we forget specifically to do a few and two and these basics. I've been further. With a token frequent mm of the other Cut out from our death bless to a people to resolve it again and again in order to execute it again and again from our conscience saying that we are cut off from you, that we dare not affect you, that we cannot have fellowship with you because of our sins. Hallelujah We've done for that blood. We don't have to see the only mindset. We've moved into a new life. It's like we've been feelings, we've moved into our back to And we didn't believe this music. You still believe that there are projects of things in their eyes. Things that there are people right here in this room feel that they have not eye Because they came to the few surprise of his brother. We can bring the two poems in their lives with that half this morning. Presenting that old master. I'd be wondering. They're brought the customs and easy stuff to their own resources. We call it a year, we don't care for the law of us of competitors and gravity. So have it through the form, if we have given to a single thing, we might find that. We might feel a joy to rethink of our own baptism, even if we witness the baptism for God. We remind us to do that. And the free to be But they see an honor that can try to use. I mean, I couldn't like this. Where we want to be children, the right thing My glory would define and we defeal not only common physical but fruit disasters. The mighty loving ones in mind. With none of them with no way from the science. None of them would be parts and easy define. So the work is going to be to the process of us. So please find an element. If you will bring them to your place, if you're folding the lenses that the Jesus Christ, that's not already been done, but it has So they look finding the side spaces.