If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to Psalm one hundred and sixteen. If you're visiting today, you'll see in the bulletin it says the sermon is going to be on tithing, and instead we're going to have a sermon entitled The Saint's Death You might think, what kind of church have I visited? You visited a church that is committed to preaching the whole council of God. And that means that we go to even the difficult subjects and the places that don't necessarily lend themselves to What the church growth experts say works. We as a church have had a lot of pain in the last uh ten or twelve days. A lot of people have experienced loss and in talking with the session determined that we can preach on tithing later. In preaching the whole council of God, we're generally committed to preaching through whole books so we don't miss anything, but we also need to preach on all occasions as things occur. And it would be a little tone-deaf as a pastor. To notice that despite the fact that we've lost six people close to this church in less than two weeks, we don't stop and pause and reflect on that. Some of you, not a whole lot of you, but some of you, have been regularly attending our Sunday evening Lord's Supper services on the first Sunday nights of the month. And if you've been attending them, you know I've been preaching through the Hillel, which are the Psalms That were used by the ancient Israelites and even the Jews in Jesus' day to remember and celebrate the deliverance from Egypt during the holiday that we call Passover. And in Psalm 116, it just so happened that tonight I was scheduled to preach a short sermon, which I do on Sunday evenings if you attend, usually 12 to 15 minutes. On the verse, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. And God's providence decided after talking with elders, I'm going to turn that into a Full sermon and do that this morning. Not quite sure what we're going to do yet this evening, but come and find out And so we are in Psalm 116. I'm going to be reading for us, beginning with verse 15. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you and we praise you for your word. Lord, not only does it help us to rejoice, but Lord, it helps us to grieve. It helps us to know what is good news and it helps us to know what is sad news. And Lord, we pray that you would bless this reading of your word to us in such a way that we might recognize and properly respond to what is truly sad news. But Lord help us to do so in light of the greater good news that undergirds all of Scripture. The good news is that you are love and you have loved us and you have given for us. And in Christ you came for us and died for us, and you live for us. Lord, bless this reading of your word to us. We ask it in Christ's name. And bless the preaching that follows, Lord. We pray that you would use it to help us. That we might be healed and comforted and grow. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm one hundred and sixteen, beginning with verse fifteen, the word of God Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people, in the courts of the house of the Lord. In your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. This ends the reading of God's Word. Amen. Well, we're jumping in for most of you at the very end of a psalm. I want to just remind you a little bit. I'm sure you've read this psalm before, perhaps heard sermons from it, about what's happened in this psalm. This psalm is a psalm of thanksgiving for the fact that a psalmist, an individual, this isn't a corporate Praise. This is an individual praise that invites the corporate family of God to join together with the one who is saved. And this psalm is about somebody who was as good as dead. They were certain that everything was just about to end, and they cried out to the Lord, and they asked for help. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Verse 4. These are the words of a man who had been ensnared by the cords of death. who was certain that his days were numbered and that number was very small. And he's he's healed, he's restored. And he gives us this verse, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Within the context of God's redemption and saving of a life, I want to think about three things that that one verse precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Teaches us as Christians today so that we can think and feel and act rightly when it comes to tough issues. Especially those issues that touch upon our mortality. And the first one is obvious. We're going to look at this from the end. to the beginning. And for those of you who know we have a couple seminary students here and and a couple more seminary grads here. But the ancient Israelite was a lot like Yoda from Star Wars. They conceived of sentence structure as verb, subject, object. For example, Genesis 1:1 literally reads, In the beginning He created God, the heavens, and the earth. And when we think about this passage, it's a similar thing. It is precious in the sight of God, the death of his saints. Well, we're going to start with the end, the death of his saints, then talk about the sight of God. Then talk about what it means to be precious. Have you ever considered the thought that saints die? And that's not just a general rule, that's an ironclad fact. Every one of us in this room will die unless Jesus returns before them. Every saint since Pentecost has died. Irrespective of what type of prayer warrior they were, how gifted they were, to what extent God used them. And that ought to give us pause, at least for a moment, to ask us this question: why do we die? Why do we die? Is it not true that the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life? Is it not true that Jesus paid the full penalty? So then why do we die? It's a question one of my kids asked me. It's a question that is worth considering yourself. Let's take another run at that question. Adam and Eve were in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3 God had made it very clear to Adam in Genesis chapter 2, and through Adam to Eve, who is created in Genesis chapter 2, together with and shortly after Adam. He says, eat from whatever tree you want in the garden, but not that tree. The day you eat of that tree, you will surely die. Well, they eat of that tree, and death comes to all men. But it's not an immediate death. They don't immediately drop dead after biting it. Instead, they eat that fruit and they live literally for centuries. But they are now liable to death. One of their sons dies at the hand of one of his brothers. And we find that lifespans get shorter and shorter as death more and more begins to shape the human experience. But then comes Jesus. And Jesus dies to satisfy the law's claim against us. The full extent of a holy God's wrath against sin is poured out upon Jesus so that for me standing in Christ God has for me nothing but the Father's love. Sometimes He disciplines me as a Father who loves me, but it is nothing but love. So why do I still die? Have I stated the question sufficiently clearly? Why do we die? If Jesus paid the penalty and the penalty was death, why do we die? Well, there are a couple places in the Bible that give us good answers to that. One of them is in Romans chapter 8. If you have your Bible, we're going to be playing a little bit of what has been called Bible bingo. If you don't, you have the outline, and these are a lot of wonderful texts for you to be ruminating on and thinking over in your community groups. and on your own. Romans chapter 8. Let me read you this passage. This passage in Romans chapter 8 begins with verse 19. Listen carefully. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. In hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation, but we ourselves Who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies, for in this hope we were saved. Now, every one of these texts I'm going to point us to this morning is truly worthy of a sermon on their own. And I'm going to try to give you a series of little mini-sermons here to help understand Psalm 116. But think about this picture. When sin entered the world, when Adam and Eve ate of that forbidden fruit, We subjected all of creation. All of creation becomes touched by corruption. All of creation groans. And not only does creation groan looking for deliverance from bondage to this corruption, this general spiritual malaise that results in all of the badness that we see in the entire universe He says, we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Now, we're talking about Christians here, people who are born again. Who have the active presence of the Holy Spirit in our life. We have repented of our sins. We've put our faith in Christ. We are indwelt by the Spirit. We are abiding in our Savior. We also groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption. Stop, hold on. Aren't we already adopted? Doesn't John chapter 1 say to those of us who believe he gives the right to become children of God? Yes, we are adopted. But in the same way that salvation is as often as not in a future tense when it's addressed, that word is addressed to Christians, this word adoption also has a future sense. That the fullness of our redemption is what we will only experience when Jesus Christ returns and we stand before the throne of God and our name is read from that book of life. And we have once and for all put off all that is mortal and corruptible and natural and broken. We groan for that day, Christian. We groan for that day when we experience the redemption of our bodies. And when will our bodies be redeemed? when they are raised up. No longer corruptible but incorruptible. No longer in weakness but with power. No longer natural after Adam, but spiritual after Christ. You see, the terminus of the Christian life is not health and wealth here and now. It's not even long life and happiness here and now. The terminus of the Christian life is that hope that we were saved for. To be with God in heaven for eternity. That's our true home. And that's a true home that we can have foretastes of here and now at CPC in our community group. Around our tables when we pray with thanksgiving for our food, when we wake up and do our quiet times. But we can't fully feast in it until then. That abundant life that God has saved us for is not something that we can fully experience here and now. Let me demonstrate that from another several scriptures. They're listed here. First one I want to refer us to is Philippians chapter 1. This is where the Apostle Paul is writing to the Philippians. He's in prison in Rome. I believe he's in Rome. Some people think he might be in prison in Jerusalem at this time I think it's probably Rome. And he says this. He says it is uh It is my eager expectation and hope, beginning in verse 20 of chapter 1, Philippians, that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me, to live is Christ, to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which shall I choose? I cannot tell. I am hard-pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith. Do you hear what the Apostle Paul is saying there? He's saying, oh, it would be so much better if I went to be with the Lord right now. But God has something left for me to do. And I'm convinced of that, so I will stay. I will not be executed at this court date. I'm going to live longer. I'm going to minister to you more faithfully. But we should never forget that to die is gain. And there is a gain in the passing of the saint that cannot be experienced here. Where else do we see that? In 1 Corinthians chapter 15. I already referred to this when I was uh uh uh uh speaking earlier. Here we have that the resurrection of the dead, something we all look forward to. On that day, what is sown is perishable. My body is perishable. My dear brother's body that I looked upon with my own two eyes Thursday night That was perishable, and indeed it had perished. It will be raised imperishable. It is shown in dishonor, it is raised in glory It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. You see, all of these transformations point to the newness of the life we will have after we pass through that cold river of death. And only after. I'm reminded when I read this that until I die and am raised again, I am perishable. I have dishonor attached to me as I yet struggle with sin. I am weak. And I am natural. Do you ever stop and ponder that? I often think about how I am tempted to think that my glory days are behind me. Do you ever feel that way? I'm 56. A good number of you are older than me. Do you remember with me back when we were in our late 20s, the prime of our life? Confident, bold. We could do anything. We were king of our worlds. I remember back in my twenties, I thought I was such a good looking guy. I thought I was fit. I thought I was strong. I could do a hundred push-ups. Man, to go back to those days, to have that strength, that confidence of youth. That was the perishable version of me, the dishonorable, the weak, the natural. Beloved, your best days are not behind you. They are ahead of you. And there is a difficult graduation ceremony. It is not for the faint of heart. Your best days are ahead of you because the abundant life that Jesus called you to is not fully experienced here. Saints die. And God sees everything. That's another lesson that we learned from Psalm 16. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of the saints. And I want you to think about what God sees. Matthew chapter 10 and in Luke chapter 12. Jesus says to his disciples and the crowds that are following, he says, Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And yet your heavenly Father knows when every one of them falls. Are you not more valuable to him than those sparrows. Sparrow is a common bird, easily caught And for poor people who couldn't afford a sacrifice, they could bring two sparrows and they could buy them for a penny. God knows when sparrows fall. God cares about the sparrows Surely God knows when we fall. In fact, the scriptures are crystal clear on that point. In Psalm 139 , very well-known Psalm. We read this, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it Moving down to verse 16, your eyes saw my unformed substance. Listen to this. In your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. God knows the diary of your life better than you do from before you were even born. The awesome God who created all things, time, space, matter, and energy, who is outside of creation yet within it, who is outside of time yet active within it, sees the totality of your life from all eternity. Including the day of your death, the circumstances, and the manner of it. He sees all these things, he knows all these things. And that psalm gives us a clue as to what we respond, how we respond to that fact of God's knowledge. Our knowing that fact is too wonderful for us, too lofty for us to attain. How is it conceivable? That God, who is outside of time yet active within it, sees the totality of my life from a distance all at once, not in a manner that is limited in any way by a succession of moments. Okay, I'm going to honestly tell you, I have no idea. Because I myself am limited to and by time. I cannot exist otherwise than to be liable to a succession of moments. I can move one direction and one direction only on the timeline. I am prone to forget what is beyond, misunderstood what is present, and be confused about what's in the future. Uncertainty plagues my every step But when I consider God's perfect knowledge, I can't even begin to comprehend the scope and the extent and the clarity with which he sees the life of me, of my brother Matt. Of you, of the loved ones you are mourning. God sees all of it He sees all of it. And we can barely understand it. We can barely understand the fact that he sees all of it. But that fact remains as a certainty. There's nothing he does not know. Even as the Son of Man knew what was in the heart of men, the living God knows. Our pasts, our presents, and our futures in a detail we cannot begin to imagine. Dear Saints, we will die, and God will certainly know about it. And lastly, our deaths will be very precious to him. What does that mean? What does it mean, precious, in the sight of the Lord, is the death of his saints Perhaps you have something that's precious to you. I was visiting with someone yesterday afternoon who had lost their husband after almost 60 years of marriage. in a nursing home in Laurel, and there were precious things to her. Hilda had in a curio cabinet. It was very important to her and her husband. What can be variously called knickknacks, bric-a-brac. Some people less charitably clutter. I always call stuff like that essential clutter. Artifacts of a life well-lived. Memorials to happy days. and past experiences. And you could walk into that small room there and immediately know that those things were precious to her. They were behind glass. They were very well ordered. They were visible As she downsized from one house to another and finally to a single room, she was bringing those things with her. She knew their disposition. She was careful about their transport. They were dear to her. What is precious to you? Do you just lay it around? Do you just entrust it to anybody? Do you not know where those things that are most precious to you are right now? Precious, irreplaceable, value , one of a kind. Did you know that your death is like that to God? Such that he will not let you go otherwise than how he is determined is most for his glory and your blessedness. Think again about the context of this psalm. It is written to us by a psalmist, perhaps David, who thinks he is certainly going to die. The cords of death have entangled him, he says later in the psalm, but prior to what we read, uh You delivered my soul from death. He was looking at an immediate end to his life. And God does not hand him over to death. And it is that fact that by the Spirit of God prompts this truth precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. He is not going to simply let you die out of time, out of season, incorrectly. He has perfectly orchestrated the arrangement of my life, my trials, my joys. And when I look back on my life from the shores of heaven, and when you look back on your life from the perspective of the throne, You will see that God has so orchestrated your life to take you by the best path conceivable for your eternal security with Him. I will determine when I look back on my life that I did not suffer a calamity, a setback, a sorrow, or a tragedy that I could possibly have lived without. I utterly believe that. Because my God is strong, he's powerful. And this life is not God's intent for me. This life is, in a sense, the arena of my faith and what God has done for me in Christ and what He has for me in heaven, the world to come, my true home. And this season of trials, even as the earthly ministry of Jesus, indeed his 33 years of life on this earth as an incarnate Messiah was a time of trials, so is ours. The purpose of God in giving our life is important to think about. The purpose of God in giving us life is that we can be fruitful and multiply. That's in the Garden of Eden before sin enters, Genesis 1 It is so that we can make disciples, live lives in such a way that whatever we're doing as we're going, we're helping people come to know Jesus and become Christians, be baptized and learn to obey Him. But we have another verse in Philippians 19, Philippians chapter 1, and I referred to it earlier, and I know this sermon is a little bit long because I just wrote it. didn't have time to use Occam's razor and trim it down all the way, but let me share this very important thought with you. Paul writes, if I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. My desire, skipping down, is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better, but to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I will remain and continue with you so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus. So our whole purpose in existing is to bless others by doing the work God has laid before us. And the purpose of our Life is in a sense finished with the purpose of our death. Consider what Paul writes in 2 Corinthians In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, one of my favorite passages, for we know That if the tent that is our earthly home, that's a reference to our physical bodies, for we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God. A house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this tent we groan, same language as in Romans 8. Longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, longing to be raised incorruptible. If indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked, for while we are still in this tent, we groan being burdened. Not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed so that, and listen to the most profound description of death in the entire Bible. So that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. Let me tell you what happened Thursday evening. When our brother Matt gasped his last breath, struggling against the pneumonia. What happened at that moment is life Swallowed up everything that was mortal about our brother. And he has never been more alive. than he is in the presence of God in the bosom of Abram, as the souls of a just man made perfect, worshiping even now as we worship here. Hebrews chapter 12 The purpose of God in our death is that life might have the victory in our existence. And his redemption and our adoption might be complete. Do we think about that? Does it help us to have hope? I grieve. You know, I got to know Matt because we worked in the office together. And I know I didn't have a chance to meet Hilda's husband. I didn't have a chance to meet The Winstead's daughter who died. I didn't have a chance to meet Beverly's mom. I didn't have a chance to meet the people that you're missing and have lost. But we can have hope whoever we're missing and whoever we're grieving when we know That their death was something God knew about and God perfectly planned and orchestrated so that at that moment life would win In their timeline, their narrative. Is that in our sight? I remind myself of that all the time. Are we able then to grieve our losses with hope? Because our God, in his sovereign knowledge is working everything for his glory and our eternal blessedness. And that only in the merest of terms begins now And the most important question, that every sight, as you're driving down Meadow Ridge Road and see a graveyard, Every contemplation of death, every experience of sickness, the one question that should always come to mind is, will my loved ones have hope when I die? Will my death be precious in the sight of the Lord? Have my sins been forgiven? Have I Found peace with God, because Jesus died for me. And I received, accepted, and am resting upon him alone as my Savior. Am I living my life in such a way that the fact that I know Jesus and follow him is evident? Is it clear to the people around me that I am one of his saints? Certainly not perfect. but in Jesus Christ by grace through faith, trusting in him with repentance and obedience. Oh dear friend, I hope that is true with you. I hope you have come to Jesus and recognized That your days are numbered. Teach me, O Lord, to number my days. King David praised that. Help me to remember that I need a redeemer. Help me to remember that if I want to insist upon paying for my own sins and not accepting a Savior, that means an eternity separated from God, hell itself. Help me to remember that God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whosoever, even you , Might believe in him and have eternal life Our God is good. Friends, heaven is real. Life is abundant And we are more than conquerors. Even when we die, yet we will live because of Jesus. Amen. After the service today, I know we're going to have a lot going on with hot dogs in a congregational meeting. But if any of you would like prayer about anything at all, we'll have members of our prayer team. in the front of the sanctuary to your left. And they would love to meet with you and pray with you. Let's pray now. Father, we thank you for this day. Lord, we ask that you bless it to us. Father, I pray for this church family. Lord, we have we we've been through uh we've been through a lot just in this last couple weeks, Father, and I pray that You might bless us. Lord, help us to think biblically about our life and about death. Help us to think biblically about heaven and hell. Lord, help us to Recognizing that the days are evil, that they're full of this groaning and this longing for a full redemption, a final adoption. Lord, help us to make the most of every opportunity. Help us to see today, however sick or healthy we are, however happy or sad, however rich or poor, Lord Help us to make the most of today as your people who are not only precious now, but are precious even in the moment of our passing. Bless us, we pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, the author of life, and our dearest friend. Amen.