Christmas is a big deal. We celebrated for nearly two months, and it's very secular. Easter is a little deal. You get a couple of weeks of sales and bunnies and some eggs, and it's over and gone. But it's more religious. Even though recently that means it's a little more negative. So this past week the History Channel informs us that maybe we have really found the bones of Jesus. And Newsweek proclaims the end of Christian America. And we hear statistics about more people unaffiliated with any religion than ever before in America. It's interesting that in the midst of these statistics, there's one group that I find rather fascinating, and that's a recent survey that showed that Of all the people who do not claim to be born again, 75% believe that Jesus physically rose from the dead. Even stranger, of people who rarely go to church, 59% believe that Jesus physically rose from the dead. And strangest of all, of people who never go to church, 39% of them still believe that Jesus physically rose from the dead. Christmas is a big deal, Easter is a little deal. And even in the New Testament It's remarkable that while the resurrection is the central event along with the cross, In all of the New Testament, we in fact don't have a single account of the actual resurrection. All we have are Jesus' appearances after the resurrection And even the appearances after the resurrection, in most cases, the people that he appears to don't recognize him at first. What I want to do this morning is to connect some of those narratives to one verse that Jesus gave before his death. Because I want us to see what to me is one of the most astounding things about the resurrection appearances. And it's something I had never noticed until last year when I began to think about this Easter. In John chapter 13, in verse 1, we read that it was just before the Passover feast. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of the world. of his love. Some translations say he loved them till the end, but clearly it means he showed them the full extent of his love. That is, he showed them his love to the limit. Because the same words used in 2 Thessalonians 2. 16, where clearly it means to the limit, to the full, to the max, the full extent of his love. And I would typically, when I would read that verse, think that that's referring to the fact that he is about to wash their feet. Then he is about to initiate the Lord's Supper, where he is going to show that the cup and the bread are a picture of his sacrifice for them. He is going to pray that high priestly prayer for them, showing his love for them. He's going to pray in Gethsemane and agonize to go to the cross. in order to save them from sin. He is going to show them his love when he's arrested and provides for their protection All these things are going to be a display of the full extent of his love. But then in this last year, I realized it doesn't end there. I think what John is referring to when he says he now showed them the full extent of his love includes also The nature of the resurrection appearances, that in those appearances Jesus was going to show them the full extent of his love. He is going to show them his love to the uttermost as their crucified and risen Savior. And if there is anyone here this morning who doubts the love of Christ for you. We've been through some deep waters, numbers of our congregation in the last weeks, death and suffering of various kinds. And so this morning I want to offer to you five examples of Jesus in his appearances after the resurrection to his disciples, to show that those appearances were not simply for the display of his triumph. But that in each case it was to meet their need and show them, the individual or the group, The full extent of his love. That you and I would enlarge our view of the heart of the Lord Jesus. And see this morning not simply the majesty of the resurrected Christ, but the full extent of his love. First example is his appearance to Mary Magdalene in her grief. Remember those precious words that Tim read a few minutes ago? John chapter 20. It's my favorite opening of the resurrection morning. Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. This morning I got up before dawn and remembered that it was not at dawn, was not when the sun was up. It was still dark. Mary Magdalene rushes ahead of all the others and comes to the tomb, and there she sees that the stone is rolled away and the body is gone. So Mary runs back to Peter and John to tell them. And while she's going back, the other women at that point arrive to the tomb. And when they get to the tomb, they're met by a couple of angels who tell them that Jesus is risen. But Mary hasn't heard that. She goes back to tell Peter and John Then the other women come back and join them and they say, We've seen a couple of angels, they've said that Jesus is risen, but only Peter and John bothered to go back and check it out. But Mary's fairly hot on their heels. And so John gets there, and then Peter gets there, and then Mary comes back again. They leave, but Mary stays. She stays weeping her eyes out at the tomb. And it's at that point that Mary, Magdalene, sees two angels. And the two angels ask her, Why are you weeping tears of grief? And she says, Because they've taken my Lord away, and I don't know where they've placed him. Now pause here for just a moment to ask yourself, who is this Mary? There's a lot of Marys in the New Testament. This is not the Mary that anointed Jesus with the alabaster perfume. In fact, we know almost nothing about this Mary. The only thing we know about her is from Luke chapter 8, which you see there. Just picking up at the end of verse 1. The twelve were with him, and also some women who had been cured of evil spirits and diseases. Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had come out. Goes on also to mention Joanna, the wife of Chusa Manager of Herod's hassle, we talked about last week. But that's the only reference we have to Mary. Mary was not A respectable person. She was not simply demon-possessed, she was possessed of seven demons. She was a wretched, miserable woman. She had no life. Life was torture, living under the oppression and the bondage of these demons, until one day Jesus met her. And Jesus came to Mary, noticed her, and cast out those seven demons and freed her from her bondage. From that day, Luke tells us, she, along with some other women, followed Jesus and ministered to him and to the disciples. We don't know just how much contact she had with him, but she followed him for some time. And she's a pretty unknown person to us. This is the Mary that's at the tomb. John tells us that at that point, when she has said they've taken him and I don't know where they've placed him, she turns around and there's Jesus. But she is blubbering and sobbing and probably just glances up, and she doesn't even know it's Jesus. She thinks it's the gardener. And Jesus asks her, Why are you weeping? And she says, Oh, sir, if you've taken him and put him somewhere, just tell me where it is, and I'll come and get him. Probably Jesus weighed more than she did, but somehow I will come and get him because her heart is just so full of love and grief. And then Jer Jesus says just one word Mary. Miriam No one ever said her name like Jesus did. And immediately She lifts up her eyes and she cries out, Raboni! And and then she grabs him and she holds on to him so much that Jesus finally says, Mary, uh you know, let me go. We got other things we need to do. She's just so excited. He has turned her mourning into dancing, her grief into joy. Do you realize that it's Mary Magdalene, unknown Mary? Demon-possessed Mary, who was the first human being to see Jesus Christ alive. Not one of the twelve, not a man A very unspecial person who was disreputable in that community, who Jesus first met. After his resurrection. You see, that speaks volumes not only of his majesty in conquering death. But in his heart to show the full extent of his love to a very non-special person in grief. Like you and me. Why Mary? Because he wanted to meet her in her broken heart seeking him. Second example. Two on the road on the way back to Emmaus. Jesus meets them in their despair. It's now Sunday afternoon. He still has only appeared to Mary Magdalene, the other women, and then a secret unrecorded visit meeting with Peter. Luke tells us of two unknown disciples, Cleopas, and the other one, we don't even know the name, don't even know the gender. Could have been Cleopas' wife, could have been his friend, we just don't know. But they're not people that we're familiar with. Two disciples who've been in Jerusalem, have followed Jesus, and now with broken hearts and in despair Are making the seven miles road back to their home Emaeus. Their hope has been crushed. Luke tells us that Jesus joins them as they're walking on this road back to Emmaus. He tells us that they were kept from recognizing him. Again, they don't recognize him. And at least it tells us that Jesus looked like an ordinary person. He didn't have some glow. There weren't sunbeams radiating from his body. He looked like a normal person. And he begins to talk to them and says, you know, tell me what's going on. And they begin to describe their crushing disappointment They talk about the fact in verse 21 that they had hoped that this Jesus was the one who was going to redeem Israel Now it's the third day, he's dead, our hopes are dashed, and we're just going to go home and try to make a life for ourselves in the wake of all this disappointment. Jesus gives them a mild and loving rebuke. In verse 25, he said to them, How foolish you are And how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Christ, the Messiah, have to suffer these things and then to enter into his glory? See, the suffering had to come before the glory. Then And Jesus begins to open up to them the scriptures and he tells them about what the Old Testament had predicted and he speaks to them about Messiah and his work And and they're so excited they ask him to stay for dinner. And so he comes and he stays for dinner. And Luke then tells us, In verse 30, that when he was at the table with them, he took the bread and he gave thanks and broke it and began to give it to them. And then their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us? Their despair has been turned to unbounded joy. And now they can no longer contain themselves and just sit there. They've got to head all the way back to Jerusalem. So they run the seven miles back again. Head back to the disciples. Because Jesus has taken away their despair. What was it that determined that second meeting? It was not that Jesus decided this was a spectacular way to display himself. It was the need of his disciples in order to show them the full extent of his love. Third example is the ten who are huddled together behind a locked door in Jerusalem. Remember now, uh these two disciples come running back. They enter in and uh let the disciples know who they are, they know where they are, so they come in. There's just ten of the twelve there. Judas is dead. Thomas is absent. And the others are discussing and They're talking with Peter, who says he's seen the Lord, and what about this and all these different things, and as they're talking, then all of a sudden, you read in John 20 that Jesus came and stood among them. Doesn't get through the locked door, he just appears. And he says to them, Peace be with you. Peace. That's precisely what they did not have. They still think he's a ghost And so he cheerfully shows them his hands and he says, here, touch me. Do you have any fish? And he eats so that they can see it's not a ghost, it's not a spirit. It's a corporal body. It is a real person who is alive from the dead. Twice he says to them, Peace be with you. That's significant. Because it's saying he doesn't bring up to them. Do you remember I told you a number of times I was going to rise from the dead, and he didn't believe me. And remember, you guys said you were never going to abandon me when I was going to be arrested and y'all took off and ran like scared rabbits. Doesn't bring any of that up. Simply says to them, Peace be with you. I'm come as your friend and as your Savior. Again, the purpose of the appearance is to show them the full extent of his love. Fourth example, Thomas. He meets him in his doubts. I mentioned there were ten disciples there, plus a few others, Cleopas and whoever else with him and some others. But Thomas is not there. Thomas has purposely absented himself He's either consumed in his grief so much that he just doesn't want to be with anybody, perhaps indulging in some self-pity, but he simply doesn't want to be with the others And so in the next day or two they see Thomas and they say, Thomas, it's really true. Jesus is alive. We've all seen him. Thomas responds, oh no. I don't know what's gotten into you guys. But the dead don't rise. I will never believe that Jesus has come back from the dead unless Reminds me of William Butler's famous novel, The Way of All Flesh, about a fellow by the name of Ernest grew up in a pastor's home. Never doubted Christianity until he grew up and left home. And then he realized that the Jesus he had been taught to worship Was simply a captive of the Victorian Church of England, a small Jesus who is not Lord. And his faith was dashed, and he was afraid to ever believe again. But a week later, they gather back, and Thomas is with them. Very significant. Thomas dares to wonder. Thomas is seeking Butler goes on in that novel to talk about Ernest considering, as he goes on in his life, what is truth? You know what he finally concludes the truth is? Truth, he says, is what the majority of sensible and successful people believe. Well, I would dare say the majority of sensible and successful people, even those that don't go to church or do go to church Don't believe Jesus physically rose from the dead in 21st century America. See, truth is not what people believe. Truth is what corresponds to reality And when Thomas is back there the second Sunday, Jesus once again appears and specifically addresses Thomas. Thomas, come here, Thomas. Put your fingers in the prints of the nails. Stick your hand in the spear thrust. Don't doubt Thomas, but believe. There's two kinds of doubters. There's the Herod doubters. Herod says to Jesus, Oh, give me a sign, show me some miracle so that I'll believe you. There's a guy who comes into where my wife works, and they've gotten into innumerable discussions about the gospel. But it is now turned to where every time this fella comes in to talk to my wife, he needles her about her faith. He doesn't ask searching questions, he asks hostile questions. I could give you some examples from this week. He's been in every week, every day this week, and I keep Thinking, why is he keep coming back and bringing it up? She doesn't bring it up, he keeps coming back to attack her faith. And I think probably the most effective thing she's done through all this time, she gives him things to think about, but clearly he's not making a dent But he doesn't want to know. Herod didn't want to know, and Jesus was silent. Thomas wanted to know, and Jesus was glad to meet him and display his truth to him. If you are here this Sunday morning as a doubter, you say, Oh, I wish I could believe, but I can't believe the things that you people talk about. Which kind of doubter are you? The Herod kind or the Thomas kind? If you are cynical, Jesus will be silent. If you are searching, he will be glad to display himself to you. And in the next four weeks, we will be having a study of John's gospel over in that building. So that you can come and look at it and ask the questions. Because Jesus loves to meet seekers. He came on that occasion, not simply to display his triumph, but to show the full extent of his love to Thomas. Final last example. Jesus comes to meet Peter in his guilt. To meet Peter in his guilt. Again, there's that fascinating verse that you have in Luke chapter 24, verse 33. talking about Cleopas and his friend or wife or whoever. They got up and they returned at once to Jerusalem, and there they found the eleven and those with them assembled together and saying, It's true the Lord has risen. and has appeared to Simon, that's Peter. Not to John, who went all the way with him to the cross Not to Mary, who poured out a year's wages worth of alabaster perfume But to Peter, who denied that he even knew him three times. Why to Peter? Because Peter needed him. That although Peter is behind Mark's gospel, there is nothing recorded of that meeting in Mark Or Matthew. Only this passing reference in Luke and nothing in John. But John tells of a second meeting in chapter 21, when a couple of weeks later, the disciples are up in Galilee. And they're out fishing and Jesus is on the shore and he calls them in. They come in and they have breakfast together. And then we read that John 21, 15, when they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, let's go for a walk on the beach. Jesus and Simon go walking down the beach together and they have a private conversation. And Jesus asked Peter, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than these? Yes, Lord, he said, You know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my lambs. He asked Peter three times to confess his love, to correspond to the three times that he had denied it. And each time he restores Peter not only to be his disciple, but to be a leader, a broken, forgiven leader. How can Peter follow Jesus, full of shame? The traitor who denied him. Because while Peter was denying Jesus, Jesus was on his way to the cross to take Peter's sin. And Jesus comes to meet sinners full of guilt and shame. Why does he come here that morning to eat breakfast and to walk with Peter? He wants to show him the full extent of his love for sinners. That he was taking Peter's place on the cross to pay for that sin, as he has taken your place on the cross. To pay for your sin, to show you the full extent of his love Five examples to show that the appearances were determined not by some Scheme of displaying, not to Herod, not to Pilate, not to display simply that Jesus has risen in triumph. But to blend with the triumphal display of his glory, the display of his the full extent of his love toward needy disciples in grief, in despair. In fears, in doubts, and in guilt. To see that his glory is perfectly blended with the meeting of our needs. And that same Jesus comes this Easter morning to meet you. Continuing alive, Jesus comes this morning to meet you in those same five areas and whatever else is the need of your heart this morning. In your grief, in your despair, in your fears, in your doubts, and in your guilt. He comes to meet you in your grief this morning. Three suicides close to us in the last couple of months. and other deaths, broken hearts. And you may be sitting there thinking this morning, they didn't announce the thing that's breaking my heart in these last weeks. Nobody has publicly prayed for the things that I struggle with every day. But Jesus knows those things. He knows the grief of your heart. And as with Mary, he comes to say your name. John 10 says, he knows your name, and he speaks your name. And he speaks your name in a way that no one else can ever say. He comes to meet you this morning. And he comes to display his resurrection as the answer to your grief to give you hope. The hope of life in Christ. He comes to meet you in your despair this morning. What is it that has you in despair? We had hope, but he let us down. Carolyn Custis James says, no one ever really knows the heart of Jesus until they have faced How they believe he has let them down. And bring your brokenness to him. To see his glory because he has risen and he comes to meet you, to take your despair, to lift your heart. Because he's sufficient. He comes to meet you in your fears this morning. What is it that you most fear? What has you most anxious this morning? Something about the economy or your health or some relationship? Something in your life. That you're dreading and you're wondering how you're going to cope with it. Jesus came through the locked door. To say, I've conquered death. I am here to meet all of your fears. What is it that I can't do? What is too hard for me to take care of in your life? And I've come to show you the full extent of my love, so that you know you don't have to fear. Bring your fears to the risen Christ this morning. Fourthly, are you in doubt? Jesus comes to meet you in your doubts this morning. He invites you to come these next four weeks in the middle hour, ten o'clock, to go over, you'll hear more about that in a couple minutes, to go over and to meet with Eric and John and Have a good time finding out about the sufficiency of Jesus He comes to meet you in your guilt. Whatever your shame. Whatever keeps you from having a light heart, this sunny, blossom-filled Maryland spring resurrection morning, you can't celebrate when your heart is full of guilt. But Jesus can take away that guilt. Jesus comes to meet you this morning to show you that his death paid for your sin and his resurrection proves that that payment was in full. Nothing is left. If you come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness, but his love. And so come to him. What a gospel. What a gospel. Isn't he amazing? To show the full extent of his love, even in the way he appears after his resurrection. He's really amazing. Christ is risen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are so amazing. That you display the full extent of your love in the way and to whom you appeared after your resurrection. And Lord, we come to you in our grief, in our despair, in our fears, in our doubts, and in our guilt. Knowing that you are sufficient as the risen Christ to come and meet us this morning, I pray that you will turn the hearts of each person in each need distinctively and uniquely. To see how sufficient you are for them. Lord Jesus, you are so amazing. May we see that, taste it, and experience it this week. As we look to the risen Christ in Jesus' name. Amen.