Climax is not again directly but the cost. Good there is the new and for me as So much took a little bit this morning when I trip it. That's twenty-seven. I'm going to begin with verse twenty-seven. I mean it's very six. Matthew twenty-seven, verses twenty-seven and fifty-four. Then The whole company of foldies around it. And flipped them and put on a part of labor. Then they rolled a spine of stones covered on a pair of them. They put a path in the very hands. Well who said They took the tap and they put it on their head again, again. That 's they had marked and took off the robe and then put on the bed. As they were going out, they met a man from Tyroon or Spines. Here they are with him wide. Well it's like this. Then they fructify this in five or fifty three seconds. And sitting down they kept right. Others said they face the written power to the peace, the thing of the seeds. Voted head by Pearl Windows. You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. Come down from the cross if you're the Son of God Speak those others can say they themselves He's the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross. We will believe in him. We trust in God. Let God rescue him now. He's wonderful I am the son of God. Until the ninth hour of darkness came over all the lands. Now the ninth hour deepest cried out in an hour. Um with new my dark side. And some of those falling there. Stole the good wine. He put it on his fix and office to see But left the freedom alone, let me apply to some creatures. When Jesus is quiet out again, the last time At that moment the curtain of his temple would spoil and freeze from top to bottom. The earth was stuck in the rock split. Some tombs broke open, and the bodies of many holy people who had died raised the light , went out of the tombs, and after evil revelations, they went into the holy cities and appeared to many Jesus. And the temperan is very written We're bodied in the crawl earth all the time. That's nice. Well, it's simply notice. There's so much here. But we can't take it in. We don't take any time to understand what is going on. And it's really But I want to pick out just one thing for us to wrap our minds around the calm Sunday morning. Something for you to think about to do. As you look again at the easy thing, and what these are these things. As you remind yourself again of the events and And I've got talks about events, but to familiarize yourself with the events. I went for it for noted first 72. But he felt even doctor through the battery. Because the word of you can 't even Scott and party. What is going on, didn't we? Well it also far away from the people. Before I think this is a pilot problem. So you have to buy it. There you go. What else we could do? We three doubles and five three times. Top number these and these on those very stop is a typical thing. If you say what you You say that 's first of all I want to look at that first deciding. Then secondly, I'd like for us to consider how very small it is to consider. Then thirdly to see on a deeper level for the civil things. First of all, say two three is two So give it a flu what's going on. The two minute depictions everything. I feel it's apparent. So it's the two clock is on it. There's a different way from the tether clock. So the one who 's called the two clock control of the beam. Cross before the pinwork code. No, it's nailed for the car or homework for lowest. Code for air to me. And the mocking is part of these hundreds. Three groups come down to sleep and other like this Friday morning. Notice how they are descending. In verse 39 we have the passing parts. Those who are on their way in or out of the thing. Those who are acquainted with this visa , a very famous case, heard about it, they have their insults. Note it verse 39 and 40. passed by, just on their way past, us standing around, those moving past, hurled insults at them, shaking their heads and saying, You are going to destroy the temple and build it in two days. Save yourself Come down from the cross if you be fell of God. Jesus came. Then Uh the two people in air, those thirty one. The old those who were the religious leaders They're not just happy by they're at the very heart of it. They're standing like this. But you notice the dudes who did all their robes and their glory and All their visions. Can't describe all their visions. They raised their feet. And they reduced themselves to the rival of the crowd, yelling and screaming and hurling their insults. At least the people who passed by have recognized. For none of the four gospels is there any record of the peace priests, the elders, and the peaches of the law ever as They only talk about him. They don't even seek to speak directly to him. So the greatest of Jesus And they say, he saves others. So he can't save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross and never easily. That was very beautiful. One of that listeners do all good. These are the two who are hanging there on the front inside these were So they think even these days take out But a little bit of very close now, but notice the beauty of these rooms. Ruler believed a sorry that he did change heaven. Remember question the fact that he has in fact changed heavy. Then he had in fact before miracles. He was a function. But even if enemies have acknowledged that Jesus did wonderful things. And you have these things right now. You can't save others. But there could have been a nice crowd there, many who testified to be there could have been something about that cloud there and then. You know And then he said I was carried in on a pallet by my friends from each other. And we couldn't do it here. My friend had a carriage up to the roof and they open up the cloud from the roof and they let me down and that's how it and they put me right there through the feet blow it right through the cloud. I'll never forget how deep it could be Yeah, the best of all questions and bottles and problems in the fact that I 'm going to do that. So the day to be interested in the third A man who had been in the time of his child. One day Jesus passed out of the temple with his disciple, and while they speculated on the causes of his life. And make play on the silly. Hold on to go on from the feeling by When they put the other temple, he's the parking , you can also We could have been in that crowd this man who said one time, I would present with two thousand I used to live in a tomb. One day Jesus and his disciples came over. They saw me there in the tomb, abandoned by all human society. And said, What is your name? All of the men. You look up those demons and calculated 2,000 kids and they're all 12 dollars over the place. Remember from the town, thanks for what he did. We're down to the news. But it 's like two years ago I became full , new work, and I died. If I lay dead, huge changes in my face. I remember that day that he called me for my sister. I remember the night that we were in a boat out on the lake of Galilee in one of those sudden winds forms calm into that area And all of a sudden there we were in six release, six movies, and boom was all about us, and we never did all Jesus came from us , came to us in the city, and his purple word is called green and breed. And the very elements that make the green. Please no doubt about it. People tested by rain out. They say the police force is obviously false. But there were those there who But knew that while they could say he saved others and many could testify to that , but it was too hard to say. I'm the shepherd and I lay down my license. No one takes my life from me. But I feel And over there given us the phone. We read a few and picked up the foil. I will find truth with you written and blind. We have proclaimed liberty to the country. But then after we put it down and they said, oh, that's very good, they're drinking, keep going. We said, maybe that is another part, and now we can give it asked you now to use some wood. Be told how God made a view of many of these appearance when His own people and he believed. And the people tried to stone him and they tried to kill him, and this for tells us that Jesus is right to them again. Could be closed. The religious readers themselves were in a controversy with Jesus. Do you remember how they were talking about about who he was and Jesus talks about how before Abraham was that Jesus suggested and used that phrase I am They bought the point and they pick up stones with stones now and tells us that Jesus gives himself right from them, right in their wisdom Even when they claimed the paper church, we read in Matthew twenty-six that when they point out with their swords and their spears in Matthew twenty six 6 verse 50. Jesus said to Judas, Send, who is painful? And the men step forward, please , and did that one of Jesus became Always draw the sword nearby We could have enough call on my body either once to the private COVID or the stall before 76,000 days. But then how would you Don't think that I can't save myself. It's not even a stuff to it. All I have to do is speak the words. And I'll just let me do that. Evil thing, but we never have the evil cut off by the third. This bag, the evil save set to the third and cut. the service ear. And here was the spirit. And he was in that miracle of just throwing the fear whole to the service who says Imagine going out to that somebody, somebody tries to defend them, some part of the view. I just can tell you that, oh, you who watch the human science happy is a nearby. And it demonstrates that in that is science. You remember when he came before the trial of the phase people? They slambered all about, running along, trying to get all kinds of And everybody was disagreeable and contradicting themselves and they were getting more and more flux. And if they're in that wondering what are we going to do to set them took to the thing to tell and tell me when the last step was sent to the high priest of Moses Anselm himself, who do you think was? But now you cover it out. What time you're going to be is going to be on the highest cover. Coming up , iron, you know. So we'll see. He condemned himself. Jesus hadn't opened his mouth to condemn himself that he could not have had a thought. And he doesn't like it in suckers and we see But how we read in John chapter 18 that uh Pilate being very nervous about this whole thing, what if it had Jesus meet? Nation after Pilate has tried to do this for some time. But it really happened to Nation that we have a law and according to that law must die because the same thing before God. before that. And when he heard that, he began to sweat d rather profusely. Now this guy is the son of God. Yeah, isn't it infantly and here in Roman hearing that accusation doesn't laugh at all, but rather becomes quite real. Because in the back of this man who seems conflicted to that sentence. So it's John Lunch. And Palace, if he was even more afraid, went back and tried to the palace and said that he was even more You refuse to speak to me, power of sin, don't you realize I have power either to free or to crucify you? Why alone is that That's what it wants to hold me to the first time. Because it's pretty hard to try to hit the bird after Because you can't see an example, you know. Let's suppose that you got a fake. sometimes. And I don't want you fighting. When any of those but especially I don't want you hitting the middle boo. You don't need to five and it's just discover that Billy has this very rare disease and if you lay one on him, it might kill him. We don't know that yet, and I want you telling him, but I don't like your hip. I don't know. Make it up and down. Just stop making enough feeling up in the job. It's by taking off. I can follow them Start calling your name. Start calling your family. You don't want to phone them. They don't find them. Begin fault you begin to phone you wild things. You know if you're like cowards, you're all fighting. Violence. Because you're obedient to your badge. You don't like You don't want a harm. You both of you like one if you want to. And then finally, you try to push in the The one who told you not to fight him, you will concern him. That 's what you do. So you read in Matthew 26 , they're in verse 44 , verse 43. But after they try to mark and insult you with everything they do, then they say , He trusting God, let God rest you now if He wants him for He said, I'm the Son of God And your own fathers abandoned you. The one that he said is your father. So they're not the father. It's one thing to be involved in the fact. It's another thing to have the person you imagine being called in the person. You can see the words of the Pharmacy , Psalm 4 My bones suffer mortal agne as my bones inside a long. But I don't see any evidence of God. I don't feel his presence in my life. But in all of my despair and my trials, my enemies are haunting me, saying, Where is your God? How much? And they are. And for his enemies to say to him, Where is this? Where is this one that you say you have such a suffering You save others, but you can't save yourself. Yeah, more of the time. I very true. When his inability to make good is his own at precisely the moment that he fulfilled them all. Those are the three things that they think he's unable to do. And at that precise moment they were exactly the three things that he was doing First of all, in verse 40. They say you said you were going to build the temple. Verse 40. You who are going to destroy the temple and build it into their sailors I don't want to mile it down. They really liked that thing. It was good for North America. And here's one who says that he was going to rebuild Herod's temple. It wouldn't work at all for 46 years. And he's gonna do it in three days. And of course, they must have had sex. Because of that moment. He will give the stuff that 's not. Because he would be there to come to his three days. The three days of his time in the Because what was the temple? The temple was the place of the presence of God. And Jesus the same My body is the key temple. My body is the very expensive God. God is in me. And I am God and man is going together. And Jesus is saying, I'm going to So at that precise moment Jesus is in the process of letting that temple be destroyed. Music would allow a dog control to be displayed. So that the earth is functional. He was allowing his temple to be destroyed so that at the moment of its construction the grave fail of the temple would be read. And the way opening of a whole place would be destroyed. Made the clearance belong to me. So balanced by the disruption and available of that method in the very life. You and I just every holy thing at the end. In order to do God to tell us , he says, in order to save us, he can 't save himself. The references are not in the coin of the telephone. Come down from across You're the son of God. And then in verse 43, he trusts in God, let God bless you and love and once him, for he said, I'm the son of God. God is what it says. You think of anything when you think of God, you think of power and magic. And if you think of anything when you think of a cross, you think of powerlessness, the very hands in the feet who nailed to that cross. Absolutely able to do anything even if they could read. We're so crazy that no Roman citizen was ever allowed But here is God on a cross. How they quickly Do you think that it's different? If you understand the Bible at all , to understand the Bible, if you want to see my blur. If you want to understand the measure of my glory , I don't care the number of species of insects and earth. I don't count the number of insects in the way that they can multiply or defection disease. I don't even analyze the parts of the human body and see the bloodstream and the flavor and all the very magnetic parts of that relief and the other. And don't look at the measure of the stars and their power and their distance from the earth Energy that emanated from them. And it's really the measure of my mind. Because of the park between the God before mentioned. The God himself gave up that way in order that he could And that not only could God design and think of such a plan so the GLI would not serve the new punishment To read the word, God in Panama could be amazing, not only could you, but would you. Do you have God in fact Given up all of his glory for the violence to deal off. The Ford of God speakers. So the good eye should be able to document what is the right side. We have completely disappeared. Then finally. The third time. Verse 42, the mark is claimed to be the same, right? So the double case happened. Fine table with the things that we 're But again, it's to miss the whole thing. You think with example you called Jesus good life device Because if he says again and again rather than to be hearing it anyway, my kingdom is a spiritual kingdom. And in order to conquer and to heal and to in that system, I have not begun at the spiritual. And the only way that I can do it is to bring the spiritual battle that's been going on since To face the foe in death, deathly, hand to hand combat and to ransom and to win the kingdom of my people. To pay for that freedom and review it from Satan to be purchased from the Who would be a place that we can do that? So the three So they do our things to save us to death things. Glory to be so And in the disruption and the way that it is possible, we can see. In the claim of the truth , you And in the murder of the five guys , it's important. So All of new things and all in the back of where Jesus is real. If the one instance for those inside, Jesus gives up They deserve hell and I'm coming down and I've had enough. So the DMI is a side. I look more than Realize once again. The Jesus could have been the Jesus would never take a path. Jesus It took more power and more majesty and more to do to endure that nothing. No way that it all comes back. Wherever it is. Knowing people that we are God never here and never fell. And for all eternity we are. Nothing but the slack and not a bit. Have you ever Have you ever responded personally to the transportation after the salvation disappeared students? Do you use so much with this? Use the style system. How does it get to this? And if you've never just played, you can try to Well , yeah, we did it. Oh, what is that? Why do you look at that? You can't say, I don't want to give my life to them, but I don't want to reject that. The mask could be a life to each other. Where do you like removal? Finally , we don't have to As we talked about last week , give ourselves as an offering for the words of us. Really? Sadverboke is What do you do are owed you by the mercy of that? I think we have one way of the most let's live our lives and live lives Very important. We're afraid of what he's trying to do for us. If we really give ourselves to him to go through the side. under the We're afraid that he's going to hurt us something. We're afraid that maybe you'll get some persecution. And things won't be so constant. We're afraid maybe he's going to take away some strength. Call upon us to give up something and we don't want to give up. Call upon us to tell us. This term that can be a The teachers of God. We have love you with God. What is it in your life in teachers of God? Why would it be very simple? Probably even That's taken on this. We need to find a bit. That's what it is that you're holding up. Whether it's your life as a whole, you've never come to Jesus. And this morning God's speaking to you about the fact that you've been holding out from the life of Jesus So let me talk into the dealing with a particular easierness of Well sometimes it's different as well, I think. Because you don't At the point. Okay. I just wanted to stand up there. Because we look at stand upon you to everything that perfect Because you want it to be Arabs , we are You were the telephone. And we call you to make us find the public. Today is dead