In the time of Herod, King of Judea there was a priest named Zachariah. He belonged to the priestly division of Abisa. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were upright in the site of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations blamelessly. They had no time because Luke was down. And they were both flying alone for years. Fifteen months later, the floor to Luke chapter two. Beginning is verse 1. In those days, Caesar of City decreased that a tension should be taken of the entire Roman world This was the first conference that took place while two women with governor seems. And everyone went to his own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and belongs to him. She went into registry with Mary, who was pledged to be married to her, and with the exception of Tyler. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born. And she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. Wrapped him in strips of cloth and placed him in a maze because there was no room there in the inn. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. The angel of the Lord appealed to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ, the Lord. This will be a sign to you. You will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a maze And suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angels, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace to man on whom his favor rests. And angels had left him and gone into heaven. Except we said to one another, let's go to Abraham and see this thing that has happened The Lord excited. So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the name. They assume him. They spread the word concerning what had been told them about this time All who heard it were amazed with what the shepherd said to them. And there he closed up all these things and conquered them in our life. The shepherds will come, glorify, composing God to all the things that they have heard and seen, which adjust as they have been said. Father, this is your holy word. We pray that you would help us now if it puts this easy. To approach it and to stand before it and all. And this story is so old to us And your father is ever new to consider remaining upon God having become trust. Help us Lord to understand A new aspect of the team of what you did when you pray for publicly to worship him The people submit our minds to you in our lives to you. So if you might have to say , never peace again. Move one you sort of the pit -pop of the New Testament. Well, it's it's there and we're glad that it's there, but generally we only stop there long enough to get on to reach chapter two , Christmas here. And so, because of that, we miss a great deal of what the Christmas story is about. So sort of like uh the turkey dinner that many of us can enjoy on Facebook. We could look at that dinner and uh gobble up the turkey and stay at home uh tear the whole thing apart and if we could just eat the turkey and ignore the rest of the meal we might have a certain amount of fun doing that. Uh but how much cooler, more balanced and enjoyable is some reality uh pause while we're eating the curtain to have some potatoes and cranberry sauce and a few other things. Don't want to blow into that in too much detail unless we salivate on hearing the message this morning. that that we would be able to enjoy the turkey as part of a whole meal. And that's the way I'm afraid that many of us approach the Christmas story. We all love Luke chapter 2 verses 12 But that's only part of the Christmas story. You remember last year we read from Luke chapter one In verses 1 to 4, how Luke said that he was going to give us an orderly account in verse 3 of all that God had done. And therefore, Luke, unique among the Gospels, begins the story of the birth of Christ fifteen months before that event, in order for us to understand more fully the significance of that event. So everything that Lukewrights, every paragraph in chapter one gives us insight and is related to the birth of Jesus in chapter 2. And therefore I plant to you last year that I was going to take the next several years to go verse by verse through Luke 1 and 2 in order for us to more fully understand the depth and the meaning of the Christian series. This year we're going to consider Luke chapter 1, verses 5 to 7. It says three verses in order to see here two themes that are central to the Christmas story. The scenes of remnants and humility. The things of remnants and humility. The scenes of Zachariah and Elizabeth were a sign of the humble remnant that God was to send fifteen months later. Now let's look at these two ideas in order. First of all, the idea of the remnant. The remnant made a harvest. The remnant made a harvest. After the stress that Lucas placed on the historicity of his account, we saw last year in Luke chapter 1 verses 1 to 4, the fact that system actually happened. It wasn't a fairy tale, it wasn't just a nice story to make it feel good at this time of year. But it's a historical account of what God actually did in history Then Luke plunges us into history immediately in verse 5. And he places the locale and he places the time of the beginning of the story. We go in verse 5. In the time of Herod The king of Judea. Luke wants us to be clear on the historicity now. He's giving us very clear information. Herod the Great is the person he's referring to. He reigned in Judea. Generally is accepted to be the date from 37 to 4 BC. Uh Herod reigned at that time as the appointed king by Rome of Judea. And This date, by other information that we get in Luke chapter one, we know that verse five is actually the first week of October 6 BC. We have that with a certain degree of Inclusiveness, that it was probably the first use of October in fifth B C in case you're interested in Christmas that Jesus was not born in zero B C he was actually probably born in either December five B C or January four BC So this uh the story begins in the fall day and and autumn day, early October in six BC, with Zachariah on a riverbed Now notice the concept that Luke draws out for us between verse 5 and 6. The time is the time of Herod, the king of Judea. And at that time there was a priest named Zachariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abai, to 24 divisions of priestly service that went up each one twice a year to go up to serve the temple. And Zechariah was of the division of Abizah, and his wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron, a priest married to the daughter of a priest, considered to be a double blessing. Then both of them, he says in verse 6, were upright, were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations plainlessly Well, a more spark contrast is rather hard to imagine when you consider the days of Herod and two people who are righteous and walking blameless to the before the Lord In the Sunday school time we're going through some of the history of this period. And for those of you in that or have been in any part of that or have studied this period of history here You know that Herod was a ruthless leader, a person who exterminated the entire house of Nazibees because of his suspicion and jealousy of any potential rival. He cut them down one by one. He even had executed a couple of his wives. He had ten of them. And he had a few of them killed. At one point he suspected erroneously uh his uh just because of his mad jealousy, his two sons were fighting against him for the throne. And when 300 people intervened for them in order to try and save these two countries, Herod cut down all 300 of them and then slandled his two sums This is the kind of fellow who is the king of the Jews at this time. This is the kind of person who is now the monarch of God's people, under whom they're to be subjects. It was a time of Paris. A man who, of course, as we know from the gospel account, when he saw that there was possibly arrival for the throne in one that the kings were coming to worship, one who was born in Bethlehem, thought nothing of having a couple dozen babies put to death So that there would not be a possibility of a rival coming out of Bethlehem. Herod who had the great temple built to the Lord. Uh remember Richard was said if you haven't seen the temple in Jerusalem, you haven't known what beauty is. uh thought nothing offered building temples of um majesty to the Roman gods and to the Greek gods. Uh Herod was the king of the deeds. Herod his whole time was known as a time of bloodshed and corruption. It is during this time that we see this couple, Zach Ryas, and Elizabeth, of whom it said that they were worthless, and they were walking in all the small to the Lord laminess. But think about them. What that means. We said of them that they were walking before the Lord. They were good. That you know the the righteousness of favor down here. Savor righteous in the sight of God. So many times you and I seek to have righteousness established in the sight of men We're concerned that people see it as righteous, that other people look at it as righteous. The concern of Zechariah and Elizabeth and the concern that Luke has in recording their lives for us is They were righteous in the sight of God. That's it now. Now that worked out in their warnings in obedience to God's command In fact, you notice how clearly, how carefully that stated there in verse 6, observing all the Lord's commands and regulations blamelessly Now who here can claim that we've done that? They were blameless in their walk before the Lord. Not only were they concerned to be established as righteous before God's son, but also that people would please That they were blameless, that that this worked out in an an inevitable change of their lives, in their own uh life of easy before the Lord that they served Now what does that mean? Does it mean that they were perfect, that they never sinned? Well of course it doesn't mean that. What it means is that they were in they were keeping the law as best as they could keep the law, including the provisions that the law made for sin. But when we read that Zacharia and Elizabeth were righteous, why were they righteous? Well, because not only did they seek to obey the law in what it said that they should live like, but it means that they also made provision under the sacrifice of the law so that their sin would be covered And every time they did that, they thought of the Messiah. They thought of the one that presented them that God was going to make. That one who was going to be the fulfillment of all that that ritual had intended. Because after Al and Elizabeth had hope in the one that God was going to send. So this morning, where do you stand in that? Are you seeking to establish your own righteousness before the Lord? Are you seeking to look religious? Are you seeking to look like you are a good person? Or do you have the righteousness that's in the sight of God? The righteousness that comes from the fulfillment of the law. It came only through that one who was to come to fulfill the law purposely, who would be born just 15 months later. The one who would grow up before the Lord, who would obey the law perfectly, and then he would be put to death as a substitute on behalf of those who didn't keep that law. Where is your righteousness soundless man? Is it a righteousness that you think people are saved? Or is it a righteousness that you have because of Jesus Christ? The righteousness that you have because you trusted him and given your life to him. The righteousness you have in the sight of God, because God Himself has declared an innocent God himself has accepted you and refused you because his own son has paid for all the things that he's done wrong and paid it in full. That's the righteousness of Zechariah and Elizabeth have. And it was a righteousness that worked out in a changed life. In a life that was probably a very beautiful life to see. It probably lived in the city of Jebah, up in the hills of Judea uh some uh distance south of Jerusalem in Bethlehem. And in that hill country of Judea, Zachariah and Elizabeth lived alone because they had their children in a home that probably reflected all of the beauty Of the Old Testament religion at that time. It reflected the purity of worship and affection for each other, a concern for the poor and open-handed charity, a love for God that was slain to a longing desire for the Messiah who had come. Strongly and praying day by day, Lord, when do you send them who is to deliver Israel? He is to be the consolation of Israel. They love the Lord, they served the Lord, and they waited for the Messiah to come, even if he waited for it to come. So this is what's characterized. But when you contrast that with the time that they live in, you begin to understand why there are remnants. They were a people preserved by God through the minefield of opposition that existed in those times that was to effectively deter anybody. compossibly loving and serving the Lord with any way that is in any kind of purity according to the Bible. You think of uh what a remnant is You have to be clear on that term. What is a remnant according to the Bible? It's a term that's used a number of times in the Old Testament. You see a couple of references listed there and you pull it in the outline Repeat a number of times in the Old Testament, and basically it means that which we made. Simply means that which we named. For instance, uh this Thursday, as I mentioned before, many of us will be enjoying a perfect dinner. When you enjoy that dinner on Thursday, in most cases you won't finish the whole thing on Thursday. And so on Friday you will enjoy the remnant You see that's the basic meaning of the word. You'll enjoy that which remains on Thursday. And maybe if unlike some families on Saturday, you'll have a remnant of what was there Friday. And maybe on Sunday you'll have a further remnant and on and on. So you finally think you can't look another turkey in the eye and you reduce the bones for the suit. But each succeeding night you're having a remnant, that which we named from before. And that's the way it was with God's people. Started out a host and then presses came to bear on it. And they were reduced to a smaller and smaller group of people. So that that which remained in love and service of the Lord, those who were righteous, who trusted him and waited for the Messiah, became a smaller and smaller number You have in the uh the three basic attacks upon the church that that uh Satan has used throughout the course of history. Persecution, apostasy, and liberalism So these are the same things going on then that confused the boy. We have the persecution, the times uh when Israel moved into the land of Canaan and fought against the Canaanites and the Philistines and the opposition that there was there. You have Babylon taking them away into exile. You have them released and after that time you have the Syrians oppressing them. You have Antiochus Epiphanes in one seventy five BC, determining to exterminate Judaism. Persecuting them in the most awful manners possible. You have after that the high priests even seeking to persecute and to exterminate Judaism because of their alliances with a secular government. We have during this whole time uh the Romans coming in, 70 BC, so that they began to persecute and to oppress. You have Herod himself reducing their numbers further and further You have also apostasy during this time. Not only do you have the persecution reducing the numbers then, you have the same thing today Today, to this very day, and that process still continues persistently. And God continues to be very You think of China. In 1949, the communists move in. There 's a thriving church in China. And the communists begin to persecute. They begin to bring about pressure upon the Christian church in China. People begin to wonder if they're going to be anybody left. And you might have wondered, would there have been anybody left during the time of Heroes? God characters that Lion Elizabeth, his Joseph and Mary , his Anna , with Simeon, and there's others who look for the Messiah who was to come. And in 1979, 30 years later, after Taiwan took over China, you look into China, it begins to open up. You see in 1980 that there's a thriving face there, a very healthy thing. God always preserves his weners. We 've always thought which remains according to the grace of God, preserved by him , people and also by his power Not only does persecution Jesus, but also apostites. You see this in the Old Testament, as Isaiah and Jeremiah and others of prophets talk in warning against the people who have abandoned the Lord, who have gone to serve other gods. We have the same process continuing down before the time of Jesus, near the time of his coming, the time of his birth, when the high priest had abandoned the faith, that the high priests were even sending sacrifices to the Roman gods. And the high priests were apostizing them and leaving the faith and had no real hope in the coming of the Messiah. But were working out uh in alliances that were totally heathen And you have at that time uh the the leading of people left and right from serving the Lord. You begin to wonder, is anybody left? Is anybody who loves the Lord God says that I had Elizabeth with Joseph and Mary. So if a remnant that he's preserved, is a people that God has supernaturally set to his own to love him and serve him. And so it is today You think of government, uh you think of the price of the day that it brings about people leaving their things. I think of a meeting that I was in just this week A meeting that was led by a church leader. And the church leader in this area told us that we're going to think about the body We're going to think about the community, the body of believers. So we were told to uh go into a state of relaxation and to meditate and to follow our breathing and then to just let our minds wander to any thought that came into our mind And then there was some discussion about things that had nothing to do with Jesus Christ. Nothing distinctively Christians in any of the talk about body and community. We have the same presence today. A people who know Jesus Christ, but there's no concern for what the Bible says about. Apostasy, the God-safe text, that's where I was in Listen. And God teach the people today to say, I'm it matters to you what the Bible says about Jesus Christ. And that's the only thing I can find. Then he's the reaction to apostasy. This is so often liberalism We had that in the Old Testament. You had those who, then just before the time of Jesus Christ, sought to build a hedge around the law so that they would preserve the law. And there became a list of rules and regulations to keep. And with these rules and regulations you had a concern that only the outward form and not the enhanced We have the same thing today. We have that concern for rules and regulations, apart from the work of grace that comes through Jesus Christ. It is that legalism of a reaction to abandoning the faith. The God touched that's where I ask him elicit it, the legalism God kept Mary and Josh from liberalism. He kept the venue. He kept those who remained supernaturally by a power. Little arms he cut You know it's not always always going to be just like that. There's not just a remnant. But because Jesus came, the remnant has become a harbor Because you see, as we read here, the Zechariah and Elizabeth were both lightest and walked in the Lord's commands blameless. We see here that that was not a righteousness that was their own. As we said before, it was a righteousness that was given to them because in themselves they were guilty But there was one who God has deserved a succeeding. There was one that God was bringing who was the only one who after looking at the whole race of Israel, God said, guilty, guilty Guilty, you haven't cut my lawn, you've come short of my service. He looked at you and me, and the same verdict comes upon our lives. Guilty There was one that was coming. The one that was going to be born in Bethlehem, who God when he grew up said, This is my beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. This is the remnant, the true remnants, the only true Israelite he ever knew, the only one who ever kept the law that I give him. The only one who has came to all of my promises. The one who is truly my son, the one who is truly my servant, as Israel was intended to be. So God looks at Jesus Christ and says, This is the remnant. He is the one who is righteous and walks before the Lord gain lane with him. And it's because of that that Ryan Elizabeth can receive his righteousness. It's because of him that you and I can receive his righteousness. And he says of this one that all the nations will be brought into him And no longer does the Bible from the birth of Jesus Christ ever again talk about a remnant. The Bible from that time on talks about a heart. In time of the birth of Jesus Christ, that dwindling group of faithful fear begins a growing number, an innumerable host of those who begin to serve and to proclaim the Messiah. That's why you see, they're not prophecies. But it is so often quoted at this time of the year. You know the one where the Magi came and they said, Where is this one who is to be born the king of the Jews? And Herod consulted the Jewish leaders and they said, Oh well Microphiles two children is going to be in Bestah. You know the prophecy how it goes, but you, Bethlehem, Ephraim, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be the ruler over Israel. His origins are from old, from ancient times Generally, it takes the time we don't go on to verse 3. And yet it's integrally tied to that. Because he says in verse 3, therefore Israel will be abandoned until the time when he who is elaborated gives birth It's talking about Mary. And the rest of his brothers, the brothers of the one, the Messiah who is to come, the rest of his brothers shall return to join the Israelites. He 's going to come a company, a host. And there is who he says in verse seven, the remnant of Jacob will be in the midst of many people Like the dew from the Lord. Verse 8, the remnant of Jacob will be among all the nations in the midst of many people. The remnant 's going to become a harvest In fact, Joel tells us in Joel chapter 2 that afterwards I will pour out my spirit on all people, and your sons and daughters will prophesy. The old men will dream dreams, and the young men will see visions For my servants, men and women and all the nations, I will pour out my spirit in those days. Verse thirty-two everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And those will be delivered, the Lord has said, among the remnant whom the Lord calls Chapter 3 verse 2, I will gather all nations and bring them down to the valley of the Hashtag. Bring them to salvation in the Lord. So God has brought some people like Zathriah and Elizabeth and Mary and Joseph to put you in the midst of corruption while faithful sleep Because through them can do that. He born is saved. Born is the one who has walked in righteousness in God because of you and I But I 've worked with them. And we look to all people beside us. People from every time inside the latex, the new workers. Not only for the remnant, but the humble remnant. And here you see the other contrast. It's so it's so clear in this passage. The second key of humility. You notice in verse 6 and verse 7, another strong contrast. Instead of Zacharias and Elizabeth that they were both righteous in the sight of God and burglar all the Lord's commandments and regulators lamenty, but they had no children They had no problem because Elizabeth is done. And the Rose this time dwell alone through you. Let me see that's not what you'd expect to read. If you were in the New Testament framework of a Jewish mind, you would expect to read that They were righteous and they served the Lord blamelessly and so they had many children. Children were gathered all about them. And their prosperity grew and their prosperity was a was uh known to everyone around. But I thought it was to be Neither were righteous, and yet they had no children. There must have been in the Hebrew, around that round, and it's a bit a lot of people The people who said poor Jack Rias and Elizabeth, they don't have any children. And I'm not really sure why it is. They seem to be nice people, you know, but something must have gone wrong There must be some reason why God uses beauty to them, some reason why this helps children from them. I mean, hasn't God promised in Deuteronomy 7? Verses 1214, that if you keep my commands, there will be none dying among you, either in your men, your women, or your animals Hadn't God promised that one of the blessings that he would give to his people, that they were faithful to him, would be that no one would be banned Hadn't Rachel said to Jacob when she was saw that she had been that she was not barren and she was banned, Jacob, give me children, or I die. David says uh Jesus said I am God that I can give his children. So the Lord has seen my display and he's delivered me Okay. Rather not with hold up and lady with Greece. How about Ahana? And she was part of Henry to grease and poured out of cold to the lake So that when she was given children, he says in first Samuel chapter two, the Lord has delivered me and so he saved it to me by giving children Was not barreness a justice that God declared in Genesis chapter 20, when Abraham came and and Abimelech took Sarah as his wife And God judged him by closing up, we read in Genesis twenty, the wounds of those who are individual, wives, and passed on? Was that that his judgment? Wasn't it written by a contemporary at the time of the birth of Jesus or Jews? He wrote that it was his religious duty to divorce his wife before she bore and their children Was that not the attitude that we could have? And we kept right across every bit of us. Because that's a simple and it's a long attitude. But we could told us right here that they were righteous. They were freezing in the sight of the Lord. There was nothing wrong with their lives. And yet they had no feelings. Isn't that a reminder to you and to me when you see someone in a cricket? Someone, some person who's suffering in some area, and it's so easy to conclude that God is not pleased with us. It's so easy to think where, you know, they seem okay, but there must be something wrong that God is putting them through all That would have been the tendency, the temptation of that. They were humbled before their sons. They were reduced in that humility, that disgrace of not having children before their society As those who it would appear God was not peaceful. They were humble. Why were they humble? You see what these people had left The fact that God had said in his own words that Israel exaltes death. You know, actually he keeps that great prophecy we so often quoted in time in Isaiah chapter 53 about The suffering servant, the Messiah who is to come and bear the sins of his people. He goes right on in the next verse in the first verse of Isaiah 51 and says, Sing, O barren woman, you who never bore a child, he's talking about Israel now. Burst into song and shout for joy. You who were never in labor because there are more children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. But who's ever saying to? We're not left in any doubt because Paul quotes this in Galatians chapter 4 And when Paul quotes that he's saying, Jerusalem is our mother, the church. And Paul quotes from Isaiah chapter 54, verse 1, and Paul says, Be glad, O barren woman who bears my children, bread forth and cry aloud, because you have no labor pains because they're more of the children of the desolate woman than parallel hostel. Paul says that's talking about the sins. See what people admissive at that time was that the first three mothers of Israel were all born. The wife of Abraham, the wife of Isaac, and the wife of Jacob. They're all bear and women. Sarah could have no children. Rebecca could have no children. And Rachel could have no children. Until God supernaturally gave them. And that was the sign that the Lord was using to show that the fruitfulness of his people, the church, is a supernatural fruitfulness. It must be given by the Lord Himself. You say just before the birth of Jesus, you have that role and Elizabeth. The mother is a forerunner of Jesus. And what happens? God says again, in the new age, it's the same way Elizabeth can't have children on her own until God second actually gives her children and he absolves her. And so it is the human being. And we look back, and we see that the Messiah himself was born of a believer was born of one with whom it was impossible to have children, so that you and I would not miss the point. God himself that the Father is Jesus And God Himself is the one who makes the church prosper. God is the one who when he reduces us to humility is showing that that's simply so he can demonstrate his power. The ultimate example of that, of course, is Jesus. Jesus, who was displaced in his own birth. Jesus who was displaced by the Romans in the place that he was to be born, so that he had to be born in Bethlehem. Instead of his own hometown of Nazareth. Jesus was disgraced and humbled, born there in those circumstances. So the God who said Zechariah and Elizabeth were a sign of that humility. Jesus was the one ultimately humble, the King of Sins and the Lord of Lords brought into a savings As Lucy Saw says in her reflections on Mary in Bethlehem, looking at Jesus, called Mary's song. Blue home spine, and the bend of my breast keep warm this small hot music star fall into my eyes. You who have had so far to come Now nearness satisfies the body of God. Quietly lies his vigour of hurl these unit. He sleeps. His eyelids have not played before. His breath, first light has proved no breath at all, and ruffled the dark feet to spout a world. Farmed by dove 's voices, the whisper of law , he gloom. He remembers it from his other steals. Breast, mouth, ears, eyes. This prepelled who overflowed all sounds, all years. And with an eternity. Now he is me. Now made it to Earth as I am, nailed to my poor planet, caught that I might be free. Blind in my wound know my God's henders. What to this birth? For me be me born. For him to see me member. Oh that's the win. Oh, we think of the humility. Is that right to meet the To the things that they had. They were brought low to the dreams of the common thing unto them to be a price. And then this later on says, God has taken away my disgrace and has exalted me, but again for them of Jesus. King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, who is born in Bethlehem, who is born in a fable and let's not mistake the picture It wasn't clean and sweet smelling hay with a nice clean little symbol I can see on the on the the Christmas slides that you turn around. It's a smelling symbol. It's a green symbol. It was a place that none of us would want to stand in our room. And after Jesus, the King of Kings, was born, humbled, humble beyond all imagination and understanding. So the key would be exalted. Would be exalted to the place where every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord, because the principle of the kingdom is the same principle, with Hannah. Humbled that he might be exalted. Elizabeth and Zachariah, humbled that they might be exalted. Mary, who when she was told that Jesus had the Messiah, said, I was humbled that I might be exalted So that Jesus, humble that he might be exalted, so that you and I humble ourselves before him at this time. Humble and bow before the Saver. Humble and bow before the man to worship Jesus. So that we will be with him exalted to the right hand of God. Exalted to serve him to the honor and of the loving order. These are the principles of the kingdom that we received in the Christian faith God is continuing to keep his people, keep an action, in a widening field, the remnants become the heart. And God will always humble his people so that if you might lift them up Even if he humbled his own son, so he might lift him up for a time. That's that 's a good thing. It's so difficult for us to understand. How you were humbled when you lay there in angels for us. We thank you, Lord, that you've given to us so many pictures in your word of humility The humility that was absorbed by you, so that we might understand something about you. Thank you for telling us that Riah can link this. who are humbled as though they were part of your remnants deserved by you so that you might lift them up Lord, maybe look at our own lives. You see those areas where you're humbling us. And where you humble us, Father, maybe face against us. When you humble us and we we ask and we say, we don't want to be humble. Why are we going through this? Oh remind us, Lord, of Zapara. Remind us, Lord, of Jesus Deliver us from our pride. Deliver us, Father, from reacting to those ways that you want to bring into us the mind of Christ. May we humble ourselves before you this time. And as we thank Father on three times, we celebrate the Sabbath Jesus is born. Let me remember that he who is the faithful remnant, who is the only one who was ever faithful and obedient to you, was humbled more than anyone. The humble stream, so that we might have his rights with you. So that we might lift him up, so that we might always put him at a way. All come fathers, help us, holy to be my oneship and other one. Through my fruit name. Amen. A hymn that reflects with humility Jesus wondered found in the Children's Testament. In six hundred and forty