Hallelujah. You're here. That's what we celebrate. And thank you, Julie and Jeff, for bringing us that expression of praise. Well, Kathy and I are glad to be back from a week visiting with our four grandkids And uh you may have heard our nine-month old who had surgery is doing fine, was completely successful. Thank you for any of those of you who are praying for her Um recovery is quite uncomfortable for her and she is not unwilling to let that be made known. And along with three brothers and sisters, we found that uh when we came back on Friday morning sitting together to pray, we were rather unnerved by the silence. And it once again reminded me, especially during that week, of what a job you moms have with little kids. Four, eight and under. And uh it j you know, I really wonder how I mean I do it for a week back how do you do it on and on week after week Well, anyway, uh congratulations. My hat's off to you. Let's now turn to Scripture, and we fast forward from Micah Five hundred years later, the shepherd king is about to come into the world where the where Israel has seemed abandoned. An angel appears to a peasant girl, not in Bethlehem, where Micah said the birth would take place, but up in Nazareth. in despised Galilee. He tells her that God is going to come through her to have a son And that that son is going to be king forever and nothing will ever be the same because of his birth. Mary is, of course, confused, a bit overwhelmed, but she's willing to do whatever the Lord is calling her to do. Shortly after that time, she goes to visit her relative Elizabeth, perhaps her aunt, but uh Elizabeth is an old lady pregnant with John the Baptist, six months into that pregnancy. And at Elizabeth's greeting, Mary bursts into song, a spirit-inspired song that has become a precious carol of Christmas for us. And I want to look at that song both this Sunday and next Sunday so that you and I can glean some of its treasures to help us to celebrate Christmas and to think about what God has done. that changed history forever. That song that Rick read is divided, we can divide it in a number of different ways, but for the purposes of our study, I'm going to divide it into two parts. One this week and one next week. The first part I call the personal part, verses forty-six to forty-nine. That's where Mary reflects on why she is so full of joy The second part that we'll look at next week is the principal part, because there she states a general principle, which is how God deals with the humble and how he deals with the proud. And the great reversals that take place both in this world and at the end of life. And I want for us to notice in both these What she says about the gospel, so that we see Jesus. But I also want for us to see her praise and her song as a pattern for you and for me in our worship, particularly at this Christmas time. So two parts to this first part. That is two points. You see the two blanks. The first one is magnify. That's what she says in verse 46, Biri said, My soul and IV is glorifies, the ESV magnifies, my soul. magnifies the Lord, magnifies a little more close to what the Greek says, which is megalunae, which from which we get our word magnification. Um, you know there's two ways you can magnify. Now don't tell our grandson, but this Christmas uh we're giving him both a magnifying glass and a telescope The idea is you've got a lot of snow out there to look at and bugs and all that kind of stuff. So, you know, y when you magnify with a magnifying glass or with a microscope, what you're doing is you're taking something that's very small And you're making it look larger so you can see the details. The other kind of magnification is what we did last year. We gave them a pair of binoculars. And they live within sight of Pike 's Peak, but Pike's Peak is way off in the distance, but you look through the binoculars, and Pike 's Peak looks larger, looks more like it really is The telescope does that even more so. It takes what is actually very large and makes it appear more like it really is. That stars that are maybe a million times larger than the Earth that look so tiny at least look a bit more awesome, larger through the telescope. Now, when Mary uses this word magnify, she is using it in the second sense, not the first sense. We look at God today in our secularized culture as a being that's rather small and insignificant. He's there to help us when we need some help. But other than that, he really doesn't bother us. He stays in his place and lets us run things the way we want. Doesn't intrude. He's polite. Um, but is there to help out when he can and when things bad things happen, well, you know, God wasn't able to change that. He wished it didn't happen like we did. And that's kind of a common view of God today. Now I am noticing in the last few years uh a disturbing trend And um it's very interesting to track it. It's the merging of Santa Claus and Christian theology. It used to be distinct, but Polar Express broke new ground with that where the you had kind of God represented as kind of Santa Claus and belief and all the emphasis on belief And so, uh, for instance, you see in the store uh this season, uh if you've seen them, I see these sweatshirts. It's a picture of Santa Claus, and it just has one word, believe I mean doesn't it just warm your heart? You know, they're saying believe, just believe. I read a book about Rudolph. this year um where an angel helps Rudolph the red nosed reindeer to find a couple of lost bunnies in the woods Perhaps the best example of this is a book that was published, a kids' book, kids' Christmas book, published in 2006 called Santa News. Now this book I think is is significant because what it does is it tells a story about this snotty little kid, Alfie S. Snorkelpus. An Alfie F. Snorkelpus is a kid who is on a mission to disabuse his sister, his friends, the world. He gets on television and the net to disabuse people of the idea that Santa Claus is real. He says Santa Claus is a fake and he scientifically disproves Santa Claus. Now Very interesting. He comes across like Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris. I mean, this cle kid is clearly an angry atheist, and that is what's portrayed very cleverly in this book. He shows that it's impossible for an elf to travel all the way around the world in one night to deliver toys to everybody in the world just out of one single sleigh and to do it all within a few hours. So he waits up on Christmas Eve to he waits up to make sure that Santa Claus won't come and then he can make his case. Now, when he has been arguing all of this, his younger sister does not seek to answer any of his arguments. Her response is simply, well, I believe, and you should too. Alright, so he dismisses that, but much to his chagrin, Santa appears. And Santa answers his arguments by telling him about elf science, in which this Sile becomes actually a warp warped time and space to be able to get all the toys and all the time along, takes Alfie to the North Pole Meets the elves, they send him back in a box, his sister opens it up the next morning, and lo and behold, here is a nicer brother. Now, this is what's significant. Don't miss this part. What she says is, Santa believes in those who believe in him And I believe in you. And that's what changes them. So what the book does In a masterpiece of irony is clearly it is defending the supernatural and God And making him at the same time totally superfluous. What it magnifies is faith , My faith in you and your faith in me, that's what changes us. So you see here an utter contrast to Mary's song. Mary doesn't focus on faith. She doesn't magnify faith. Faith is not mentioned. Faith is simply the instrument by which she lays hold of God. My soul magnifies God. And she does that by the use of six words and phrases that you see there. First of all, she says, my soul glorifies, magnifies the Lord. He is Lord. In her terms, that was Adonai, Master. He's the one who calls the shots. And twice she says, She is the servant. She says it there in verse 48, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant She had said it back in verse 38 after the angel had spoken to her about what God was going to do. She says, I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said. And the angel up. She didn't know what was going to happen, what was going what she was required to do, but she says, I am available because you are Lord and I'm the servant. And it's important that we as Christians don't lose that distinction because sometimes we see teaching today that sounds like we're the ones in control and God is the one to do our bidding. Lord, this is a tough situation. Would you do this? Make my life easier. Deliver me out of this. It's your job to make my life easier. Mary understands the distinction. My soul magnifies the Lord. He calls the shots. I'm the one to hear and to obey. She starts at that. Then she goes on. She says, the thing that amazes me is that this God is mindful of nobody like me. Verse 48. He has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. He has noticed somebody like me who is so ordinary, has no claim to fame, has nothing unusual about them to recommend. Mary was a peasant girl in Nazareth who bought all her clothes at thrift stores in Walmart. She was indistinguishable from any other Jewish teenager. Wouldn't notice anything about it. Wouldn't stand out in the crowd. But she said, But God noticed me. The word mindful there is a word which means to pay special attention to with favor. The angel had said to her that the Lord has shown favor to you. The mighty one, she's remember verse 30, the angel said, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God He's noticed you. He set his mind on you. You haven't escaped his attention. And then she goes on to say that he is mighty, this one who's noticed me. Verse 49, for the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. What are the great things that he has done? Well that's what the angel said in verses 31 to 37. Remember, take a look Mary, you're going to be with child. You're going to give birth to a son. And you're going to give him the name Jesus. All of these are the directions, the orders from the Lord. He will be great And will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be, Mary? asked the angel, since I am a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High. will overshadow you, so that the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. And she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month. For nothing is impossible with God. Nothing is impossible with the Mighty One He does what he pleases. I think of uh Michael Card 's uh Sea Days Christmas song where he talks about The message of the Old Testament prophets, and he says, their wildest dreams simply weren't wild enough. They were looking for a Messiah to come in Israel at that time, contemporary Israel was understanding the prophets to be speaking of a Messiah who would come to deliver them from Rome so that they would establish once again an independent Jewish state that lived in peace And what the angel says to Mary, the mighty one, says, no, that's not the half of it. This one is coming to rule the world. He is coming to address the sin problem. He is coming to reverse the curse To restore not simply Eden, but infinitely beyond Eden, and to rule it forever and ever with nothing to ever be in rebellion to his perfect rule again. This is so far beyond your imagining, Mary. And she is able to begin to grasp, she says, my soul magnifies. I want to understand something of his greatness. Notice that she connects to that, verse 49. For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. Why does she add that on? The word holy basically means to be separate, totally separate. And there's two ways you can understand that in this context. The first is that God is holy in the sense that he is totally separate from his creation. He's not like Santa Claus and other gods that are part of the creation. This God is holy, separate from creation. I've used the illustration before. Let me remind you of it again. If you were to be able to imagine the entire created universe Somehow to be able to see that as God does with a glance of your eye, there it is spread out before you billions upon billions, hundreds billions of galaxies, 14 billion light years across. And you zoom in, you pan with a camera until you focus on one single insignificant galaxy within that huge span. And that's our galaxy, a hundred thousand light years across, and there it is with a hundred billion stars in it. And you continue to move in until you come to a particular solar system of a very average kind of star. You continue to move in from that solar system to the third planet out from it, the Earth. And you continue to move in toward that planet. And from that planet you come to Howard County and you come to you and to me. And Mary is saying, he is mindful, he who sees the universe in a glance, the Holy One, separate from all that, has come to visit you and me. He is mindful of you. He knows the number of hairs on your head. This one knows you. But holy also has the idea of separate from sin It's not simply that you are small that is so amazing why God takes notice of you and me, but it's because you're also sinful. And so that's why Mary goes on to say, he is merciful in verse 50. He is merciful. His mercy extends to those who fear him from generation to generation. The one who sends his Holy Spirit to come upon Mary so that the Holy One will be born. He's also the one who is merciful. Because of that mercy, he comes not to destroy you for your sin. He comes to forgive. Tiger Wood's wife has been offended nothing compared to your arrogance and my arrogance in how we have offended God. Martin Luther once wrote, If the world had treated me the way it treated God, I would have kicked the wretched thing to pieces. And Mary says, the amazing thing is he didn't kick the wretched thing to pieces. But he has come to visit it and to bring his son as a sacrifice for your sin and mine. He's mindful of us. He's holy. And he's merciful. She then goes on from the personal to the principle in which she talks about how God deals with the proud and the humble. How he's performed mighty deeds with his arm. He's scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. He's brought down rulers from their thrones, but has lifted up the humble. He does not take lightly those who ignore him. He has filled the hungry with good things, but has sent the rich away empty. He has helped the servant Israel, remembering to be merciful. To Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers, promising in the Abrahamic covenant his mercy. We're going to look at that more next week. Well let me just close this section by challenging and calling you to this week use the scripture as a telescope. To enlarge your view of God. Take those six simple words and phrases, trace them through Scripture, meditate on them So that as you use Scripture, you don't look somehow for God to make you joyful this season apart from the telescope that shows what he's like. Scripture Magnify him. Think about him. Focus on his word. Focus on those concepts in verses 46 to 49. And as you do May God cause you in thinking about that to do the second thing, which is to rejoice. My spirit rejoices, she says, in God my Savior. Mary was not delivering a theological lecture in recounting these attributes of God. Mary is thrilled, not detached with him. She is emotionally engaged. Notice how personal and passionate are her words. My soul and spirit rejoice. My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Because He's not simply the Savior of the world. He is God, my Savior. Whatever the church may say, I'm not immaculate. I am a sinner and I need a savior. And Mary rejoices that the one to come is her savior. The one who will take her sin and die for her. He's noticed me Amazing, not because of the things that I have done. But again, verse 48, he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on all generations will call me blessed. She's rejoicing in the good news of what God has done in her and for her. I imagine there must have been many times in the days, the weeks, the months ahead When Mary would have wondered, has he really been mindful of me? Does he really notice me? Is he still here, as he said As that word of the angel and the song of our own heart becomes dim in just the days ahead. When she begins to hear people snickering and speculating on how she got pregnant, you know, and she says it was an angel, right? She says it was the Holy Spirit. Misunderstood, her reputation ruined shame, disgrace, her own Fiance saying, think we need to bring an end to this relationship. No record in scripture of what the marriage was like, the wedding, any shower Probably it was done very quietly, the minimum. What do we need to do? Make this legal. And then Off on an eighty-mile trek to Bethlehem. Nine months pregnant, walks the whole way No public transportation. Comes to Bethlehem, a place where there's not a single soul in the world she knows Can 't even find a decent place to have the baby. She's relegated to a cave like having your baby in a garage, the stinky animals around. No mom, sisters, friends, no midwife All she's got is Joseph and he's a man, so you know how helpful that was. Sure he did his best, but Mary Joseph, you're not cutting it. This is not helping. Where is God? Does she even have something to wash the baby Did she feel abandoned? Is she really mindful of me? You ever have that feeling? I think we see here a principle of how God works that's so, so precious. Because it was that night after she had the baby. The Holy Spirit sends angels, and the angels come and they speak to shepherds. And we're all thrilled with the song of the angels and the words of the shepherds. But you know what really happened there? The shepherds go to the manger. They find her. And they say, Oh, you're Mary, you're you're this is the one we're looking for. We heard this one is the Savior who's been born Imagine what that meant to Mary. To see the angel to see the shepherds come and to hear of the angels and say, it's true. God has not abandoned me. This this suffering and all this is part of his plan. This is his work in me. But it's worth it because he's bearing Messiah through me. This is the one that's going to change the world. What a comfort that must have been to her. What an encouragement to her faith. And the scripture says she pondered these things in her heart. That's the way God deals with you and me sometimes. Brings us to a rough time. He says to you through his word, I'm with you. I'm mindful of you. Yeah, Lord, but it doesn't seem like that. And then he sends a little postcard from heaven. Some simple little answer of prayer. Something he needs does to remind you. Yes I'm still here. I'm with you. I haven't abandoned you. And Mary rejoices. Her joy is rekindled. And she's able to say again, this one has done great things for me. Verse 49 He has done great things for me. Holy is his name. She sees her life not simply in isolation, but in the larger picture of what God is doing in history. And you and I only really can rejoice this Christmas when you see your life not simply isolated. What's God doing for me? How is he making my life joyful? But how am I part of the bigger picture of what he's doing in history? How do I fit into the plan? of his agenda in this time between the first and the second coming. Here's a girl that has no medical insurance She doesn't have any dental insurance. She has simply shame from her family. She has no malls, no media entertainment. She not only doesn't have an iPhone, she doesn't even have a cell phone. And kids, you can rejoice without a cell phone. Mary did it. All the things that we take so for granted is necessary. Mary has none of that. But she is in touch with something infinitely greater. The presence of God. My soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. for what he's doing in me and through me. Let me ask you, what's robbing you of your joy this season? Stress of the shopping, the deadlines, the long list of things you need to do. Haven't even started your Christmas cards, and on and on and on and on We had a wonderful time in Colorado. God answered our prayers with Sadie, but it was rough. It was rough that next day I was in the hospital with her. It took us four hours to get five ounces of the fluid into her before she could leave. It's a great week with the kids. We decided we'd get a turkey so that we could feed for three days and be simple and easy. They have a 13-year-old beautiful white lab. He decided he didn't want to miss out. So he grabbed the turkey. This was after we had had our portion But he got all the remnants. The result of that is pancreas shut down. $500 vet bill. $500 turkey. And three days later he died Come home day after I get home unloading something out of the back of the car and leave the hatch up and lower the garage door Looks like bear claws back down the side of a two-month-old car. Where's your joy? Where's my joy? Does that rob it Does that take it away? Or is it in the context of something infinitely greater? My soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Because he has come to reverse the curse. He's come to rule and to reign and to give you and me that hope that he will come again. Where there will be no death, there will be no sorrow and sighing and tears. And Jesus will come to rule and to reign forever, and you and me with him, and we will rejoice, and nothing will rob us of our joy. Listen We don't lack, we don't miss our joy enough. What I'm saying is, there's a lot of other things we think, well, this is wrong and that's wrong, but how many times do you say, but I'm not joyful I need to be joyful. Scripture commands you to rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord again, and I say it, rejoice, in Philippians 4, in all circumstances. Because of the infinitely powerful news of the gospel of what God has done. Joy that's spontaneous Day after I got back, I'm driving up our street and I see the mailman, never saw him before, a new mailman. I saw this guy and he's delivering a mail and I thought, well I'll just stop and might as well pick up the whole box of it right there So I asked him, do you have the box of mail for $8589? He says, yeah. Are you the pastor? Okay. Yeah, I'm the pastor. He says, God bless you, Pastor. I don't usually get that, you know. So I said, do you know Jesus? Oh, do I I was raised in a church and I didn't hear about Jesus and then in 1977 I found Jesus and that changed my life. And we're out there sharing Christ at this mailbox and this guy is so full of joy And I thought, why is my joy not that spontaneous to just overflow the slightest provocation? What's robbing you of your joy? Let me challenge you to magnify the Lord through the telescope of Scripture in the next few days so that it moves your heart to be engaged to sing. I mean literally sing to Jesus this week. Fill your heart with the carols, meditate on them, embrace them so that you sing to him. Your joy comes back. God intends for you to be joyful. Don't let that legacy go and slip through your fingers from the Satan that would want to destroy and rob it from you. Jesus intends your joy. Use Mary's song to fire it and flame it so that it fills your heart. Let's pray. Lord our God, you intend our joy. Jesus died, that we would be joyful. A joy that is sometimes subdued in the grief of whether it is a dog that is loved and dies or something that gets messed up or a relationship that's broken To still have in our hearts the joy of the gospel. So, Lord, open our eyes that we might magnify the Lord That we might see you larger and larger in your mercy, in your holiness, in your mindfulness of us, us, even me Till our hearts sing in Jesus' name. Amen