We are turning now to 1 Peter chapter five. We are in the final passage of 1 Peter, living the resurrection. And Peter does in these short verses, summarizes the grand themes of his entire letter. And it is Peter's wisdom. It's Peter's wisdom that he has been teaching these Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire. who are facing great difficulty, many are new converts and struggling with what it means to follow Christ faithfully in the midst of suffering. And a particular kind of suffering. It is Suffering not per se associated with uh just being human in a fallen world, it is suffering and persecution because of the name of Christ. And here he's giving his final words of wisdom to these Christians that they might understand what they're resisting and how they're resisting and what is their assurance. So 1 Peter chapter 5 verses 6 through 11. Humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time. Cast all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be self controlled and alert. Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Resist him. Stand firm in the faith. Because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of sufferings. And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. To him be the power forever and ever. Amen. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Our Father, we thank you for this word that you have given to your church. And Father, we are simply uh fresh hearers this morning of a word that has been delivered to your church for centuries We pray that you would give us ears to hear, hearts to receive, and may you by your Spirit and your word together change us. That we might hear this wisdom and also live by it. In Jesus' name, Amen Well, right in the middle of these verses, the word resist appears And then the concept of assurance, you'll see in verses 10 through 11. My desire this morning is to show you the summary of Peter's thoughts throughout this letter. They summarize the great themes as I said earlier. What you'll see in your outline are two broad sections. One is the Christian's resistance. The second is the Christian's assurance. The Christian's resistance is referred to in verses six through nine. It is because of that word resist. He says here right in the middle of those verses that there is something that the Christian is called to resist. And I want you to see how he does so from verses six through nine he gives us. a list of things that we are to resist and how we're to do it. He's building on this theme in verse six, which Pastor Flora shared with us last week, and that is The message to the entire church and the different groups, the leaders, the young men, and to all the people, that the gospel of Jesus Christ, that is God by his love and grace, sending forth his son to be a sacrifice, to take sin of of those who is created upon himself to pay God's uh to pay God's wrath, to remove his wrath And to offer his obedience in our place that we might receive salvation. Because God has done that. And those who profess faith in Jesus Christ have received it. That the fruit that should come out of the Christian's life is humility. He rounds it off in verse 5 saying that God opposes the proud. One might say also God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. But lest we fall short of what is being encapsulated there, it isn't that you earn grace through humility. Humility is the product of grace. Humility is not central to any human heart, as we will see. But nonetheless, he's calling then in verse 6 forward how we are to resist. You'll see here, I would argue that he calls the Christian to resist pride. Calls the Christian to resist self-reliance, to resist foolishness, to resist Satan himself And if I might add another word here, resist forgetfulness of the foundation that has been laid. So you'll see the words here: manner, confidence, wisdom, object, foundation. Let's work together. As the Lord uses this word to also prepare us for the supper that we're going to celebrate this morning. What in the world do I mean by the Christian's resistance? It is this. Look at verse six. He tells us here How and in what way the Christian is to how they're to live. What is what characterizes their manner? He says, humble yourselves therefore under God's mighty hand that he may lift you up in due time. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. The manner that describes and characterizes the person who comes into contact with God's amazing grace is itself humility. Humility is the recognition that there is something greater than me. There is something that is worthy of all and praise. And here, when he says, humble yourselves, He's pointing them to that greater thing. Humble yourself in light of who God is and what he has done in Jesus Christ. Humble yourselves therefore, he says. The therefore is based uh it it's it's pointing it back. to what God has done in Jesus Christ in the opening words of 1 Peter when he says, Praise be to God the Father and of our Lord Jesus Christ and his great Mercy. He has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. He says, humble yourselves therefore because of that. Humble yourselves under God's mighty hand. And so he says, okay, so what should describe the manner, the conduct of the Christian is humility Because it is predicated based on the confidence that the Christian has, not in themselves, but in God's mighty hand. This is important for those who would hear Peter's words at the time in which he was writing it, because He picks up yet again on the uh on the reality of suffering because he began with it in chapter one when he said You have received a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded God's mighty hand again, shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while While you may have be made to suffer in grief in all kinds of trials, he's saying So the reality is humility is describes the manner of the Christian because they are to resist pride because their confidence is not in themselves, in their strength, in their ability, in their vision, in their knowledge. But it is confidence that they are underneath, shielded by God's mighty, omnipotent, all-powerful, everywhere, present hand. That is the confidence of the Christian's resistance. It is not a confidence in our intellect It is a confidence in a very foreign and alien intellect. In a foreign and alien righteousness, goodness and grace. It is that of Christ Himself. And then he says these words, and this is a part of the confidence. That what does humility, as a manner of describing the way in which the Christian lives, and what does confidence actually look like in practice? It is verse seven where it says, Cast your anxiety on him because he cares. for you. In the name that is above all names, I can with great urgency And great joy say to you that I get to preach about a father who doesn't look at you this morning morning and says you need to grovel. You need to you need to prove to me that you need me I get to preach about a Father who has declared his love before all creation and set out his purposes. That he would send his son while we were yet his enemies, Christ died. This is a heavenly father who cares for Why is this then humility and confidence in application? Let me summarize to the words of one commentator when he says this If believers continue to worry when they are when they if believers continue to worry, then they are caving into pride. How can anxiety and worry be criticized as pride? We can see that it might be a lack of faith, but does it make sense to identify worry as pride? He answers, worry is a form of pride because when believers are filled with anxiety, they are convinced that they must solve all the problems in their lives with their own strength. The only God they trust is in themselves. When believers throw their worries upon God, conversely They express their trust in his mighty hand, acknowledging that he is the Lord and sovereign over all of life. And he finishes with this. Affliction either drives one into the arms of God or severs one from God. Affliction is real And it has with it an invitation and a challenge. The invitation is to take those anxieties And this morning, by prayer and praise, lift them up to a heavenly Father who invites you into his caring hand But it is also a challenge. Wherever anxiety and worry exists Pride is present. This morning, in just a few brief moments. I was so encouraged when someone came to me and said this morning, they had been worried Full of concern because there was nothing they could do about a situation in their life. And in tears they said God 's word says to me, I can do one thing. I can turn to the one who says, cast them unto me. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest That is the Christian's resistance. The resistance of pride and the resistance, the idea that my circumstances Are dependent on my ability to figure it out. It comes back to confidence because of what God has done in Christ The Christians' resistance continues as ones who are characterized by humility and a confidence, which is humility applied, casting anxieties. to wisdom. Verse nine or verse eight he says, be self-controlled and alert. They're meant to be one and the same. And that is, pay attention. And here is Peter's wisdom He recognizes that the Christian and human beings in general are easily distracted. And when distracted, we forget things. We don't fully understand what we're going through, and we don't pay attention. It's a powerful reality being a human being And we live in an age of distraction. And he's saying here, be alert. Now, in just a moment, he's going to tell us Where and how we need to be alert and be self-controlled. But let me stop for a moment and say, I also think that one of the greatest enemies to our being self-controlled and alert. Is that very reality of how easily we can be distracted? Sometimes it can be used for good, sometimes it can be used for bad. I was reminded this week of how it can be used for good. I I saw in a great sixty minute story about how military uh doctors are investing a lot in this new technology because of wounded veterans who are experiencing a great deal of pain because of their rehabilitation process, they've learned because of a psychiatrist that if they were able to take headphones and place them on the heads of of those who are undergoing a lot of rehabilitation, a lot of pain, put these headphones on and then uh play through those headphones a video game where then they put their eyes inside these goggles that look like you're going to the eye doctor. And they in it, they begin to play a video game. They're transported into this frozen world where they're just simply with the with a click of a mouse, they're throwing snowballs at different things in this video game. And what they realized that the human brain and all the all the attention is being given to that, and while it is, doctors can begin to do rehabilitation that is very painful and the patient is less aware of the pain. And it doesn't require the same level of very difficult and hard medications. It tells us something about the human brain. That we can be in the midst of very, very difficult situations And be so distracted that we're not paying attention. Peter is saying, be careful. Be alert. Pay attention to how you're thinking, how you're engaging. Look around you The wisdom is, he says, that you need to be paying attention and being alert because why? And here is the crazy thing that a lot of people find about Christianity Is that Christianity professes what the Bible teaches, which is that there is a an angel Fallen from God, whose name is Satan, who from the beginning has been set against you and me Because he is set against God Himself. And the scripture here tells us that the object of resistance isn't other flesh, it is in the spiritual warfare, the things that are unseen. The reality is that there is one who is powerful, yet not as powerful as God. He's not everywhere present, he's not all-powerful, he's not all-knowing, but he is still powerful, and he seeks Whom he can devour. And he will do it by things that seem so good You see, Satan ultimately is a thief. He takes from what God says is good and steals it and twists it and turns it upside down on its head and makes something that was good. And turns it into something that is not. So he can take food, which God calls good And he can convince a person that the way they can deal with their anxiety is just simply eat more. He can take incredible reason and brain power and intellect and intelligence, which is a gift of God, and turn it into something in the person who has that intelligence and says Surely there is no God. I cannot observe Him. He takes things like music. Which God calls good and for his praise, and he turns it into an individual pursuit where I can plug out of the things I need to be paying attention to to and create my own little private world. I'm just saying what C. S. Lewis once said. It's not always what Satan puts into someone's mind that makes him powerful It's what he keeps out. In our daily lives, it can become a creeping reality where we stop Thinking and remembering that God is in control. He is present. And Satan is prowling around like a lion to cause fear, anxiety, to convince you that God is not real. Peter says, with wisdom, be alert, self-controlled, because he prowls around. He also says the foundation. Notice in these words when he says, resist him standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of sufferings. He's encouraging these Christians by saying, you're not alone. There are others who are professing brothers and sisters in Christ who are undergoing the very same kind of persecution that you are. So stand firm in the faith. In other words, faith is an objective reality. The Christian faith isn't existent because you say it is as an individual. It exists. It is a gift that has been passed on. through Christ Jesus to his disciples, written in this word and come down through the ages of the church and is continuing to be preached. And there have been those who've gone before you Those who are suffering at the hands of persecution throughout the world today as we speak, but let me speak specifically to those who profess Christ. There are those. Who have died so that you can have this Bible translated into English Stand firm in the faith because you know that there are others who are suffering like you are, and there are those who have suffered before you. And here let me just give you one. Last week in our membership seminar, we talked about the history of the church. And there's a big history between the end of the period of the apostles and And now, and we need not we better be careful not to forget it. One of those is John Wycliffe, who a hundred years before John Calvin became most famous. He said that the Bible should be translated into the English language. He was called a heretic for that. And though he died of natural causes, there was another who would follow him named John Huss who would continue to popularize John Wycliffe's ideas. It was John Huss who would eventually be brought to trial, found guilty of heresy, even though he was teaching the very things that would later be picked up in the Reformation, and he was burned at the stake. At that very same trial, they posthumously brought John Wycliffe up on 276 counts of heresy. They then dug up his bones and burned them. John Wycliffe, John Huss, and so many more Have committed themselves to the Word of God, to the faith that they have received. And that is a foundation and encouragement to everyone here. That there are others who suffer at the hands of persecutors. Stand firm in the faith that you have received. That is the Christian's resistance. But then Peter doesn't leave us there, and he says, there's a Christian's assurance. And here's what he says. Verses ten through eleven. And the God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, He says that the Christian's assurance is God. And here I want to say to everyone, we are not binatarians, unitarians, we are trinitarians. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. When Peter spoke of God, he meant all three. And it is the triune God. who has given his grace. When he uses these words, he says, and the God of all grace Not some, not his plus yours, the God of all grace, who called you He says, called you to what? To his eternal glory in Christ. What is being expressed there is that the grace that Peter has used He says, the God of all grace who called you, and he uses this word called. What in the world does that mean? I'm telling you, by that one word, Peter means everything. That God who called you to his glory in Jesus Christ, he is saying, this is a God who is a redemptive God. Who from beginning to end has had his purposes set out and he means to achieve those ends. He's simply echoing what he said in the first chapter. He simply says, Praise be to God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who in his great mercy has given you a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. from the dead and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. It is this God who cares for you, who has given his grace and has called you. That is what we teach by the phrase effectual calling, that when God calls, it has an effect. Our own statements of belief as a church are built upon this idea. The Westminster Short of Catechism question number 31 says this: What is effectual calling? Effectual calling is the work of God's Spirit, whereby convincing us of our sin and misery. Enlightening our minds in the knowledge of Christ and renewing our wills, He does persuade and enable us to embrace Jesus Christ. freely offered in the gospel. The God of all grace calls It is his work from beginning to end. Christian, take assurance. And those of you who don't know Jesus Christ know this morning this calling is to you. It is a calling to Christ, not to your own mind, not to your own wisdom. It is a calling to Christ, who is full of grace. And this he tells us in calling us to grace. He also says these things are in a context. In these words, when he says, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. Here I need to say to everyone that God has a purpose. He says, after you have suffered a little while, let me say, if John Wycliffe If John Huss, Martin Luther, John Calvin, John Knox, and a whole host of so many Christians who have suffered because of the name of Christ, shouldn't I also expect that same persecution because of the name? I want to say in humility, trusting not in my wisdom, but in God's word. That persecution and suffering ought to be not something we invite, but it ought to be something we should expect. Because if Christ, who suffered on our behalf, will we not also, in professing Christ, also suffer His purpose is beyond my understanding, beyond even the fact that I I must tell you It's hard to say that God actually intends that our faith as a professing Christian will be tested and refined None of us knows the future of humanity. None of us knows the unfolding events throughout the world. None of us knows when persecution will come in an acute way, or perhaps in a very subtle or passive way. What we know is it comes. And he means to use it to test and refine. Why? Because God 's purpose in refining us Means that he loves us. He's trying to loosen our grip that we have so tightly on our lives That our grip would be loosened and that we would recognize we are in his hands. A God of all grace, who cares for us, has a purpose for our suffering and persecution. And that purpose is to know him. But he tells us, does he not? That he will give us power? Isn't that what he says? Christ will himself restore you, make you strong, firm, and steadfast Isn't that what I said earlier as a part of the effectual calling that he does persuade and enable us to embrace Jesus Christ? That it is Christ who gives us the power through the person of his Holy Spirit, through the written word. That is the power to be able to embrace the assurance that is offered in Jesus Christ. When everything in our lives seems to scream the opposite, that we should not have assurance in this That our circumstances are in our own hands. And when those things scream at us, we go right back to the Word. And the Holy Spirit works together with it. To give us power to resist and to have assurance. And it is God's glory to whom it is directed And that is how he ends with a doxology, when he says , To him be the power forever and ever. Amen. You see, the Christian's resistance and the Christian's assurance is meant for us to embrace every time we come to this table to celebrate the supper. When we celebrate the supper at the conclusion of when the word is preached, it is meant that there is something about the word preached. that is inherent within this bread's symbolism and this juice 's symbolism. And when when we take of these symbols, these are signs. And here's what happens. If you're a professing Christian You have received the promised person of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit isn't in these elements. He's not on this table. He's in the heart of everyone who professes Christ. And when you take of these elements, these signs, and you in doing so are professing faith, the Holy Spirit works together with these signs. To give you power and strength. We teach that this supper is a means of grace, meaning it's a vehicle of grace. Whereby God is bringing to us, communicating to us by his spirit and word with these signs and symbols, that guess what? Do you want to know how God is going to restore you? Do you want to know how God is going to strengthen you, make you firm and steadfast? He wants to bring you back to that which points us to the center of our faith. Jesus said on the night in which he was betrayed, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And after the supper, he took the cup and he said, as one who would then go to the cross the next day, this is the cup of the new covenant in my blood, shed abroad for the forgiveness of sins. Drink of it, all of you. This is what the Lord is doing. This is how the Lord wants you to know that He cares for you because you can come this morning with all of your anxieties, with all your worries, with all the stuff in your cranium. And you can say, hear. And you know what the Lord does? Hear This is your hope. This points you to the source of my salvation, Jesus Christ Himself. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, baptized and a member of a church or belong to a body of Christ that preaches the gospel, this supper is yours. And ladies and gentlemen, this is a celebration This is a celebration of the source of our strength, Jesus Christ Himself. But if you are not a believer , We want you to know that this is a celebration which people around you are getting ready to participate in, and guess what? We want you to be a part of it. But to be part of this celebration means that you know that you know the one throwing the party If you don't know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, if you have not come to that place, we invite you to do so this morning. But if you have not and are not ready to do so this morning, do not take from this table. Because to do so would be lying to yourself, lying to others around you, but most importantly, lying to God. Don't do that. It's okay. If you need to be a wallflower, that's alright. But just know this: Jesus invites you to the feast. But the feast begins by knowing him. Let us prepare our hearts and minds to celebrate the supper this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that you give to us to strengthen us that we might resist. Foolishness, self-dependence, pride. But receive your grace. Equip us with humility. But also, Lord, fill us with an assurance through the work of Christ, your Spirit, and the Word. Father, do this because you have promised it. And we claim these promises this morning in the name of Jesus. Now feed us, we pray, for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.