The famous golfer Jack Nicholas, who holds a record of eighteen major championship titles. Second best all time, 73 PGA titles, PGA wins, would every spring go back to his home in Ohio And there he would hang out with his longtime golf mentor, Jack Grout. And one day in early spring, every year during his career, He would go to the first C and he would say, Jack Grout, teach me how to play golf. And Jack Grout would teach Jack Nicholas, one of the best golfers of all time. How to hold his club, how to make his swing, and go through the basic fundamentals. We need to do that With the gospel. We need to do that with our Christian life. And so this fall, as our church is in the midst of transition, we are using the book of Ephesians in order for us to review the basics of the gospel. To understand what a healthy church looks like and what God's calling us to be, both individually and corporately. Back to the fundamentals. Sit, kneel, walk, and stand. Learning again how to sit in the finished work of Jesus Christ, resting fully in what he has done, and nothing that we can add to that. Kneeling each day to ask him, Lord, show me more of your infinite love and power this day. Then walking, learning how to put off the old way of thinking without Christ, putting on the new way of thinking, and step by step learning the new way to live in Christ. Recognizing that we have an adversary who wants to distract us, who wants to discourage us, and so we stand clothed in the armor that He has given to us. In chapter 2, Paul has gone back to the basics of who you are. You and I were dead apart from Jesus Christ in our sin. Only by his mercy God made us alive, raised us up, and seated us with Christ. And then he having created us anew as his masterpiece has said, this is what constitutes How you see yourself. You were made in my image by creation. That's precious. You defaced that image. That is so culpable, so we are so guilty without excuse for that But I have made you anew, recreated you as a masterpiece, and you are entering into becoming more and more in your experience that masterpiece that you are in Jesus Christ. Putting off the old ways and putting on the new. But it's not all about you It would be easy even to take Ephesians 2 and make it rather self-centered. I'm the masterpiece. God is working in me. He's renewing me. And forget that I'm part of anything larger. The current magazine, a very good magazine called Modern Reformation, has an article in it called, it's entitled, You're so vain, you probably think this text is about you. Yes, y'all know that old Carly Simon song. And that's the way we read scripture. We think that it's all about us And what Paul is doing now in chapter 2 of Ephesians and on through chapter 3 is he wants to broaden and enlarge your scope. He wants you to see that this masterpiece, which he has made you to be, is part of a much larger masterpiece. A masterpiece which is the church. Paul takes about one out of six chapters on the Christian life to talk about the church, what it is. This is even before he goes on to how it is to behave. And yet modern-day Christians think very little about that. As he talks about what the church is, as his masterpiece. He moves from chapter 2, verse 11, on through chapter 3, verse 11, 12, 13 are related. But the climax is really in chapter 3, verses 10 and 11. So let me read that because I want to look at that. He says in chapter 3, verses 10 and 11, his intent was that now through the church, the manifold, literally, the multifaceted wisdom of God. should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. I want to ask four questions of these two verses. First question: What does the church display? You see it there in the beginning of verse 10. His intent was that now, through the church, the manifold or multifaceted wisdom of God should be displayed or made known. The multifaceted wisdom of God. The picture, the image is of a diamond. You look at a diamond and you see all its brilliance, but you can't appreciate a diamond if you only look at it from one point of view. You need to turn the diamond or move around it so that you see different colors. One fades out, another comes into focus, the greens and the blues and the reds. It's multifaceted to display the brilliance and the majesty of all of the stone's wonders. Another picture would be of a kaleidoscope, a bunch of stones in a tube, and you look through that and you see a beautiful design, but You can't really appreciate a kaleidoscope unless you turn the little disc at the end of it and the tone the stones uh shift and you see other designs displayed. and more colors and more beauty, multi-splended. That's the picture of this Greek word. The multicolored, multi-splendored, multifaceted wisdom of God. Now, what are some of the facets of God's wisdom that the church displays? That's what he's talked about in chapter 2 and 3. Let me mention just four of them that I think he highlights. First of all, you have peace. The church displays the multifaceted wisdom of God in peace In chapter 2, you read that again and again, verses 14 to 17. You see it there, for he himself is our peace. Who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations His purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace. Making peace. And in this one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross by which he put to death their hostility, he came and preached peace To you who were far away, and peace to you who were near. Why peace? Because the basic problem of our human condition is that we were alienated. We're alienated from God and we're alienated from one another. We are so self-centered. We not only think this text is about us, we think everything is about us. That we constantly are in conflict with other self-centered sinners. And the biggest conflict is with God because we think He exists for us. And we need a Copernican revolution. Remember, Copernicus was the one who challenged those who said that the world, the earth, is the center of the universe. And the sun revolves around us. And Copernicus said, no, it's not that way. The sun is the center of our solar system, and we revolve around it. And you and I need a Copernican revolution about what life is about. And so we are in conflict. We are alienated. There are struggles. And the only solution to that wasn't anything that we could do to resolve that. God, who owed us nothing, became human, confined within a body. Martin Luther said, if the world had treated me like it treated God, I'd have kicked the wretched thing to pieces. And instead, God, out of his mercy, became man. And Paul says here, he established peace. He accomplished peace. By himself taking on him the sin that you and I had committed in our self-centeredness. And because of that, he was cursed. And he made peace with everyone who acknowledges that conflict, the alienation, and that I am responsible, and that I need a savior. To bring me to God, to reconcile me to Him, to establish that peace. Only He can do it. But what Paul's going on to say here is He didn't only, as majestic and wonderful as that is, he didn't only establish peace between you and God, he established peace between you and everybody else you can't get along with. All those other sinners. And what he does is he uses an example here that is an example that's probably never been surpassed in all the history of the world. The hostility between Jew and Gentile. He said Jesus established a peace between Jew and Gentile. Thus making peace, creating in himself one new man out of the two, reconciling both of them to God, bringing them together, he announced an established peace. Now it's very difficult for you and me, who live in a fundamentally racist world, to appreciate how deep was the hostility between Jew and Gentile. If you were a Jew and a Gentile, some Roman or Greek stuck his nose in your wine cast to sniff it You'd throw away the whole wine cast because he polluted it by sticking his stinking nose in your cask. That's how much you hated him There was a literal wall at the temple in Jerusalem. The Gentiles could come up to that wall, but there was a sign on it that said, if you proceed beyond this wall, you have only yourself to blame for your death. Cross it and you die. It is off limits to you unclean dogs. Now the Gentiles, of course, returned the favor because they despised the Jews in their idiosyncrasies, their self-righteousness, the fact that they thought they were superior. And so there was this mutual hatred. And Paul says what God did was he established through the gospel Something so radical and so powerful that there were congregations of Jews and Gentiles who had come to Jesus Christ through that peace. And they were brought to peace with each other. They learned to love one another. They learned to appreciate one another. They learned to live together. They learned to work through the frictions. And he says that establishes and it displays the multifaceted wisdom of God. Another facet that he speaks of is the fact that this is one new humanity. He says that in those same verses in chapter 2, for instance in verse 15 He says, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and its regulations, his purpose was to create in himself one new man. Literally, it's one new man, but the idea is one new humanity. This is a new race of people. This is a new people, the people of God, out of the two, the Jews and the Gentiles who hated each other, thus making peace. You see that displayed in verses 19 to 22. He gives three images to describe it. Consequently, verse 19: you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people. This is a new kingdom. And we're fellow citizens together. Secondly, he says, you're members of God's household. This is a new family. You and I are brothers and sisters together. Build on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself as the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. You and I are stones That are joined together in a building which is a holy temple in which God dwells. This is the third of the images of unity And so you look across the aisle and in front of you and back of you. And you're a Republican and they're a Democrat. You like country and they like classic. You like hip-hop and they like mellow. But you belong together. You are brothers and sisters in one family, your stones together in one temple. And Paul says this displays the multifaceted wisdom of God. All these different people with their different opinions and their different likes and dislikes and preferences and tastes There are different cultural backgrounds, and he says, These people God has brought together in peace. Remember the word multifaceted in verse 10 of chapter 3 can also be translated multi-colored. The various colors that God has created and displayed in cultures and peoples of the world. The third facet that He speaks of here is the mystery. The word mystery is a word that's hard for us to understand. I don't have time to unpack it. It means something that was hidden in the past that God has now revealed. But that word appears four times in verses three to nine, three times in verses three to six. Take a look in beginning of chapter three. For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ. For the sake of you Gentiles, surely you've heard about the administration of God's grace that was given to me for you. That is the mystery. Made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly, in reading this, then you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ. What's this mystery? Verse 5, which was not made known to men in the other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. Then, verse 6 tells you the mystery. This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles, that is the nations, are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise of Jesus Christ. What's he saying? It gets a little complicated, so I actually wrote this out in the bulletin for you. God made a covenant. His covenant was made with Israel. God's unique people. But those people failed to keep the stipulations of that covenant. The law failed. It was powerless to change them. It could only show them their failure. And that shows at root the failure in the covenant with Adam. Because Adam was given a covenant between God and Adam that was based on law. Obey and you will be blessed. Adam failed. And what God did was through this failure nation, he brought out a new Adam, a second Adam. And God made a second covenant with the Son. This one who came out of Israel. This one, the Son, with whom he made that covenant, the second covenant to the second Adam, fulfilled that covenant in all its stipulations perfectly. Absolutely perfectly in every thought and word and deed throughout his entire life. And that second Adam, the Son. Not only then inherits all the blessings of the covenant, but he takes upon himself the record of the failure of everyone who comes to him and cries, Jesus, I need you. And he takes your record. He pays that curse, so that you, joined to him by faith, receive the blessings of that covenant which he fulfilled. Now, what Paul says here, you said that to a Jew, and he might begin to grasp something of that, but what he would never be able to begin to comprehend Is that Paul says the nations are heirs together on the same basis with you? There is no difference God, by his mercy and his grace, has joined all who come by faith in Jesus Christ to receive the blessings of that covenant on an equal basis. That's what blew their minds. That is what is the display of the multifaceted wisdom of God. All peoples come together. And you see, this is so radical it's hard for us to appreciate, but it is profoundly relevant to us today. Because by establishing a covenant that is an equal basis with the nations and the Jews, he has cut the heart of racism. What is racism based on? A sense of superiority-inferiority. The sense that I am privileged. I am part of the privileged inside people. And I look down on you as those on the outside, those who are second best. The gospel cuts at the heart of any sense of superiority. Paul has said it has come through one basis, the second Adam keeping the covenant. Therefore, there is no basis for boasting or for feeling superior. This is the display of the multifaceted wisdom of God. Fourthly, he talks about the riches of Christ as another facet of that. His riches, he says, are unsearchable. In verses 7 to 9, verse 7, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Verse 9, and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery. All peoples together under one covenant with this new Adam. Which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. No one could have ever thought up the gospel. It's too rich. No one could have ever conceived the way for sinners Who were dead in their trespasses, who renounced God's jurisdiction over their lives, thought themselves the center of the universe and superior to other people. No one could have ever thought up the incarnation. The radical sacrifice of God Himself becoming flesh and blood and establishing peace through his bearing the curse. The curse for all peoples on the same basis. The riches of Jesus Christ. Are so full that they are described here by the word unsearchable, inexhaustible, something you can't fathom. Million years into heaven, and you and I will be still discovering more of the unsearchable riches and the kindness of Jesus Christ. He is the solution to every problem in your life. His riches supply you with every need, material, physical, emotional, relational, that you have. His riches are inexhaustible. And the church displays those riches in the peoples joined together. Second question. Be a little quicker on these. That's all the first question. Second question. To whom does he display this? You have that at the end of verse 10. His intent was now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. What's that say? There's rulers and authorities that are good, and rulers and authorities that are bad. These are the good angels. These are those beings whom the Bible says Saw creation. Angels must have been created before God made the heavens and the earth, because you read in Job chapter 38, in verse 4 Uh God is saying to to Job that uh were you there when I created the heavens and the earth and laid the foundation and all of this kind of thing? And then he says, you know, he describes that and then verse 7, while the morning stars sang together and all the angels shouted for joy. God produces the heavens and the earth and the animals and and all the wonders of all the delights. I mean you just take you walk into the fall, you see all these little chipmunks running around You know, one chipmunk can store 150 seeds in his pouches. God made those pouches to be so expandable He can store up his winter goods by going around and scurrying you know, season more season more hundred and fifty season. You know, you look at any animal And the display of God's wisdom and creativity is mind-boggling. The angels saw that and they sang. And then the angels moved on. That was kindergarten and first grade. And they begin to move on and they begin to see what God does in the providential care of his creation. And they begin to see at a certain point God makes these promises, and then God becomes man for these sinners. Who don't don't deserve anything except for him to wipe them out and start over with another creation. But he doesn't. He gives the most precious thing that he has, his own son And he suffers and he dies. And he establishes peace, peace for all peoples on the basis of his covenant fulfilled. And the angels are shouting hallelujah! And then God says, I want to show you one more thing. And that's even before he gets to the return. He said, I want to show you one more thing, and that is that these people that I've established peace with me These people are going to be joined together in an institution called the church. And in that institution, that organism, that body These people who could not give a rip for one another, who would avoid one another, who are hostile to one another, who feel superior to one another, are going to learn to love one another. They're going to be held together, different peoples, black, white, Asian, the different peoples of the world. And they are going to be held together with nothing but the glue of the gospel. And no one will be able to understand that. And Professor Mackay has said that is the graduate school of the angels. That's where the angels shut their mouths And they say, who can fathom the multifaceted wisdom of God? Now that's what Paul's saying in chapter 3, verses 10 and 11. The third question: how certain is this when you look about and you see that one of the most racist institutions in American history was the church? You see how the church did not stand against racism, but oftentimes was on the forefront of propagating it in certain situations. How is that ever going to happen? And you read verse 11, he says, this is according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In other words, this is as sure as anything in the gospel. This is part of God's eternal purpose. It's the same kind of thing he talked about back in chapter 1 in verse 10. And he talked about the gospel and he talked about all what God is Doing in reconciling the peoples, he said, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. And what will it look like in that day when he accomplishes that? You have a glimpse of it in Revelation chapter 5. We read in verse 9, and they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals because you were slain. And with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth. Every tribe and language and people and nation all together singing praise to Jesus Christ based on that one covenant of grace. By which they come and have peace established with them and with one another, perfect peace, where there is no more friction to work out, there is no more sense of superiority and inferiority But it's simply that Jesus Christ is Lord and Head. And we simply see through Him, through one another, different facets of the wonder of His being. That will be the kaleidoscope of his beauty and the diamond of his majesty displayed to all the angels, and to you and to me. So finally, fourthly, how do we move toward that? Because we are not there. How do we move toward that? First of all Two things. One, meditate on the wonder of the gospel to see and appreciate that dual peace, not just the peace between you and God, but the peace he's established between you and other people, particularly those who are unlike you. To see that gospel peace. You are one with every other Christian in this world who loves and serves Jesus Christ. Therefore, you can live at peace with them. Command based on the fact. How do you do that? How do we work that out? Work towards CPC becoming more multicultural. Five brief suggestions. I'd love to take an hour to unpack them, but I just put them out and go to your groups and talk them out the kind of thing that home fellowship groups can do. Our group, our home fellowship group, is discussing these things. We are working on what we can do in this area. Let me just suggest very briefly. Number one Recognize that I have a culture. I am not neutral. Not everybody else has their distinctives in a culture, but me, what I do is normative. It's not white is right, and everybody else has a culture. We all have distinct cultures, filters through which we see the gospel and understand the Bible. Begins by recognizing that. Secondly recognize that I prefer to hang out with my culture and avoid people from other cultures. Simply more comfortable. I say something, could be humor, could be political opinion, be something else People in my culture, they smile, they understand, don't have to finish the sentence, they understand it, I feel, yeah, you know, you got it, right? Yeah, high five Say it to somebody else from a different culture. They look at me a little strange. Where are you coming from? I had this experience just a couple weeks ago. They kind of look at me like, mmm, I don't get that Ah gee, now I gotta explain myself, we gotta we gotta work this through, what do we get but you know, you do that and you find out that you're different But it's not comfortable, so we don't choose to do it. So third thing, recognize that I need people from other cultures to see Christ in the gospel in its multifaceted display that I will never see. simply by my reading the Bible privately or my only relating to people who share the same basic cultural values I need this. Tim Keller gives an example of this in one of his sermons where he talks about in Romans chapter 4, he had the problem of eating unclean foods. Foods were unclean in the Old Testament. He said The Gentiles understood that wasn't an issue. For the Jews it was an issue. The Jews needed the Gentiles to open their eyes to see that. 1 Corinthians 8, the problem is eating meat offered to idols. The Jews didn't have a problem with that. Idols aren't anything. The Gentiles had a problem with that. They needed the Jews to open their eyes to the implications of the Gospels to see that. We all have things we don't see of the implications of the Gospels that another culture will see, perhaps crystal clear. Let me give you just an example where I wish I could take more time. But one we talked about in our small group, because we're doing a study on this. When we talked about you take Asian cultures and Anglo cultures here. Uh Asian cultures tend to be shame-based, you know, uh safe-based, very important. And so we Anglers say what's what's the problem, you know? I mean, you could you don't have to protect your image It's the gospel, it's grace, you know, just learn and we're we've got a freedom there. But then the Asian cultures turn around and say, Well, you know, you guys, you operate as if you're all independent entities And you teenagers say, Look, how I live, that's me. That's my that's my choice. They're my decisions. Doesn't affect you And an Asian culture says, no, what you do either brings shame or honor on your family. You are part of a unit. You guys don't appreciate that. But that's biblical, because the Bible says we bring shame upon God if we dishonor the family by our sin. We are tied together. Different cultures are sensitive to aspects of the gospels that other cultures tend to miss. Fourthly. Determined therefore to get closer to some people who are from different cultures within CPC. There aren't any different cultures. Let me tell you, our home fellowship group, we have three multicultural marriages. Anglo-African American, Anglo-Asian, Anglo-Lebanese. Just within our small group. There is diversity. Do we want to cultivate and learn and get to know from that? Or do we want to say, I'm comfortable with my friends where I am? Thank you very much. This is biblical. Paul says the multicultural, multifaceted display of God's wisdom is what causes the angels To be breathless before his glory. Finally, fifthly, then therefore be willing for Columbia Presbyterian to change. So we it would have to change. We are not we are not a a church where there is all the different cultures manifest either in our worship or in our leadership. So there would need to be some more changes. It's time of transitions, time for us to look at these things. What's it going to mean in our worship? Worship would be different What's going to mean in our leadership? Leadership would be different. What's going to mean in our staff? Has implications on who we bring on staff. All these things are things for us to raise as we look at Scripture In this time where God is bringing us from one era into a new era, that we might catch his vision for the church. And as we catch that vision, to be encouraged, to see the church as something which God has done supernaturally, don't just look at the flaws. God sees the church as something that's beautiful. It's a masterpiece which He is working on. But that you and I move toward working out, you know, the imperatives based on the indicatives. Working out. That display of his powers so that you and I give the angels something to sing about. Let's pray. Well, there's a lot for us to search and to examine, make us uncomfortable. But it's just me. I just look at it and I say, it's inescapable from your word. The multifaceted, multicolored display of your wisdom is seen in a church that nobody can explain on the basis of human dynamics. It's what raises curiosity in Howard County, and people around, if they see people whose relationships can only be explained by the glue of the gospel. And we grow as people, and you are honored, and we get to love you more because we see you with greater depth. Lord, we pray that you will do that. You will somehow open our eyes to see beyond ourselves to the much larger work that you are doing in your church. Ah Lord, do it, do it, we pray, for Jesus' sake. Amen.