Hallelujah, what a savior. You know, if you feel like saying that, go ahead. Hallelujah, what a savior Nobody felt like saying that. Once more, hallelujah. What a saving. You know, it's fun it's one thing to sing it It's another thing to say it, isn't it? It just wow. Well that's what we're looking at. What a savior, what a friend. You see there, 1 Corinthians 13, verses 4 to 8 Fifteen pictures of what love looks like. And yet, um, though we know it, we're very familiar with it, we don't follow that very well, do we? I mean, we are quick to react to each other, quick to take offense, to retaliate. Impatient, critical, needing to teach sinners a lesson And um so often we're just downright ungracious in our responses to people who make mistakes or Do something thoughtless, especially when we're under stress, do we become un impatient? And that's why I said I have found it so deeply affecting to meditate upon the love of Christ under the deepest time of his stress. His passion. We're looking at twelve examples of the love of Christ under the most trying of circumstances We saw last week four examples of his love during the Passover with His disciples. We observed through those how he illustrates 1 Corinthians 13 under the most trying circumstances to see how he loves you and me, not just those disciples then. The same heart, the same Christ, how he loves you and how he loves me, how he reacts to your sins and to your failings, not just to theirs. How he is a model for your living out, 1 Corinthians 13, by his power alone And so we saw last week his earnest desire for the fellowship of his disciples. I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. And how amazing that is, because as we looked at it, what shred of understanding or comfort or support did they give him that whole evening? Nothing I can find. And so his desire, eager desire to observe the Passover with them was simply because he had set his heart upon them. Amazing. Even more that he was so gentle and patient when they were so s thoughtless and selfish. You remember when he says Uh I'm going to shed my blood for you. One of you here is going to betray me. And that should have just been a jolt to give all their attention to him. And what do they do? They start arguing about which one of them is the greatest. First of them, you know, which one's going to betray? Well, it's not going to be me, and you know, and on and on and on it goes. And he does not level them, he does not lash out He is so gentle, even though this is the fourth time they've done this kind of thing, he continues again to patiently teach them. And after teaching them, we saw how he even encourages them. You have stood by me. I'm going to confer on all of you a kingdom. You're all going to sit with me in that kingdom. And then, even more amazing, because the one who would most break his heart that evening would be Peter, by denying that he even knew him three times. Jesus makes a point of particularly encouraging Peter so that he would not lose heart in despair. And when Peter resists and says, Oh, no, no, no, Lord, I'm ready to go to death for you. Even then, he tells him how he has prayed for him and he assures him when you return Not if, but when you return, you will use that experience of grace to strengthen your brothers. Your very sin and weakness will become a means of ministry by my grace. And then he takes him out to Gethsemane, the darkest hour of his life, the heaviest moment. And he asks three of them to come to support him, to gather with him in prayer. He feels so weak, Peter, James, and John, and he comes back, and what are they doing? Sleeping. Three times. He asks them, and three times he watches them fall asleep. Not once that evening did they succeed in giving him support or comfort. And what does he do? Even then, he doesn't level them. But rather, he is concerned for their welfare. Pray so that you don't enter into temptation. It is for your own benefit. Who could not be moved by such love? Let me tell you something. If you were here last week, you heard that, and you were not moved by the love of Christ. Then I am deeply concerned for you. I mean that is like a big flashing warning light going off on your dashboard If you can hear of the love of Christ and think of what Jesus did and how he responded in those situations And you're not moved, then you must be saying, either he doesn't mean very much to me, I'm not even sure I'm one of his disciples. It's that's for them, it's not something that affects me. And at that point You have a very serious issue to deal with. Do you belong to Jesus Christ? If you're not moved by his love, do you know him What can you do with such love except to respond to it unless you are simply putting him out of your life And saying, I'm not sure I want to be one of his followers. I want to not sure I want to be that close to him. And so last week, the example's all dealt with Jesus and his disciples. This week, we're going to deal with the arrest, and in this case, we see his love in two out of the three examples toward his enemies. So if you still are not connected to Jesus Christ by faith, then for you this morning, I urge you to notice How Jesus' heart is still tenderly reaching out to you, inviting you to come. But that invitation won't last forever. And if you do not respond to the love of Christ, there will come a day when you will never know love, anyone 's love. So listen as we look again at the love of Christ. Fifth example His gentle question to his betrayer 's kiss. His gentle question to his betrayer's kiss Luke chapter 22, verse 47. You see it up there. While he was still speaking, a crowd came up, and the man who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He approached Jesus to kiss him But Jesus asked him, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss? I got to back up for a minute. After Judas had left the disciples and Jesus in the upper room, he ran to the Jewish leaders. They had offered him 30 pieces of silver to deliver Jesus to them at a time when there wouldn't be a riot. That's about $400. Judas now comes to collect. He says, now 's your chance. I think I have a time and a way that you can get Jesus without a riot, because I know where he'll be with just his disciples. So they quickly gather some of the temple police and then they go over to the Fortress Antonia, Roman fortress, and there they gather a detachment, a cohort. Cohort is 600 men They probably don't bring a full cohort, perhaps a half a cohort, but several hundred men, maybe three hundred men. Because they're afraid that if people hear about it there could be a riot. And so all these Roman, armed, trained Roman soldiers with some temple police go follow Judas Judas correctly guesses where Jesus will be, his favorite place of prayer, the Garden of Gethsemane, or the oil press. It's a full moon, so they have good visibility. We know that because it's Passover. But the grove is dark. There are shadows in the trees. They see a group of men, and they make a plan. They want to make sure they get the right one. They're not that familiar, and so Judah says, I'll tell you what, I'll give you a signal. I'm gonna go up and the one that I kiss, a simple customary sign of affection and friendship between men, the one that I give a kiss That's him. Grab him. And so Judas goes over into the dark to Jesus. And at this point Notice two significant things. First of all, about Judas. You see, what this is saying Is that Judas's conscience has now been so seared that he is not afraid. He doesn't just say, man , With what I'm going to do, I'm not getting near him. But he's willing to say, I'll go right up to him, look him right in the eye, and give him a kiss. That is amazing to me that he would have the temerity to do something so brazen, his conscience so seared That he can look Jesus in the eye and kiss him at the moment of betrayal. Let me tell you something. Judas didn't get to that point overnight. And it instructs you and me. Our hearts are always either becoming more tender toward Jesus or they're becoming more hard. Your heart is not the same toward Jesus now as it was a year ago. Either you have cultivated a tenderness in your love to Jesus. That now you would not be able to do things that would hurt him the way you could have done them a year ago. Or you have moved the other direction so that your heart is harder toward Jesus, and you can now do things to dismiss him, to bring him grief that you wouldn't have done a year ago Which is it for you? Our hearts are always becoming either more tender or more hardened And this is the logical conclusion of the hardening of one's heart. I can't imagine anything more despicable, more hard Than betraying Jesus with a kiss. The second significant thing about that is what it says about Jesus Because it says that Judas didn't fear to do that. Jesus could have taken them hostage. Judas could have struck out, Jesus could have struck out of Judas, but Judas knows Jesus' heart so well that even in his betrayal he glorifies Jesus Christ. By saying, I know that he will not do me harm. I can trust him to do this. And in that act he glorifies Jesus Christ. Now think about what happens. How repulsive This duplicity must have been to the heart of Jesus. And yet, even at that moment, he doesn't threaten him. He doesn't condemn him. Even in this moment, Jesus reaches out to Judas to appeal to him with a question. A question that has four parts to it that are each like a gentle slap to awaken his conscience. You see the four parts by the four words that are underlined. Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss? First notice he uses his name, Judas. It gets his attention. Somebody says to me, Alan, it gets my attention, you know. There's a connection when somebody uses your name. And of course, you can use your name in very different ways. Your mother says, Thomas? That's very different from Tommy. How did Jesus use Judas' name? I think it was very tender, Judas , to get his attention, to get his heart. To cause him to look at Jesus and to focus. Secondly, notice that he reveals that he knows he's betraying him. Are you betraying the Son of Man by the kiss. You're not fooling me, Jesus. That should have shamed him and wakened him in itself. Here's Jesus. He's not resisting. He's not running. He knows what I'm doing. And he still looks at me tenderly. He knows I'm betraying him. That should have caused Judas to crumble and say, How can I do this to him? But he doesn't Then notice thirdly how he calls attention to his hypocrisy. Are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss? A sign of friendship and affection. How hypocritical this is, Judas. Judas, Judas, look at your heart Look at what you have become. Look at what you are now capable of doing. Judas, do you see it? Wake up! And then finally, notice, he calls attention to who it is that he's betraying. Judas Are you betraying not just your friend? Not just someone who never did you any harm. Not just someone who's always been kind to you. Not just someone who doesn't deserve. To be arrested and condemned. Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man? And the Son of Man always was to bring back the image of Daniel 7, the image of that majestic one sent by God to rule the nations. The Messiah who had come to judge and to rule all of the world. Judas stopped You're betraying the Son of Man, the one who will one day judge you. Do you understand that, Judas? With each of these gentle slaps in that question, intended to awaken Judas' conscience, to bring him to his senses, we see no immediate reaction. Judas continues. We're told that he stands there with them as they arrest him. And yet I can't help but think that it was this question. That brought Judas to the remorse, where he threw away the $400 that he'd been given and went out in despair and committed suicide. Do you ever think that this is the last meeting between Jesus and Judas before they were parted forever? The next time they would see each other would be Judas standing before the throne of King Jesus to judge him. Can you think of any picture that would more make your blood run cold than the picture of Judas standing before Jesus as his judge in the last day? But what about you? Where has your heart been going in the last months, in the last year? What about your response to Jesus? Do you simply write him off? Have you dismissed him? Put him out of your life and said. I don't need to follow this one. I don't need to have him interrupting my plans and my agenda and the priorities that I've set. What are you doing with Jesus Christ? And he tenderly reaches to you this morning. He calls your name. And he says, are you continuing to ignore the Son of Man? Or perhaps by hypocritical behavior act as if you're a Christian while you know that your heart is far from me? With Jesus and in his name, I call on you to wake up To realize that just as Judas, there will be one day that will be your last chance. And after that, no more chances And that before you presume on another chance, on another appeal, on the years ahead, maybe you're young, you're a teenager, and you think, I have a long time before I've got to decide this. That you realize this could be your last chance. And that before you presume Want a future to consider this at your leisure, that you would say, no, no. I need now, while my heart is still tender, while I'm still responsive to what you're saying, preacher, I need to talk to you But you'll stop and you'll see me at the door on the way out. You say, can we talk? And we'll set up a time and we will talk and we'll talk right now, right after the service, if you can hang around. Well you know what? You don't even need to wait to see me at the door You could run to Jesus right now at this moment in your seat and ask him to save you and to change you and to forgive you and to give you a new heart because you know you need him And for you who walk with him, let me ask you, what about that person who's betrayed you? What about that person in your life who's broken your heart? Is your heart tender toward that person or hard toward that person? Jesus is the model to you and to me of a tender heart toward a betrayer. And if you have received the forgiveness and the love of Jesus Christ, how can you want to throttle? and reject and to punish and to wreak vengeance on the one who even perhaps has betrayed you Pray that God would give you the heart that is tendered by Jesus toward the person who is your betrayer. We talked about that in the middle hour. With some people in particular case study, how do we seek a tender heart towards someone who has betrayed us? Pray that God would teach you. Draw near to Jesus. Know more about his heart. But we need to move on. Sixth example is protection of his disciples. Now, this is not recorded in Luke. It's the only one of the twelve examples that I'm going outside of Luke to get, but I couldn't leave it out. It occurs between verses 48 and 49. The sequence is that Judas has come with the soldiers. He kisses Jesus. Jesus asks him the question. The soldiers then begin to move in for the arrest. But Jesus takes initiative, doesn't wait Jesus never acts passively, at least to this point in his life. And so he boldly takes the initiative, and you go to first , go to John chapter 18, and you see there that Jesus Knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, Who is it that you want? Jesus of Nazareth, they replied. I am he, Jesus said. And he said that with such majesty. Judas notice is still there standing with them That when Jesus said, I am He, they drew back soldiers now and fell to the ground. The front ones, they just backed off from such majesty and display of strength. And again he asked them, who is it you want? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Now, look at the next verse. Jesus now says, I told you that I am He. If you're looking for me, then let these men go. This happened so that the words he had spoken, his words, chapter 6, verse 39, would be fulfilled. I have not lost one of those you gave me Now picture this. Here's Jesus with eleven disciples, two swords, remember, against three, maybe four hundred trained and armed soldiers And Jesus tells them what to do. He says, You want me? Here I am. I've just shown you by my majesty. You can't just take me. I'm giving myself to you. But now, let these guys go. Now that's amazing for a couple of reasons. Number one, it's amazing that he told them they did it. But what's even more amazing is that he was thinking of their welfare at that point. Jesus knew that if they were taken into custody with him It's very likely they could have been executed with him. Because the crowds would have cried for their blood, and the Jewish leaders would have been all too happy to oblige, and so at this point their life is in jeopardy. And Jesus isn't thinking about himself. He is thinking about them. Let these men go. Don't take them. His concern is for them. And so what do they do? They had just said, Lord, we'll go to death. We're not going to leave you. We're loyal to you. And Jesus has just said, let them go. So do they say, Oh no, we're standing with Jesus. Hey, nope, Lord, we told you we're going to stick with you. We're going to stick with you. You go to Mark, who gives you the most vivid illustration of what happens. Mark chapter 14, verse 40, it says, Then everyone deserted him and fled. They all cut and run. Every man for himself. Out of here. Now there's one guy who stays He doesn't run, he stays and he follows along to see what's going on. Mark says, a young man Wearing nothing but a linen garment, just got out of bed, was following Jesus. And when they went to seize him He fled naked. He left the garment just loose, the sheet. He left it and ran off naked into the woods out of fear and terror. They all fled. But just before they did, Luke In fact, all four Gospels record in very succinct terms this one little incident, the last one that I want to leave you with seventh. His healing of his enemy's ear. At this point, when Jesus' followers saw what was going to happen, they said, Lord, should we strike with our swords? And one of them struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his right ear. But Jesus said, No more of this. And he touched the man's ear, and he healed him. Now John tells us that the swordsman was Peter. Now is that any surprise to you? That if you didn't know who would do it, who'd you think would be the guy to take the sword and try to hack off the servant of a high priest's head? Obviously he wasn't aiming for his ear. He's aiming to take off his head. The guy ducked, and all he caught was the ear. John also tells us the name of the man, says it was Malchus, who was the servant of Caiaphas the high priest, Jesus' bitterst enemy. The one who is heading up the plot to arrest and execute Jesus. Notice three things that you see about Jesus from this. First of all, notice how fearless he is. Because you see, Jesus had settled the issue in his prayer back in Gethsemane. So he comes into the situation fearless. How fearless? When Peter takes and strikes at the servant, Jesus, Matthew, I believe, tells us, Peter, put up your sword. Don't you realize I could call upon my Father, and he would send twelve legions of angels Now a legion is 6,000 men. Twelve legions, 72,000 angels. So can you imagine 72,000 angels against 300, 400 Roman soldiers? Not much of a contest. Don't worry about it, Peter. It's not that I am helpless. And I can imagine that the soldiers who would have heard that, Peter, don't worry, I could call on my father and I just have seventy two thousand soldiers here. Put up your sword, don't worry about this. And somebody said, Yeah, right, that's like my brother can beat up your brother. Yeah, yeah, you know, you don't look very powerful to me right now. And then Jesus reaches out, touches the man's ear, and heals him And they say, whoa , we're not dealing with something ordinary here. Again, notice the majestic way that Jesus does this. Only a touch. Now, if you were to read any of the other contemporary apocryphal gospels of that time, you would see how amazing that is. None of them would have ever stated it like this. They would have had pyrotechnics and dramatic displays of power with soldiers you know, falling prostrate on the ground, declaring his praise and his power. That's that's always what they're characterized by Jesus does this in such a brief, quick, low-key way that although four Gospels record that Peter chopped off his ear, only Luke records that he healed it. I think the confusion, I think the whole scene that I'm describing in this message probably took less than five minutes. And so you have all this coming on, Judas kissed, the soldiers move in, Jesus stays, they come back. Peter, hey, should we track now? He takes off his ear. Jesus heals the ear. And then The soldiers at that point move in, arrest, and all the disciples take off. Now, that's just a just a tiny Indication of two things. First of all, the inerrancy, the historicity of Scripture, because it's such a ring of truth in comparison with any other literature of that time. But also the majesty of Jesus How simply he does this. When Jesus heals, he never heals inadvertently. That means Jesus, you know, when he heals, he needs to concentrate for the Father's power through him. He looks at this servant And he heals them. And when you think about that, you see his boundless compassion in that. Jesus never asked, what's the least that's required for me to do? So when this guy's servant the this ear is taken off, Jesus doesn't think or say, you know, I got a number of things on my mind right now, and Peter kind of wish he hadn't done that, but it's not something I'm going to stop and pay attention to because I don't need to Jesus never thinks that way. I think that way. You think that way. Jesus never thinks that way. He doesn't say, she's just a servant, and you know, it's only an ear. I mean You know, he'll live. He could have lost his head, but you know. I got other things on my mind. No There's no insignificant wounds to Jesus, and there are no insignificant people. Even the servant, the slave of his bitterest enemy, is the focus of his attention, and this is Jesus' last miracle. Until his resurrection, there are no more wonders. From now on, he becomes passive and he suffers at the hands of sinners. He exercises his last bit of power on behalf in common grace of the servant, the slave of his bitterest enemy. Doesn't say he saved Malchus. We don't know Malchus' response. No record of it. How could he not have been moved? I just had my ear chopped off And now he touches me. There is no process of healing. There are no scars. It is completely restored as if it had never happened. What power, what grace, what majesty. Behold, that compassion is extended to you. If it's extended to the slave of his bitterest enemy, how could you not think that his compassion is sufficient and extended to you? He always goes beyond the minimum. For the most ordinary of people, like you and me. With a mercy that simply takes your breath away. Because you see, the Bible tells us that you and I were enemies of Christ. Colossians chapter 1, you see it there on the screen. Paul says, once you were alienated from God and were his enemies. Enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior. But now he, God, has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through his death. To present you holy, pure, set aside for him, in his sight, without any blemish, free from all accusation. Simply by the mercy and good pleasure of Jesus Christ to you No wonder, and our first purpose as a church has been basic to us since we were established in 1978. Know him. Ephesians 1. 17. Paul, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ The glorious Father may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better I urge you, brothers and sisters, this afternoon, this week, read over this passage again. Read it in all four accounts. And play like a DVD in your mind. What were those five minutes like? What would it have looked like? What did Jesus do? What did it feel like to be there? What would it have been like to watch the display of his mercy? And then think about his heart toward you. And think about your heart toward others in your life. And how he seeks to display his heart through you to others by his power. Let's pray. Ah, Lord Jesus, we look at you in awe and wonder. We see your desire to protect your disciples, how you are always having us on your mind. You never forget us. You know every concern that we have. And you have given yourself to reconcile us who were your enemies, to make us pure and without any accusation. By your death, taking our sin upon yourself on the cross. Oh Lord forbid that anybody here could Put that love at arm's length and say, I don't want to deal with that now because it makes demands on me. Lord, banish such foolishness As you extend your heart and call, that person is right now resisting to yourself to receive you, to know your love before it's too late. And for us all, Lord, to embrace you and know you better, to know your heart and to draw close to you and to love you and want to honor you this week, Lord, give that to us. Open our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.