Luke fourteen, one through twenty four. One Sabbath, when Jesus went to eat in the house of a prominent Pharisee, he was being carefully watched. There in front of him was a man suffering from dropsy. Jesus asked the Pharisees and experts in the law, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. So taking hold of the men, he healed them and sent them away Then he asked them, if one of you has a son or an ox that falls into a well on the Sabbath day, will you not immediately pull him out? And they had nothing to say. When he noticed how the guests picked their places of honor at the table, he told them this parable. When someone invites you to a wedding feast, Do not take the place of honor, for a person more distinguished than you may have been invited. If so, the host who invited both of you will come and say to you, Give this man your seat. Then, humiliated You will have to take the least important place. But when you are invited, take the lowest place, so that when your host comes, he will say to you, friend, move up to a better place. Then you will be honored in the presence of all of your fellow guests. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Then Jesus said to his host, When you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your friends, your brothers, your relatives, or your rich neighbors. If you do, they may invite you back, and so you will be repaid. But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed. Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous. When one of those who one of those at the table with him heard this, he said to Jesus, Blessed is the man who will eat at the feast in the kingdom of God. Jesus replied, A certain man was preparing a great banquet and invited many guests. At the time of the banquet he sent his servants to tell those who had been invited, Come, for everything is now ready. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first one said, I have just bought a field and I must go and see it. Please excuse me. Another said, I have just bought five yoke of oxen and am on my way to try them out. Please excuse me. Still another said, I just got married, so I can't come. The servant came back and reported this to his master. Then the owner of the house became angry and ordered his servants, go out quickly into the streets and alleys of the town, and bring in the poor, the crippled, the blind, the lame. Sir, the servant said, what you have ordered has been done, but there is still room. Then the master told the servant. Go out to the roads and country lanes and make them come in, so that my house will be full I tell you, not one of those who are invited will get a taste of my banquet. Let's just look to God in prayer together. Father, we ask that you will be illuminating your word to us. Help us to understand what you have written for us. We pray that your Spirit will be guiding us as we think about this parable of the Great Supper. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We have spent around eight months, uh, we along with our pastor. In 1 Corinthians 13, the love chapter. In Mr. Harris's absence, we will be spending a much shorter period of time On the parables of Jesus Christ. Now, it may be surprising to you, but one-third of all of the material that we have in Matthew, Mark, and Luke are recorded for us in the form of parables. So these are not just obscure little passages that we may or may not choose to understand. These passages are fascinating and intriguing, and they contain for us the core of what Jesus wants to teach to us, teach us about his kingdom. These parables contain the gospel of the kingdom. These parables are about Jesus himself. But I admit they're not easy to understand. Many of them are quite difficult. In fact Some of the things that have been done to these parables in the course of the history of the church were just astounding. Some of the interpretations have been simply amazing. And we may get time to talk about some of those. in the next several weeks. But there are three tendencies that we ought to avoid in our study of the parables. I will list them For you and we will return to them. I want you to begin thinking um about uh how you approach the parable. Think about our approach to the parable. The first tendency to avoid is that of allegorizing. Now, what is an allegory? An example of an allegory is John Bunyan's classic, Pilgrim's Progress. In Pilgrim's Progress, each part of that story Corresponds to the spiritual reality that John Bunyan is trying to communicate. There is a one-to-one correspondence between each part of the story and the spiritual reality Now, if we make Jesus' parables to be allegories like that, we will come up with some of the most fanciful and amazing interpretations. We must avoid that kind of thinking. Instead, we are to look for the one main point of the parable. And very often, that one main point is indicated to us primarily by the context in which the parable is found. So we avoid the tendency to allegorize. We also avoid removing the parable from its first century context. historical and social context and placing it as is in the twentieth century. We must understand the culture to which the parable, uh in which the parable uh is addressed. Because the parables are taken from the day-to-day life of the culture of the first century We also must avoid the tendency to remove the parable from within the context of Jesus preaching and teaching on the kingdom of God. If we don't do that, what we are left with are simply ethical sayings or moral teaching that really miss the heart of Jesus' teaching. Jesus teaching about himself. Jesus teaching about the glories of the kingdom of the world. of God. Now avoiding these three tendencies is essential for us to understand any of the parables. Now I have heard sermons preached on the parable of the Great Supper. That have have really not succeeded in doing what I've suggested. I wonder if you've heard sermons also, something like this. Christian Live for God. Live for God alone. And don't be carried away by materialism. Now the three excuses that are listed in this parable can mean something like this. They can represent the worldly, the field can represent the worldly possessions, which are a snare to us. The oxen can represent the business occupations that can keep you from God. And the young married person there can represent the preoccupation that family and social ties can place upon us So, Christian, be careful in those areas so that your relationship with God is not affected. Now, those things are all true. But they're not what this parable is talking about at all. They are true, but we must consider the context of the parable of the Great Suffer. First, I would like you to notice in Luke 14 how adaptable Jesus is to his immediate situation, to his immediate uh context there. The occasion, verse one of chapter fourteen. Jesus is at a Sabbath meal in the home of a prominent Pharisee. And then slip down to verse seven. And just imagine the dinner a dinner party. Perhaps that you have attended. Imagine all the guests filing in stiffly, trying not to violate Emily Post rules of etiquette. And they're all the while jockeying for position, jockey for that place which would be have the most honor. Jesus Tired of all the stiffness of their facade, strides in and opens up with a paramount. The last shall be first, and the first last. Getting right to the point. As if that's not enough, though, Jesus then goes on to criticize the invitation list. He says briefly, invite social misfits. So that you will be rewarded at the resurrection of the righteous. Now, with all that discussion about feasting, there is one gentleman down in verse 15. Who has a rather pious and self-righteous comment? He says, Blessed is the man who shall eat at the feast in the kingdom of God. Jesus immediately launches into yet another parable. Verse 16. A certain man was preparing a banquet and invited many guests. We can be sure that this parable that we are going to be looking at this morning has to do with the feast of the kingdom of God which is provided for us. Now you can be sure that the Pharisees are right with Jesus. They understand exactly what he's talking about. We can be sure that the man who brought up this comment in verse fifteen knows exactly what Jesus is starting to to discuss They very likely would go back in their minds to that Isaiah scroll that was uh sitting back in the tabernacle or back in their in their synagogues, and they would flip over to chapter twenty-five, verse six, and say On this mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all the people, a banquet of aged wine, the best of meats, and the finest of wine. They knew full well what Jesus was getting at. Jesus himself had spoken in terms like this frequently in his in his teaching. In Matthew 8 verse 11, and again in Luke 13, verse 29 here, Jesus is talking about people coming from all directions, from the east and the west. To enjoy this banquet, this feast that God was preparing. The Pharisees knew Jesus was talking about the end time. When God would gather together all of his people, and together there would be a great celebration that is pictured for us here like a great banquet. But Is Jesus just talking about something that is to happen in the future? That's what the religious leaders thought, isn't it? And that was the beginning of their great problem in understanding all of what Jesus was talking about. They were waiting. They were waiting for the Roman oppression to end. They were waiting for that yoke to be taken off of their neck, for them to be freed by God. They were waiting so much that they missed the kingdom which was right there in their midst, in the person of Jesus Christ. It was right there in front of their noses. And they miss it. Now the parable says that people are invited to this feast in two stages. Verses 16 and 17 indicate that not only were many invited, but that many accepted the invitation. To attend. That's the way that the uh the upper crust of Jerusalem functioned back in that day. There would be two stages of invitation At the first stage, a man would send his servant out to the people to be invited, telling them of the day and of the approximate time of day that they were invited to this feast. And then the second stage of invitation. Come now. The food is ready. It's all set. Let's come and enjoy ourselves together. But at that second stage of the invitation in Jesus' parable, something unthinkable happens. It's just not done. You don't refuse the second invitation when you've already re accepted the first time around. You simply don't refuse. But look at their excuses. Their excuses simply do not hold water. Considering the fact especially that they've had plenty of time to take care of their obligations, the excuses don't hold any water. Now my wife Gail is singing at a wedding this Saturday. And one of the neat things about being married to a talented lady is that uh I get to go along with the rehearsal dinner on Friday night. And as I looked over my my August calendar, I noticed That there was just one or two dates in all of the month of August that were written in in ink. And this was one of them. The rest of the things, the church meetings, they can be written in in pencil because they can be changed. But I tell you, I arranged my schedule around a banquet, around a feast like that. A joyous, effective occasion, like a friend getting married. Not so, though, with the people in the paramount They had all accepted, but they all go back on their promises. And as I've said, notice how shallow the excuses are. Incidentally, there are just three excuses that are listed here for us. We can be sure that far more than three people were invited to this feast, but we're given a representative sample here. in this parable. Listen to Jesus, the master storyteller. He must have had those uh those Pharisees and those Scribes on the edge of their seat as he was describing the folly, the foolishness of the answers, of the excuses that people were giving. Notice eighteen, I have just bought a field, and I must go and see it. Please excuse me. Now nobody buys a peel without looking at it first. Can you imagine someone say, hey, I've just bought a couple of acres up in Carroll County. You want to come up with me today and take a look at what I've got? I haven't seen him yet. Of course not. And in verse 19, I have just bought five yoke of oxen, and I'm on my way to try them out. Please excuse me. Again, if this man had doubted the quality of those oxen, he never would have bought them But the sale was final. That's like saying, uh, I've just bought a 1982 Firebird, and now I'm gonna go out and test drive it. It just doesn't make any sense. And then in verse 20, I just got married, so I can't come. There's a little verse in Deuteronomy that charges husbands, especially the first year of marriage, To do what they can to keep their bride happy. Now, I don't know about your wife, but my wife would be very happy if I invited her along to such a factory. I think we can see again the folly of this last excuse. Now none of these things are really bad. But they're they're all excuses and they're all empty and they're all obviously on the face of it just excuses for not wanting to attend the feast. Now remember, who is Jesus talking to? He is not talking to a group of Christians and warning them to avoid the plague of materialism, although he does that in a number of places and in very strong language. Rather, he is talking to the Pharisees. He is talking to the religious leaders, one of which was just contented contentedly contemplating The great banquet which God was preparing for his people. Won't it be fine? He says. So what is the point of Jesus' parable in response to that man in verse 15? He is saying you you are rejecting God's invitation. You are rejecting God's invitation and you don't even know it Why do you speak of the kingdom as something that is just future? Just something off in the future that we have to look forward to. You've overlooked you've overlooked the invitation, which is given right here in your hearing. The Pharisees missed it entirely. The people that we could expect to hear God's invitation and respond to it, they've missed it entirely. They couldn't. They wouldn't listen to the words of Jesus. In Matthew 4, verse 17, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Jesus was not overthrowing the Romans. He was not taking off that yoke of oppression from the Romans. He was preaching repentance. He was calling people to faith and repentance, faith in himself. Jesus said, I'm calling you to respond. He's saying, RSVP. Respond now. Paul would later say in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 2, now is the time of God's favor. Now is the day of salvation. If we are to understand this parable, we must understand that Jesus is saying, respond. Now is the day of salvation. Now is the day of God's favor. Respond to it. But as you know, just as the people in our parable gave excuses, the Pharisees themselves, the scribes, the religious elite. didn't go. They didn't go to God's feast. But will that stop the feast from being given? Of course it won't God gives uh an invitation to the poor, and in the form of this parable, we see that the supper is still served Verses 21 through 23. Go out quickly into the streets and alleys of the town and bring in the poor, the crippled, the blind, the lame. Sir, the servant said, What you have ordered has been done, but there is still room. Then the master told the servant, Go out into the roads and country lanes and make them come in, so that my house Will be full. Make them come in. Compel them. Bring them into the feast. Bring the social misfits, the outcasts, the blind. The poor, the lame, the crippled. It's interesting that this is the exact same list of people that we have for us in verses 12 to 14. You remember Jesus was telling the religious elite not to invite just their equals, uh their friends and relatives and people people as as rich as they are, because they'll just turn around and have a party for you and invite you. And you haven't shown any hospitality at all. He is saying, Rather invite those who don't deserve it. Invite those who can't repay you, not in a million years. Invite those who can't earn that feast at all. Don't you find yourself more like the religious leaders of that day? When you give out a dinner invitation, or rather when you receive a dinner invitation. You so often think, well, we'll have to have you over we'll have you over now. And it's we almost want to pay back, don't we? That's an attitude we have of wanting to pay back when people are going to do something for us. And God says, you don't have to do that I have given you a great gift that you cannot, not in a million years, ever pay back the way God deals with us. The free offering. Of the gospel. Even though we're not the true-blooded, the blue-blooded uh Jews of that day, He has offered the gospel to us He has spread a peace, a feast for us who are poor, who are the outcasts. Isn't that what was in Mary's mind when she was announcing the kingdom? right before her great son was to be born, right before Jesus was born to her. In Luke 1, verses 46 And following, Mary said, My soul praises the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. And then in 51, he has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. He has brought down rulers from their thrones, but he has lifted up the humble. He has filled the hungry with good things, but he has sent the rich Away empty. And Jesus really is talking about the same thing when he is announcing himself, announcing that the kingdom of God is present in himself. When he first appears in the synagogue where he grew up, in the town of Nazareth in Galilee. He is handed the scroll of Isaiah the prophet. And he reads the words and then applies them to himself. In Luke 4. The Spirit of the Lord is on me because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind, to release the oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. That quotation from Isaiah is a thought that is often repeated in the Old Testament. God proclaims time and time again his love for the poor, the oppressed. The misfits. But in the Old Testament, invariably, when God expresses His love for those people, at the same time, those people are described as the ones Who are faithful to God, the ones whose trust is in God, the ones who look for the kingdom of God Alone. Those are the true people of God. And here too, we have in our parable The poor and the oppressed are the ones that hear the calling of God. They hear God's summons. And not only that. They respond. They accept the gift of God's salvation. And so the parable ends right before verse 24 Jesus, however, is not true with those Pharisees. He says, I tell you all, and in verse 24, that is plural in the original, I tell you all. That not one of those men who were invited will get a taste of my banquet. Not one of them. Jesus is saying To the leaders in Israel, he is saying to you as well. Respond. Respond to my call. Even you. No, especially you. You who think that you're safe, you who think that you're already in. Perhaps you've grown up in a Christian home. Perhaps your husband or wife is a Christian. Perhaps you try to live a good life, trying to live by the golden rule, doing doing unto others what you'd have them do unto you. It's amazing as I've talked to people uh in Columbia and elsewhere, how many people think that they're doing just the alright thing. They're doing fine, and God can certainly have no wrath for them. Or perhaps you're a member even of this church or some other church. And you have not responded to Jesus' call. Jesus is talking to people who have assumed that they're already in. They've made that assumption. That's a very comfortable assumption to have, isn't it? But he warns us not to have it Not to make that assumption. In verse 27, there's a little word that I didn't stress much uh earlier. It's just three letters. And it's translated immediately. Come, for everything is ready. Come immediately. Come right now. Now it's clear what this parable is saying to those who have not responded to Jesus' call To those who have not responded and have come to him and have repented. But what does this parable have to say to those of you who have responded? Who are in the kingdom of God already? Does it have anything to at all to say to you if you already are a believer? I think that it does. As I mentioned earlier, the salvation that is offered to us and is signified in this meal is not something that is just in the future. It's not something that we as Christians just have to look forward to. As the saying goes, pie in the sky by and by. Rather, it's something that God wants us to enjoy, to begin to enjoy, even now, even in this earth. You see, the feast has started. And King Jesus has already been exalted to his throne. In Revelation the third chapter, verse 20. The Apostle John is saying to the church at Laodicea, a group of Christians, mind you, and he is saying to us as well, behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will go in and eat with him and he with me. How do you eat with Jesus? How do you begin to enjoy that feast now? This past week I read Psalm 1 I was studying it and I remembered, it was called to mind once again, how the man, the blessed man in Psalm 1, is the one who is is pictured like a tree. Whose roots are going down into the water, into the stream. And because of that, he is not shaking. The drought will not affect him. That's the picture that we have, that we are to to model ourselves after, in trying to root ourselves into Jesus Christ. To seek him personally as we study his word, not just trying to learn facts, not just trying to learn a code of behavior that will be acceptable to Christians and acceptable to the people who could watch us. We are to seek Jesus Himself. There's another aspect. An aspect that we are going to be celebrating tonight when we celebrate together the Kingdom Meal. When we Christians gather together and celebrate the kingdom meal, we are looking forward in anticipation to that great supper, the great supper that we've been talking about here. That is provided for us, for those of us who are poor and oppressed, and know it, and know that God alone can supply Entrance into the kingdom. Tonight we look forward to the marriage supper of the Lamb. That's part Of the Lord's Supper, isn't it? So often we think of the Lord's Supper when we gather for that meal, we think primarily of our sin. We almost enjoy dragging ourselves through the mud, trying to dredge up all the sin we can, and lay that before God. And so often all we see Is Jesus Christ on the cross? That's essential. I don't want anyone here to hear me say that that's not important. Seeing Christ on the cross is essential. But in the New Testament, Christ is never left hanging on the cross. Christ is resurrected in glory. Christ succeeds where we have felt where we have fallen. Christ is the victor over sin, Satan, and death. Christ has provided for us a banquet, a feast. And as we gather, as the communion of the saints, as we gather to experience Although not perfectly, but we experience that union with Jesus Christ as we eat together We are beginning to get a foretaste. We are beginning to get a taste, an order, the hors d'oeuvres, if you will, of the feast that God has prepared for us. I would encourage you To look with joy on that meal tonight. This afternoon, as you are preparing to come I don't want you just to to dredge up your sins as I've mentioned, but I want you to look to Jesus Christ in joy and in anticipation of what he has done and what he is doing now in preparing for us. Joyful. Celebration. Have you responded to God's gracious invitation? Does your life show that you are on your way, that you have responded, that you have repented and turned, and are even now participating in that fellowship meal That feast for the righteous. Are you eating with Jesus now? Are you enjoying that fellowship with him? Let's pray. Father, we do come before you in thanks for what you have done for us. Lord, we do praise you. For your work of redemption in Christ. We praise you that you have provided a feast. You've provided a meal for us that we can begin to taste even now. Lord, if there is anyone here who has not yet accepted that invitation from Jesus Christ, we pray that by your Spirit you will work in their hearts. You will call them. Effectively unto yourself. We pray these things in the name of Jesus. Amen.