What is your goal in life? I mean more than just get beyond the next week. To survive the summer. In fact, something bigger than anything that you could do or accomplish What do you want to be? Really? Have you ever thought about that? Do you have such a goal? For a disciple of the Lord Jesus, a great place to begin to formulate such a goal is with Ephesians 4, verse 13. We've looked at that over the last few weeks. You remember? That's one good way of stating. What Paul would suggest is A goal for the church, but also in that for each of us individually. And you remember it is, first of all, to attain to unity in the faith That is, to have ultimately what that's saying is a perfect knowledge of the Bible and its wisdom. That's what unity of the faith is. In other words, we all have the same beliefs because all of our minds are perfectly submitted to the teaching of Scripture. That was the word I tried to get last week. You remember our convictions growing in our convictions So the first thing to think about in formulating your goal in life is to have my mind perfectly submitted to scripture and my convictions in every area reflecting what the Bible teaches. Secondly Not simply that, it's not simply a cognitive thing, but it's a matter of with my heart, Paul goes on to say. having attaining to unity of the faith and a a full experiential knowledge of the Son of God. Knowing Jesus intimately, up close , intimate relationship with him, so that my affections are wrapped around him. I love him. I'm close to him. I don't feel distance. He's not just an idea to me. The second Part of my goal, my life is that I would know Christ, that I would know him up close, I would know him thoroughly and intimately and love him. And then the third part is that I don't just stop there. It's not just a matter of adoration. Then Paul goes on to talk about that we would attain to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. You see, in our character. Convictions, affections, character. Right? I would become more like him In each area of my life, the areas that Sandy led us through, in all the areas of my life, my life, what I do and what I think becomes more Christ-like. That I do this in contrast, Paul says to verse 14, where I'm like a child. a four or five year old out in a dinghy, out in the ocean, being tossed back and forth by the waves, blown to and fro by the wind of teaching and cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming New ideas come down the pike, I don't have any way of evaluating. Sounds good, I'm needy, so fine. Grab on to it, give it a shot But I'm able, because I have stability, I have grounding in Jesus Christ and in his word to be able to move beyond that. I can test the ideas, I can move on in my convictions, my affections, and my character. And then he tells us in verse 15 the path toward that. How do you do that? And so in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 15 What we looked at last week instead then speaking the truth in love. Do you remember who can tell me the literal translation of that phrase, speaking the truth? Truthing. You got it. Good. I can feel no better this week. Truthing in love. Remember that that phrase has three ideas to it. The idea, first of all, of holding the truth. Got a standard. I'm holding on to that truth. Secondly, that I am living that truth Working it out in my life, and thirdly that I am speaking that truth in love. Holding, living, speaking. This morning I want to touch on one other matter from this verse before we leave it. Something that is required to travel that path. of holding and living the truth, and it's involved in that idea of speaking the truth in love. It's the idea of accountability In order to hold and to live the truth, we need to hear and to speak the truth to one another. Paul says, verse 15, instead, speaking the truth in love. We will in all things, all areas of our lives, grow up into him. You see, growing up into him in our affections, loving him, and in our character, reflecting him. Growing up into him, experiencing our union with him more and more fully. Him who is the head, that is Christ, the Messiah. You and I cannot do that alone. You remember chapter 3, verse 18, Paul prayed that you and I would have power to grasp together with all the saints. The dimensions of the love of Christ. In chapter 4 and verse 2, he said, maintain the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace, because you are one body, one faith, you are all joined together. He talked in verse 12 about how we are all being equipped. so that we might all do ministry to one another, building one another up toward that goal of verse 13. The whole context of maturity is community. And you cannot have maturity without community. Basic biblical principle. Verse 16 goes on right after verse 15 to say from him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. You and I were never meant to live in isolation And so this is what I call the missing link of independent privatized American Christianity, the idea of accountability, which is so missing in so much of American Christianity because we so live so very much in isolation rather than in community No one knows my struggles. No one knows my failings. No one knows my attempts. You have things that you want to grow in in your Christian life, don't you? Who knows about that? And so you try and you struggle on day after day, week after week, month after month, alone. And in your aloneness, no one knows whether you succeed or whether you fail. You're accountable to no one. You're answerable. The idea of accountability is that I am answerable to someone who can ask difficult questions in my life. And I do not live in isolation. I will hear the truth from them in love, and I will speak the truth to them in love. Building each other up. That's the idea. Just a couple weeks ago, our cell was talking about, got into this in our discussion of the message. Verse 14, about how not just immature Christians, but we began to talk about pastors that we had known in the area who have gone away from the faith People who were preaching Christ or who had counseling ministries and now no longer walk with Jesus Christ in any kind of biblical framework. Remember a person who greatly influenced my life, Frank Tillipal. He's influenced our church, whether you know it or not. Back in the early 80s, he was writing books like The Church Unleashed. And he was a very creative and godly thinker concerning what it meant to take seriously the ministry of every believer and dreaming and equipping and all these kinds of things. A very fertile mind, powerful leader. And it turned out in the late 80s, Frank Tillipal had been having an affair, committing adultery for nine years And no one knew about it in the church leadership or his wife. How do you do that? Because you're not accountable to anybody. Because there's nobody that you're answerable to. It's not just you. It's people like me In fact, Chuck Swindle once said, every pastor needs somebody in his life who will look him in the eye and say, that's bull. I told that to my small group and they immediately of course asked, who does that for you, Al? I can tell you, but I have two people in this congregation, two elders, that I'm very, very thankful for. Who do that rather regularly for me. And that's very needed. Very needed. I need it. And you need it. Who is that in your life? If you're not convinced of this, let me lay out to you from verse 15 here three points. First of all, the need for accountability, secondly, the means for it, and then thirdly, the path. First of all, the need for accountability. You need accountability, first of all, in holding the truth. Holding the truth in love in your own life. This has to do with what you believe. I referred to the often quoted 1978 Gallup survey that found that 80% of Americans agree with this statement. An individual should arrive at his own religious beliefs independent of any church or synagogue. That was in 1978, four out of five Americans said that you should arrive at your own religious beliefs Not simply saying the idea of privacy of conscience, but that you should arrive at your beliefs independent of any church or synagogue. At the same time, back nineteen eighty-five, Robert Bella, actually five authors, everybody always refers to this book by the titled by uh author Robert Bella Fife people wrote this book, Habits of the Heart, Individualism and Commitment in American Life Again, this is over ten years ago he was writing on this, so you can imagine how far things have progressed since that time. He says on page 220, Today, religion in America is as private and diverse as New England colonial religion was public and unified. One person we interviewed actually named her religion, she calls it her faith, after herself. This suggests the logical possibility of over 220 million American religions. One for each of us. Sheila Larson is a young nurse who has received a good deal of therapy and who describes her faith as Sheilaism. She says, I believe in God. I'm not a religious fanatic. I can't remember the last time I went to church. But my faith has carried me a long way. It's Sheilaism. Just my own little voice. Sheila 's faith has some tenets beyond belief in God, but not many. In defining my own Sheilaism, she said, quote, it's just, you know, try to love yourself and be gentle with yourself. Like many others, Sheila would be willing to endorse a few more specifically. Would be willing to endorse few more specific injunctions. Just a few ideas that carry me along and don't mess with them I have my thoughts, I have my idea, my way, you have yours, that's fine. We just learn to live in tolerance in this pluralistic culture. And we as Americans are infected by that. A Christian, you see, cannot think that way because a Christian not only has his and her mind submitted to Scripture, but also within the community to certain vows and beliefs that we have subscribed to. Remember when you joined this church, if you're a member of Columbia Presbyterian, let me remind you that you took a vow, that fifth vow of membership, that said, I give to the elders of the this church, my encouragement, my submission, and my prayers, recognizing that they have been called by God to keep watch over my Doctrine. That is what I believe and my life and must give account to the Lord for their ministry. So when you stood up here and you said Jesus Christ is my Savior and Lord, you didn't say, However I define him and believe him to be. You were saying, I believe what this body of believers says about Jesus Christ and I am accountable to you to continue to believe that. And if I change my mind in that, I'm accountable To you to be able to answer for that. And we are your protection. As verse 14, so that you are not tossed back and forth and carried to and fro by every wave and wind of doctrine. You see, there's protection in the accountability. Now, this is not saying that we are lord of your conscience. The elders are not lord of your conscience. Scripture alone binds your conscience. You are to be like the Bereans, who, when they heard these things, they went and they examined Scripture to see whether they were true. But that's a very different thing from the kind of independence that says I determine truth for myself, and I'm not accountable for what I believe. You see, taking vows is like making a budget. It's easy to do. It only rubs When you want to go the other way, either by impulse or by some terrific drive, and you say, Well, I don't really need that budget anyway. It was just kind of an idea, you see Those vows I took, well, I believed that when I said it, but I don't believe that now. You see. That's where you get tossed back and forth. We're accountable for what we believe and what we hold to be true. We're also accountable not only for holding the truth, but also for living the truth. That's the second part B Accountable for living the truth. Again, when you joined Columbia Presbyterian, you pledged the third vow. Thinking about these vows now, what did I say? What did I get myself into? This third value, remember he said, I acknowledge Jesus Christ as my sovereign Lord, and I promise in reliance on the grace of God. I'm promising before God and before you To serve him with all that is in me, to oppose all sin, both that which remains within me and that in the world around me, and to lead a godly life. Great. Now you're on your own. Nope, that's not what it says. Fifth vow. I give to the elders of this church my encouragement, submission, and prayers, realizing they have been called by God to watch over my doctrine. and life and must give account to the Lord for their ministry. Doesn't mean we're little lords going around checking up on you But it does mean that we are shepherds and that we care for how you live. You can't just simply go off and just say, well, I just don't I want to submit in that area. And that's my choice. When we are in community, brothers and sisters, speaking the truth to one another, building each other up. in the faith to the goal of verse 13, then we are of necessity accountable to one another in doing that. Remember a letter was published in book. It was a letter from a guy who called himself Frank. Wrote a letter to his pastor. Let me read from that to illustrate what I'm saying. Dear pastor, you know me well. I sit in the front of the church every Sunday. I'm always there. On the way out, I always greet you with a handshake and a smile. You seem glad to see me too. But you don't know the real me very well. Behind my happy smile is a life that's somehow unbalanced. Occasionally you've asked me how I'm doing, and I've told you I'm fine. How are you? I've learned the easiest way to keep to myself is to refocus the attention back on the other person. The truth is, I'm not really sure you want an answer. I know you deal with a lot of real pain and real suffering, people losing jobs, their homes, their families, loved ones. Frankly, I'm a little embarrassed to talk about where I am spiritually to you. I'm supposed to be on top of things. After all, I'm a successful businessman. I've tried to take a look at my life to examine my ways, but the plain truth is I don't know how. I really enjoy your sermons They move my emotions and spirit, but on Monday morning at nine AM when the phones start ringing and the customers start complaining, I just can't seem to make the transition. I really need help. Somehow I sense that my problems are really spiritual problems, but I can't find any spiritual answers. I know that my marriage looks like the picture of success, but behind the closed doors of my private castle life is very different. I would be ashamed for you to know. My children don't seem to like to spend time with me anymore. Frankly, I've shut them out of my life for so long, I can't really blame them. I've wasted more nights in empty motel rooms than I care to remember. At first I thought I was doing it for my family, to provide them a better standard of living, but now I realize I was really doing it for me, for my own personal self-gratification. Maybe I thought it would make me feel more significant. Anyway, I got the ends and the means all mixed up and now I don't really think that they like me very much anymore. I know lots of people, but really a very lonely man. I wouldn't know who to talk to even if I put my frustrations into words There is no accountability in my life whatsoever. There is no accountability in my life whatsoever. Nobody knows or even seems to care how I'm doing financially in my business with my wife, with my children, or spiritually. I know you're interested in the group level, but I'm talking about just me, personally, individually. I don't expect you to personally spend time with me, but I wish we had some way of linking men and women together to talk about these things. I think it would happen if you really got behind the idea. Frankly, I've done some things in business which I regret. I've cut corners and I've compromised my integrity I feel guilty about that, but since nobody knows the difference, I just go on pretending everything's okay. I'm really not much different from everybody else. I often wonder if behind those plastic Sunday morning smiles other men, women might feel the same way that I do. Oh well, I never planned on mailing this letter anyway, but I just had to get some things off my chest. Really wish I could tell you about these things. There's so much I want to know, and I need someone to talk to. Oh well. Guess I'll see you Sunday. Sincerely, Frank. Identify with that as a man, as a woman, women's issues Or as a single , singles issues, or as a teenager, or as a kid. Wishing you had somebody to talk to who'd listen and help you along. Somebody that you could care for too and help them. You see, if we take seriously what verse 15 says, we grow up into Christ in all things Living the truth in love. We need help. We need the Holy Spirit. We need God to work in us and through us. But He's also intended that to be done in community. Sandy led us through in confession the areas. Look at some of those areas that we'll be covering in the next weeks. Of the all things, the relational areas, questions of bitterness that we have, our marriages, our parenting. Our attitudes at work. We'll be looking at these things in the months ahead. Our moral lives. Our financial lives. Our ethical lives, telling the truth. Our ministries, whether we're involved and what our motives are. Our evangelism or lack of it. Our spiritual lives, the spiritual warfare in which we're engaged. How are you doing in each of these areas. Did you find that when Sandy was going through them that you thought, boy, I just getting started on this one and he's going on the next one. I just starting to crank up on that and all You know, and you think I could take I could take a half hour, an hour, a day on each one of these areas. Well, you're not alone in that. The question this morning, however, brother and sister, is do you want help in those areas enough to sacrifice your privacy and your image to get the help? That's the question. Are you willing to give up a bit of that privacy, that image of having it together? To be able to confess your sins one to another and pray for one another that you would be healed. So the means for growing in this accountability, which is often overlooked, is that we are not only to speak the truth in love, but it's reciprocal. We're to speak and to hear the truth in love. We speak Because we care enough for the other person, not just waiting for somebody to care for me, but caring for you enough to risk raising awkward questions. I notice in our group when we have discussion and we begin to talk about our marriages, you always get quiet. Don't say anything. How is your relationship with your husband, with your wife , with your kids? And then being willing to really listen and find out. It also involves being able to hear the truth in love, not defensively. Eager to protect myself. Who are you to accuse me? But wanting to learn because I want to grow up into him in all things and I need your help because I have blind spots. There's areas of my life I don't want to look at. And if you help me to see them, you're doing me a favor. That is loving me, speaking the truth in love. Maybe you don't do it perfectly, and I don't do it perfectly. But we get better as we try. Recently I experienced some of this with one of these people that I told you can look me in the eye and say, bull. He sat down with me and he said very gently, Alan, I get the impression at times that when you confess your sin , You minimize it, and you do it in such a way that I sense what you are looking for is understanding and sympathy rather than forgiveness because you were simply wrong. That wasn't easy to hear. That wasn't easy to say It hurt, but you know what? He was dead on. Yes, somebody be willing to say that to you? Or you willing, if you perceive that To pray for God's Spirit to give you the guts to gently say that kind of thing to a brother or sister? And stick with him as they seek to grow, growing up into him in all things. Finally, what's the path to this? Well the path is to begin by the three A's. If you're with me so far, you say, you know, I want this more, what do you do? First of all I suggest that you affirm your goal of Christ-likeness. You need to do that. Affirm your goal of Christ-likeness. If this is just a casual religious sentiment, that I want to become What verse 13 says, my convictions, affections, and character. If that's a casual sentiment one Sunday morning to you, you will never believe that it is worth sacrificing your privacy to get it. But if you want it with all your heart, with a passion, then tell the Lord, I am committing myself again. To the goal of Christ-likeness in my life, to see my mind submitted to your word, my affection submitted to you, Lord Jesus, and my character. transformed to become like you, to grow up into Him. Secondly, then you will admit the area where you most need help. You can't do all seven of those at once But you can say, here is an area that I sense that God is dealing with me about, and I want to see some change. I really do, and I need help. I need the Lord's help primarily, but secondarily in support, I need someone else who will help me in one of those seven areas. You've tried on your own and you've failed. As I find particularly true with men in pornography, very secret kind of sin. I've known a number of men in my own life Who when they have either been to me or to others accountable in that area , grown cross that hurdle of shame to say, this is an issue in my life. I wish it wasn't. I'm ashamed to say it. But I can't stay away from that stuff on the internet or when I travel in the motel rooms, when magazines I pick up, or whatever it is And I need you to hold me accountable. I've had guys who have told me when they're going on trips, pray for me during that trip, and ask me when I come back, what did I watch? In every case where that's happened, there's been remarkable progress. You know, we'd like to think it's just because of the Lord, but He's placed us in community for a reason, for our protection And if you are not willing to take that protection, you're not serious about your sin. That's something to think about. Admit where you need the help. And then thirdly, ask God to give you an accountability partner. Ask God, Lord, who is this? This is important to me. If you're in a seller small group, it's probably going to be somebody in that group. That's the obvious Connection, somebody within that group. Or if you don't know who you would seek I've checked this out, and I have permission to tell you. If you put on the gray slip this morning when we hand it in for the offering, it will be placed in the office and Steve will sort those out and there's a couple people who will try to help you. To match up with an accountability partner in your life so that you can't say, well, I wanted to do it, but I just couldn't find somebody I'm making it really hard for you, aren't I? But this is the Holy Spirit, Jesus wanting to help you to grow. Jesus sent out his disciples two by two. Never sent them out alone. In all of Paul's letters, you read again and again those who worked with him, his companions. Those who are part of his team. He intends that for us. Finally, the fourth thing, lastly, four nuts and bolts steps to get started. First of all, when you find this person, meet together regularly. You've got to start with that. Once a week, face to face. is ideal with perhaps contact by phone in between, perhaps get together for a breakfast. In ourselves, four men meet together once a week for breakfast. And we go through Stu Weber's book, Tender Warrior, and we are accountable concerning our marriages and our parenting. We're going through that and we are getting more and more specific. We even had our wives rate us in four areas last week and then shared the ratings with each other. And then we talked about our parents and raided them and how we've learned our patterns and what patterns we're duplicating and how God can deliver us and break certain chains and All these, you know, and it's exciting because we're not only finding out we're not alone in this and we're pursuing it together and the relationships are getting close, but we're seeing God do things. In fact, we just shared some of that last week, some of the progress we've seen over the last months in the whole group So meet together. Do it by phone, do it however you can do it, but work out some way so that you have that regular contact. Then secondly, talk openly and honestly It's not just meeting that's going to do it. You could meet for ten years and nothing will happen except you'll have a fuller schedule. What you need to do is to be vulnerable about the area where you want help. And I put down a question there to help get you started. I would suggest you start with that relatively non-threatening question. What's one thing that I can pray for God to do in your life by the end of 1997? That gives you each the choice to go however deep you want to. We find in our group what we've done of course is we kind of started up at this level and now we're getting lower and lower and deeper and deeper onto the honest and meaningful levels. But you start with something that's relatively non-threatening. And then as there's trust that's built, you move. But that's a way to get started. Thirdly, pray earnestly and persistently. Not just getting something off your chest and listening, but praying for each other, wrestling with what to pray, what scripture you can claim, pray together. Even sometimes I find it good to begin with prayer so that we get to that and then pray for each other when you're apart, hopefully on a daily basis. Then fourthly, finally, affirm the progress you see together. Affirm your progress where there's setbacks. Confess it. I blew it, I fell. Confess it honestly. Alan Meninger, head of Regeneration, Homosexual Recovery Group, says, people who are not honest do not get well. It's as simple as that. You're not going to be honest, you're not going to grow. Remember a fellow who was so wrapped up in his own image, he would not even pray with his wife because he could not be honest with her about his sins. And then he wondered why he was so spiritually depressed. And finally, when he began to get honest about his sin And to be able to see that there was grace for sinners and that he didn't have to be this perfect person that he was setting himself up to pretend to be. It was a whole release of his spirit and he began to grow in joy and in faith. It needs to be that honesty. When you blow it. Then repent. You don't just confess it. You repent. See the sin as God sees it and hate it. So that you want to turn from it. And then believe the gospel. When you come to Jesus Christ each day you come the same way you came the very first time you came, with nothing to offer, and simply claiming his record, which he achieved by his death on the cross and his resurrection. Giving that record to you and once again affirming, I believe the gospel, I believe that I am saved by grace and that Jesus you receive me once again, simply on that basis. That you're the Father receiving me the prodigal back with open arms. Then make those necessary corrections to not repeat the sin and move on. Where there's victories, celebrate them. Go out for coffee, have some special thing, any excuse, celebrate the victories. Don't just say that's great. Now you know, but here's another area you've got to move on a little more, you know Uh yeah, just kind of feeling good about them. Well, you know, yeah, but we gotta get down to a deeper level. Celebrate them. God's good and just have a good time seeing the progress. Notice it and encourage one another You know the the Rangers are the most elite core of the army troops in combat, and in their training, Stu Weber. The fellow who writes this book, Tender Warrior, said in another place that when he got into the Rangers in 1967, the group that he was with, there were 287 of them, only 110 got through the course. He said, the grizzled sergeant stood to them before them that very first day, and he said, Here is your very first assignment as you go into training for combat. Get a buddy. He said some of us would have rather rappelled down a five hundred foot cliff or gone through on our stomachs or done a ten mile run with An 80-pound pack, but we had a got it get a buddy. He said that buddy is going to stick with you and you're going to stick with him through this whole course You're going to encourage each other. You're going to help each other. You're going to carry each other if you need to, but you're going to have that person. You're going to stick together. He said, and then they took us to the Yellow River The yellow river was a swift, cold river was twenty-seven degrees when they went to that river, and he said, you're gonna go across that river now. Two by two He said we stepped in. It was Stu and Lou. Stu and Lou stepped in together. He said I stepped into that river and all of us and just took us off our feet. He said, I thought sure we were gone. We were going to drown But the two of us kept hanging on to each other, and he said, we made it across the yellow river, and we celebrated when we got to the other side. We were still alive. Wouldn't have made it without my buddy Jesus Christ is your Savior. But He's intended you to cross the rivers of your life with a buddy. Yep for that? Let's pray. Lord, we want right now to see your purpose and commit ourselves to finding that person in our life, or maybe a group of two or three To whom we can be accountable in community to grow up together into him in all things And know the joy of seeing you at work in our lives like we have not seen, because we have not done it the way you've intended for us to do it. So, Lord, work in us now that hunger and thirst for godliness. That will make it worth sacrificing our privacy and our image to see you at work in us in Jesus' name.