Well, three weeks from today is what Sunday? Pentecost Sunday. Somebody knows their church calendar. Pentecost Sunday, three weeks today Pentecost, you remember, was fifty days after Passover, the time when Jesus was crucified. And Pentecost is the time that the Holy Spirit was given in his fullness to the church. To ordinary believers like you and me. Let's face it, the Holy Spirit is a rather mysterious and frustrating member of the Trinity, isn't he, in some ways to most of us as Christians. We know that he is God, and yet we find it difficult to relate to him, not like the Father or the Son. He's more mysterious to understand how we should relate to Him We know that he has been sent or he has been given in order to transform our lives. And yet so often we feel very untransformed, don't we? He was given in order that we might have boldness in our witness. And so often we feel so very timid, we wonder, how can the Spirit of God be living in me? There's so many ways that what he is supposed to be able to do in us doesn't jibe with our experience, does it? And then there's the whole charismatic phenomenon. The question of the gifts of the Spirit. The supernatural gifts that the Spirit gives, and our experience of those, and what we should look for and expect in our day. The question of the baptism of the Spirit, or the experience of speaking in tongues and all of these various things. We wonder, why is the Holy Spirit so confusing? He's supposed to be a comforter. And yet so often I find he's More of a frustration in my understanding the power of his work and how I lay hold of that power and what I'm to look forward to experience. And so we find often that we're living rather powerless, defeated Christian lives when we're really honest with ourselves And someone says to us, what you need is the power of the Spirit of God in your life. We say, Yeah, I agree with that. But now how do I get that power of the Spirit of God in my life? And sometimes feel like it's a 24 valve turbocharged intercooled engine that I don't have a key to know how to turn on And there it sits, and there I sit, and somehow I'm not making the connection with the power of the Spirit in my life. Well, I hope that I have good news for you this morning. And the good news is that I believe that we often make The work and the person of the Spirit to be more complicated than the New Testament does. I wish sometime for myself and for you that we could read, say, Acts 1 and 2, and just read those two chapters. And rip from our mind all the preconceptions that we have picked up over the years of messages we've heard and books we've read and Tapes we've heard on the work of the Spirit and the place of Pentecost. If we could just look at what the New Testament actually says, but the problem is when we read it. We're always reading and thinking of what somebody said that we're supposed to understand from it. Take a verse, for instance, like Acts 2, verse 33. Where Peter says, Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit, and has poured out what you now see and hear. I would suggest that that one verse sets aside a number of misconceptions that we have about the Holy Spirit. And so what I'd like to do is for the next three weeks climaxing with Pentecost Sunday, we're going to look at just that one verse, Acts chapter 2, verse 33. And we're going to see how this one verse addresses three common misperceptions or misconceptions that we as Christians often have about the work of the Holy Spirit in his fullness. and power in our lives. And I hope that you're going to be able to look at this and be able to go from this time with a new sense of how that power of the Spirit can be unleashed in your life and to realize that it really is less complicated than all the different things that we hear preached and taught about the Holy Spirit today Now you may say, well, you're just going to add your version onto all the rest of the stuff that I heard. But you've got to examine what I'm saying from scripture and see, is this in fact what this text is teaching? So let's turn. Acts chapter 2. Verse 33 is part of Peter's sermon about the Spirit on that day of Pentecost. The Spirit had just come upon the disciples in great power. So that they spoke in other tongues. And that means that they had been given the supernatural gift of foreign languages. People were there in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost from all over the world. And what was happening was that the disciples were praising God in languages they had never learned. The languages of the Parthenians and the Cretans and the Egyptians and all the people from all over the world. They were speaking these languages that they had never taken a course in, never listened to any tapes on them, hadn't done any learning by subliminal playing the tapes at night or anything like that. They just spoke those languages Right straight out without having ever learned or maybe even heard them. And so Peter's explaining what God is doing in this dawn of the new age of the Spirit. And we're going to pick up his message at verse 22 and then go to verse 33. Here now, this is God's word, not my interpretation. This is God's word. Let's give our attention to what he says to us. Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God set purpose and foreknowledge. And you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him up from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me paths of life. You will lift me with joy in your presence. You will fill me with joy in your presence. Well, brothers, I can testify, I can tell you confidently, that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on the throne. Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ, Messiah. That he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of this fact Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out blab blah has poured out what you now see and hear. Now this morning I want to deal with the first of three misconceptions that this verse addresses. First of all, then who has received the Spirit and how? Who has received the Spirit and how? And I'm speaking now of the Spirit in his fullness, the fullness of Pentecost Not the stripped down barely notice the difference version of the Holy Spirit, but the Spirit in his full power, the power that transforms lives. Look at verse 33. Peter's explaining here to the crowds what's going on. Now you notice that, as I said before, people back in verses 8, 9, 10, 11 through there. Peter uh Luke tells us that these people from all over the world were gathered together, and you read back in verse eleven that there were both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans, Arabs. We hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues, amazed and Perplexed, they asked one another, what does this mean? And so Peter's sermon is explaining what this means. You have to understand that. That's what he's getting at. He's explaining what has happened in this new effusion, this new outpouring of the Holy Spirit. He says that in verse 14. Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews, all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. That's what he's doing. He's explaining. So he says, listen carefully to what I say. Let me tell you what's going on and why it's going on. Let me tell you about what it means that the Spirit has come in a new fullness upon his people Let me explain to you why that's happened, how it's happened, the significance of it. Now that ought to grab you. It's very interesting to me and to you to see how the Holy Spirit comes. You see, because what Peter's saying here applies to you and to me today. I would suggest that the Scripture teaches That just what God was doing there is what he is doing today. And so when Peter says, let me describe to you how the Spirit has come in his fullness. That same principle is still applying today. And so we look at that and we have to understand: all right, now, if I want to understand the fullness and the power of the Spirit in my life. How I can deal with conflicting desires. You know, you and I just have we're torn, aren't we? You know, you sit here Sunday morning and you say, Well, I want to serve Jesus Christ. I really do want to do what's right. I want to have him as Lord of my life. Why is it that when I get home and even before we finish lunch I'm squabbling with somebody, I lose my temper, by this afternoon, you know, I'll have lost the glow, and tomorrow morning I'll be back to my old grouchy self back at work, you know. Conflicting desires. I hear the last few weeks about stewardship and giving and all my possessions belonging to Jesus and giving to him joyfully because of what he's done for me. And I want to on the one hand, but on the other hand, I feel like I really want to just please myself. Stingy, greedy. Ken speaks to us last week about needing needs, showing mercy to people. And I say, I really would like to be that kind of person. But how do I get to be that kind of person? How do I change from the way I am, self-centered and looking out only for me and my interest and maybe my family? But beyond that, not a whole lot of interest. How do I get to be different? Peter says, Here are some disciples who were utterly transformed. And he says, Let me explain this to you. I want you to understand what's going on here. So you and I ought to be very interested, shouldn't we? We should say, explain that to me, Peter. I'm all ears. Show me what's going on here. Now, hopefully, I have your attention. Because I'm excited about this. And I hope by the end you'll be excited rather than just wondering why in the world I'm excited. Look at what he says. Look in your bulletin outline. The first thing for us to notice Is who has received the Spirit. Now, look at verse 33. Who has received the Spirit? Somebody tell me, who has received the Spirit in verse 33? Right. Jesus. Now, that's not obvious, is it? You'd expect it what Peter would say is now uh These disciples, or we have received the Spirit of God. Let me explain to you what's happened. We've received the Spirit. He does not say that. He says, let me explain to you what's going on here. Jesus has received the Spirit. Wait a minute, what's going on? Look what it see what he says, verse 33. Exalted to the right hand of God. He has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. Jesus received the Spirit. That's very important. What it's saying is what has led up to Pentecost and what has led to this outpouring of the Spirit and his fullness is all what has led up to Jesus receiving the Spirit. But you say, I thought Jesus received the Spirit at his baptism. When John baptized him in the Jordan, do you remember? He came up out of the water, and we read the Holy Spirit descended as a dove upon him. Isn't that when he received the Spirit? So that leads to the second question. When did Jesus receive the Spirit? And again, the answer is very clear. Look at verse 33. See, it's so simple. I mean, just follow along step by step. Very simple. It says, verse 33 : Exalted to the right hand of God he has received the Spirit. So when did he receive the Spirit? At his exaltation, at his glorification. Very clear. Now that's talking about the Spirit in the New Age power, in his fullness. A spirit, the fullness of the power of the spirit that was unknown in Old Testament times. The Spirit was present in Old Testament times and active in the work of believers. But now we have a new age, a new fullness of the Spirit, in power to transform that was utterly unknown before Jesus did something. And his doing something has enabled him to receive the Spirit. And the Spirit could not come before that. John 7, for instance, is very clear about that. In John chapter 7, do you remember those verses that we've considered various times in the past. In verse 37 to 39, the last greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and he said in a loud voice, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. Now by this, John says, he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time, the Spirit had not been given. Why? Since Jesus had not yet been glorified. So John's very clear. He says, Jesus certainly received the Spirit to do his ministry in his work, but that new age fullness, transforming power of the Spirit was not yet given because Jesus hadn't done something, hadn't completed his work. He needed to complete that work and be exalted as a confirmation that the work was completed in order for the Spirit to come in his fullness. The coming of the Spirit depended on that work. Why is that? That's the third point. Now notice why? Because, here's the blanks, he alone fulfilled the conditions. Because he, Jesus, alone fulfilled the conditions for the coming of the Spirit. You see, to have the Spirit is to have all the promises of the Abrahamic covenant that God had made in the Old Testament. Now do you remember, a little bit of review again. Back some months ago when we were considering the names of God, you remember we talked about the Abrahamic covenant, and remember we summed up the Abrahamic covenant in just two words. Anybody remember those two words of the Abrahamic covenant summed up in a what? Seed and deed. Exactly. Great. Boy, that makes my thing. Okay. Two words, the Abrahamic covenant is a seed and a deed. Remember, it's a deed. That is, the promise of the Abrahamic covenant is that there will be a transformed world that will surpass even Eden. And the promise given to Abraham is that you have a deed to that inheritance. You have a deed to that transformed world. The second part of it was the seed. The fact that there's not only going to be a transformed world, there's going to be a transformed you to live in that world. If you and I were given heaven now, we wouldn't appreciate it. We couldn't comprehend it. Because we need to have transformed natures. That we as Christians who have given our lives to Jesus Christ have the first fruits of down payment, we're beginning to appreciate it. If you're outside of Jesus Christ here this morning, you've never given your life to Him, you'd have no capacity to appreciate that new heavens and that new earth, that transformed world that Jesus has come to establish. You need a new heart. You need new eyes, a new nature in order to enter into that, to be to see it. Jesus says it's so radical you need to be born again to see it. And so this is the summation of the Abrahamic covenant, a new seed and a new deed, transformed world, transformed you. That's what he's given. Ephesians, remember? The purpose of our church, Ephesians 1. He's given the glorious inheritance of his riches. For the saints, that's the transformed world, and in the saints, the transformed you and me. This is what he's given to us. How do you obtain that inheritance? The Abrahamic covenant was absolutely clear. There's only one way to obtain that inheritance Obedience to the law. Absolute, uncompromising, 100% obedience to the law of God. Deuteronomy spells that out again and again. Exodus, but particularly Deuteronomy, says, obey, you'll live, disobey, you'll die. It's as simple as that. There is no other alternative. There's only two possible ways, then, for you and for me to receive the Spirit, who is the summation of the Abrahamic covenant. On the basis of what you do, or on the basis of what Jesus has done for you. These are the only two possible ways that are described in Scripture And they're so radical, so hard for us to understand that God gave us one whole book in the Bible just to explain that. It's the book of Galatians. So take a look at Galatians chapter 3 for a minute in order to understand this, what Paul's saying here. I mean what Peter's saying here in Acts 2. In Galatians chapter 3 , Verses 10 to 14, because since we don't have time to look at the whole book or even a major portion of it, just want to focus on these five verses. Galatians chapter 3, verses 10 to 14. Paul's describing here, here's the two possible alternatives. And he says, first of all, there's the law way. Verse 10. Paul says, now remember, he's speaking to believers here. Beginning of verse chapter 3 talks about this very clearly. He's saying, Those who think that they have begun by faith in Jesus Christ But to live the Christian life, you've got to go on by self-effort, self-discipline to do it. And Paul says, now okay, you think that that's true? Verse ten All who rely on observing the law In order to receive more of the fullness of the Spirit and His power in their lives. Something that you do, something that you accomplish. Superstitious quiet times, religious activities, whatever it is, something that you do, Paul says, all who rely on observing the law are under a curse. Because it's written what? Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. See, God doesn't conquer high lives. He says, there's two ways. There's the law. Now he says you want to go by the law. You want to earn your status before me so that I say you're pretty good guy. Hey, you're an amazing woman. Boy, you can really pull it off. See the only thing is you got to do it perfectly You can never mess up. Every day, 100%, that's what's required by the law. Paul says, now, if in fact you're not able to pull that off, you're in big trouble Because under the law, the one who doesn't is cursed. Because they're assaulting God's majesty The law reflects his character. And when you and I break the law, we spit in God's face in saying, I'll run my life the way I want. I don't have to listen to you Your law is not necessary for me to reflect. And so we pervert God's image in doing that. And therefore, verse 10 says, we're cursed. But then he says, now I realize, perfectionist you may try to be, you can't pull it off. So verse 11, clearly no one is justified before God by the law. Because, and now he introduces a second alternative, because the righteous will live by faith. Now Then he begins to show us the contrast between these two ways. Verse 12, the law is not based on faith. The law is based on what you do, you see, not what you believe, not what you rest in that somebody else has done. The law is based on what you do. The law is not based on faith. On the contrary, it says the man who does these things We'll live by them. That's the whole principle of the law. What you do, gaining you your stature and your favor in God's sight The last four weeks, how much you give, what you do in your stewardship, how much you put Jesus first in your possessions, how much you show mercy to the needy that you see in your life, not only in the church. But the blind man that Ken talked about, the fellow with a flat tire, uh the neighbor who needs help, whatever it is, what you do, all of those things. That's the nature of the law. But then verse 13, he says, here's the alternative Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. Why? Because he became a curse for us For it's written, cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree. The tree, of course, being the cross of Calvary. Jesus, then, was cursed. You see, the principle is that the law will always enslave whatever it is that you and I think that we need to do to get more of the power of the Spirit in our life. If I can just be more obedient, if I can be more sincere, if I can pray longer, if I can try harder, if I can just mortify somehow with self-discipline and self-effort those conflicting desires, if I can just Try more this week. Be more dedicated and committed to live for Jesus Christ. The problem with that is it'll utterly enslave you. You will not be able to do it, and you'll die trying. You will be so frustrated and you will feel in bondage and you wonder why Donald love Jesus Christ? Because he's a hard taskmaster. Because he never gives up. I never can please him. There's always something more that I didn't do, right? You lay down tomorrow night and you think, well, I tried this thing, but I can't sleep because there's four or five things I didn't do. I snapped at the kids and I lost my temper here and I knew I could have helped that person. I was selfish and I just thought of myself and I defended my ego and I gossiped and I lied and I twisted the truth and I justified and I rationalized and I feel lousy about myself. What's verse 13 say? Jesus set us free. That's what redeemed means. Jesus set us free. He redeemed us from the curse of the accusations. Because he became that curse for us. And because Jesus became that curse And Jesus perfectly met all the conditions of the law. He fulfilled all the conditions for receiving the Spirit. Therefore, there is only one person in all of history who was ever eligible to receive the Spirit in his new age fullness. The fullness of the Abrahamic covenant. New Age is New Testament, New Age, not contemporary, secular New Age. You got that? He's the one who received the Spirit. The deed and the seed of the Abrahamic covenant. Only one. That's why Peter says, Acts 2. 33, exalted to the right hand of God. Why? Showing that in fact God was satisfied with his work. The whole previous verses, remember as we read, talked about his resurrection. God would not let him stay in the grave because he had satisfied the curse of the law. It had been fulfilled. He had satisfied it. Therefore, he was no longer under its bondage. He was raised up. And because of that, Peter says, exalted to the right hand of God. He was uniquely eligible and has received the Spirit. Received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. So there's only one who has received the Spirit based on anything he ever did, and that's Jesus. Now that leads to the obvious last question, and that is, well then, how is the Spirit poured out on his disciples? How can you and I receive the Spirit in His fullness? And this is what makes me so excited, you see. I hope that you can get free by this. There's only one way: By grace. Those are the words there. By grace, or you could even put in there, by faith. Because in what I'm speaking about, the two are really interchangeable, you see. A faith is laying hold of God's provision of grace. Faith is resting in its provision of grace Now I'd only read up to Galatians 3. 13. Go back to Galatians. I told you, hold your finger in there. Back to Galatians 3. 13. Finish up now with verse 14. Verse 13 says that Christ had redeemed us. He set us free from that curse of all because he's fulfilled all the curses. He's taken all the curses. There's nothing left. Then he, verse 14, redeemed us, set us free, in order that the blessing given to Abraham, that's the Abrahamic covenant, the deed, the seed, the new world, the new you That now has come to the Gentiles, to you and to me, through Jesus Christ. So that how? By faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. Do you see the connection? Jesus received the Spirit. Peter goes on to say, and he has poured out what you now see and hear. And then verse 38 they say, What do we do? How do we get this? He says, You simply repent, be baptized, trust in Jesus, and you will receive the gift, verse 38, of the Holy Spirit. There is nothing that you or I can ever do to be baptized in the Holy Spirit, to receive the Spirit in greater fullness, in greater measure. If you have come to Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of your life with empty hands, realizing there is nothing you can ever offer to God Then at that moment you were baptized in the Holy Spirit and you received him in his fullness. And you can never get any more of the Holy Spirit than you have from that very moment. But here's the reason that we're in bondage. Say, hey, yeah, I thought that was good news. That's really bad news, because you're telling me I already got it, there's nothing more I can get. You mean I'm condemned to live on the level that I'm at? No Because the problem is you and I keep going back like the Galatians to add to the Spirit our own self-discipline, our own self-effort, in order to revert back to pleasing God by our own efforts. Peter's saying, Jesus is the only one who received the Spirit. And therefore, just as you came to Jesus Christ by faith, empty-handed And received eternal life. So the only way you and I gain power, boldness, and victory in living the Christian life is by faith, not by works. We miss the fact that the Christian life is lived by faith. Rather, we think that we add to that faith our own self-effort. And what that produces is a miserable, compulsive perfectionist for a Christian. You ever seen that kind of Christian? Determined by their self-discipline that they're going to live the Christian life. They're going to pull it off. And what inevitably happens And that kind of a perfectionism is that the person reduces sin to manageable terms, never really fully manageable, so that's why they're miserable. But they reduce it to terms that they think they can come to grips with, that they think that they can handle, and then they judge everybody else who doesn't fit that standard. You see, because they're miserable. There's no delight in Jesus. Peter says he set you free. Paul says he set you free in Galatians 3. Peter says he's the only one who received the Spirit. The only way you receive the Spirit is being joined to Jesus by faith. You receive the Spirit on his coattails You receive the Spirit because you look and you say, Jesus, you're the only one who did anything to please the Father. I could never do it. But Lord Jesus, you've done it all. And therefore, when I see these conflicting desires in my life this week, rather than coming back to determine, I'm going to try harder, I simply confess to you, Lord Jesus, I can't do it. I'm selfish. I don't want to give up my things. Lord Jesus, I'm utterly, radically selfish. I don't want to meet other people's needs. My heart is perverted and twisted, and I confess that And so what do I do? I look to the finished work of Jesus, the fact that he has received the Spirit. And I say, how wonderful! That the Spirit's power is available to me as I lay hold of him by faith, trusting that he will show that power in my life. Do you see that? Do you see how this week that could make a difference in the way that you and I live? It's not that we lack the self-discipline. By and large, we as Christians lack the faith, the trust , the laying hold of the sufficiency of Jesus. And so what's that mean for you? Two things you see at the bottom. Have you received the Spirit by trusting Jesus and his finished work? You personally? Or do you find that you're still trying to be a good person? You're still trying to measure up to what you think God expects of people in order to get into heaven. You think that if you can just try a little harder, maybe you can be good enough, or maybe you think you already are good enough. But you see what verse what Galatians 3. 10 says, are you doing everything all the time of the law of God? If not, Paul says you're under a curse. Not only the curse of your conscience when you're honest with yourself. But far more terrible is the very curse of God at the judgment throne when you will stand him before him on the basis of your own record. That is a curse too terrible for you and for me to imagine. And if you think that you are going to be able to please God by balancing out You're good and you're bad, or that he grades on a curve somehow, and he's going to let you in because you're better than the average, then you're under an absolutely false delusion. The only way is by trusting Jesus, who did who met all the conditions And therefore has received the Spirit, and that you can have that same Spirit by simple faith, acknowledging that you could never meet his conditions. And that you hate the sin that's offended him. And that you ask for the work of Jesus Christ to be applied to your life and the Spirit to come in and to make you that new person. His power, his transformation, unleashed in you. Do you understand that? I hope there's nobody here this morning who is still trusting in their own efforts, for you'll be miserable and ultimately lost. But even for you and for me, who have trusted Jesus Christ , there are areas of your life that you're miserable. You don't feel like you have a relationship with God because you're always holding him at all. You see him simply as someone who condemns you for your inadequacy. Do you see what Peter's saying here? He received the Spirit. He's poured out this Spirit. But there's only one way that you can lay hold of that Spirit who dwells in you. It's not by more effort. It's by confessing the hopelessness of your efforts and simply taking hold of his power by faith, believing that Jesus' work was sufficient. Believing that you have been fully forgiven and have been adopted as his own son and daughter, believing that his power is adequate for you this week, whatever your need, and to be able to say that while I can't do it Jesus Christ, by his Spirit in me, can overcome this temptation, this area of defeat. And it's not by my trying harder, it's by my letting him work his power through me. Let's come to him with each of our own needs very personally now in prayer. Let's pray. Lord, I think that if all of us could really see, myself included The freedom that there is in the gospel that we didn't receive the Spirit based on our fulfilling any conditions But Jesus has received the Spirit and has given him as a gift to those of us who realize our poverty. Our utter hopelessness of living the Christian life in our own strength, to be able to then come to you by simple faith and say, Lord Jesus. You take a hold of this area of temptation. You take a hold of this area of defeat. I set my eyes on you. You are able to do it. I believe that you have made me to be one who has died with you and has risen with you, and that the power of the Spirit is resident in me. Lord, help us each to lay hold of that power this week in the particular ways that you want to show that you are the great giver. That you are the great releaser , the one who sets us free not only from the condemnation from our sin, but the curse, the guilt, and the bondage of it. Lord, help us to be specific and help us this week to exercise faith in Jesus Christ. That the Spirit's power would be evident in ways that give us great love and adoration for you, that you really are able to do all that you say. Help us, Lord, at this point in our Christian lives to start afresh. To put aside those doubts, to put aside all the things of, well, why didn't you do this sometime in the past and I don't understand that? And to be able to just For today, to take you at your word and to trust you. In Jesus' name. Amen.