Our guest preacher this morning is the Reverend Rick Anderson, an ordained evangelist with the OPC, and a senior missionary with CIM. Time is an evangelical reformed organization that subscribes to the Westminster Standards. The mission of Caim is to bring a reformed witness to Jewish people. Rick was born in a conservative Jewish family, attended a Hebrew parochial school, and later graduated from Westminster Theological Seminary. Rick's knowledge of the scripture and of Jewish custom has provided a unique testimony to churches that he visits. Rick, welcome. Turn with me if you would to Acts chapter fourteen. When Paul saw When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they shouted in the Lycanoian language, the gods have come down to us in human form. Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul they called Hermes because he was the chief speaker The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates because he and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to them. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of this, they tore their clothes and rushed out into the crowd, shouting, Men, why are you doing this? We too are only men human like you. We're bringing you good news, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God. Who made heaven and earth and the sea and everything in them. In the past, he let all nations go their own way. Yet he has not left himself without testimony. He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven and crops in their season. He provides you with plenty of food and fills your hearts with joy. Even with these words, they had difficulty keeping the crowd from sacrificing to them the Word of God. Here in this text, the apostle reasons with these pagan Greeks about God's goodness. The goodness that he showed to their ancestors in giving them rain and abundance of crops, food from heaven, and the fleeting blessings of temporal happiness. Notice here that God did good to them, despite the fact that he did not save them from their sins, these ancestors. The fact that he didn't save them from eternal judgment. He still showed his goodness to them. He allowed them to walk In the darkness of their own ways. And nonetheless, he left them with a measure of his goodness. Why? In reformed circles and theological circles, we call this distinctive of the Lord's common grace. The grace that does not save but nonetheless shows them God's kindness My thesis this morning is this: common grace is an attribute of God's, and it's found in Scripture. Two points to consider: first, what it is not, and second, what it is. So then the first point, what it is not. Well, it's not saving grace, apparently, obviously from the text, because he let them walk in the ways of their own devisings. But yet he showed them his kindness in the things of nature. A lot of churches have objected to to the use of this term common grace to to describe this phenomenon, as if it were some oxymoron, some nonsensical expression, because isn't grace what God gives to us to save us from our sins? Well, it's true. The term common grace is not actually used in Scripture, but then the term Trinity is not used in Scripture. That's why we have That's why we have the study of the Bible, because certain theological terms that we use are derived from Scripture The terminology is not in Scripture, but but the concept is there. The Trinity, yes, it's in the Bible, but the word Trinity is not in the Bible. Well for the same reason the the word common gr the term common grace is not in the Bible, but yet we can see God's goodness meted out upon people that he did not draw to himself. Why does he do this? God allowed certain nations of the past to walk in their own ways. He did good to them. But this goodness did not result in their salvation from sin. Did they merit or earn his goodness? No, it was unmerited. It was in essence gracious, but then it's called common grace. Here in the Bible, we see this distinctive of the Lord. Certain churches in the in the Reformed tradition have objected to the use of this term and they took their position in the Arminian belief from Jacob Arminius. I'm going back, I'm referring to church history here. uh not biblical history as much as church history now when I speak of Jacob Arminius who believed that this common grace that God gives to people was sufficient in and of itself to lead one to salvation. In the same way that you would reason with your with your unsaved friend about, well, look at the order of God in the universe, look at the cosmos, look at Look at the the predictability of the seasons. Isn't that enough to convince you there's a God? Well, for most people, no, it isn't. Oh no, not at all. See here you're referring to common grace, you're referring to an order, a rhyme and a reason to the way things are. But unless God gives a special grace to people, this is not enough to convince them. See, this idea that common grace is enough to bring one to salvation, this was an error that went back as far as even Thomas Aquinas in the Roman Catholic tradition, and beyond that, further back beyond that. And even Pelagius in the fourth century. Some of us remember churches that we came from, perhaps when we first came to faith. Most of these churches uh in America at least are from an Arminian background. That doesn't mean that they're not true churches, but they labor under a certain misconception about God's dealing with people. That simply the kindness of God that He shows to all people is enough to bring them to salvation. It is not. The view of the reformers was that it certainly was not, because the reformers saw that they they gleaned from Scripture that there was something called total depravity in the sons and daughters of Adam. That doesn't, total depravity doesn't mean that that people are as bad or as depraved as they possibly could be, but rather their entire person, their faculties of thinking and reason are if are affected by the fall of Adam. So in that sense it's totally affected, and so they are totally depraved. They need some special act of God's kindness, despite his witness in the world. to bring them to a saving knowledge of himself. The Calvinists believed this. The Arminians, 500 years ago, did not. And what often happens in theological debates is one side overreacted to what the other side said. But let's look at one point of the view of the Calvinists, and that is total depravity. And see how it bears upon this concept of common grace. Jacob Arminius, who objected to what the Calvinists spoke of as total depravity, believe that fallen man had within himself an ability to cooperate with God in obtaining salvation, that it was part man and part God's doing. By reasoning from the observable world of God's common grace, he taught that people can do this. And in response to this, the Calvinists at the Synod of Dord in 1610 taught from the Bible that the fall of man had left him in a completely helpless condition And it affected all his parts in a totality. And the common grace only served to condemn man further. It had no value in his salvation. In other words, natural man was affected in his totality. Now the Calvinists from which the Reformed churches came, they taught that it was important this idea of total depravity. Because they reason this way. If we have a wrong view of the fall of man, that is, if we have a defective view of the extent to which indwelling sin has affected us, then by the same logic we would have a defective view of of what's necessary to save us. And if we have a defective view of the means necessary for salvation, then by the same logic we have a defective view of what actually was necessary, what actually happened to us. With our parents, our parents Adam and Eve when they fell in the Garden of Eden, and even why God thought it necessary, finally, and this is the crux of it all, why God found it necessary to punish his son. For the sins of his people. Romans 5. 12, for example, declares That man without the Holy Spirit is dead in sin. The term is used, dead in sin. The dead If we're going to use the analogy of Scripture in Romans 5. 12, cannot lift a finger to save themselves And this is in the view of Scripture, in the view of St. Paul, and in the view of the Calvinists, what man without the Spirit is, before God brings him to life So common grace is not enough. What needs to happen is a special act of God's grace. Romans chapter 1 explains this also. It reviews in Romans 1 the whole history of the human race, all the civilizations in it, and it declares that what What man without the Spirit did, what these Greeks of Paul's day did, these ancestors of the Greeks that Paul spoke to, what they did is they took God's kindness They regarded the kindness of God, and what they did was they did not use it as a ladder to God, as Jacob Arminius taught, rather, but what they did was they suppressed it, they perverted it. They pushed it out of their minds. My second point is this. The common grace is, and here's what it is, it is God's favor displayed to the world through nature and through godly government. And by nature we can mean the things in heaven as well as the things on earth. Two thousand years ago, Saint Paul quoted the prophet David, King David being a prophet. And quoted from the 19th Psalm to show that God uses the sights and sound of nature to call everyone to repentance. Whether they come to repentance or not is a different matter. This is the outward call of grace. God uses nature as a trumpeter, as a herald of God's glory. Nature in this sense speaks to all men. It spoke to the Greeks of Paul's day, it speaks Paul's Day, it speaks to us today. The heavens, says the Psalm, declares the glory of God, and the firmament, the skies, the firmament shows his handiwork. Day unto day utters speech, and night unto night shows knowledge. That is, it shows the knowledge of God. And how is it that some of us then can see in God's careful orchestration of the cosmos the predictability of the seasons of the year, of seed time and harvest, and of the rain that falls on the just and the unjust. How is it that some of us can see in these his attributes Uh his kindness and the rest of us can just say, well, you know, it's random chance. We're in a random chance universe. And by millions and billions of years of evolution, this is what has occurred. It doesn't mean that God's kind, it's just that there This is the natural predicted way that things would occur given enough time, given enough opportunity. How is it that two groups of people can see the same phenomena and come to two different conclusions? And the point is that some of us are enlivened by the Spirit of God with a special saving grace so that we recognize the God of these things, and others of us are not. If common grace were enough, then all would come to a knowledge of the God of Scripture, but we don't. And the reformers were simply recognizing this in church history, and Paul is speaking of it in Acts chapter 17, and Acts chapter 14 as well. In chapter 17, he said this here, speaking from Mars Hill. in Athens, in Greece. He said, he's speaking of the triune God, and he said to the these Greeks, quoting their own poets, For in him we live And move and have our being as certain of your own poets have said. Here he quotes from Eratus and Cleanthus. These were Greek poets of that day. He said, He quoted them saying, We also are his offspring. Now these poets, they were not Christians. Why did Paul do this? Because the poets saw by common grace that there was a God who orchestrated things, who ruled things, and he's now appealing to their words. And he's using this along with Scripture as a way of doing missionary work, of doing evangelism. He's showing them that he's familiar with their culture. This, by the way, is the way evangelism and mission work is done today. What we do if you know someone from another culture is you relate to them with something in their culture that attests to the glory of God, that attests that there is a God that shows that there is a God of Scripture. And what you do is you build a bridge using their culture. It can be language, it can be something in their culture. And then with the use of scripture, you also add scripture to that. And you pray that the Holy Spirit works in their hearts. This is what St. Paul was doing with these ancient Greeks. You'll notice that Paul did not simply appeal To the kindness of God shown generally, to God's general goodness, to his common grace. He did something else. He spoke the word to them As well as missionaries must do today. He said, we also are of men like passions with you, and we preach to you that you should turn from these things And turn unto the living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is therein. So what saved these Greeks? Common grace? No. They needed something else. They needed someone to remind them of what they already knew, but they needed a work of God's Spirit in them. Now our confession of faith says as much. This church, by the way, is governed by the Westminster Confession of Faith, the church that you are in, by the larger and shorter catechism. And it speaks of something called effectual calling. That is, a calling that God has upon people that works, that regardless of what state of mind they're in, is effectual. It has an intended effect, and that is a saving effect. Effectual calling, it says, is the work of God's Spirit. Whereby convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds and the knowledge of Christ, and renewing our wills, it persuades and enables us. to embrace Jesus Christ freely offered to us in the gospel. This is what is occurring on Morris Hill. This is what is occurring as Paul reasons with the Greeks, and this is what occurs when missionaries do their work today. Appealing to common grace, trusting also in the special grace that God will save the people that he has selected. So there's the outward call of repentance. When the preacher preaches, when the Sunday school teacher shares, when the missionary shares, that's the outward call. God calling everyone. But then there is an inner working in God's Spirit. And the inner working is what separates the sheep from the goats. I know Muslims, for example, who hear all the time various scripture verses and they just dismiss them because in the Muslim tradition Though they believe that the Bible is God's word, they believe that our our modern translations are so utterly corrupt that they're unreliable. So that they dismiss what go what what they hear from Scripture today. Muslims, most of them. And then I know Muslims who have heard a single verse of Scripture and they have come to a saving knowledge of Christ, even though they didn't believe at first that the Scripture was God's word. They believed the Quran was his word I know Muslims who have come to faith this way. Ye must be born again, they heard. And that did it. And as for myself, when I heard, I came from a Jewish tradition, when I heard Isaiah chapter 53, when it said he was despised and forsaken of men, and a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, the prophet speaking of the coming Messiah. Though I did not believe that Isaiah was God's word. And though I saw God's kindness in nature, I knew that this was the Messiah. Why? Because the Lord opened my understanding, as he did with Muslims, as he is doing today in America in the various non-Christian cultures. that are surrounding us. So God has a special calling, and he has an effectual calling upon certain of his people. It was common for the apostles to use the evidences of God's general goodness, of the common grace, when they preached the gospel. But without this effectual calling, the common grace means nothing to them. In recent times, the the awareness that people have had of God's goodness in nature and of his order in the universe has become even more extensive. And why is this? Because of the increase of our scientific knowledge, of the increase of our of our ability to study these heavens and earths uh and this earth. The increase of our scientific instrumentation, for example Our modern devices allow us a better study of the emblems of God's goodness, both under the microscope and with the telescope and in any other way you'd imagine. Here in this very time in history when the mysteries of DNA and its revealed coding of all human life should have shown the scientist. the astounding care and the individual sophistication with which God made every person on earth when it should have shown the scientists that there must be a creator who did this. Many scientists, most scientists no longer believed in the triune God. Or, another example. At the very time in history when we can view the human fetus with X-ray photography, Well we can discern that there is something in the womb beyond simply a blob with the electroencephalograph. We can see plain as day today, as they could not even 100 years ago, even 50 years ago, we can see the intricacy. and precision of God's parental formation and care of the baby in the womb. In the very generation that has seen this, abortion has become a civil right. What's my point? Despite all the common grace, if man is unregenerate and God has not opened his eyes, the eyes of his heart and renewed his will, it matters not. This is the very generation where the Supreme Court cannot bring itself to declare that what is in the womb is made in the image of God. The point is that man has taken the truth of God's goodness. The truth that constantly reveals itself Before his uncomprehending eyes, day after day, and the things his science discovers and his naked eye sees, and what does he do? He turns it into a lie. This is what Romans 1 says. This is what we see around us today. And my point is that despite all God's goodness and glory that he shows us of himself in the natural world, Natural man will not respond, will not acknowledge him unless the Holy Spirit does his work So common grace then has a twofold purpose. First, what it does for God's people is it encourages them It blesses them whom God has called effectually, but it also does something else. For those whom he has not called, it condemns them, it blinds them. He passes by them and ordains them to dishonor and wrath for their sin. Because seeing God, seeing the emblems of his favor, they turn from him Common grace is used in two ways. In government and also in nature. What about government? How does God use government? Not only ru not only godly rulers, but rulers who aren't godly. How does he show his kindness in government? If you've ever been in a blackout, you can understand why government is important. What happens when people don't feel that they have individual responsibility and can get away with whatever they have to get away with? When when law in a region breaks down, even if it's law that's not completely fair. What happens? You have rioting, you have looting. What happened in New Orleans, but not just New Orleans, elsewhere in the world. New York in 1967, the same thing happened. It transcends culture. The idea that if there is no restraining force or power, it doesn't matter about race or culture, whatever race or culture does not feel the restraining force of government. The lowest common denominator, the lowest impulses of the human race come out. Common grace restrains this. In the days of St. Paul, in the days of the apostles. The Roman Empire was such a restraining force. The Roman roads were built. God used those roads so that the gospel would further its course. Roman government had had uh produced peace in the world for hundreds and hundreds of years, generally speaking. There was a common language, the Aramaic and the Greek language. The Lord used those vehicles. He used them as a catalyst to further his gospel. This is the kindness of God. Or even in our own time. It's not every country in the world that has a stable government, even if the government isn't too efficient, if it's stable enough The gospel can spread. The gospel can go far. That's why Paul, by the Holy Spirit in Romans, told the Christians to pray for the rulers Pray for the leaders of the country so that there would be stability and that the gospel would go forth. What's he asking them to pray for? That God would show his common grace to the world. And one of one of the aspects of that common grace is good governing. Today we see emblems of common grace as well in the fact that English has become almost as pervasive as Aramaic and Greek was two thousand years ago. It's become the language of commerce. And what God has done is he has used English to further the spread of the gospel. Yes, it's used for a lot of bad as well, but for a lot of good. What about the internet? The internet as well. Communication has been so facilitated today that knowledge knowledge is almost instantaneous. This again is an emblem of God's common grace. The rapidity The speed with which things can be published. The universal literacy, or near universal literacy in our country. God uses all these things. as emblems of this common grace. See we so we see then the kindness of God. But the point is then without the special work of God's Spirit in us, convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds in the knowledge of Christ and renewing our will. It's all in vain. But blessed, but happy are we who receive this special grace. Let us pray. Father in heaven, we're th we're thankful that uh you did not leave us to the ways of our own devising. You were kind to us in a way that you're kind to all peoples, but you went beyond that, Lord God And you reached into our darkness, and you caused us to see your favor and your emblems and the things of nature and in our hearts as well. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen.