Are going through a kind of pressure, discouragement, maybe saying it's just not enough time to do anything. Big discouraged this morning about something. Whatever that is, I'd like for you to focus on that in your mind. Think of what it is. It particularly has you most discouraged this morning. So you have that in mind? Now to have that in mind, I'd like you to stand that up against 2 Peter 3. 13. Take a look at that verse. Read there. In keeping with his promise, we're looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. Peter wrote these words to Christians who were suffering persecution, who were undergoing circumstances producing a great deal of discouragement in somewhat And he wrote the first and the second letter to people in that kind of situation. Let's take that verse and put it in its context now and read the first 13 verses as our scriptures are this morning, 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3, then beginning at verse 1. Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you. I've written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to hold some thinking. I want you to recall the words spoken in the past by the Holy Prophets and the command given by our Lord in Savior through your apostles. First of all, you must understand that in the last days stoppers will come stopping and following their own evil device. They will say, where is this coming to be promised? Ever since our fathers died everything goes on as it was Since the beginning of creation. They deliberately forget that long ago, by God's word, the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water and with water. By water also the world of that time which well yeasts can destroy. By the same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. Do not forget this one thing, my friend. For the Lord a day is like a thousand years. And a thousand years are like a day. Fellow is not slow in keeping his promise, but some understand slowness. He's patient with me, not wanting anyone to pay, and everyone to come to repentance But the day of the Lord will come like a feast. The heavens will disappear with a roar. The elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people are you to be? You ought to live holy and godly lives. Because you look forward to the day of God and see this coming. That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire, and the elements will melt in the beast. But in keeping with his promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth. The home of righteousness. I want to take a look at that verse in detail. And I want to divide it into three parts as we look at it. It's too vast to consider all in one week, and so I'm going to take this week and next week to look at this one verse together. I want first of all to take a look at the nature of the hope that we have in this verse. Secondly, I want to look at the basic of the hope. And thirdly, to look at our response to that hope. The vastness of the nature of the hope is so great that I'm going to spend today just looking at that one point. The nature of the hope is presented here in 2 Peter 3. 13 To look with you and explore something of the vastness of that one phrase, a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. What does Peter mean by that? What's he calling us to look at? What is the nature of the hope that the Christian has before us? And so I want to divide that one phrase into three parts. I want to look with you, as you see in the bulletin outline, at the contrast of that new, the word new, the climax of the new, and then the character of the new. The contrast, the climax, and the character. Consider the meaning of this word new that Peter uses you. We're looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth. That word new is the Greek word kinos that you see written there. And I've written out the definition of it so that you could understand a little more clearly exactly what that word is talking about. That word in the Greek means something that is new, something not previously present, therefore something strange, remarkable, or unknown until now. Replacing something old and superior to it. You can understand it by contrast. The word you in the systems are used in contrast with the word old. It's something that is has been recently made and received many of us new things in the past couple of weeks. Present. And those things are new because we didn't have them before. They've been recently constructed. And they were something that uh had just recently been created It seems faster also with the word former in the 16th. In Isaiah 43, God says, first consider the former things, because I'm doing a new thing He confasts the new things that God is going to do with the former things, the things of old, the things of the past. This word new is also contrasted with the word obsolete Did you know that there's planned obsolescence in the Bible? God himself planned obsolescence in his plan of salvation. So take a look at Hebrews chapter 8. You see there that God has said that the Old Testament is obsolete. In Hebrews chapter 8 and verse 8, God says, The time is coming when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah. It's not going to be like that old covenant that he talks about there. And then he goes down to verse 13. The Hebrew 3 says, by calling this covenant new, he's made the first one obsolete And what is obsolete and aging will soon disappear, merely contrasted with what is obsolete Something that is obsolete is about to be discarded because the new model, the vastly improved model, has just arrived. I gave to my wife this Christmas a new French purse Uh it was because the old one was rather falling apart. Well that was obsolete and so we gave it to Dean because he loves to stuff things into it And it'll probably exist for two or three more weeks until he can cram everything he can possibly cram into it. And then it'll be discarded because the new French purse is here and the old one now is falling apart and there's no more use for it after Dean's gotten finished with it. gave said Heather a new doll. The old dolls now obsolete. Blue loves it. He loves to bite the head off and gnaw on it and uh two on it a little bit, he thinks it's a great doll. But uh after a while you see that doll which is obsolete will be old and distorted. It'll be thrown away. There's no more use for it because the new doll has come And that's what God says about the earth. You get that? God saying here that someday in the future you and I may sit upon some mountain or or some range that we can't hardly conceive of now and We'll sit there and we'll think, do you remember that old earth of the sin and the turmoil we used to live in? Remember that old earth that the Lord discarded sometime back? This new earth is just so much better. How wonderful it is that God has made this new earth for us to dwell in. to enjoy and to enjoy him in it. And so God has given to us a new earth that it's not simply a return to the garden. We're not simply going back to the original creation without sin. You see, but what he's promising here is a whole new earth And on earth where his presence is immediate with us, where not only do we not sin, but we don't even have the capacity to sin. There's a whole new order of creation that God has made And that's what he's going to give to us. In fact, it's going to be such a vastly improved model over the obsolete earth that has been discarded, as he describes in verse 10 and 11. That God Himself is not going to be able to improve on the model. Amazing. God himself will not be able to improve on that new earth. It will be the very best design for all eternity and nothing will ever succeed it. Because it he it's the apex of God's creation in his own son. Well, not only do we see something of the meaning of that word in the winning context But to appreciate what verse 13 is referring to here in these new heavens and new earth, you need to see it as a climax, a climax of a number of new things in the scriptures. In fact, all the new things the scripture speaks of are things that come with or in Jesus, who has brought in the new age, sometimes in the scripture called the last days. So to understand this, let's look at the climax of the things that the Lord has given us in this new age. First of all, we have a new covenant. Jesus is the mediator of a new covenant. Remember, the Lord had promised this back in Jeremiah, where in Jeremiah 31 God said, The time is coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant. with the house of Israel. With the house of Judah. And this is the covenant that I'm going to make with them, verse thirty three, after that time. I'm going to put my law on their minds and write it on their hearts. And I will be their God and they'll be my people. Then verse thirty four, I will forgive their wickedness. Thou will remember their sins no more. The old covenant was the law. It was given to Israel And that covenant was broken, as he says in verse 32. The old covenant, this covenant I made with their forefathers, you see, they broke that covenant, even though I was a husband to them, the Lord said And that was the picture to us of how you and I are unable to keep that covenant. We're unable to meet God's standards. The question you see for you and for me is not whether you're religious this morning. And the question is not whether you've come here believing in God. The question is not whether you've come here saying that the Bible's a good book, it's something worth reading, that it's even worthwhile to get up and to go to church on Sunday. The question for you and for me this morning is, have you kept the covenant? Have you kept God's law? Have you kept that standard? And that's the question that every one of us must think back from and answer no. Every one of us stands guilty before the standard of God's old covenant, the law. We all stand before it with our mouths shut. And so God says he established the new covenant. Well, in establishing that new covenant, did he discard the old covenant? Did he ignore it? Did he bypass it? Of course not. That would be bypassing God's own justice The Lord tells us that in fact what he did was that he sent his own sons to fulfill that covenant, to keep it And that is the one who kept that covenant, he then suffered all the curses, the fullness of curse, as if he had broken that covenant at every single point So that you and I who have broken that covenant will be forgiven and given the declaration of innocence, of righteousness, as if you and I had kept that covenant at every single point. Jesus did that for us, and that's why at the night that he instituted the Lord's Supper that we'll celebrate tonight He said in Luke 23, 20, this cup is the new covenant in my blood. Because you see the new covenant was ratified, was established Through the blood of Jesus, suffering the penalty for those who had broken that old covenant, so that you and I could go free. So the question for you and me this morning is, which covenant are you under? Are you under the old covenant, still trying to please God? Still trying to do those things that you hope will earn him his favor or somehow balance the scale with a little more good than bad up on your records? If you do, you'll never make it. Because the old covenant is a covenant of condemnation. We've broken that covenant. The only hope for you and for me is the new covenant. The covenant through Jesus Christ To accept him and his work and what he has done. To accept his blood for you. Give yourself to him. To trust not what you could ever do, but only what he's done for you Because it's because of that new covenant, you see, that God's given us a new name. And that's the second thing you see. Jesus has given us a new name. You see in the Bible the word name, name reveals what a person is. Her name is the person. It reveals their character. And your name tells what you are. That's why in the Bible there's When a person is radically changed, they're often given a new name. We have lots of examples of that. For instance, Abram had his name changed to Abraham And the father of many nations. You have Jacob the Kenizer, who wrestles with God Almighty and as a result of striving with God successfully, God changes his name from Jacob to Israel, he who strives with God. You have Jesus seeing Simon with these vacillating, impetuous Simon. And Jesus says, Simon, I'm going to make you a solid, sturdy character, and so I'm going to change your name to Peter, the rock. Saul , that great persecutor of the church, the one in whom everyone stood in fear because he was Putting to death Christians on every hand. When it came to Jesus Christ's name, we're claimed to Paul. Paul means means the little one, the small one. Because God was going to show his might through little Paul, to the one who he had reduced and humbled before himself, in order to make his name great. God says to you and me, He's given to you a new name. In Isaiah chapter 62, we're told what our name is. In Isaiah 62, God tells us, in verse 2 The nations will see your righteousness, and all cling , to your glory, and you will be called by a new name that the mouth of the Lord will dispel. Now what our name did tells us in verse 4 Up till now your name's been deserted, desolate. But your new name is going to be Hepzabah. Now, I don't know anybody who's ever named a child Heptabah. But even though it's not a popular name in our culture, it's a beautiful name because it means my delight is in him. God says your name is going to be my jalam is in her. Your name is also going to be Yula, which means Mary. Mary to the Lord. He then says in verse 12, this is a couple other names. You're going to be called the holy people. You're going to be called the reviews of the Lord. You're going to be called thought after, a city no longer the burden. What's our new name? God's the Lord from you. That's the new name. That's the name God's given you through Jesus. So in Revelation 2. 17 we read that God has given to us a new name. And in Revelation 22. 4, he tells us the fulfillment of that mean is what? God himself. Revelation 22. 4 says, God's own meaning is going to be on our side. And at that time you and I will be the fullness of his character we see him. So his name is upon us because now we reflect him perfectly. That's because of what Jesus has done in bringing us into that new covenant, making us a new people We've already begun to experience it. This is like first 2 Corinthians 5. 17 tells us that if anyone's in place, he's a new creature, all things have become new, all things have passed away, all things have become new in Ephesians 4. 2413 We put on a new nature. That's reflected in the new name. That new name, which he's given us, is the name that we're going to have in the new Jerusalem. And that's the third new thing that we've seen in the scriptures. God has called us from the old Jerusalem into a new Jerusalem. What is Jerusalem? Jerusalem throughout the scriptures is a picture of the people of God. And so you have a the old Jerusalem, the physical Jerusalem, the people of God in the Old Covenant, the people of God, uh his Old Testament, Israel. What is then the new Jerusalem? That could be no doubt. The new Jerusalem is the spiritual people of God, the church God's people who are his people of the new society that he has created in Jesus Christ. And so God has put us into this new society which he put to this city The New Jerusalem, as Galatians in Hebrews tells us. What's going to happen to that new Jerusalem? Well you read in Revelation 21 and verse 2, John says, I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem These are the people of God now, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. Verse 10 and 11. He carried me away in the spiritual mountain, great and high, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. And it's still with the glory of God Himself. The growth looked like that of a very classic viewer, of a gasp of fear Then he goes on to describe in verses to the end of that chapter the magnificence of the glory of that New Jerusalem Trying to give to you and me in some way that our minds can begin to grasp by picturing all the precious stones and the jewels and the gold and the crystals of what it's like to be the glorified people of God As we through the various facets of our character will reflect his goodness, his holiness. We are the new Jerusalem But you know, Jesus' work on the cross was so radical. It took the foundations of heaven and earth to such an extent It even to describe it as a new covenant, to give us a new name and to talk about a new Jerusalem as insurance. Because what the Bible is saying here in 2 Peter 3 13 is what Jesus accomplished on the cross was to bring in a new heaven. And a new one. A whole new cosmic reality. Isaiah began to foretell this. You have it, for instance, in Isaiah chapter 65. In Isaiah 65, 17, Isaiah promised, Behold, I will create new heaven and a new earth. The former things will not be remembered, nor will they even come to mind. Talks about the nature of that heavens and earth. Equestions says in verse 25 that in that place and that new heavens and earth the wolf and the lamb will feed together. The lion will eat straw like an ox Thus will be the circumstances, and they will neither harm nor destroy in all my holy lands. The question to you and to me is, when is that going to be? And then he is describing the messianic ease. When is this going to be fulfilled? Is this something that has already come upon us? He associates this with the coming of the Messiah. Has it already come? Is there some sense in which this is already fulfilled and we just don't see it? What is the fulfillment of that? We're now in the new covenant. Although the new covenant hasn't yet been completed. We have a new name. Even though that new name has not yet fully been revealed, we are the new Jerusalem, even though that new Jerusalem has not yet been fully glorified, as we see in Revelation. What about then the new heavens and the new earth? Oh, he believes with him no doubt about this. See, that's the point of his work. What's he say? 2 Peter 3. 13 In keeping with his promise, we're still looking forward to that new heaven and that new earth, the home of righteousness. It hasn't come in its fullness yet That new heavens and that new earth that Peter has promised is something that you and I are still awaiting. We're still looking forward to. So Revelation 21. 1 tells us Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away And there's no longer any tree. C and a 60 system is a picture of ordeal and trial. There's no more trial. There's no more ordeal anymore. And so this new heaven and this new earth are so radical that as I've written in the bulletin so that you could crystallize within your senses. It's impossible for you and for me to conceive of a more radical transformation of existing reality and still have a conscious continuity of identity. Any say what that's saying? This new heavens and this new earth are going to be so radically new that the scripture labors language in order to Frive to help us to understand you can't conceive of anything more radically new and still be you in that new reality You see, because when the new heavens and the new earth come, you're still going to be you. And I'm still going to be me. Transformed, but we're still going to have our own personality and our own identity. And yet, in a way that we can't begin to understand now, the transformation is going to be so radical that all old things are going to pass away, all new things are going to come It's going to be totally remade. This earth is going to pass away. And it's going to be a newer. But you and I are still going to be us to enjoy it. Isn't that amazing? Well, how can you conceive of any better needs for that than for those who tell you you're going to be in a whole new created reality? You're going to be an Alice in Wonderland. You're going to transform into a whole new wonderland of God's creation. But you're still going to be you in order to enjoy that. You're not going to give up your identity. Be transformed into something with no continuity. The Jesus is going to transform you and you and sit up to that new heavy God. What a message to a new year. What a hope that you can have in order to stack up against the discouragement that may be bothering you this morning. What then is the character of that newness? Is it so radically new? And if it's so transforming And yet you and I are still going to continue to exist with our own consciousness and our own identity and our own personality in that. What is the nature of the newness? So the third point, is that the character of that newness The character of that meeting is righteousness. And now maybe you say to yourself, uh, well, you know, you had to go in there for a few minutes. You want to think of how wonderful it would be to be in all that new heavens and that new earth and the whole new cosmic reality of what God's trying to build and what he's trying to construct and transform. And now you tell me that the only thing new is going to be racist. Hey, so they're declinating, you know? Why is that? Because you and I have not understood what righteousness is To Peter when he wrote this, we're looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of lifelessness. Peter got excited when he did that. He said, that's the most fantastic kind of new heaven and earth I can conceive of. But you and I have so limited our understanding of righteousness. We've made it so religious that it doesn't excite us. Why is that so wonderful? To have a new heavens and a new earth of righteousness. For three reasons. Number one, because it means that it's if it's going to be a whole new reality that's going to be ruled by a righteous king It's going to be ruled by a righteous king. The administration's going to be righteous. You see, the one who needs all of this is going to be a righteous president. No, not president, but king, sovereign, lord. Over 70 times in the Psalm, God tells us that He's a righteous God. You have, for instance, Psalm 97 , verse 1 and 2. For God says, the Lord reigns. Let the earth be glad. Let the distant showers rejoice. Why? Because clouds and thick darkness surround him, righteousness and justice are the very foundation of his land. That's the one who's going to rule this new heaven and this new earth. It's going to be a perfect administration of justice and mercy. Everything's going to be done for the good of the people. And there's not going to be anyone insecure in this rule. You have secondly that this is not only going to be administered in justice, everything's going to be fair But it's also going to be inhabited only by justified people. So they're new society. The only people going to live there are those who are wearing the robe of the righteousness of Jesus. You don't get there by good works You don't get into this society by trying. You get there by trusting. And trusting Jesus alone. The only people going to be in there are not simply good people, but the forgiven people They're people who have been forgiven through the blood of Jesus Christ and they're righteous because Jesus is righteous and is given in his place. But not only are they justified people, but finally the third thing About this new heavens and new earth. This is going to be a place where there is no sin or the effects of sin, even present. No sin or even the effects of sin, even present in this place. What do you think? When you think of righteousness? You think of a new heavens and a new earth of righteousness previously. It sounds like to you One infinitely long church service. Now it's uh one interminable Bible study and prayer meeting I think a lot of Christians have this idea that I'm sure heaven's going to be a nice place. It's going to be full of all kinds of good, clean living, but I'm not sure there's going to be a whole lot of spice and diversity there In fact, when I'm really honest with myself, it's it's hard to wonder how it's not going to become rather boring after a while. I mean, I really get caught up in worshiping the Lord. Don't get me wrong. I I love to have Bible studies. Oh, I'm the first one to a good prayer meeting. But to think of this doing that and nothing else , it 's that righteousness and that's heaven it it's hard to think that I won't miss some of the sights of the things that I enjoy real life. The problem is, you see, that you and I have restricted the word righteousness to mean something religious. The word righteous simply means to do something God's way. And if you can expand your mind to think of righteousness in those terms that righteousness is to do it God's way That means you're going to have a whole new heaven and earth in which everything is done God's way. That's what it means. That means that worship is going to be done God's way Not with boredom, not with conflict, not with struggling against distraction. It means that politics will be done God's way It means that science will be done God's way. Creativity will be unleashed and unhampered by sinful motives and desires. All the potential of creativity that God has given to those made in his image will be unleashed in his fullness. It means that the art will be done God's way. And the arts with all their unleashed creativity and their fullness will reflect the imagination and the diversity of an infinitely complex God You enjoy art now. You enjoy music now. Imagine what that's going to be like with all of the unleashed creativity of the new heavens and the new world. Culture is going to be done God's way. Games are going to be played God's way. All that we do and enjoy and are. The very highest, loftiest, most sanctified thoughts and aspirations you ever have will be fulfilled beyond your wildest dreams. Because it's going to be a society from God's love. And a society in which we are incapable of fouling it up because the Lord is confirming us with that one success. Uh is it any wonder why the Bible says it is saying a new file Is it any wonder when we consider, as you read Isaiah 11, it says that we're going to dwell in a perfect security, a child is going to be able to play with a cobra? We dwell in a society where he says in Revelation John says, nothing that corrupts or lies or defiles will ever get through the game. For God Himself will wipe away all fear, where all things will be pure and clean and our relationship together will never need forgiveness because all that we do together will be loving. Is it any wonder when you consider that in that earth there's not going to be any more depressive? You'll never again be discouraged You'll never again be bored. Never again will you be full of self-pity and centering on your own concerns Never again will you or I ever take anyone for granted or be taken for granted. Never again will there ever be any bickering, even among brothers and sisters Never again will you and I ever suffer the consequences of our sins, those things that we still struggle with now. Is it any wonder Did we sing the Psalm ninety-six tells us a new psalm for the Lord? Psalm ninety-six did this Sing to the Lord a new fall. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord, praise his name and proclaim a salvation day after day. declares his glory among the nations and his marvelous deeds among all people. The members of the new covenant. We received the new names. With a new Jerusalem and the citizens of a new heaven and a new earth, the home of our people. Now what was that problem that you brought in this morning It 's a fact up against 2 Peter 313. What does it mean for you to look at that problem and that discouragement in the light of that roof? You and I are people who are listening for the tempest. We're listening for the voice of the archangel that's going to call us at any moment into that new heaven and that new earth that is righteousness. It could be this week. It could be before the end of 1981 that you and I will be in that new heaven with that new earth. Are you ready for that? Are you ready for that hope? Do you have the confidence when that trumpet sounds, Jesus comes, this is going to be part of that new heading and that new world? Revelation 22 , the very end of the Bible, where God has just said outside of this new heavens and the earth is evolved Those who practice magic arts, the sexually immorals, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehoods, none shall be in this new heavens in the new earth The very next verse he says, I Jesus have sent my angel to give to you this testimony for the churches. I'm the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning stars, and the Spirit and the bright son. Let him who be come. We come this morning with our Father Jesus Christ. If you don't have confidence, if you're part of that new heaven and that new world, where any righteousness. And to all of you I say, wherever you are in your relationship in Jesus Christ Whether you trusted him or not, you need to be reminded by this first. This praise for the new heavens and the new earth of this earth is very temporary. This earth earth doesn't have long to land. Peter tells us that before You have said about the new heavens and the new earth in verse ten and eleven. The day of the Lord is going to come like a sea. The heavens will disappear with a roar. Can you imagine what that's going to be like? The elements are going to be destroyed by fire. The very elements themselves are going to be broken down. And the earth and everything in it will be laid bare or burned up And since everything that you see, everything that you and I are part of right now is going to be destroyed in this way, what kind of people are you to be? That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire. And the elements will never be released. Our food, for you and for me, to set my heart from the things in this world. My home is going to be burned up. Everything that I have and possess is going to be melted and dissolved and explored. All of Columbia, all of the things about you, is like something, right? You and I look at this earth as our home. We have all of our hearts fastened on this , we are all for this point. 'Cause it's so temporary. Peter says, So soon is just going to be destroyed. And he says, When I say soon you say, Oh come on, it's been two thousand years, Peter says don't be deceived. That's just a sign of God's patience. It will be very soon. Perhaps before the end of 1981, all of this will be destroyed. And do and I, who are trusted Jesus Christ, will be citizens of a new heaven, a whole new earth, to which there's nothing but doing it God's will. Oh là là. How are we going to be to this point at the beginning of this year? Lord, as we look about it But national, international, personal, family discouragements, things that overwhelm us, things that discourage us. To say that you would lift up our eyes , see the promise of your coming, to see that what we hope for is that we have and not your earth. Father, is there somebody here that's particularly discouraged this morning? Pray that you would help them to see that that discouragement is God. To the need of moving us from the false promises and illusions of this world. And what you have laid out for us is the promise of illusion.