January ninth, nineteen ninety-two, I was driving north on Tyndall Schooling Road just north of three thirty-two. There was a light rain falling. And just as I was coming past Route 32, the Mazda RX 7 that was coming toward me spun out of control. 360 a few times and the car right in front of me panicked. The mother in that car slammed on her brakes and slammed right into the back of the Mazda hard It was twisted metal and broken glass. And in a moment there were the cries of children who were heard in the car. As I was driving Along my mind had been filled with the usual preoccupations and minor immediate concerns, and I'll tell you everything was driven from my mind in that moment. When I pull over to the side of the road to see how bad things were. In a moment of tragedy, everything gets driven from our minds, doesn't it? Our minds are so filled with preoccupations and daily concerns, the bills, the chores, minor hurts and irritations. And then all of a sudden If something major happens, like that accident that I witnessed, where something of personal pain in our lives, physically, or relationship All of a sudden, the things that seemed to be such big concerns yesterday, we can't even bother to focus on now, can we? When that happened Inevitably, our minds moves to larger issues. Why me? Why now? Why this? Does God care about me? What's he trying to do to me? Does he have a purpose for my life? What am I supposed to learn about from this? How can I cope with this? All those concerns, those bigger issues of life. Are forced upon us. And at that point, when each of us are in that kind of a situation, I believe that we have a choice. The choice is to either complain About the situation in which our souls shrivel, we become smaller, we become cynical, we become bitter, and we generally learn nothing from it. Or we can be humbled by the situation. We can realize how dependent we are upon a sovereign God who's in control. of our lives. And then we can go to his word to ask, Lord, help me to understand this situation. Give me your interpretation. interpretation in a situation that I can identify with so that I can make sense out of this and I can understand both what might be your purpose for me as well as how I should I'll tell you that's been the case in my life in this last year. On September 30th, I was at a meeting for our home missions committee. I came back to our home, the home where my mother lives, and there were paramedics and ambulances there. I went inside and she was on the floor and things were okay, but later that night she fell again and she broke her hip. And life hasn't been the same since. For a while I was I was living in two cities here in Philadelphia, and then on October 27th, when my mother's therapy was regressing, they found out that she had a brain tumor. Untreated that brain tumor has a median life expectancy, people with that, of 16 weeks. With the kind of treatment that she's getting, there's the possible extra Expectation or at least the median expectation for people across the board is thirty-six to forty weeks of life. In my mother's case, with her age and her health, they would expect less than And in the situation that I've been in, it's been kind of a hard, quick crash course on love and death. And I know that for many of you, we've been in difficult situations in this past year. Situations of pain. Situations that you wouldn't have chosen. Situations that you're maybe finding it hard to cope with and understand what God's purpose for you is to know. Well for me, a passage of scripture that's been particularly helpful for me has been Psalm 102. Psalm 102 is a place that I've gone because there's a man in Psalm 102 whose life has been turned upside down. We don't know what the situation was. It caused him such trouble and grief. We know it was very painful, and I believe God's left it purposely unnamed so that you and I can better identify with it because if we knew that the particulars were different from our own, we wouldn't identify so closely. But we can read Psalm 102 and in many of our our cases we can read s our own situation uh in the lines of that psalm and get help because we see there how one person By the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, brought his pain to God, got understanding about it, and got hope and help to cope with it. So I want to look at this psalm with you. Read it and go through it with some observations as we go through it. And I'm going to do it under six headings. Six seeds, okay, to help you to uh perhaps remember when you look at Psalm one hundred and two to remember the flow of the thought as we go through it. The first is the cry of the psalmist, and you see that in verses 1 and 2. It's a cry of anguish. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Let my cry for help come to you. Do not hide your face from me when I am in distress. Turn your ear to me when I call. Answer me quickly. Notice that immediately he cries. to the Lord. He's not just complaining to an indifferent universe. Just a couple of weeks ago the a cover issue on Time magazine for Christmas was what does Science tell us about God? How many of you have read that article? Very interesting. Just a couple few. Very interesting. The article indicates That modern man is vaguely religious, and in many cases, wants some assurance that there really is a God who has given some sort of purpose And meaning to the universe. And then it talks about evidence for and against that. And some of the uh latest discoveries of astrophysics and things that are going on in the universe, uh which uh Doug and others could explain to you far better than I. But what's interesting about the article is that it's It basically says he can interpret it either way. If you presuppose that there is an impersonal universe with no God, you can support that from the Data, if you understand there is a personal God who made it, you can also find lots of evidence in the latest discoveries for that, too. Interestingly, the article concludes by saying That a hundred, fifty, or a hundred years ago, it would have seemed very unlikely that the coming breakthroughs in science, particularly in aspect , physics would have supported the idea of a personal God as the Bible talks of. But it says in fact that is the case. It acknowledges. That there's a good deal of evidence for the kind of God that the Bible talks about. Pity the person who in a time of tragedy In a time of anguish and pain , has no one to cry out to, who in that moment is like a senile old man slobbering and muttering But you notice that the psalmist assumes that there is a God who hears The psalmist never for a moment questions whether anyone hears or cares. He simply cries out, Hear my prayer, O Lord! Let my cry for help come to you. He doesn't live in an impersonal universe. The scripture is clear about that for you and for me. Do not hide your face from me. It may seem as At times, like there is no God to hear us. The psalmist says that that seeming is the hiding of God's face. Do not hide your face from me. When I am in distress. Turn your ear to me when I call and answer me quickly. Then secondly, he pours out his complaint, the complaint. Now notice how you can take many of your experiences and in verses three to ten you can line them up with that. And you can say, Well Maybe he had the same kind of experience I've had. Look what he says. For my days vanish like smoke, my bones burn like glowing embers. My heart is blighted and withered like grass. I forget to eat my food. Because of my loud groaning, I'm reduced to skin I'm like a desert owl, like an owl among the ruins. I lie awake. I have become like a bird alone on a roof. All day long my enemies taunt me. Those who rail against me use my name as a curse, for I eat ashes as my food, and I mingle my drink with tears. Because of your great wrath, for you've taken me up and you've thrown me aside. Saying, seems God like you could care less about my situation. The one thing I want you to not miss as you read these verses is notice how honest the psalmist is. Would you dare to be that honest with God in your pain? You know, it takes a certain amount of intimacy to be that honest with God. And for many of us, we'd rather pretend that things are okay. It's no big deal. I can handle it. And we somehow try to hide The fact that there seems to be a tremendous tension between our pain and the fact that the God of the Bible exists. And so because for many of us we have been led Led to believe that if you're a Christian walking with the Lord, you really shouldn't have a great deal of pain. to Things should go generally pretty smoothly, and things should go okay, and you should be generally happy. You should live the good life. You have all these blessings to claim. Then when we find that there's pain and that God doesn't answer our prayers in the time or in the way that we think that he should to relieve us, then it's very hard for us to simply honestly acknowledge that, isn't it? To be as honest as As the psalmist and say, I'm hurting. I forget to eat. My bones are withering up. And God, it doesn't seem like you give a lick. It seems like you picked me up and It's thrown me aside like a piece of trash. There's an intimacy in that, isn't there? I mean, here's a person who is who is close to his God and is saying, What's What's going on here? I don't understand it. And in that very cry, there is the expression of a longing after God. So , you've no doubt heard before, but be reminded again, brothers and sisters, when you and I are in that kind of pain, it's good to express it to God. Not flippantly, not disrespectfully, not arrogantly, but to before God honestly cry out his honest as we can about the bitterness of our hearts. Now notice also that when he does that, that he is not grumbling, but rather he's being humble. There's a difference. You see, grumbling is focusing on myself. It's the self-pity that says, why do I have to put up with this that produces Is a bitterness and a cynicism. There's no insight that's gained from that. And I find that I then distance myself from God. I turn from Him. And my soul shrivels up. What the psalmist does, and what scripture teaches us to do, is to be humbled in these circumstances. To recognize that we are absolutely dependent on God, that we are so small and frail. And then to come to Him honestly and seek some sort of insight. To go to his word and say, what is it? To see his hand directly in our lives. You see again verse 10. Why am I suffering all this? Because of your great wrath. For you've taken me up and thrown me aside. This didn't just happen. You weren't looking the other way. Sometimes Christians say When bad things happen to Christians, it's God just sort of permitting that, you know, and God is not really involved in that. But we can't allow that. The psalmist says You are involved in this. And it seems like you've been the one that's picked me up and in your wrath thrown me aside. And I can't dismiss that. I can't facily escape That and say, well, somehow God was looking the other way when this happened to him. But then he goes to God and it comes With this cla uh with this uh complaint, the third thing is he he brings this all to a climax. The climax of the complaint. See all these things he says that I'm hurt hurting about. What this really focuses me on is verse 11, that my days are like the evening shadow, and I wither away. Like grass. You see, the real problem is not just that life is full of pain and sorrow. The real problem is that life is so brief, isn't it? There's so little hope to just simply get beyond it and think, well, you know, once I get beyond this, I'll have a few thousand years of good times. My life is so short and it seems like it is consumed with the particular problems that may go on in my life for years, may dominate the years My days are like the evening's shadow. It's growing longer quickly. Just looking at the shadow uh just this week. was rising up on a house and noticing in the lengthening afternoon, I looked and the shadow was uh just above the first story and just five minutes later the sh We've gone all the way to the top of the house. Evening shadows at this time of year move very quickly. My days are like the evening shadow. And I wither away like grass. And I sit and I look at my mom. And I remember that my mom was once my age. I remember her as a young woman when I was a little kid. She was a very active person. Used to work a full time job, come home on our lunch hour, and do a couple loads of laundry. Make me lunch and get me back to school and then go back to work. Now she can't even stand up. She can't see very well. Her backaches. And she says from time to time, How did I get like this? She can't remember what day it is. Usually. Oftentimes she doesn't know whether it's morning or evening. Usually she thinks whatever it is, she thinks it's the other. She takes her teeth out in the morning because she thinks it's evening. And she looks for breakfast at five o'clock in the afternoon. How did I get there? As I look at her, I'm reminded My life's only a few heartbeats behind the mouth. My days are like a new shadow. The real problem, the song says is that I only have a very limited number of heartbeats today. Ever stop to think that you could actually number the heartbeats of your life? I mean I don't know how many any great number, but it's a very definite and finite number. You and I don't go on forever. We've just finished 1992. You say, eh, I remember the same kind of a message last year. You know, it seems like this guy's always talking about just a year ago. Nineteen ninety-two 's gone. It's already the third day of nineteen ninety two And life moves on so quickly. You know, just this year I sent uh to a friend of mine that I haven't seen since the nineteen seventies. Sent him a Christmas card and included a picture of our family in it. The one taken at that uh twenty fifth anniversary. And he remembers when I was just recently married. Last time he seen Heather, she was seven years old, Julie was four, and Dean wasn't even in the plans. And he wrote back and he said, I was shocked to see your family. He said it reminded me me how you look at our kids and their babies and we blink and all of a sudden they're grown. Life goes on so quickly. It really took him back. He just he went on. Several lines talking about the impact, just seeing our family. You ever see that? See somebody you haven't seen for a while, see the pictures? Where all of a sudden you realize how the The years are moving on so swiftly. And that becomes the focus of this psalm, which is the fourth point, the contrast. You see, when he what all All this pain does is it gets his attention and focuses him on the big issue. And the big issue is: my life's so brief, but you, oh God , Have no beginning and no end. And it's the contrast that forces his mind to grasp with all this pain. You see, he says, look at this Look at the number of times he calls attention to that. Verse three My days vanish like smoke. Verse eleven. My days are like the evening shadow, and I wither away Verse 20. I hear the groans of the prisoners and release those condemned to death. Verse 23. Broke my strength, he cut short my days. Verse 25 and 26. In the beginning you laid the foundations of the earth, not just me now. But all creation. The heavens are the work of your hands, and they will perish. They will all wear out like a garment. Like clothing you will change them, and they will be discarded. Not only is my life brief, but he says, and come Contrast with God, the whole existence of the universe as we know it is brief. For God, he says, verse 12, You, O Lord. Sit enthroned forever. Your renown endures through all generations. Verse 18: Let this be written for a future generation. Of the people not yet created may praise the Lord. Verse 24. So I said, Do not take me away, O my God, in the midst of my days. For your years go on through all generations. In the beginning, you laid the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you will remain. They will all wear out like a garment, like clothing, you'll change them, and they'll be discarded, but you remain the same. And you will Your years will never end. Just about three weeks ago, a neighbor across the street Who had been battling cancer for nearly two years died. I remember the day that my neighbor Bill came across from the the street and I was uh it was a spring day and I was just turning over the soil in my garden and he came over to tell me uh Last week my dad died, and today I found out my wife has cancer. We had never prayed together before. We'd never we'd never been very easy about talking about spiritual things, but I'll tell you he was willing to pray that day. And he's told me he's prayed a lot since that time. Now God's taken his wife He's a hurting man. I noticed all the people that were involved as we went to the viewing and the family surrounding those days when Charlotte died. All very uneasy talking about death. Death is not natural. It's ugly. Death is Is an intrusion into how God created us to be. And as we've wrestled with that, I've seen the uncomfortableness we as people have it. Because it is something deeply disturbing to the system. But we look at that and we're reminded that God lives forever. The God that we come to in our pain is a God who has no beginning and has no end. In Him In him there is life. He is life. There is no death in him. And so the psalmist then With the straining of that contrast, reminds himself of the covenant. And that's the fifth point. He remembers the covenant. You see, the covenant God made with his people was to deliver them out of their deepest need. And that's what he expresses in verses 13 to 22. See, verse 11 he says, My days are like the evening shadow, and my Ninety-two's shot. Ninety-three. It's gonna move along just as quick or psychologically as I say as we go older quicker. But you, O Lord , enthroned forever. Your renown endures through all generations. You will arise and have compassion on Zion because of the covenant he made. For it is time to show favor to her. The appointed time has come. For her stones are dear to your servants. Her very dust moves them to pity. Nations will fear the name of the Lord. All the kings of the earth will revere your glory. For the Lord will rebuild Zion and appear In his glory. He will respond to the prayer of the destitute. He will not despise their plea. Let this be written for a future generation. People not yet created may praise the Lord. The Lord looked down from his sanctuary on high. From heaven he viewed the earth to hear the groans of the prisoners and to release those condemned Condemned to death. And so the name of the Lord will be declared in Zion. And his praise in Jerusalem when the peoples and the kingdoms assemble to worship. Lord. It may be that the trouble had to do with a judgment upon Jerusalem and upon Zion in Jerusalem. Upon the people of God. And he was participating in this. But basically he's saying, God, you will remember your covenant. You will not abandon your people. You will bring us back. You will restore us You won't despise our plea. And so whether it is a personal pain or whether it's the corporate pain of the Church of Jesus Christ in our day, the psalmist says, God, you remember. Remember your people. You will not forget us. So, because of that, he looks to the Lord and he looks in confidence. Because God has remembered his covenant. And how has he done that? It's brought together in the conclusion. Look how he brings together after stating this, God, you will remember the prayers of your people. You will not ignore us. And then he goes back, as we read just before, in verses 23, 24. Four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, this contrast. We are so brief. You are the eternal one. You are the one who's going to take the heavens and the earth, and they're going to be like a change of clothes. You're going to say, Well, this is what I've made, but you're going to take them off like a garment. You're going to put on a new garment. A new change is coming. And that's brought together in the conclusion. Now, obviously the sixth seed makes sense, right? is the conclusion. In verse 28, the children of your servants will live in your presence. Their descendants will be established before you. Here's where he then brings the eternal life of God and our problem. Of the brevity of our lives together because of the covenant of grace. You see, because of that covenant, God who was the God of the Eternity made himself at Christmas to be the God of time. The God who was restricted to time. God born in time, in a human body, that also was subject to the brevity of life, to the curse of sin. And because Jesus came as a human being born in time, in the fullness of time, in our circumstances, with our pain, With our suffering. Jesus was eligible to walk with God and to fulfill the law of the covenant that God had made. And having been eligible, he He was able to stand before God, and when God said, The judgment of death comes upon Alan Harris for his sins, Jesus said, I stand in Alan 's place. Bring that Curse upon me, so that he may live forever. The amazing thing, brother and sister, about this psalm is that in verse 28 The psalmist knows nothing of the resurrections. He doesn't know how this is going to be done, but you notice he just simply affirms, verse 28, the children of your servants will live in your presence. Their descendants will be established before you. And so he says, We will what? We will live. We will be established. Because Jesus rose from the dead. Because on the third day Jesus walked out of that tomb. And he had conquered death, because he had paid the penalty of sin. Your sin In my sin. And because of that, Jesus' resurrected body was a body not subject to death. And because when you You and I are joined to him in faith and we trust him. And we're reduced by our pain to a sense of helplessness and need, and we are humbled by that, not to grumble and to complain to an impersonation. But to cry out to God who hears and fulfills his covenant. We come to him in the name of Jesus Christ and we cleave to him and God says, I see you in my sight. My son who has a resurrected body, you in him will live and you will be established. And where is it that we live? You see in verse 28. In your presence. Where will we live? Before you. That time when God Himself, the final book says, will wipe away every tear from your heart. We don't know the nature of the comfort now. It's just the first fruits of the Spirit. There will be that day, brothers and sisters. Jesus Christ will take us to himself. God will wipe away every tear. He will draw you to himself. And he will put us arms around him. Call you his beloved. This evening as we come to take the Lord's Supper, we're going to have opportunity to share how How we've seen God teaching us and showing us his faithfulness and lessons that he's taught us through 1992. Annual times we've taken. See Linda Carner up there. Well maybe Linda will be able to share something. Good to have you with us, Linda. But to be able to not to put any pressure on you. But to have some time to share together there and then Also to perhaps be able to share some of our anticipation and hopes of what God's going to be doing in our lives in nineteen ninety-three and to pray for one another. Because we're a people of hope. We're a people who, in the midst of whatever pain, can go to a psalm like 102, and we can say, This is what God reveals to me, is the final Statement and interpretation of this. You and I will live in his presence, and our descendants will be established. Before Him. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we thank you so much for this And perhaps even Lord, some of us are somewhat surprised that your word can be so very honest and frank about the pain that we feel that sometimes we feel we're very aloney. Lord, we confess self-pity isolates us. And when we begin to look at our problems , those things that have disappointed us, the things we feel we can't cope with, we feels sometimes like no one else can really understand. And we're isolated. Lord, we see how this song we Rebukes us in that. He calls us to a greater intimacy and honesty before you. To cry out to you. But in that crying out to you to then move toward you and to your word to say, Lord, speak to me. I don't want to just shout to you, speak back, and then to go to your word and see Verses like these, what interpretation you place on our pain. You who are the eternal one. We worship you, we who are creatures of such brief lifespan, as the one who had no beginning. One who will never end. But because of Jesus, you have given to us life that will never end. And in the light of that, Lord, what is the suffering that we go through now? Lord, help us each in this quiet moment to bring the light For you, the pain of this past year, to come before you that we might have the hope of the gospel placed in our hearts by your spirit We come to commit to you this new year. In whatever joys and disappointments, to be humbled by those trials that we will endure. That we might remember that we are but very brief creatures. But you, the Eternal One, have given to us a hope beyond 1993. We commit ourselves to you now, Lord, to live in the life Light of that eternal hope. Lord, show us your sufficiency. You've heard our prayers. We've brought ourselves to you now. And according to the grace you've given and the honesty with which we have come. We expect to see you answer. Because that's what will honor Jesus. The fact that you hear your people. And that you answer in Jesus' name. Amen.