And now this week, Hebrews chapter 12, verses 28 and 29. When you get together for Thanksgiving Maybe uh this uh Thursday with friends, family, you go around, you begin to share what you're thankful for. What are the things that first come to mind that you begin to talk about? I generally find as we do that that people, first of all, will reflect the things that are immediately obvious to them. The feeling of being in a warm home, having a nice place to live, the fact that um We have a degree of personal and national prosperity that we're going through now, not for everyone certainly, but for many people. for the families that we have, thankful for my parents, thankful for our kids, sisters and brothers and people that, you know All things said on the balance, you're thankful for them, right, kids? And uh, you know, no, don't think so. Not everybody agrees with that statement. But for the most part there is the sense that these people are blessings in our lives. Maybe be thankful for your cell or small group, those people that are close to you People will reflect on health. I'm glad, you know, often you'll hear in testimony times that went through some difficulties this year, and God has given me recovery I'm thankful for some surgical procedure that gave me relief in something or that I've enjoyed good health. Uh you know, just this last uh a week ago You know, we take our health for granted. And I had for the first time in my life an allergic reaction to food. I had an allergic reaction to a bowl of weekina of all things And for the next half hour I felt like I was gonna die. You know, I mean it felt like everything in me just wanted to explode out. You know, and I won't go into graphic detail for you, but spare you that. Nevertheless, let it simply be said that for a while uh there was nothing else I could think of except trying to breathe and to try and get this stuff out of my system to restore some sense of normalcy. But the other thing that really occurred to me was that after that half hour, as I was driving to the next thing I was going to, I felt so great. I mean I didn't feel anything different from the hour before, but I was now all of a sudden so thankful for how good I felt. And you know, and for many of us, there is that when there's the loss of health or the loss of feeling good for a while, you're you're very thankful after that, aren't you, that you feel good Well, these are the kinds of things that we think about when we are giving thanks to God. Then somewhere along the line, somebody will say something about how I'm thankful for Jesus I'm thankful for his salvation, I'm thankful for the hope of heaven, or things like that. And then the rest of us feel mildly guilty that we were crass materialists and nobody else thought of that first And so then we yeah, oh yeah, yeah, oh amen. You know, and there's the sober nodding and agreeing that, yeah, that's really the best thing, aren't we really glad for that? But you know, it's not often the first thing in many groups, and I'm talking about Christian groups, testimony groups, uh, that we hear Now my purpose is not to chastise us for that. My purpose is rather to draw our attention as we go into Thanksgiving this year to two verses at the end of Hebrews chapter 12 That I suggest for your meditation this week to not only understand it, but to believe it. And if you believe it That I believe it will make a difference in our thanksgiving. I think for us as Christians, when we look at these verses, I'm not sure that they mean to us what Hebrews intends that they mean to us. So let me suggest right now that you use the meditation this week, even if you don't often use that that accompanies the sermon outline. to help you in actually internalizing these verses. Well, what are the verses? Hebrews chapter 12, verses 28 and 29. This is what God says to us Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful, and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. This is what I considered the biblical bottom line to thanksgiving. It is the only thing that you and I have that cannot be shaken. We are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. The kingdom of God that cannot be shaken, and therefore we are thankful. Every other blessing you have in this world is shakable. Every other blessing that you enjoy right now could be gone tomorrow The stock market could crash and not recover. And some of us may think, oh, after the experience of a couple of weeks ago, we're even more confident That's unshakable. And how illusory is such a confidence. We think that our prosperity is fairly reliable. And don't realize how shakeable it is. The whole insurance industry in our country is designed to help us to be able to count on certain things. So that we can look and we can say, well, I can insure my home, I can insure my health, or I can insure for the college, for retirement, investments for retirement, uh all these kinds of things. They're designed so that there is a degree of of predictability of here's something I don't have to worry about And that's fine. I am I have nothing against that. I have insurance myself, and I think that is a way of providing that God gives to us. But if we look at that As a means of making our lives unshakable. We're simply deceiving ourselves Your friends could turn on you. Your family could turn on you. Your spouse could leave some point. You could find out that your spouse was unfaithful at some point. Your health could be gone All of these things that we count on and for which we are rightly thankful are all so very shakeable. And so, in the light of that, this verse comes to you and me. You see, in contrast, we are receiving, we have something that is utterly unshakable. And it is the kingdom of God through Jesus Christ. The more you and I are tied to shakeable things Then if those things are shaken and removed, the more our lives Are shaken, and the more our faith is shaken, and the more our relationship with God through Jesus Christ is shaken There is only one thing that you have that is unshakable. It is the inheritance that you have in the kingdom of God, of which Jesus Christ, your Lord and Savior, is the head. That is the only thing in your life that is unshakable. And the more your heart is tied to Him and to that kingdom, the more unshakable is your life. The more unshakable is your sense of gratitude and your sense of well-being. Now, this Kingdom, what we are receiving, you see that first thing under the point one is a kingdom that cannot be shaken. If you haven't gotten it by now, let me spell it out for you. That's what that's saying. Alright? What we are receiving is a kingdom. that cannot be shaken. And that's why we are thankful. This is in contrast then to what can be shaken. First of all then, what can be shaken? What is it that is shakable? Well, we don't have to guess. We are told in verse 27. The words once more indicate the removing of what can be shaken. That is created things, so that that which cannot be shaken may remain. So, two blanks. Created things. What can be shaken is equal to everything that is created in this world. Everything in this world is impermanent and is temporary. Anything that you set your heart on that is created in this world is a false security, ultimately. Hebrews begins in chapter 1, reminding us of the impermanence of this world. Hebrews chapter 1. Quoting from Psalm 102, verses 25 to 27, he says, In the beginning, O Lord, you laid the foundations of the earth. God created these things, foundations of the earth and the heavens are the work of your hands, all right? Everything that is created, earth, heavens, stars, galaxies. They will perish, but you remain. They will all wear out like a garment. You will wear them up like a robe, and like a garment they will be changed. But you remain the same, and your years never end. He's saying that the world, you look at this world, the mountains. The streams, the lakes, our homes, our cars, our neighborhood, the state of Maryland The United States, the continent, this whole world, Mars, Jupiter, our entire solar system, the sun, the stars outside our solar system, within our galaxy. all the rest of the galaxies. And what does this say? God says they're like an old t-shirt which you roll up when it's finished and you dust with it for a little while and then you throw out. That's the universe, God says. That is created things. Gone, and he will make a new heavens and a new earth from this that is utterly unshakable Now think about that for a minute. God warns you and me in this passage that everything we see here is shakable. Those things which you are tempted at times To sell your soul for, to screw up your priorities for, to just, you know, in any way, I've gotta have it. You know, you see that uh slogan in advertising, gotta have it God says, those things, you tie your heart to them, they're going to be gone. All of them. He warns us about that three times about How shakeable this world is. First warning he gives to us here is that from Sinai. That's the first point there. In Sinai. Now remember that scene. God had brought Israel out of Egypt. And they had gone into this howling wilderness of Sinai. They were now before this awesome, majestic mountain that just kind of rose out of this wilderness. And God had said, Assemble everyone before this mountain. And then he warned them. He said, No man, no woman, no boy, no girl, no animal may touch this mountain. Or if they do, you must stone them to death. This mountain is now at this point set apart as absolutely holy. So everybody's waiting, okay? What's gonna happen? And then there's a flash of lightning and a peal of thunder. And another one, and you know how that goes when it's really close by, you know, when there's not much distance, not much difference between the flash and the And the sound, you know, and you're figuring, let's see, it's uh you know, seven hundred feet per second or whatever, you know. That was pretty close. And then there's another one, and another one, and another one And there's these flashes of lightning and the peals of thunder, and then you hear this blast of a trumpet. And the blast of a trumpet sounds like there is a celestial army about to descend upon you. And you are trembling and quaking. And then you notice that there's smoke issuing forth from the mountain. It's like the mountain has caught on fire. It's like the mountain is a volcano that is about to erupt upon you. And as the mountain begins to smoke, the Bible says it became like a furnace. Billows of smoke are coming out of this mountain. And then the mountain begins to shake. And God says, I will shake the mountain. And the mountain shakes, and the Bible says it doesn't just shake, it trembles violently. You are caught in an earthquake. And it seems like the whole earth is unstable and may swallow you up at any moment. So that as a result of this, the Bible says the people of Israel cried out to God, please stop Don't speak to us. We can't stand it. We're scared to death. And in Hebrews chapter 12, you read in verse 18. You have not come to a mountain that can be touched and that is burning with fire, to darkness, to gloom, and storm. to a trumpet blast, or to such a voice speaking words that those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them, because they could not bear what was commanded. Even if an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, I am trembling with fear. Then verse 25. See to it then, that you do not refuse him who speaks to you. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we, if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven? God had spoken from the peak of Mount Sinai. Hebrews is saying, if those Israelites that didn't heed that warning and that grumbled and were ungrateful and unthankful in the weeks ahead and disobedient, We're not spared the wrath of God in that. What about you and me when God speaks from heaven and says, I who have shaken this mountain, judge sin. Will you not heed that warning to flee to the one thing that is unshakable, Jesus Christ and his kingdom? And so verse 28 says, Therefore you see, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, in contrast to Mount Sinai, a mountain that was shakable. His illustration, everything in this life is shakable. He is the God who shakes mountains. And then he goes on, you see, and that's verse 27 Uh verse 26, excuse me. But now he has promised, verse 26 still, once more I will shake not only the earth, But also the heavens. That second warning is from Haggai. It's actually Haggai 2, verses 6 and 7. And that refers to God's judgment of the nations when Messiah comes. When Messiah comes in his day, Haggai says, God who has shaken Sinai says, once more, I'm going to shake not just the earth. I'm going to shake the heavens and the earth. In other words, I am going to remove everything to create a new heavens and a new earth that is the kingdom of Messiah. You see the idea of shaking is the idea of removing in order to replace You see that in verse 26 and 27. Once more, he says, verse 26, I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. Verse 27, the words once more indicate the removing. of what can be shaken, that is, created things, so that what cannot be shaken, Messiah's kingdom, will remain You see that contrast? It's a warning. Which kingdom are you part of? Is your hope fixed in the kingdom of this world? And of this life, and the things that you can gather and try to protect and hold on to and grasp in this world. Is that where your heart is? Not to not enjoy them, but where is your heart fixed in those things? Those things, he says, are all going to be removed. And there will come a kingdom that will remain, and it is the only thing that will not be shaken. And so the third warning to us comes from Hebrews right here itself, the third warning from Hebrews in verse 14. Make every effort to live in peace with all men and to be holy, without which, without holiness, no one will see the Lord. That includes you and it includes me See to it then that no one misses the grace of God, and that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and to defile many. See that no one is sexually immoral or is godless like Esau, who for a single meal sold his inheritance rights as the oldest son. Afterwards, as you know, when he wanted to inherit this blessing, the kingdom, spiritual blessing, in contrast to the earthly blessing, even a meal that he just had to have at that moment, he was rejected He could bring about no change of mind, though he sought the blessing with tears. And I've talked to people Who when I've shared the gospel with them, have so long played with the gospel that they have said to me, I am so hardened, I simply can't weep for this now and come. And you sense in those people that like Esau, they've crossed the line. And there is a hardness and a stoniness that seems impenetrable. Hebrew says that comes gradually, bitter root, sexual immorality, setting your heart on things here that you simply must have And they distort your priorities and your perspectives until finally the kingdom of God is a vague, ethereal reality, and it has no place in your heart. What is it then that cannot be shaken? The only thing is Christ's kingdom. That's the second point there. Christ's kingdom. Therefore, brothers and sisters, we who are in Jesus are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Therefore, let us be thankful. This kingdom is unshakable because Jesus Christ Himself is unshakable. You look at chapter 13, verse 8. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. He is the rock that nothing can shake, and because he is unshakable, he laughs at his enemies. Who think that they can assault him and can blaspheme him and can somehow make Christianity to be the laughing stock of the intellectual world. What a Savior. Jesus Christ is the same. Yesterday, today, and forever. And whether it is holding a conference in Russia that the kingdoms cannot assault and prevent, or whether it is things in your life or my life, his kingdom is unshakable. We are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, brothers and sisters. And therefore, you see in the bulletin This creation must be shaken, that is, destroyed, to make way for his new unshakable kingdom to be established as the only kingdom forever. That word unshakable is used only one other time in the Bible. It's used in Acts chapter 27, verse 41. It's talking about a shipwreck that Paul experienced on his way to Rome. It says that the ship hit a sandbar, the nose of the ship got stuck, and it could not be moved. It was unshakable, and so the rear of the ship was broken up and dashed to pieces. Ask any sailor, and I'll always tell you, I'd much rather be in a storm in the middle of the sea than I would near to land. By far the vast majority of shipbreaks or shipwrecks take place close to land, not out into deeps. Why? Because in general a ship will ride out in the deep how bad the storm is unless it is something that is just absolutely, you know, one of those rare kinds of storms that uh is going to to uh break a ship apart, it will ride it out because it's movable. But when it hits a sandbar, then it is stuck and everything around it breaks apart as it's dashed to pieces. And that's a picture to you and to me. Here is Jesus Christ's kingdom, and it is unmovable. And everything around it is being dashed to pieces, while that kingdom alone is unshakable. And your hope and your confidence and the fact that you are thankful that you are part of that kingdom because it is the only thing in your life. It is unshakable. This morning everything else around you may be being dashed to pieces in your life. Perhaps your relationships are being dashed. Perhaps things in your job, your financial security, is being shaken and dashed. Perhaps Your health is being questioned and is shakable in your own eyes. But there's one thing that cannot be shaken. Is the kingdom of Jesus Christ. And if you are in that kingdom and your life is in him, that life is eternal and cannot be shaken. We are receiving that kingdom. That's point C, you see. It's not that this is something to look at You and I, the Bible says here in verse 28, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, therefore, let us be thankful. Thankful That I have that kingdom infinitely more than all the other shakable things that I possess and are the source of my hope and of my joy now. Picture that the person who has the most blessings you can conceive of on this life, you know, America's rich and famous and all the rest of that. You look and you think that person as being pictured on Mount Everest. They are at the pinnacle of wealth and blessing and everything you can imagine, of temporal blessings in this world. Then think of that person who is downright on the par with Job, you know. Two of them are together and what they've experienced in trials and difficulties, lost family, lost all his possessions, lost his health, lost everything. Here's Job and he's down in Death Valley. Now you look at the two of them, there's quite a difference. Nearly 40,000 feet in elevation Nearly eight miles separates this one most blessed and this one least blessed temporally. But if you compare them to the distance to the moon, 26,000 miles away, there's not much difference between the two of them. So what that this guy's on Everest and he's in Death Valley? That's a mere eight miles. It's 26,000 miles to the moon Hebrews is saying you think of the kingdom that cannot be shaken. That's like being seated on the moon, you see. You are in elevation of blessing 26 ,000 miles from the guy who's most rich there who's thinking he's got it all on Mount Everest. Maybe you're down in Death Valley and you feel like that right now But the fact is you have by faith in Jesus Christ a kingdom that's 26,000 miles beyond that. And therefore you're what? Thankful, right? I hope that means something to you because that's what Hebrews is saying to us. Therefore, third point, we are thankful. Let us be thankful. Literally, the word, the phrase there is, let us have grace. That's the King James translation of that. If you look that verse up in the King James, it says, since we're receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us have grace. Scholars have since that time realized that that phrase is an idiom for being thankful or giving thanks, that the root of it is grace. Now some of you who take notes or have phenomenal memories may remember that last Thanksgiving, that's what I spoke on. You know, these things are tied together. You've got to connect the ears, you know. But last year you may remember I spoke on Thanksgiving as having its root in grace, because the very idea of Thanksgiving in the Scripture, the root idea of Thanksgiving is a joyful recognition that what I have received is far better than I deserve. It is by grace. That is the essence of Thanksgiving in the scripture. Somebody told me recently about a Bart Simpson episode. I guess it was last Thanksgiving. In which Bart Simpson was asked to say grace. And the grace he gave was, dear God, we've worked to buy all this stuff, so thanks for nothing. Now, you and I can hear that and think that's blasphemous and it's arrogant. But how grateful are we really? Isn't Bart Simpson simply expressing what is a common American statement But for us, do we sometimes find it hard to be grateful and thankful because we think, after all , how much better are we getting than we deserve? Even when you think of God's kingdom. Isn't it true that so often we don't immediately think when I think of being thankful? Man, the thing I am most thankful for is that I am receiving a kingdom by grace that cannot be shaken. And man, I don't deserve that, but Jesus has called me into his kingdom. And that's going to last forever beyond anything else that I'm enjoying here by his grace. But you and I still hold to this idea that we're basically nice people. I'm basically a good person. I do work hard for what I get. I do try to help other people. I try to be nice to people. And yes, God is gracious to me, and He's given me more than I deserve. But maybe I deserve kind of this and he's giving me that, that's great. Instead of recognizing as Hebrews trying to warn us, you and I are not good people at heart When you see and are honest with your heart as I am honest with my heart, it is a heart full of self-protection and grasping and wanting to project an image of goodness. That hides within a corruption that is vile beyond measure. And so when I look at the grace of Jesus Christ in giving me a kingdom In which he calls me as his son and gave his life to pay for my sins so that he would die in my place and I would be given by grace that kingdom that I do not deserve. My heart becomes overwhelmed with gratitude for what he's given to me. So, point B, our thanksgiving is connected to worship. Thanksgiving and complaining are utterly incompatible. When you are thankful, you can't complain against God for what He's giving you. But what always does go together is thanksgiving and worship. And so he says: since we have received a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably. with reverence and awe, recognizing that our God is a consuming fire, and we should have been consumed in his wrath. But instead he has been gracious to us. And therefore we worship, we prostrate ourselves, we cry out to him, You are worthy. To receive praise and honor in my life. Lord, I cannot do enough to show you with my life as a living sacrifice to you. In thanksgiving to you for what you've done, in giving me a kingdom that is unshakable, calling me into your own kingdom. So the three things as you come into this Thanksgiving. First of all, do not be surprised when you experience that everything in this life is shakeable. When you experience disappointments, when you find that friends have not been faithful Or even spouses, and things have crumbled, and you disoriented And it seems like there is nothing that you can count on. That's a dose of reality. You and I still think that there's things in this life that should be unshakable. But there isn't. I think of a letter that Jonathan Edwards wrote to his daughter. She was in her twenties. She had just gotten married And very soon after her marriage, she became seriously ill. It was a wonderful marriage. She loved her husband. He loved her dearly. But as she lay seriously ill, wondering if she would live or die, her father, Jonathan Edwards, wrote her a letter. And in that letter, he says, Esther I would not have you think that any strange thing has happened to you in this affliction. 'Tis according to the course of the things of this world, that after the world smiles, some great affliction soon comes. God has now given you early and seasonable warning to not depend on worldly prosperity. And then he goes on to talk about how this world is more of a wilderness than it is of paradise. And concludes, 'Tis of infinitely more importance to have the presence of a heavenly father, and to make progress toward his heavenly home. Let us all take care that we may meet there at last. If you're experiencing disappointments, God intends, among whatever other things he wants to do, to make you simply more grateful for that kingdom that cannot be shaken. Which is yours to be received by grace through Jesus Christ in that day when he comes. Secondly, fix your mind and your hope on things above That kingdom that cannot be shaken every day. Grateful for the physical blessings, relational blessings? Sure. But each day, to remind yourself, the thing that's most precious is that kingdom that I have that cannot be shaken. Every camelot here has its Lancelots that destroy that perfect shining moment. But in the kingdom of Jesus, there will be no Lancelot to destroy. There will be no hospitals. There will be no morgues. There will be no courts. There will be no locks. There will be no death nor fear, for Jesus reigns, and everything has been made right. Meditate on that. Ephesians 1. 18, pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to know the riches of the inheritance that He has for you. And finally, be sure that you are in fact part of that kingdom. That you are part of that kingdom that cannot be shaken. August 24, 79 A. D. Pompey, Italy was buried by twenty feet of volcanic ash. Archaeologists who have dug in the remains of that have found that most of the people who were caught buried in that ash were the wealthy citizens of Pompeii. And they have speculated it was because they found it the hardest to leave their possessions To flee to safety. Brothers and sisters, let nothing this morning come between you and Jesus Christ. And the kingdom that he offers to you in himself, that alone of anything in your life, is unshakable. Let's come to him now. Lord Jesus, we come and we give you thanks that we have a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And we pray, Lord, that everyone here, hearing this and thinking on this text, would be sure that they are in that kingdom through Jesus Christ. And that this week you would make these words sweeter to us, and our hope and our stability more unshakable because it is fixed Consciously in that kingdom and Savior that cannot be shaken. Lord, do that in our lives and get glory to yourself from us as a happy Thankful people in Jesus' name. Amen.