Not planned. For this morning, please turn in your Bibles to the book of Acts. Acts of the Apostles. If you flip to the Gospels in the middle of your book, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and then the book of Acts. This morning we'll be looking at chapter 11, verses 19 through 26 Luke, who is the author of one of those gospel accounts, is the author of this book too. And in this historical account, he is sharing the story of the developing and the multiplying movement of Jesus' followers From Jerusalem to the surrounding region, and then how it expands throughout the Roman Empire. And now jump ahead 2,000 years and we see continually the work of the gospel. In our midst. So as you turn to Acts chapter 11, we'll be looking at verses 19 through 26. Hear now God's word. Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch. speaking the word to no one except Jews. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who were on coming to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists also, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord. The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose, for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord. So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch, the disciples were first called Christians. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father, would you add to the reading of your word that we might by your spirit understand it more clearly, be moved in our hearts to gladness? And the joy of your salvation, and may we be equipped as we go from being fed by your word, as we go from being together and meeting in this place. As we go and be scattered in our various places this week, your Holy Spirit ministers to us even now through your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. January 6th, which was Friday, marks an important event in history. On January 6th, the Western traditions of the Christian Church commemorate Epiphany. You've heard the song, The Twelve Days of Christmas, and That song, which uh, depending on if you like the song, it's a wonderful song or an annoying song, it it's going through the gifts of the twelve days of Christmas, and that's the time between Christmas Day and Epiphany. Not the twelve days leading up to Christmas Day, but the time between these two different aspects of Meditating upon the incarnation of our Lord. If you think about it, we've been kind of in a prolonged season of Advent and Christmas as we've been contempt um considering the incarnation of Jesus, his flesh and bone. The word epiphany comes from a Greek word meaning manifestation or appearance. So for example, in Luke chapter 1, in the Christmas account, verse 79, Zacharias says, to give light to those who sit in darkness, to epiphany to those who sit in darkness. Paul, as we read in our scripture reading today from Titus chapter 2, verse 11, the grace of God has epiphanied. It has appeared. And then in chapter 3, verse 4, he writes that the appearing, the epiphany, the appearing of the goodness and loving kindness of our God and Savior. Epiphany then is the cause of something being seen, such as showing or shining light, and it can be making an appearance, which is why traditionally Christians have connected Epiphany with the visit of the Magi from Matthew chapter 2. These mysterious men from the East make their appearance. We do not know with certainty who they were or where they came from. We don't know how many there were, despite the song. Some people think of them being from the lands of ancient Arabia or ancient Persia It is, however, likely that they studied astronomy and astrology, maybe mathematics of their day, and so it makes sense That these men of the nations, not of Israel, it makes sense that they have appeared because of the appearing of a star on the occasion of the appearing of a king. The newborn Jesus. Epiphany. Okay. So what does this have to do with our passage today in Acts? The story of the Magi represents so much more than them just arriving and bearing their gifts. It sheds light on the implications of the incarnation. The very drama of God's redemption, his history unfolding, that history of God's glory to the nations of the world. So Epiphany highlights this story of history 's geographical, ethnic, cultural, political, and religious threads. All woven together in a fabric highlighting and shining light on God's redemptive purposes. For both the sons of Abraham, who are called God's people. And to those who are outside the sons of Moses, to become one with the Son of God. So consider when we think about Christmas, Jesus' birth, his life began humbly in the backdrop of Herod's violence. He grew and consider his life in an obscure village called Nazareth. But then Jesus makes an appearance at a wedding showing his skills as a wine somoyer. And this is the first of many appearances. That he makes in his public ministry, preaching about the kingdom and demonstrating that he was the Messiah. Wherever he went, the favor of God the Father was with him. The crowds grew. The hype was built, and his ministry gained momentum. So again, I ask, what does this have to do with our passage? Well, it comes down to that public ministry of Jesus. What happens when you plant a mustard seed? Does it grow into the bush that Jesus spoke of that becomes sizable for the birds of the air to nest and experience safe haven? As Jesus' ministry continued, the crowds began to see with their eyes this budding bush and this pearl of great price that he spoke of in his parables. But what happens when you cut the root down by Rome's violence? Does the plant die? Does the pearl lose its value? No. Praise be to God, for there is good news that Jesus has rose from the dead, that he has defeated the violence of death. And so we ask, what now? What now? And one aspect of the mystery of our faith is that we believe that Jesus is visible, flesh and bone, incarnation of the living God. He is Emmanuel, God with us. We believe he died, we believe he was raised to life, we believe he was ascended. And so how is he with us if he isn't here with us now? So now we're getting to the significance of her passage this morning. We can enjoy the hype of something, right? We get caught up in the buzz. We want to be part of the current flows of momentum. We desire to be part of movements bigger than ourselves. And so we can often be asking ourselves similar questions that those early Christians were often asking. What is our purpose now that our leader has left us? How do we endure our circumstances that cause so much strain? How do we adjust when times change? How do we live according to what we say we believe when everything around us seems against us? This passage this morning shines light on the question of now what? If Jesus is alive, if his grace has appeared bringing salvation, how is Jesus present with us still? And simply this is what we believe. We believe that Jesus is present in his church by his word and through the Holy Spirit This is why Barnabas in our passage can be an encourager to the believers there in Antioch to remain steadfast. Remain faithful to the Lord. It's by remembering God's faithfulness in the past so we can follow God's direction in the present. And because we believe this, and because Jesus is present with his people, the church must be a visible witness to the grace of God. That's what we're seeing in this passage. We're watching a visible witness to the grace of God. As a visible witness, the church is a community of faith, hope, and love in Christ. It's a community of those who follow Jesus in word and deed. It's a community of people that follow Jesus for the world to see that we follow Jesus. So let's look at this quickly in three sections, three scenes, if you will. First, that the church is a community of people with shared faith in Jesus. Luke, who wrote one of the four gospels, he wrote this history developing the early church, the history of what's happening. Acts chapter 1 begins with Jesus giving final encouragement to his disciples that they will be his witnesses in Jerusalem to the surrounding region and even to the ends of the world. From their vantage point, the ends of the world were the outskirts of the Roman Empire. And see how that progression has continued beyond what they imagined In the broader context, our passage this morning describes the transition of focus from Peter to Paul, from the Jewish context to the Gentile context, from Jerusalem as the hub to Places like Antioch and then later Rome as the hub, and then on beyond. Luke is telling the story of the gospel moving in the lives of people who believe, who hear its message. And as that is expanding across geography and culture. Just look at the passage, at the number of geographical locations mentioned. Verse 22 mentions the church in Jerusalem. Jerusalem is also implied in verse 19 about the persecution that arose over Stephen. Stephen was the first person recorded to be killed for following Jesus. And due to the rising tensions there in Jerusalem, the followers of Jesus were scattering. Phoenicia is the area north of Israel in modern-day Lebanon. Cyprus is an island off the west coast of that region. We learn from Acts chapter 4, verse 36, that Barnabas, who's a key figure in this passage, he was the Levite from Cyprus. And Antioch. Antioch, which is the location that takes place here, and a big chunk of the section that is in the book of Acts right now is is in modern-day Turkey. It was the third most populous city in Rome, and it was the capital of the Syrian region at the time. Behind Rome and Alexandria in population, it also Carried significant commercial and cultural significance. Cyrene in verse 20 represents a northern African region in the empire. Tarsus is in modern-day Turkey where Barnabas finds Saul, and that's the person we know more commonly as the Apostle Paul. These geographical locations represent various languages, cultures , time. It takes a long time to get on a boat and travel somewhere else. It takes a long time to write a letter and then send it by dispatch, by foot, by boat, by horse. It takes time to cook meals and eat and have fellowship. And eating and having fellowship is hard if you don't share the language and the culture. And yet, what we're seeing here is geography and cultures crossing their paths. Verse 20, Luke mentions the Hellenists. Now scholars debate who he's referring to specifically in this text, the main question being, does it refer narrowly to Greek-speaking Jews? or more broadly to just Greek-speaking peoples. Now, it is hard to say with certainty in this passage, but the term in general is in the backdrop of the world at this time and what's happening in the advancement of the gospel. Hellenism is a is is definitely influenced by the Greek language, philosophy, and culture, and and did influence all of Jewish sectors of the Roman Empire as well as other parts of the Roman Empire. The point of mentioning them is to describe what's happening. These early disciples are scattering. They are going into other networks and other cities and other villages where they have relationships, where they know people, where they might go and avoid the persecution. But along the way, they are talking about Jesus. Now some of the Jewish believers continue to tell only other Jewish people. While others begin to share with other groups of people. So Luke is painting this picture of how the gospel is fanning out geographically and it's fanning out culturally. And as this happens, people are interacting, they're having conversations, they're sharing meals together, and all of this is weaving together around the person of Jesus. And look at verse 21. Luke is reporting how this is the work of the Lord. That despite the persecution, that despite the challenges that might arise between the frictions between groups, a great number believed the preaching about Jesus. And all that means is they heard, they believed, they converted to follow him. We commemorate the Magi, a group of Gentile astronomers visiting the newborn Jesus. But the epiphany of the gospel is that Jesus visits you In the preaching of the gospel, where he says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, I am the Lion of Judah, and I am the Lamb of sacrifice, so that you may know the true God, so that you might be reconciled to Him. Whether you are a tribe of Jacob or whether you're a tribe somewhere else in the world, you are brought near. To God through the life and the death and the resurrection and the present ministry of Jesus So, whatever language you speak, whatever culture or ethnicity or nationality you have, the church is a community of people who share faith in Jesus. Now, that's in a specific location, and so that brings us into this next observation from the passage that the church is also a network of churches working together. So by this time, the Christian church is becoming much more distinct from Judaism of its day, and as it's being more developed as a multicultural religious movement. So, verse 22 refers to the established church that is in Jerusalem. At the very beginning, Christians were the Jewish people who recognized that Jesus is the Messiah. The very fulfillment of the scriptures. who physically died on a cross as an atoning sacrifice for our sin. They remained culturally Jewish and continued practicing life according to the law of Moses, but now in light of Jesus, the Son of David. Though there are Jewish believers even now, the initial persecution that's alluded to here in verse 19 further differentiated the Jesus followers from merely being a Jewish sect. So as the gospel witness expanded, and as it included more and more Gentile groups, Jesus' followers further became a distinct religious community. But remember Jesus' parables? As a mustard seed grows for nesting birds, those flying birds leave the nest and drop new seeds for planting. We see how the passage reflects the growing church is shifting to Antioch as well. And Barnabas was sent. He was sent from the one church in Jerusalem to be of service to the new church in Antioch. And along the way, he wants to go and find Saul in Tarsus. So if you have a mental map in your head, he's going from Jerusalem. And he goes further west to Tarsus, no further northwest to Tarsus, and then backtracks southeast to Cyprus and then up to Antioch. Like, do you see the traveling and the the networking that's happening at this time. We're seeing how Antioch becomes a hub for gospel witness throughout the region in the Roman world. We learn, although not part of our passage, if you go on to the next verses 27 through 30, we see how Jewish and Hellenistic converts participated together in the care of fellow believers back in Jerusalem. This networking is in the sharing of the gospel, but also the relieving the suffering of fellow believers and what is going on in the world. As one church grows, the gospel provides new opportunities for churches to participate in developing another church. This modern concept, maybe you're familiar with it, is called church planting. Planting seeds of the gospel to raise up churches, communities of people who share faith in Jesus If you think about our history, Columbia Presbyterian Church has existed for almost 45 years, which means at one point we didn't exist. We were planted from another church that still exists in Silver Spring so that we might be a community of Jesus followers here in the Columbia area. And because we're Presbyterian, because our name says so, right? Being Presbyterian means that we are quiet and snobbish, right? No, no, no, no. Being Presbyterian means that we're intentionally connectional with sister churches. We are a part of a region of networking churches that are called presbyteries. It's just a Greek word that just means a group of elders, this moving and shaking of what it means to be the care of the group of believers in a local place as we seek. To bring people to maturity in Christ. And we're part of a larger denominational network of presbyteries that we call the General Assembly. That's the PCA or the Presbyterian Church in America. We're participating intentionally with mission partners in planting and establishing new churches in this country and all over the world. Not only does the gospel bring about new life of faith for individuals, but it that it's this is the work of communities. It's raising up churches, and the gospel brings about the health of the church in order to be about the service to other churches so that we might be participating in this network of the gospel kingdom. Where people are hearing the preaching about Jesus and they're believing. They're coming to life. They're coming to faith. And they're turning to the Lord. All of this is done by the hand of the Lord, by the faith of his church. And this brings us to the third section of our sequence today. The church is a vehicle for spiritual formation. Spiritual formation is experienced in the life of new believers and the development of mature leaders. The same gospel for you when you first believe is the same gospel you need to grow in Christ, no matter how long you've been walking with Him, no matter how long you have on this earth. The whole passage here in the book of Acts is describing the result of preaching about Jesus. People hear the word of the gospel and they respond with faith. The message of God's grace changes people. It changes them from the inside out. It changes them through and through. The truth of the message brings people to a place of repentance and trust in Jesus as the only way for true purpose, for true freedom, and the true assurances that we crave for in this life. And so this spiritual formation is of discipleship. It is moving from unbelief to belief, from self As your final authority to Jesus as Lord, from justifying yourself as good to resting in Jesus as the only one who justifies. It is the beginning of the process of observing all that Jesus teaches so that we might walk in his ways. And this path of discipleship, we learn from verse 26. It's at this time that in Antioch that the disciples are first being called Christians. Now it's very likely that they're called such. Maybe it was kind of uh out of mockery, maybe. But more likely it was just a sense of outsiders trying to look at what who are these people? What are they like? How do I know who this group is? And the people of Antioch are noticing this community, and they call them Christians. We kind of know that because the actual the word itself is kind of Greek and Latin by itself. And uh it's very common, right, when you when you think about how people call people by like uh an identifying mark. Like and what was common at this time was to recognize people based on who they recognized as their leader, their spiritual leader, their political leader, or whatever. They're followers of somebody. They were like the Herodians, for example. People who supported Herod and followed him, right? So it was very natural for this kind of Greek world to just say, well, that this group of people who followed this Christ guy. But Luke describes what Christians typically refer to themselves, and he does so throughout the book of Acts, but but examples are like those being saved, chapter 2, verse 47. A favorite of both the Gospels, but in throughout the book of Acts, is just disciples. We see that in this passage too. The disciples were called Christians. Sometimes the believers are called saints or the brethren or the people of the way. Or just merely believers. So just imagine yourself. Put yourself in ancient Antioch and you're swinging by the market to pick up some groceries. As you go about your day, it would be very normal for you to see Jewish people congregating with themselves over there and maybe Greek-speaking people congregating by themselves over here. But one day you start seeing more and more people of both groups hanging out together. And you lean over to the person in line with you and you say, hey, hey, who who are they? And the response is just simply, I don't know. They just can't stop talking about this Christ guy. That's all it was very likely it was. They couldn't stop talking about Christ. And that was the only identifying mark about this group of people. The people outside the church didn't know that Christ was a regal title that had that carried deep theological significance. They didn't have the privilege of a Bible study on Christ in the Old Testament and what Christ means as a Greek word. Who in here knows that stuff, right? They thought it was just a proper name. But they couldn't put their finger on it. This group, it didn't make sense They didn't seem to have a common factor other than that they were people who associated themselves with Christ This association of Christians was a growing movement of both Jewish and Gentile peoples, the poor and the rich, women and men, children and adults. One writer observes it this way. The very fact that the local population coins a name for this new movement attests to its growth in the city. The new name for believers apparently becomes popular self-designation only in the period after the New Testament, and interestingly, first used by a later leader, Ignatius. Who was a church leader in Antioch? You see the outside community labeling this group of believers and the group themselves adopting the label for what it represented about the truth. Of their relationship to Jesus, what they appropriated in their practice, and how that then became a way to communicate to the watching world. And so to you this morning, the encouragement and the invitation is for us to see our lives, our own lives. but also the lives of those around us. Do we see the gospel at work in our lives? Do we see, and does it make our hearts glad? Are we moved to see the favor of God that is working, that the hand of the Lord is upon you and your families and CPC and and and other churches that are not a part of these little three little letters, PCA? As we see the church being a community of those who are following Jesus. What is your reputation? What is our reputation? As we read this narrative, we we get to see how it might have been. We get to connect the dots and kind of use our holy imagination for what Luke says to us. But we get to ask of ourselves today, and may it be our prayer, may it be that we are called Christians. By how others see us. This growing community of people were experiencing this spiritual formation by the present ministry of Jesus. And the preaching of the message about him. And as it was expanding to new places and with new people, it brings us to another important aspect of spiritual formation. as well, which is the development of mature leaders. So we get a picture of a mature leader here in Barnabas. Verse 24, it uh Luke reveals just a sense of his character. He was a good man. He was full of the Holy Spirit and full of faith. Now Barnabas was not one of the original or the main twelve apostles, and yet the apostles and the elders in Jerusalem sent him To engage in this work of spiritual formation in the life of the believers here in Antioch. He was a Jewish Levite, but being from Cyprus, he would have been familiar with the culture. He had the wisdom to also bring along Saul. Now, what we learn from Barnabas here in this passage, but also elsewhere throughout kind of the story arc of where Barnabas shows up. It's fascinating. He's one of my favorite characters in the book of Acts. He is intentional about these two aspects of spiritual formation. He witnesses the favor of God upon the group of folks, and his heart is glad. And he moves towards them. He exhorts them to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose. He's discerning. He's encouraging. He's patient. He knows the gospel for himself. He knows the gospel and the work of the Lord's hand. He sees it and he rejoices. But in seeing it, he knows how to work the gospel into the lives of those who believe it. It's the same gospel, but it it's two horizons of work. How to know the gospel and see it, but also begin to work it in the lives of those who believe it. He witnesses the scope of that work, which brings him to another important part of who Barnabas is. He humbly knows both his gifts, but he knows his limitations. Paul uh Barnabas is discerning because he knows he cannot do this by himself. So he seeks help from Saul Which makes him all the more discerning in another way because he knows Saul is is also being discipled at this point, being a convert out of Judaism to the way and to following Jesus. And Barnabas is, as he is ministering and engaging in the work of spiritual formation in the life of the believers in Antioch, he is also engaging in the work of spiritual formation. for Paul, that he might be by the light of the gospel for his salvation, but also the power of the gospel for his progress, his growth, his development. his spiritual maturity, that that Paul is becoming the man for the task that he's been set aside for in the mission to the Gentiles. Barnabas is an encourager. I mean, that's what we learned from chapter 4 that his name is translated as, or his nickname. You could literally say son of prophecy, but this idea of encouragement and the play of Luke's words here that he exhorts them. He encourages them. He actually is the word of the Holy Spirit. He is the comforter. He is the encourager. He's exhorting them to remain faithful to the Lord. Barnabas is this encourager of new and younger believers being established in their faith, but he's also the equipper of growing believers being developed as mature leaders to help other disciples grow. Now, you and I can't be Barnabas. We have to be ourselves. But we are meant to imitate Barnabas as he follows Jesus We are to be growing in our faith. We are to be using the muscles of the spiritual formation and experiencing fruit of spiritual health. By the means of God's grace, through the reading of His Word, through prayerfulness, intentionally gathering together with other Christians to experience Jesus among us in his word. and sacraments. We are to be learning new skills. We are to be practicing old skills in helping younger believers understand the scriptures. Encourage them to remain faithful to the Lord and steadfast in purpose. Think about all the traveling. Think about all the meals. Think about all the conversations. And Barnabas and Saul were there for a whole year. A whole year is a long time, and it's not very long at all. There is an urgency and a call to patience and diligence to the work So for us, as we begin 2023, individually and corporately, may we begin to be praying and considering how we can lean in this year to Jesus. Lean in to intentionally To intentional spiritual formation this year. Growing in our faith, growing in our capacities for encouraging others along in their journey of faith. So even though we're Presbyterians, I would say we can commemorate Epiphany. We can meditate on this journey and the visitation by the magi. But we actually experience epiphany when we realize we are the recipients of this unfolding glory of God's salvation. It is his redemption that is available to the people of the promise, and that has now been opened wide the doors for the nations to be welcomed in. So I don't know about you as you're finishing the year and starting the new year or how you are right now in your own spiritual walk with the Lord, the circumstances in your life. But when I saw the grace of God, I was glad. And I grabbed hold of it because I knew That by it Jesus had first grabbed a hold of me. And so the mission of this church and the church globally is the discipleship of the Lord's people. The discipleship of the Lord's people is for the mission of preaching the Lord Jesus. And the church becomes a contagious community of people. sharing in a personal response to this grace of God in Jesus Christ. It grows us, it develops us, it strengthens us. It has structure, it has purpose, but all with intentional Purpose, intentional community, intentional means by which we can be formed in this grace. And so a beautiful happenstance. Falls on this date, January 8. As we look to the book of Acts to see the gospel going from Jerusalem to Antioch to the to the to the rest of the Roman world, We can remember the life of Jim Elliott, Nate Saint, Roger Eudurian, Ed McCulley, and Pete Fleming. Some of you may know who these names are, some of you may not, that's okay. They were simply men who believed They returned to the Lord. They saw the grace of God. And they want others to share in the splendor of that glory. These men were killed January 8, 1956, by a people group in Ecuador that they were attempting to share Christ with. Now ordinarily this would be the end of such things. You're an ambassador, you don't have a good message, what do they do? They shoot the messenger There's a reason for that saying. But by the hand of the Lord, the very men who killed these other men believed and turned. To follow Jesus. That is the ministry of the Holy Spirit in the presence. And so when we get excited about movements and hype and needing to be re-energized, and those things come from a good place, and don't get me wrong about it. But we can often look at the places like the book of Acts, or we can look at maybe our own apathy, and we and we actually seek to be motivated by a kick in the pants. But that's not the gospel. That's only the power to realize that you're failing the kick in the pants. Now, it may give you energy or or motivation for a time. But in of itself it doesn't sustain us. Michael Wilkins, who is a scholar and a pastor and just a general kind of I would call him an expert in discipleship. He writes this, movements are exciting times. Jesus can produce new life. Genuine change, entirely different perspectives, redirected dreams, enthusiastic throngs of people. But the commitment should not be to the movement so much as to Jesus. Our own expectations and agendas have a way of blurring his purposes. The proof of any movement is to be found in the reality of the disciples that follow the master. They were first called Christians in Antioch. Let us be known by Chris being Christians today. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we rejoice and are glad in Christ Jesus. To those who are entertaining what it means to be a Christian, we do pray for your hand upon them to know and understand and to believe. For those who do believe, we pray for the hand of the Lord to be upon them as they seek to grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord. May we as a community be glad in the grace of God in our midst. The very favor, the very hand of your presence upon us through your son Jesus. And by your spirit and by your grace, help us to pursue, to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose. We pray this in his name. Amen.