Before we look at the scripture, I want to remind us again, Jesus is coming back. And it can be soon, very soon. It could be this coming Wednesday, 3 o'clock in the afternoon, while you're at work, cleaning up, preparing for dinner. It could be very, very soon. And nothing will ever be the same again. You saw in the last couple of weeks, is how Dirk has opened the scriptures to you, what will happen when Jesus comes again. You saw in Revelation chapter 20 that there will be the final judgment. And all who have trusted Jesus will be separated forever from those who have rejected him and have not trusted him as Savior. He saw in Revelation 21 that there will be established a new heavens and a new earth. In which only righteousness dwells. But this morning I would like to call our attention to another purpose of Jesus' coming, a purpose which I think is often overlooked, and one that's indicated by the meaning of the meaning of the three Greek words that are used in the New Testament to refer to his coming. You see those three Greek words in one verse in the New Testament altogether. One verse includes all three of these words. And that verse is 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 8. Let's look at that one verse first here. In 2 Thessalonians 2, 8, we read , Then the marvelous one will be revealed. Whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow with the breath of his mouth and destroy by the splendor of his coming. The three words there that refer to his coming are first of all the word revealed. Is a word which refers in many other cases to the coming of Jesus Christ, his revelation, his coming. The second word there, the splendor, you see. Is the word literally manifestation or epiphany? And that word also is used in the New Testament a number of times to refer to his coming. And then the third word, obviously, his coming, the word coming there. Is also the word in the New Testament commonly used to refer to the coming of Jesus. And what do all three of these words have in common? These three words tell us that a major purpose of the coming of Jesus Christ. Would be to reveal things as they really are. To reveal things as they really are. We must frequently remind ourselves that we live in a world in which Things are not what they seem. It's so important for us as Christians to remain in the Word, to be in fellowship with other Christians. I was just talking to a Christian this week who's gotten out of fellowship. And immediately one of the first things that begins to happen is that they see things from the world's perspective and not from God's perspective. We need to remember, as Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote, in his story poem, The Psalm Life, which he calls us to be not like some driven cattle, and all the rest of that in that poem. If you had ever had that poem begin, tell me not in multiple numbers, life is but an empty Me, for the soul is dead that slumbers, and things are not what they see. That's true it is. Things in this life are not what they see. Your purpose of the coming of Jesus Christ will be to make things what they seem. It will be to reveal things as they really are, to help us to see reality as it really is. Now with that in mind, let's look at the context of this these words. As we look at the scripture this morning, God's word from Sir First Thessalonians will begin at the beginning of the letter because his thought begins there and it goes all the way through chapter two. But we'll begin at Chapter 1, verse 1, and take it up through chapter 2, verse 8. Let's hear then God's word and give attention to it as his holy word. Paul Silas and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians and God our Father and the Lord. Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We have always to thank God for you, brothers, and rightly so, because your faith is growing more and more, and the love every one of you has for each other is increasing. Therefore, among God's churches, we boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials that you are enduring. All this is evidence that God's judgment is right, and as a result, you will be telling worthy of the kingdom of God. you are suffering. God is just. He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you, and give relief to you who are troubled, and to us as well. This will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. In blazing fire with his powerful angels, he will punish those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord. And from the majesty of his power on the day that he comes to be glorified in his holy people and to be marveled at among all those who have believed. This includes you, because you believed our testimony too. With this in mind, We constantly pray for you, that our God may count you worthy of his calling, and that by his power he may fulfill every good purpose of yours and every act prompted by your faith. We pray this. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you. Are you in him according to the grace of our God, the Lord Jesus Christ? Concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered to him, we ask the brothers Not to become easily unsettled or alarmed by some prophecy, report, or letter supposed to have come from us saying that the day of the Lord has already come. Don't let anyone deceive you in any way. For that day will not come until the rebellion occurs in the land of lawlessness. is revealed and only doomed to destruction. He opposes and exalts himself over everything that is called God and is worshiped, and even sets himself up in God's temple, proclaiming himself to be God. Don't you remember? Then all the people I used to tell you these things. And now you know what is holding him back so that he may be revealed at the proper time. But the secret power of lawlessness is already at work. But the one who now holds it back will continue to do so till he Is taken out of the way, and then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow with the breadth of his mouth and destroy by the splendor of his coming. So far, God's Word. Now, what I'd like to do is to look at these three words briefly, in reverse order that they appear in this verse, of course to see what they indicate about the nature and the coming of the Lord Jesus, to give us some insight. First of all, you see the word coming, the most obvious word. You see here that the Lord Jesus will destroy the smallest one with the breath of his mouth by the splendor of his coming. The word coming there is also used in chapter two, verse one, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, being gathered to him. It's the Greek word paroisseon, and it's a word which refers not only to Somebody coming to visit you, but it has a technical meaning in that culture. It is a word associated with the arrival of a world personage. A word that was clearly associated with the arrival of a world personage. When Demetrius Poleorchetes, I had to practice that name, when Demetrius Polarchetes came into Athens after he had driven out Demetrius of Balaron in 307 BC. See. There were many songs that were written for that occasion. And one of the social critics of the day said that those songs were just insipid flattery. But it was the custom, you see, when a cultural King or hero came to a city as a conqueror to put on a big display because that was his parocia. That was his coming. That was his showing himself in his power. And that's the word that's used here in this verse about the coming of Jesus. And many times they would have a big uh road of construction uh project, and all the potholes would be filled in, you know, and roads would be put into order. There's no record of a king. Coming into town with occasion defeating of the sacred crocodiles. Now, I don't know if that means they didn't feed them on any other occasion. I wouldn't want to be around there, I guess, if they didn't. But you had all kinds of celebrations that went on because the king was coming. Now that was successful. Well, you see, we had heard he was our king, we knew he was the king, the Herods told us he was king, but we had never seen him as our king. And so the significance of his coming is that he shows himself at that point to be our King. His presence is with us. And that's the significance of this word. Keep that in mind as we look at the second word then. The second word That you have in that verse, if you have an NIV, it's translated splendor. But the word is more literally manifestation. It's the word epiphania from which we get our word epiphany. And some of you may come from the back. in which you've heard of the celebration on January sixth of Epiphany. Now what is Epiphany? Well you may recall that Epiphany is when Jesus manifested himself to the Gentiles by the Magi coming to worship. And so the significance of that is that when the Magi, the three kings, came to worship Jesus, he was shown to them for the first time. He was manifested to them. And the word literally simply means to manifest yourself. Or particularly again in this culture the idea was very strong in that word of a king or of somebody of great glory manifesting that splendor Showing it in their coming. And do you see what happens here? That when the lawless ones reveal whom the Lord will overflow with the breath of his mouth, he'll destroy him by the splendor of his manifestation. The picture here you see is that this lawless one, if you recall the context, did arrogantly display himself as the greatest power on earth He's the one who proclaimed himself to be God, and there seems to be no opposition. And for believers, this is quite a test Do you ever see a situation you did to wonder why doesn't God put a stop to this? Or doesn't God intervene in this On our vacation, we go each year back to this little cottage that we ran at Cape Cod. And when we were up there this year, we took a drive through Cottonstown. And we are again struck with the debauchery, the immorality, the open, very open and flagrant gay lifestyle that has flaunted in Province Town, and all the rest of it that goes along with that. And Kathy, my wife, but remarked as we were driving Peter. I wonder why God doesn't go to this place. Why he lets this continue. Perhaps you've seen situations when you've wondered the same kind of thing. You see what this verse is saying is that what is being waited for is the manifestation. Of Jesus' splendor. There is a day coming when that all of Splendor will be at the peak of his power, and there will seem to be no hope for the cause of Jesus Christ. And then Jesus will come in the manifestation of his splendor. And at that time, the inevitable result of it, just with the lawless one, and all lawlessness arrayed against him, will be overflowed. And notice how But almost some humor is this in the word that Paul states, How is it going to overthrow him, Lotus, with the breath of his mouth? When Jesus comes, here is this realm of power that is revealed, and has everyone held in terror and bondage. And King Jesus comes unseen and he literally blows them away. Jesus comes, and when the manifestation of his splendor is seen, the longest one can't stand before the breath of his mouth. And the breath of his mouth will not only remove him, but it says it will destroy him. For Jesus will show himself as he really is. The word is always associated with glory. For instance, in Titus chapter 2, verse 13, we read there that we're looking, we're waiting for the blessed hope, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus. In that word, their glorious appearing is this same word, epiphany, is manifesting his glory. Then the third word that's used here in this verse is the word revealed. Revealed or revelation. That's a word that has to do with the unbaily of something that has been hitherto unrevealed Unveiling something that's been covered up. It's the word apocalypsis. And now you may remember, you may recognize in some dim way. The sounds of these Greek words because this word apocalypsis is the word from which we get apocalyptic Or another word for the book of Revelation, the apocalypse. You see, it simply means revealing something that has been given, uncovering it, unveiling it And Jesus' coming is referred to as his revelation. It's a word which can refer to the revelation by words or visions. When John writes in Revelation 1. 1, he begins his book by saying, the apocalypse of Jesus Christ, literally. The revelation, you see, I have received in vision and words what is going to happen in the ends of history And Paul in Galatians chapter 2, when he talked chapter 1, when he talks about his gospel was not received from men, he said, rather it was received by a revelation of Jesus Christ. The word he uses there is again, the word apocalypse. It is received by an unveiling of Jesus to be directly. But it's a word that can also refer to people. Notice in 2 Thessalonians 2 how it refers to this lawless one. You see there in verse 3 Don't let anyone receive me in any way, for that day will not come until the rebellion occurs, and the man of homelessness is revealed. It's the same word. He starts to be uncovered The Pharisees man revealed. And then he will skip down to verse six. And as well let's hold him in back so that he may be revealed at the proper time. Notice verse seven. For the secret power of lawlessness. See? Something gets secret. It's hidden. The secret power of lawlessness is already at work. But the one who now holds it back will continue to do so until it's taken out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed. He himself will be unover. He himself will be exposed. You will see that for what he really is And definitely Jesus will come and blow them away. But that revelation of this lawless one will come at the same time of the revelation of Jesus. Notice in chapter one, verse In chapter 1, verse 7, beginning with verse 6, the sentence there, God is just. He will pay you back, pay back the trouble. He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you, and give relief to you. you who are troubled, and to us as well. And this will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. Same word. It means when he comes. And his coming, you see, is referred to as revelation. When the Lord Jesus is revealed, then he is going to destroy all this wickedness and everything is going to be set straight. The word there is referring to the Lord Jesus then. Being for the first time really revealed as what he is. We haven't really seen Jesus for what he is. Nobody's really understood the true nature of Jesus yet. We haven't really seen him fully reveal. Paul's saying there's coming a day when Jesus is going to be revealed from heaven. And the effect of that is everything then is going to be seen for what it really is. And everything's going to be set straight. Notice how he revealed there in chapter. He's going to be revealed in blazing fire with his powerful angels. I gave you some glimpse of the fact that perhaps in many ways we have a rather faulty motion. Of what Jesus is like. So many times he's simply pictured with a sort of a fuzzy halo and a rather meek and mild, somewhat emasculated, perhaps, someone who isn't greatly to be feared. a someone who he can sort of take relief and he may shed a few tears if you leave him, but there isn't much else he can do. And so this kind of Jesus is one who isn't respected very much, let alone worship. And it's difficult for us to really bow before this Jesus because we don't understand what he's really like. And Paul says that there's going to come a time when all those distorted notions that we have will be utterly vanished. Will come with his blazing fire and his multitudes of angels. And at that moment we shall see him with all the splendor and the majesty which really is. But just A week ago when we were at Cape Cod , one of the things that is uh uh frequent happening up there in the bay that we particularly uh stay at is that there are often fish that are driven up into the banks. And on this particular occasion the whole uh swarm of uh bluefish were uh coming through and bluefish eat pogies. Pogies are fish that are used for catfish are about this big probably might eat one and understand where ponies. Fish, but it's a lot of meat on about that big. Yeah, we'll help them help the fish. These blue fish had come in and they uh said they had driven in thirty thousand pages up one to the beach. And then the next day they said we have to revise that. It's over a hundred. thousand pogies that are on the beach now. And by the time they had cleaned things up, they said it was nearly a quarter of a million pogies that rubber and beach. Every look at a quarter of a million fish each one, a couple of pounds each. They had to tear them away with billboards and bump jumps. Just literally plowing them into huge heaps and then carrying them off into trucks. And if you look at all those fish, thousands upon thousands of fish, and you realize it doesn't even make a dent into the population of millions of fish I hadn't even heard of. until that time. You realize how vast is God's creation, how rich are his resources. Sixty seven whales had been washed up, a pile of whales had been washed up on the beach a few months before. Can you think of the vast amount of food that is represented in the food chain, what is consumed in all that. And you see how rich and varied is the creation of God, and then you think that the Bible says that Jesus is going to come with thousands upon thousands. of angels. But those angels are another whole realm of being, of beings with great power , beings who think and feel and worship and adore Him. And he's going to come with blazing power and multitudes of his angels. And we realize how low is our view for God. And how we need to lift up and expand our horizons in worship. And how we need to long for the coming of Jesus, among other things, because then we shall see him reveal. Then we shall see him as he really is. And we see him as he really is, but all of a sudden everything In life will fall into place. All our priorities and our perspectives will all of a sudden fall into perfect relationship to one another. All things will be seen for their true values. What is the message for you and for me this morning, brother and sister of Christ, is that that same thing can be ours now by the hearing of faith. For Jesus has already conquered his Any. Jesus has already died and has risen from the death and has conquered death. He's already ascended into heaven. He already sits upon that throne and all the splendor that is his. But we don't need to wait to see it revealed. In order to believe it. But you and I have the privilege of believing it every time we hear the gospel. But as I proclaim this to you now from the Word of God, you sit there in your seat and you imagine. Imagine Jesus coming and revealed in the manifestation of his splendor. And if you come and if you think about that and you let your mind revolve about that, Jesus is revealed to you by the Holy Spirit. Jesus is revealed to you in a way that helps you to get your priorities straight. Jesus is revealed to you in a way that helps you to see true values in life and to put away false values. Have by the hearing of faith the revelation of Jesus Christ in anticipation of his coming. What's he going to do when he comes? Notice verse 9, verse 8. When he comes, he will punish those who do. Do not know God and cannot obey the gospel, and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. You hear the gospel now and believe, but if you do not believe, when Jesus comes, that splendor will be turned in wrath. Who have rejected him. And I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ, if this morning there is any shadow of a doubt about whether you have in fact trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And we No longer. Bath no longer. Come to him. Come and give your life to him. And recognize that this Jesus who came to die for sinners and take our place. It's the same Jesus who's coming again to be revealed in his flesh. To reveal himself either for the punishment of those who disbelieve, or you see in verse 9 and 10, they will be punished with an everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord, the majesty of his power. On the day that he comes to be glorified in his holy people. Either absolute destruction, or he will be glorified in you and in me. And then he's going to be buried. Glorified in us, look what Paul says. He will be marveled at by those who believe. You think you marvel now as you think about what that day is going to be like? And Paul says, you haven't seen anything till you see the revelation of Jesus Christ in all its splendor. Some months ago, Kathy and I went to see the movie The Verdict. And it's an interesting interesting experience to see in a modern-day movie, the triumph of justice over the system. Many of you have seen it, it's the kind of movie that sort of trips your emotions because here is an overwhelming system which seems like it's going to crush any vestige Justice and real truth, and here's this poor fellow slob, you know, who doesn't seem to do anything right, but he finally has a concern for justice in this case. And against all possible odds, his justice is Vindicated. The judge declares rightly. I don't know if any of you saw it, but when we were there in the movie house, at that moment in which the verdict was declared, the audience broke into spontaneous thoughts. And you know, some of their chivers go up and down. I thought people could get that involved in thinking that it really was neat to see justice vindicated. To imagine the applause that there will be when Jesus comes and destroys the man of lawlessness with the breath in his mouth. And all of his people, arrayed in multitudes and myriads and myriads of concentric circles of face, stand there and we applaud spontaneously. The justice and the splendor of King Jesus, who has only put all evil to rest. He's destroyed All will array themselves against him. There will be no more wickedness or lying or corruption. But all from that moment on will only be praise to him, love for one another, and complete justice and mercy. That's the revelation of Jesus Christ. And you have the privilege of believing in them as you hear it. But you have the privilege of living your life this week in anticipation. Of those realities. Do you have the opportunity this week to live with the inside information that things are not what they seem? Remember Elisha said. Servant in 2 Kings 6, and he and his servant were surrounded by all the enemy's chariots and horses, and Elisha wasn't concerned, and a servant was bitten to the boots, and Elisha said, Oh Lord, let him see, open his eyes. Eyes. And at that moment the service eyes were opened to see, as Edith Schaefer puts it in her commentary upon that passage, his eyes were opened to see the other part of the real universe. Yellow bulls, horses, and fiery chariots all arrayed about them, that truly there were more with them than those on the other side. Oh may the Lord open our eyes this morning to see the part of the real universe to see the fact that Jesus is King. He already has conquered. And He's coming again to reveal that on the day that He shall destroy all of His enemies. We live in a world full of images, don't we? A world full of make-believe values. Perhaps you've heard the old story of a group of teenagers that broke into a department store. They didn't break into it to see Steel. They broke into it and others to simply play a prank. They took all the prices and they switched them all around. They took a $200 coat and they put a dollar ninety-eight price tag on it. They took a thousand dollar switch watch. Swiss watch and tagged it at $5. 98. So they took original portraits and they had them going for two dollars and three dollars. And then they took the other things, costume jewelry. cheap piece of uh rhinestone and plaster and put a price tag of six hundred dollars on it. Uh they took uh a Mickey Mouse watch and put down four hundred dollars for it. Uh they put uh cheap prints of the original oil payments and they marked those up to $1,000 and $1,500. But what's more amazing than all that was that the next day the people came in and they paid the prices as they were doing. Marked. They never got any question that things had been reversed. And we say in our minds, that's a ridiculous story. But it's no more ridiculous than the switched values of our society. That we value so highly that when Jesus comes and is revealed will be seen for their true tawdry value, seen as so transient and so relatively worthless Compared to the thingness, the matters of integrity and character and worship, and time cultivating our relationship with Jesus, time investing the Word of God in the lives of people that right now we tend to value. Relatively lightly. And the only way that we live by true values is if we anticipate the revelation of Jesus Christ when all things will be seen for what they really are. I think one of the greatest manufacturers of pinnages are the cigarette ads. Don't stop to think of it. It's the only thing they can sell. I mean, who wants to really sell you on the values of puffing tobacco weeds into your loans. And so what they do is they sell images, you know, whether it's the Marlborough man, or I think one of the the most obvious are the players' eyes. I don't know, you know you ever seen those players go places and all it is is these laughing, healthy looking people. People who are all having this good time. It's so obviously staged, but the whole thing is to give you an image that this is happiness, this is fulfillment. I think one of the most ludicrous ones is the true acts. They're seeing those. What's that got to do? You know, various colored beach umbrellas and beach chairs and all this kind of thing. What's that got to do with the value of true cigarettes? But you know, you have this green and yellow and red uh beach chair or whatever whatever else it is. And then there's the one over there, the blue one with the true, and it says, You found it through. A few months ago Mad Magazine put their own version of it on the back of their cover. They had four tombstones. There was a red one, it was a blue one, it was a blue one. There was a yellow and it said on the last one there was a true atom. It says, You found it. True. This is what it does to you. That's apocalypsis. That's revealing something for its true value. And that's what Jesus will do when he comes back. Oh brothers and sisters, I call upon us to live our lives today in anticipation of the true values that will be seen. When Jesus comes. When you take a turn around your TV this week, you say, well, this is a show that will titillate my fancy and cause me to relax a little bit. You think of Jesus and his coming again, and whether that show will really help you. To grow your character and godliness. When we look and we say, well, in the light of Jesus coming, this show is worthless. It's less than worthless. It corrupts me. Do you think of how to spend your time? He says, well, you know, we all need some leisure. And yeah, there's this person that has a need, and there's this other person that I could be spending time with to help them in the basics of the Christian life, but that's been a cost. And right now, my hands are full. Sure, I could minister in this way or that way in the church, but it's got a cost. You look at it in the light of the revelation of Jesus. that as Hendriksen has said, there are only two things that will outlast this life, the Word of God and people. And therefore, if you want to invest in what lasts, invest the Word of God in the lives of people. For in the light of the values that will be revealed when Jesus comes, that's the true value of money. We think of how we spend our money, and how that's all that we have, and we look at the values that are before us. And things seem so important to us now that Jesus will consume when he establishes the new heavens and the new earth. But Jesus will be revealed when he comes again. And we shall see that that's our all things as they really are. But the way Jesus is revealed now is as we hear him and believe, and as we demonstrate him in our lives, How do your neighbors see who Jesus is? They see him through you. They see him through the scriptures, and they see him in your life. That's the way Jesus is revealed. As in parents, Also on our vacation the last couple weeks as we got to see some old friends. One of the people that we got to see was a family. They had been our next-door neighbors in Syracuse. And when we had lived together, we had spent a a lot of time uh praying for them. There was times that we would seek to share the Lord with them, had a Bible study with them, did a number of things at that time to bring them to Christ. It was shortly after we left, came down here that they in fact did come to Jesus Christ. It was good to see them again. And we saw in that that they were going on to the Lord. You could already see that many of their values had changed. They were living with light of eternal values, much more. And I asked him at that time We were together, Jim. As you look back on it now, what was it that brought you to Jesus Christ? And he said without hesitation, the thing that brought me to Jesus Christ more than anything else was seeing you. in the lives of people like you and some others that he had known at that time. It was seeing Jesus revealed in you and knowing that there was something there that I didn't have and something that I needed and something that I wanted. One day, the veil is going to be torn away that separates this world from the world of ultimate reality. And at that time, the whole world will see Jesus and you won't follow him by faith. Or everything will be more obvious. But right now the world sees Jesus revealed through your life and through my life. And if we live in those values by faith. What does that mean to you? Let's pray. Oh Lord. How are we thinking? of the grip that this world's images have upon us. The images of false values. The images of permanence where there is such impermanence. Lord, this is the only world we've ever lived in. And so we can't compare it with anything else. But your word tells us that this is the only part of reality. Your word tells us. Tells us that Jesus, when he came, he came as a king, he came to conquer and to establish his kingdom. And that he has been in fact glorified already. But Lord, we don't see that. We haven't ever visualized it, we haven't ever physically come to see what his glory means. Holy Spirit, we ask that this morning we place in our hearts the revelation of Jesus Christ by the preaching of the gospel. So that in anticipation of that revelation that would be obvious to every creature on earth, we might at this moment be awakened with spiritual understanding to see how. very worthwhile it is to believe and to obey King Jesus. To obey your word in every area. In those areas that we're having particular trouble obeying. Because when Jesus comes back, it will be so obvious how worthwhile it would have been to obey. Oh Lord, help us to see. Help us to see it now and to live by it. And we pray if there's anyone Here of you has never seen that sufficiently to turn their life over to you. Oh Lord, we pray that you would grant to that person spiritual understanding, eyes to see the revelation of Jesus Christ, to see the manifestation. Of this splendor and the offer of forgiveness that comes through his finished work. Bring that person to yourself. Lord, we offer ourselves to you anew, and afresh for this week, that you would cause us to Live in the light of this coming, which could be so soon, so very soon. Hallelujah. Amen. Him number six hundred, I find it.