Let me ask you a personal question this morning. When's the last time that you meditated on the fact that our God is triune? What's the last time you thought about the fact that we describe our God in terms of three co-equal persons that we call the Trinity? Can't remember, huh? Not something you've been thinking about much in the last week or two, along with all the other things that have been on your mind. Well, if that's what you're thinking, you're probably pretty typical. Ours is not a very reflective generation. We're not a very philosophical generation, and so we tend to not be a very theological generation. We tend to see ourselves as a practical people. We are people who love manuals more than poetry books. We're people who say, show me what difference it makes or I'm not interested, and I must see that difference immediately And particularly when I think of the Trinity, I think of it as something that people have said, much greater minds than mine, that you can't really understand it. It's a mystery, so since it's a mystery, why should I bother thinking about it? I'll think about something I can understand. At least then I can make some progress. And so we look at the Trinity and we sort of say, that's for theologians to discuss But I don't need to think about it very much. Except when I'm challenged by a Jehovah's Witness knocking at my door or a Mormon who says that the Trinity is a word that never appears in the Bible, or that I can't prove it from the Scripture And that that really is something that's been handed down after the New Testament and really isn't part of the historic Christian faith. Then I begin to wonder, and I scramble and I'll go ask an elder, what is the basis for the Trinity, or something like that. But other than that, I'm not very much interested. Which brings me to this morning. Because it so happens that in the Anglican church here, and others who follow the idea of a church here They have designated the Sunday after Pentecost, which you remember we did observe last Sunday, this Sunday of the year as Trinity Sunday Now I must say that I don't hold very much for the need to follow the church year. I better observe Christmas if I want to keep my job. But there are other things that we'd pretty much let go by. However, I think the fact that there is, and this is the only time in our history of our church that we have observed the fact that this is Trinity Sunday The fact that there is that one time of the year that some people who thought about it a lot said it's worth thinking about the fact that our God is a triune God and to worship him self-consciously As one who is triune. And incidentally, in the Anglican Church, the Gospel reading for that is John chapter 3, which J. I. Packer says is a stroke of genius. leads me to want to call you and me to reflect on that likewise, at least for this one Sunday I'm going to borrow some thoughts from Packer and his ideas from John 3 and add some of my own thoughts and take a look at this together. So let's turn, if you haven't already, to John chapter 3. And read the first 18 verses and see what we can learn, not only in terms of the mystery. But also to see how very practical the idea of the Trinity is for our own lives. John chapter 3, verses 1 to 18, let's give our attention to God's word. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish Ruling Council. He came to Jesus at night and said, Rabbi, we know you are a teacher who has come from God, for no one could perform the miraculous signs that you're doing if God were not with him. In reply, Jesus declared, I tell you the truth, no one can see the kingdom of God unless he is born again How can a man be born when he's old? Nicodemus asked. Surely he can't enter a second time into his mother's womb to be born. Jesus answered, I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water and the Spirit. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the spirit gives birth to spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying, you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. How can this be? Nicodemus asked. You are Israel's teacher, said Jesus. And do you not understand these things? I tell you the truth, we speak of what we know and we testify to what we have seen, but still you people do not accept our testimony. I have spoken to you of earthly things and you do not believe. How then will you believe if I speak of heavenly things? No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the deserts, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, his one and only son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe stands condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only Son. Let's focus particularly on verse 5 there. Do you see what Jesus says? I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water and of the Spirit. First of all, I want you to notice that there are three persons in verse 5. You notice, first of all, there is reference to the kingdom of God the Father. The Kingdom of God the Father, that's the first blank. Jesus says, I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God And when Jesus speaks of God as a separate person from himself, he is referring to the Father. For instance, in verse 16, you see that he says, For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. Clearly, this is using God to refer to the Father. And Jesus does that commonly through this book of John as well as the other Gospels. So the first reference is to the kingdom of God the Father. Secondly, there is a reference here to Jesus, the only begotten of the Father. Beginning of verse 5 says, Jesus answered. So Jesus is speaking of the Father. And this Jesus who speaks is one who is co-equal with the Father. He's just as much God as the Father. That's very clear. From the beginning of John's Gospel. When you look back at chapter one, in verse one, we read that in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Then verse 14, this word became flesh And made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. So the word, who is God, who coexisted with God from eternity, Has become flesh and is Jesus. Jesus, who answered that you can't enter the kingdom of God, is himself God, according to John In fact, he's the one who makes God known, for John 1. 18 says, No one has ever seen God, but God the one and only, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. And that's what he's doing right here in chapter 3. So Jesus is the second person of the Godhead who's mentioned in verse 5. And then in verse, and excuse me, then the third person mentioned, of course, is the Spirit. Who grants rebirth into that spiritual kingdom? Jesus says, I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water. And the Spirit. So he goes on in verse 6 to say: flesh gives birth to flesh, but the Spirit gives birth to the Spirit. In other places, the Bible shows that the Spirit is co-equal and co-eternal in his stature and in his uh eternality with the son and with the father. But here the focus is on his function as the one who uniquely gives life to enter into that kingdom. The prerogative of God Himself to grant life to enter into that kingdom. It's the first of several places that Jesus, that John mentions, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, together in their work. But now having seen the three persons, what I want you to focus on here now is to see how the three persons relate in the three stages of Jesus' response to Nicodemus. Nicodemus was a Pharisaic elder. He was a kind of a theological professor in Jerusalem, one of the church leaders. You see that in verse 1. He was a man of the Pharisees, a member of the Jewish ruling council. And you remember there down in verse 10, Jesus says, You are Israel's teacher. You're a theological professor, Nicodemus. And so what Nicodemus is doing is he's kind of coming to Jesus at night to give his approval and his blessing to this young rabbi. Saying, uh, Jesus, uh, we really believe that God's working in you. Uh He got a lot to offer. And I just want you to know that we, the theological establishment here in Jerusalem, approve of what you're doing. It really seems like God is with you. The interesting thing is how Jesus responds. That's very instructive to me. Because here's a big shot. Giving him approval, flattering him. But Jesus is not flattered. Jesus' immediate response is to understand that Nicodemus is blind to certain basic truths about the kingdom. And because Jesus is free from needing the approval of people in order to feel secure about himself, he's able to see to the person's real need. Now just as a sideline, that's very instructive to you and to me, Jesus here demonstrates that he is free from the need to be flattered and approved of and accepted. He sees rather Nicodemus's need, and so he gets right to the point with him, and he says, I tell you the truth, no one can see the kingdom of God unless he's born again. Zeros right in on the most simple, basic truth about the gospel, the new birth in Jesus. And Nicodemus is up here and he's not even thinking in those terms, and Jesus wants to bring him down. to some basics. Now notice the three stages of the response as Jesus leads him through this and notice how the three persons of the Trinity relate. In terms of this work of salvation. First of all, Jesus is saying, Do you want to see and enter the Father's kingdom? Well then, you must be born of what? Spirit, you're still there. Good. You can hang in with some theology for a moment. You'll see how it relates. Want to see and enter the kingdom of God the Father? Then you must be born of the Spirit. Verses 3 to 10. Notice. He says, I tell you the truth, no one can see the kingdom of God unless he's born again. How can a man be born when he's old? Nicodemus asks. Surely he can't enter a second time into his mother's womb to be born. You know, he's taking them literally. Gotta be born again. How do you how do you get reborn after you get back into the womb again? I mean, you know, that's kind of silly. Nicodemus is trying to figure out what Jesus is talking about, and Jesus says, Well, I tell you the truth No one can enter the kingdom of God unless he's born of water and of the Spirit. I'm talking about a different kind of birth. Flesh gives birth to flesh. That's the womb. But the Spirit gives birth to spiritual rebirth. You shouldn't be surprised at my saying you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. Now you see the word wind there is the same word for spirit. And so Jesus is using a kind of pun here. He's saying the Spirit blows wherever he wishes. The it can also be translated he. And so he's using this dual idea. He's saying the Spirit is sovereign in his work. That spirit is absolutely necessary. It's nothing you can do, Nicodemus, to get into that kingdom. Any more than you can get back into the womb. There's nothing you can do to accomplish that. That is the sovereign work of the Spirit. And just as you and I Don't see the wind, but we see the effects of the wind and the leaves blowing in the trees. So Jesus is saying, you don't see the Spirit. But you see his effects in a person's heart when that heart is made new. And when your heart was made new in Jesus Christ, the evidence was clear to other people. If you've grown up in a Christian home, the difference might not be so evident. But the evidence of the Spirit in your life is clear. We may not see a radical difference in Jennifer Johnson through the years, but there will be the evidence that the Spirit of God has worked in her when we see her grow up in her teen years and beyond and follow Jesus. So Jesus is saying, you can see the effects of the Spirit, and he blows where he pleases. You hear its sound, you can't tell where it comes from or where it's going. So is everyone that's born of the Spirit. You want to see and enter the Father's kingdom? You must be born of the Spirit. I wonder if there's somebody here this morning who's saying, I believe that I'm going to heaven. I want to claim that I have heaven, a right to heaven. But I've never known that rebirth work of the Holy Spirit in my life. I've never known the Spirit to come in his sovereign way to change my heart's desires from centered on myself To centering on the things of Jesus, to desiring to please him above all. That's something you can't do. And if you've never known that sovereign work of the Spirit coming into your life to change your heart, that heart which is corrupt and dead in sin. In order to give life and vitality and the things of God, it's only the Spirit that can do that. Don't try, you'll never do it All you can do is humble yourself before God. In the seat right where you are now, or this afternoon, get alone with God and ask for His Spirit to come into your life. To transform you by that desire and even motive of pleading with him, God's Spirit is evident in your life Now, the second thing he says is, then do you want to be born again of the Spirit? If you do, then you must be willing to learn from Jesus. If you want to be born of the Spirit, you must be willing to learn from Jesus. Notice how he goes on. When Nicodemus says in verse 9, how can this be? Jesus says, You're Israel's teacher, and do you not understand these things? I tell you the truth. We speak of what we know and we testify of what we've seen. But still you people do not accept our testimony Jesus is saying, I am an authority on this. In fact, he says in verse 12, I have spoken to you of earthly things you don't believe. How then will you believe if I speak to you of heavenly things? How does he have the right to do that? Because in verse 13 he says, No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. You and I wonder what's heaven like? How do we get there? We have so many questions. Jesus said there's only one person that's ever walked the face of the earth who has been in heaven. That's me. So he says, You want to know about heaven? Ask me. I will teach you about heaven. And when Jesus speaks about heaven, you and I must look and submit our minds to him as the one of ultimate authority. Because Jesus has been there. And he's come from heaven to tell us about it. And how you and I can have a place there. In fact, his authority is so absolute that look what he says in chapter 5. In chapter 5, he says in verse 21, Just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son gives life to whom he is pleased to give it. The Father and the Son equally have the prerogative to give life. And then he says, Moreover, the Father judges no one, but has entrusted all judgment to the Son. That all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father Who sent him? You think that you can relate to God and not have a close personal relationship with Jesus It's not possible. I know a lot of people who talk about their relationship with God, and God does this, and God does that, and I walk with God and I talk with God, but there's no sense of a relationship with Jesus. This is a major problem with the cults, the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Mormons. They don't honor the Son as they honor the Father. That's clear. It's right there from John 5. 24. We must honor the Son if we're going to honor the Father. Because the Father shares his honor equally with the Son. And therefore Jesus says, I have unique prerogative here to give life and to receive honor. Are you feeling distant from God? You somehow feel like God isn't close in your life. It may be that the problem is that you're bypassing Jesus, that you need to cultivate the relationship with Jesus in order to know the Father more personally. You can't know the Father apart from the Son. If you're born of the Spirit, the immediate effect is that you learn from Jesus and you honor Jesus. That brings us to the third point, which is: are you willing to learn from Jesus? Then you must trust Jesus as the only way to God, the Father. Jesus brings you to the Father. You see that in verses 14 to 18. Verse 14, Jesus says, just as Moses Lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. And Jesus, of course, here is using the example from Numbers 21 of that incident in the life of Israel when they were in the desert. Do you remember that time when Israel had sinned against God and their grumbling and complaining about what He was giving them and the lack that they felt that they were suffering. And so as a result of their grumbling and complaining and their ingratitude God sent them a living nightmare. Did you ever have a dream about snakes? You know, I had a friend who once did what you hear people doing, climbed into his sleeping bag and there was a copper head in there. Have you ever had those dreams where you can't get away from snakes and they're in the furniture or they're hanging from the trees or Wherever you go, poisonous snakes, you what? This was a living nightmare Wherever Israelites went, they went into their baggage in their tents, and there was a poisonous serpent and would strike and be coiled and would bite them. And they were dying by the hundreds. Everywhere you went, you became paranoid about what you'd pick up, about where you'd step, what you'd do, nobody'd go out at night. And they were living a nightmare because of their sin. And that began to get their attention. And so Numbers 21 tells us that they cried out to God and they said, God, help us, save us, we've sinned. Moses prayed for us, and Moses prayed, and God's answer was a very interesting answer. God didn't just take away the snakes. God said, Moses, take from brass from bronze and make a bronze snake. Put it up on a pole. And anyone who's bitten, when they look at that snake on the pole, if they look at that snake as my provision for their need , They will be healed of the bite. And they'll live. And people began to do it. Imagine the first couple were very skeptical. They were bitten, but they had no other hope. They were going to die, it was for sure. And so they looked at that pole and immediately there was recovery. And so dozens and then hundreds are coming and being carried, and wherever they are, they try to get to that pole, to look to the pole, and they find life in that pole. Jesus says, do you see this is a graphic picture of me? This is a picture of me, the Son of Man, who must be lifted up so that you have been bitten by that serpent Satan. And are dying of the sting of his bite. When you look to me, you find life. And that made me think as I thought of that of The conversion of probably what was the most powerful preacher in the 19th century, Charles Haddon Spurgeon. Probably heard of Spurgeon and of some of his work, but Do you know how Spurgeon became a Christian? He was a teenager and he was overcome by guilt and the sense that he needed to be forgiven And people told him that he would find forgiveness in Christ. But his question was, how? How do I find peace? How do I find assurance that God accepts me in Jesus? Perhaps there's somebody here this morning that says, I believe that somehow Jesus is the solution to my problems, but how do I lay hold of Jesus? It was in a winter when Spurgeon in his teenage years was struggling through this. One Sunday morning he went out to go to church and a blizzard was raging and the snow was so deep he couldn't even get to the church that he was headed to. And so because he was so troubled, he decided he would go to some church, and he decided that he would try this little primitive Methodist chapel, even though he heard that there the people sing so loud they make you he your headache And he decided, I don't care if my headaches when they sing or not, I need some help. So he went to this little primitive Methodist chapel. There was only a very few people there because of the snow, and the preacher himself was snowed in, so he never made it Listen to Spurgeon's own words. He said at last a very thin-looking man, Mr. Robert Eaglen, came to the pulpit. When it was evident the preacher wasn't going to show up. And he opened his Bible and he read these words, Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. Isaiah 45, 22 Setting his eyes on me as if he knew all my heart, he said, Young man, you are in trouble. Well, I wish that was true, sure enough. And then he continued, You will never get out of it unless you look to Christ. And then lifting up his hands, he cried, Look! Look! Look! It is only a look, said he, and at once I saw the way of salvation. We tend to make trusting in Christ sometimes so complicated, don't we? And Jesus says right here, he said, when you see your need, all you have to do is look. With the eyes of faith, you simply look to me like that snake lifted up on the pole. And when you look to me Simply looking, nothing else, nothing more complicated that than to look for your need to me. Jesus says, I bring you to the Father. And I bring ye to the Father because that was his whole purpose in sending me. See what he says in verse sixteen For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him, looking to him, that's the context, shall not perish but have eternal life, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But to save the world through him. Whoever then believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already, because he's not believed in the name of God's one and only Son. So, do you see we've come full circle? The Father who has a kingdom sends his son that we may enter that kingdom. But we can only enter that kingdom by the Spirit who opens our eyes to see the kingdom and Jesus, who brings us into it. And so my final point from this is then to notice. The implications of this relationship on the gospel and on you and me. Just two points about that. First of all, notice that a balanced gospel is clear on the interplay between the three persons. You see, the first of all, we must see what I call the three A's of salvation. That the Father authored salvation for us. The Father authored salvation for us. The whole notion of the plan of salvation is pictured as of from eternity in the mind of God the Father. Verse 17 God did not send his son into the world to condemn it, but God sent, you see, the whole initiative is described as being from the Father. There is, in fact, a hierarchy of redemption. This is where the cultists get confused. The Bible does present a hierarchy. where the Spirit and the Son, though co-equal with the Father, willingly submit themselves to the Father in order to accomplish our salvation. For the submission is part of the plan of the salvation. And then the second thing is that the Son accomplished the salvation for us. The Son accomplished the salvation. He's the one who was sent. He's the one lifted up. He's the shepherd who laid down his life for the sheep. He's the one who has not made salvation possible, but has accomplished it for his people by his death on the cross, taking your sin and my sin. Jesus accomplished the salvation. But we're still dead in that sin. How do we lay hold of Jesus? And that brings us to the third thing that the Spirit then applies the salvation to us. The father sent his son to die for a rebellious people. But those people are unable to look. to the snake on the pole, to look to Jesus, the one who is able to save them from Satan. Unless they are born again. So verse 5. I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he's born of water and of the Spirit. Verse 3, unless he's born again. Verse 8, unless he's born again. Verse 7, born aga The word they're born again can also be translated born from above. It means that you and I are born from the Spirit. As he applies that salvation to us. And so the final point of this is that you and I need to learn. that each of us tends to ignore one or more of the persons of the Trinity. Each of us by our own nature and background tends to gravitate toward one of the members of the Trinity or perhaps to and ignore one or two of the others. And that's very important and very practical because when we do that we greatly weaken our Christian life. That's what I want you to see. You see, when we ignore one or two of the persons of the Trinity, then we become imbalanced in our understanding of the gospel. Now you see there an equilateral, supposed to be an equilateral triangle of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. And I place the Father at the top. To indicate the submission of the Son and the Spirit to him in the work of salvation. But let me say that that does not indicate any kind of inferiority. In fact I could conceive of some other work in the reality of God in his universe in which the Father and the Son are in submission to the Spirit. Does that jar your thinking? I believe that's true. The Spirit could be the one who is sending the Father and the Son in terms of who they are in some other work. But in the work of redemption that God has accomplished for his people, he's made it clear that this is how the three persons of the Trinity decided to function. And they have done that in a particular way so that you and I can relate to them in a particular way. So my question to you is: who do you relate to most naturally? When you pray, who is it that you tend to pray to? The Father? The Son? The Spirit? Just think about your prayers. When you pray, who is it that immediately comes to your mind? Who do you most think of in your relationship to God? Some people say, well, I always pray to the Father, my Father, because I love feeling the security of being a son and realizing that I am his son, that I can come to him as my father, my daddy in heaven. Another saying, oh, the person I relate to most easily is Jesus. I can never picture the Father. He's just some glow of glory, and I can't picture him, but Jesus was a man, and I can somehow picture him and I can relate to him as my Savior who's forgiven my sin and my shepherd who leads me, and the one who walks with me. I relate to Jesus who's done all these things for me much more easily. But others say, no, no, no, I relate to the Spirit. It's the Spirit who works in me and gives me power. It's the Spirit who's the one who is working in my life in that subjective way to transform me and to help me. He's my counselor and my comforter, and even though I can't picture him, he's the one I feel closest to. Because the Bible speaks of his work in my life. Now let me say that if you find yourself relating primarily to one You will be imbalanced in your walk with Jesus. You will be imbalanced in your walk with the Father and your walk with the Spirit. If, for instance, you have an overemphasis on the Spirit , then you will tend to become overly subjective and tend to move away from the objectivity of the word into a subjective kind of Christianity that will lead you into a peril. If, on the other hand, you underemphasize the Spirit, you will tend to be legalistic and think that you can follow Jesus in your own strength by disciplining your flesh. So there must be a balance. And so what I want you to do finally is I want you to look at that triangle, and I'd like for you to take a pen and pencil and put yourself as a dot on that triangle. If you are in perfect harmony with the Father, Son, and the Spirit, you are right in the center of that triangle. If you feel like you're closest to Jesus, but you're not very close to the Father and the Spirit, then you're over there in that lower right, lower left-hand corner. If you feel like, well, it's sort of the Spirit and the Father, but I really don't relate to the, or excuse me, it's the Son and the Father, but I really don't relate to the Spirit, then you're over there on the left line somewhere, see? And what I want you to do is think about where you are in that, and I want you this week to begin to cultivate your relationship with the ignored members of the Trinity in your life. And I guarantee you, if you do that, you will find God opening up a fullness in your relationship with Him and a delight and a power that will be a new and fresh experience in your walk with God. One of the richest devotional poets of the Christian church was a man by the name of Frederick Faber. Faber had an unusual sense of balance in his relationship with the Trinity. And so in conclusion, let me just show you how he related to them from Tozer's book, The Pursuit of God. Paper seemed to feel for each one a special kind of love reserved for him alone. Of God the Father, he sings, only to sit and think of God. Oh, what a joy it is. To think the thought, to breathe the name, earth has no higher bliss. Father of Jesus, love 's reward, what rapture will it be, prostrate before thy throne to lie? And gaze and gaze on thee. He spoke of Christ And of how eternity would not be long enough to learn of all that Jesus had done for him, and how he would be always with Jesus, who died for us on the cross, and want nothing more. And he said, I love thee so I know not how my transports to control. Thy love is like a burning fire within my very soul. He spoke also of his devotion to the spirit. And had a particular sense of the Spirit's closeness in his own life, and sang, O Spirit, beautiful and dread, my heart is fit to break. With love of all thy tenderness for us, poor sinner saint. Who do you relate to? Be Trinitarian in your devotion this week, and you will find your relationship growing and deepening. Amen.