Hallelujah. What a savior. When Steve was just on the platform a moment ago praying with the uh jump team It didn't hit me then, but I realized that this is the last weekend that Steve and I will be together at CPC. But Lord willing and by his grace we'll be together for the gospel for eternity. And so I have no idea where Steve went. Maybe he's in the nursery or something. Steve, are you here? He's over there somewhere. There he is. So goodbye, Steve. And God bless you. Uh you gotta you have to come into the office at least one more week And then I think that last week you're doing like moving stuff. Or help out as much as you can at home because that'd be a better way to leave We um appreciate uh the continued flexibility that you all uh show You see, we'll we'll get this uh projector squared away once and for all. We don't have it on a plastic crate this week and we think we're we think we're zeroing in Uh we also requested the air conditioning to be turned a cooler for the cafeteria because our children were um Uh very hot last week and I guess they can only do AC in one part of the building because it's kind of sticky in here. But bear with us and um And we will get all these things worked out. And you know, and then soon the summer will be over. So we don't want to rush that anyway. So we'll be a little bit hot and we'll take care of that. We're going to take a look at the Word of God today from Ephesians chapter 5. This profound mystery, Paul speaks of. He says, Christ and the church. You find your place there in the New Testament in Paul's letter to the Christians in Ephesus Then let me uh ask the Lord to uh superintend this preaching event. Let's pray together. Gracious God, thank you for the opportunity once again. To be gathered with your people in your presence before the Word of God. And we humbly ask, Lord, that your Spirit would be at work in and through us. To cause us to see Jesus Christ, the friend to sinners, Jesus Christ The great and mighty Savior, and to see you, Lord Jesus, as our loving bridegroom. sacrificing yourself on our behalf. We pray, Lord, that this would be opportunity now. For your people to hear clearly the word, and for your spirit to take that word and to change our lives. And we would ask for that in the name that is above every name, even Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Once upon a time there was a rich and powerful king. He ruled over a vast land. He was well known in throughout the land and the accompanying lands for his generosity and his fierce loyalty to those whom he loved. And it came to pass one day that the king came across a female baby who had been abandoned in a field. No one had washed her with water and cleaned off the blood from her birth. In fact, her cord had not even been cut. She was weak and defenseless, left alone. She would have surely perished in the hot sun of the open field. Everyone who walked by her abhorred her sight. She was ugly, and no one would give her the time of day. Until the king passed by. He saw her in all her raw ugliness. But because of his richness and mercy, he declared, She shall live. He took her to live with him, and over time she grew and became a woman, was clothed in fine linens and silk and was adorned with jewels from all over the world. When she was the age for marriage, the king entered into the covenant of marriage with her. She ate the finest foods every day Grew in beauty, and she was well known in all the land because of the great love that the king had lavished upon her. He loved her, and she loved him But as the story unfolds, it took an awful turn. The bride forgot her love for the king, and instead she began to trust in her own beauty. The beauty that was hers, because she belonged to him, she sought the affection and the attention of other men, men other than her husband. Not just any other men, but men who were the rivals of the king, flaunting these Liaisons in his face, even taking the jewels and the fine things that he had lavished upon her, and giving them to all her illicit suitors , The king was a jealous husband. He wanted the exclusive love of his bride, and his anger righteously burned against her. It was difficult to bear for the king, but because of his great love for her, he allowed his bride to incur the humiliation of all that she had done against him. Who she truly was was eventually disclosed to all. Then no one wanted her. None of her suitors ever really cared for her with a genuine love anyway. They only wanted to use her for their own gain. She became enslaved by the enemies of the king, who only wanted to mistreat and dispose of her. Just when all seemed lost for the girl, the king made another declaration A powerful declaration heard throughout all the land, and he said to her, For all to hear, I Will remember the covenant that I have made with you in the days of your youth, and I will redeem you for myself. And where you have been called the girl with no name, I will give to you my name again. Hallelujah! What a savior! Maybe you recognize the girl in the story by now. It's you, beloved. It's us. And taken from Ezekiel sixteen and Hosea one and two And the passage we look at today this is the story of us, a rebellious bride, a bride that would Gladly give herself to the enemies of the bridegroom. And this is the story of the bridegroom. Who declares, I will remember my covenant with you, and I will redeem you. And you, the girl who has no name, you will have my name. Hallelujah. What a savior. In his letter to the Ephesians, the Apostle Paul is outlining for the church there in Ephesus what it means to be related to one another as you walk in the spirit. He talks about wives relating to husbands, husbands relating to wives, children relating to their parents, parents to children Slaves to masters and masters to slaves. But in verse 32 of chapter 5, Paul gives us insight into the husband-wife passage, and that's where I want us to focus today. He says, This mystery is profound. And I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. The idea of marriage, marriage Was not only thought up by God Himself, but was given to man as a part of the way in which we his creatures glorify the Creator I know you're snickering because you've seen Princess Bride as well. Go ahead and admit it. Marriage. Let's get that out of the way Marriage is what brings us here today. I tried to avoid it. I really did But I saw Sarah up there. So let me read the larger portion of Ephesians five. I'm going to begin where Paul writes, Wives submit to your own husbands, but I'm not going to focus on that today. We'll get back to that. From God's word, then give your ear and attention. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor. without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish, in the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it. Just as Christ does the church. Because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and to the church May God add his blessing to the reading of his word, to our hearing of it, and to the preaching event now. I don't believe that we could ever overestimate the profound mystery before us. Every marriage that walks around this planet pictures for the world, Christ, and the church. Now some of those marriages are Vastly afar from the truth of what Christ has accomplished for his bride. Some are closer to the truth And picture that a little more clearly by God's grace. But we want to take a look at this As the Bride of Christ, the beloved, because we do serve the head of this body. It is fanciful and Forgetful to think of a body without a head. Washington Irving may have had Ichabod Crane, the ectomorphic schoolmaster, afraid of a headless horseman. But make no mistake, the church cannot exist apart from its head. Because the head has accomplished all that was necessary. And the body responds to the head's direction. Tom just read that he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him, in Christ, all the fullness of God was pleasing. to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things through the blood of the cross. That's our message. A simple message, a profound message, and a message of the marriage of Christ. And the church. Last week we looked at that the fact that God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son And I want today to look at four characteristics of the love that God has for his people. The love that God has for his people. Have you thought recently about the intents initiating unconditional, unending, purposeful, pastoral, demonstrated, dedicated, selfless, and sacrificial love that the bridegroom has for you, his beloved Well, you should. That's the point at which the preacher can say, you ought to. Because therein lies the peace that can invade your heart and settle anxieties. Therein lies the calm in the midst of the storm that surrounds us in the In this present age. Therein the love of God for you lies your only hope. So I want to look at this passage, four points. It's a love the bridegroom has for you that is sacrificial. It's a love that purifies and cleanses It's a love that nurtures, nourishes, cherishes. It's a love that never ends. The first characteristic of the bridegroom's love for us, his beloved, is that it is a love that sacrifices. Jesus, eternal Son of God, self-existent, knew full well what was being called upon as The plan of salvation was worked out in eternity past. That he would not consider equality with God something to be grasped. as Paul told the Philippians in chapter two, but that he would freely release that and become obedient. Taking on the form of a servant and become obedient to death, even death on the cross, he knew what was in store That his coming would be met with rejection. He was mocked, ridiculed, falsely accused, deserted by his followers, beaten, eventually crucified, dead, and was buried. in the earth that he formed with just the power of his word Jesus said throughout his earthly ministry, the Son of Man did not come to be served But to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for the many, for the many, all who would believe who he is and what he has accomplished and believe that that is the only path of salvation He came to serve. He came to sacrifice. And he came to do this for us Do you think about that? When your sin rears its ugly head? Do you think about the Son of Man? Setting the example of what sacrifice looks like. On the night in which our Lord was betrayed, he wrapped a towel around his waist And taking a basin of water, he knelt before the disciples, and he washed the feet covered with road and animal feces and all the other things that those feet had carried in to the supper. The love of the bridegroom is a sacrificial love. Look at what Paul says: Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. That sacrifice, he knew what was in store, and he willingly gave himself up for you. I just had the privilege to participate in a wedding ceremony Thursday night with Joel Barger and Annalise now Barger. And when you look at Annalise in her wedding gown, and you hear the the cicadas in the woods and the outdoor uh venue that we had and the string quartet that Wonju and Sam and Abby and Alana were playing and you see that setting and you see the beauty of the bride. You think It'd be probably no small thing for Joel at that point to just say, I'm willing to sacrifice whatever for her. I mean look at her. And go on Facebook and you can see she was a beautiful bride. Not so with us. Not so when God looks on his bride, he didn't see beauty inherent. He didn't see that which would cause him to love us. He loved because God is love. Not that we loved him, but that he loved us. Paul, I believe, probably quoting his own letter back to himself, but leaving for us that wonderful verse in Galatians 2. I've been crucified with Christ. He died for me is the picture. I've been crucified with him. And nevertheless, and I no longer live, but now I live this life in the flesh The life that you and I live, we live by faith, listen, in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. That's the love that's before us in this passage. Paul says, husbands, love your wives the way Christ loved the church, gave himself up. For her. It's a love that sacrifices. It's a love also that purifies It's a love that purifies and cleanses. Listen to Paul. That he might sanctify her having cleansed her. by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing. That she might be holy and without blemish. Our God is righteousness in perfection , He's holy. He's pure. His glory cannot be looked upon. And his goal for his bride is that we be conformed to that perfect image as well. In achieving that goal, God has to love us with the simultaneously tough and tender love that comes from one who knows us fully. The bridegroom's tough love is that he absolutely condemns our sin. He doesn't wink at our sin. He doesn't turn a blind eye He absolutely condemns it. It deserves death. It's a serious thing. Ezekiel 18:4 says, the soul that sins shall surely die. So the bridegroom condemns your and my sin There is no negotiations with God. What offends a holy God, an infinitely holy God, must be punished. Or he ceases to be God, and he cannot cease to be God. His justice would be tarnished. His righteousness would be diminished. And so punishment is an absolute necessity. He condemns our sin. But he doesn't leave us there. Because this is the work of the bridegroom. The bridegroom. Washing with the water of the Word, so that she might be presented the church to Himself with splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, and holy and without blemish. He cleanses us. Tough love condemns sin, never once negotiating sin. Tender love, cleansing, purifying, washing with the water of the Word. You ever feel polluted, beloved? Yeah you ever feel the weight of that pollution guilt of your sin? You ever been involved with what some in my background might call a good gossip session. You know, when you're in the throes of it There's no stopping it, right? It's those people. They're wrong. They're stupid. They're ignorant to the real picture. They're not on board with what's important, etc. etc. etc. Ever been there? You feel that? The pollution? You kinda walk away and all of a sudden you're So puffed up and feeling good about how you're kind of higher and better and bigger and everybody else on the planet. And then Something akin to your own voice, that still small voice, it's got your it's got your ring to it, comes to mind Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such as is good for the building up, as it fits the occasion, so that it may be profitable for all the hearers. Let your speech be seasoned with grace and edifying, and you realize your pollution And then you see and sense and feel the cleansing, the washing of the water of the word And you know that the bridegroom has paid the price for that sin, and you repent. You thank God for the reminder of His of His Word, for the work of His Spirit, for the memorization of Catechetical instruction. You thank God that it's planted deeply in your heart so that you might not sin against God. And you receive again the forgiveness that the bridegroom provides to the bride, and you receive again the credit of his righteousness by faith. And you go and you make amends to those that you've destroyed with your tongue, and you move on. He cleanses us with his love. It's a love that sacrifices, it's a love that purifies If you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Though your sins be like scarlet, they will be as white as snow. They are like though they are red like crimson, they will be like wool, Isaiah 1 He has taken your sins and cast them to the depths of the ocean. He tells us in Jeremiah thirty one that he actively remembers your sins no more. Actively remembering your sins no more is different than forgiving and forgetting Because God is an omniscient God. He knows all things. So he chooses, because of Christ's sacrifice, to not hold our sin against us. Hallelujah, what a savior. For shame that we would run to sin then For shame that we would do that to him, that I would do that. To him. It's a love that sacrifices, a love that purifies, and it's a love that nurtures A love that nourishes, cherishes, nurtures. See what Paul says? In the same way, husbands Should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but he nourishes and he cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. He nourishes and he cherishes the church. Do you hear that? And then make your heart leap In this world that's so filled with venom and anger and hatred and despicable things? To know that you're cherished and to be nourished by one who knows your full need. Some of you know my great love for cats. Not the musical, the animal. Not I'm kind of they're growing on me. Django Bell, he's a pretty good example of a feline. But it's kind of like getting used to Brussels sprouts. Not so with my kids. They whip Jangle Bell up off the ground and he just wraps up like this like a little baby. And you can rock him and you can put him in a blanket and you can set him on a pillow and if you lay down in front of the TV, he curls up next to you and watches TV. Just an animal planet But to see that picture of the cradle listen, I hate cats But somebody's gotta love them. And when you see somebody loving that which is really easy to hate You see this text again. Look at the cherish. Look at the nourishment. Look at the nurturing that's taking place. Look at that despicable thing receiving it. That's us, beloved. That's us. And he nourishes and he cherishes and he nurtures. Listen, here's the here's the kicker. Whatever the church needs the bridegroom provides, whether it's correction to avoid the greater danger of vain belief described by Paul in First Corinthians fifteen, or whether it's the assurance of salvation for somebody who's in discouragement. The throes of discouragement. The bridegroom knows the need of the bride, and he nurtures exactly at the point of our greatest need. And he does so because he is full of his own glory. You see, that's what Paul is saying. Husbands, you know how to take care of yourselves. You know you're gonna get up, you know you're gonna get the coffee, you know, you know, all this stuff, you know, we're getting ready to go on vacation. I know I'm gonna take care of myself And Paul says, husband, you know you're going to take care of yourself. You cherish and nourish your own body. You need to do that for your bride. And I know I'll fail, but Christ never fails. And the picture there is for to not provide for his church would be. Reprehensible and a diminishing of his glory because the church is the glory of Christ. Why do you think we get so really excited and energized about the church? Because Christ is I believe in local church membership. I believe in local church attendance. I believe in ministry in and through the local church. Why? Because the church is the glory of Christ. We need a greater love for His church Than we have right now. And I can say that on the full authority of the Word of God because we don't love the church the way Christ loved the church. We don't. But we should. The Lord of Glory. It's a love that sacrifices, a love that purifies, a love that nurtures, and it's a love that never ends. It 's a love that never ends. Paul says, therefore a man will leave his father and mother and a and he will cling To his wife, and the two will become one flesh. This profound mystery I speak to you is of Christ and the church We are in union with Holy God because He has redeemed us. He has transferred us from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of His glorious light, and we are one with Him. His spirit dwelling in us, bringing us to completion. You may not feel completed right now. We don't, because we live in this present age. But one day One day every knee will bow, every tongue will confess, the sky's gonna crack open wide, and everyone will know that Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And those who are his beloved will be received into his welcoming arms and seated at the banquet that is the wedding feast, and we will celebrate and rejoice. And enjoy that union for eternity. The church's one foundation is Jesus Christ, her Lord. She is his new creation by water and the word. From heaven he came and sought her to be his holy bride, and with his own blood he bought her, and for her life he died. Yet she on earth hath union with God, the three in one, and mystic sweet communion with all those whose rest is one O happy ones and holy, Lord, give us grace that we, like them, the meek and lowly, on high, may dwell with thee. It's an unending love. The Greek word used there by Paul is that word that Alan described a couple of weeks ago. That cleaving is to be like superglue. joined together so that if there is a ripping apart it causes damage to those two pieces. That's the union of Christ and his bride So I want to ask you, do you rejoice in the love that God has over you? I know I don't the way I should. The what would free me from anxiety, the what would free me from the demands of of us, you know, do you like me, do you not like me, do you you know If I'm loved by the bridegroom, I can handle, and you can too, what comes your way. Do you rejoice in the love that God has over you? Have you received by faith the work of his sacrifice for you? Have you admitted your sinfulness? 100% admission, 100% reception, and by faith grow in percentage as we walk with him Are you participating willingly in his purifying process? When the word is presented to you and you see the discrepancy between your life and what you should be Do you fight that? Or do you submit to the washing? Are you gladly receiving what he believes you need? Because he nourishes and he cherishes and he nurtures, but he does so according to your need. Whether that be The delivery of something to your life that is filled with sorrow or filled with joy, it came from the bridegroom's hand. Are you gladly receiving that? Are you living in the assurance that is possible for you that you are in union with Him? I trust that you are. I hope that that is every single person's testimony in this room that they know That they know that they belong to Him. It was said of Charles Haddon Spurgeon That he believed assurance of salvation was so possible in this life that he would gladly swing out over a thin Corn uh dried corn rope over the fires of hell singing Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine, at the top of his lungs. Because that's how secure the love of God is in Christ Jesus. For you, it's possible. Let's pray together. Gracious God, we pray that you would um help us Help us to know your love, Lord. We think of the prophet Zephaniah that he describes you as one who is rejoicing with singing over your people. Oh, that we could understand more of your great love for us, your sacrifice on our behalf, the way you wash us with the water of your word, the way you cleanse us and nurture us. Care for us, even come what may, be it negative or positive. And Lord, the uh the way we need you to work in us is we need assurance, Lord. I pray for conversations that occur after this time together. That you would uh work deep in our hearts so that we would know Christ as Lord and we would follow you all the days of our life in Jesus' name As we pray, Amen.