I want to invite you to turn in your copy of the scriptures to Paul's letter to the church in Ephesus, Ephesians. We're going to look at a portion of uh chapter five, Ephesians chapter five. And as you're uh turning there, uh I I just heard Rick uh remind you, but uh if you haven't had an opportunity to take a look at the uh little uh video clip that was sent out. Uh it was uh sent out from Alan through me and so people were um trying to figure out but that's just teamwork. Uh Alan and Tim working off the same computer it seemed like and so that's how close we are as a staff So we uh we do hope that you have an opportunity to view Jay Edwin Orr. If not before the five o'clock prayer time today, then sometime in the near future. Uh I think that would be uh it's challenging. It's a good history lesson and um It would be good for our congregation. That's why Alan wanted to put it before you. So we have uh Paul's letter to the Ephesians and a sermon entitled This Profound Mystery, The Bride. About a month ago we preached this profound mystery, the bridegroom. And today we're going to be looking at the passage again, but in a different perspective. I could inundate you now at this point with various quotations, a litany of quotations, in fact, from Christian authors. Which reflect a growing trend in the evangelical world of those who seek to enjoy the benefits of Christ Without the baggage of the church, the benefits of Christ without the baggage of the local church. And we scratch our heads and say, huh? Have the bridegroom without the bride. The union that has existed for 2,000 years, and yet that is what is going on. In their labor of love and hard-hitting book entitled Why We Love the Church in Praise of Institutions and Organized Religion, Co-authors Kevin DeYoung and Ted Kluck write about what they observe as a desire toward what they have termed decorpulation. Quote, if decapitation from the Latin word caput means to cut off the head, then it stands to reason that decorpulation from the Latin word corpus, which refers to the body a cutting off of the body. There is a growing movement among self-proclaimed evangelicals and in the broader culture To get spirituality without religion, to find relationship without the rules, and to have God without the church. More and more people are looking for a decorpulated Christianity. That's why we're in this passage today. We look at God's word to clear up that kind of thinking. That kind of temptation for all of us to think independently of God's truth The security and safety, the promises preached and lived out in the life of the local church. That's where we find Christ. Most fully presented in this world. We look at this passage today The bride, the church, and I believe God's word has something to say to those who are gathered here today who are dedicated to the local church and its mission. But like me, on a regular basis, we need to be spurred on toward love and good deeds. We need a reminder and we need a continual reminder of what it's about to those dedicated to the local church. This sermon is for you. To those who are distant from the local church. That are gathered here today, distant from the local church and its mission, it doesn't seem to connect with your view of Christianity. It doesn't feel Like love when you gather with the church. This message is for you This message is for the one who is divorced from the local church and its mission. He may be here today, but It springs from some sort of obligation, and if quizzed on your motivation why you came, you'd be hard-pressed to give the reason. Or to give the reason out loud why you're here. This message is for one, and maybe you're here with us Who's in discovery mode of the local church and its mission? You're trying to figure out Just exactly what the connection is to this group of people that gather to sing praise to an invisible God And do so one day every seven. What is going on here? This message is for all of those and those that I couldn't think of a D word for Because God's word speaks to us. Let's look at Ephesians 5, then. Beginning in verse 22. And continuing on to verse 33, God's word. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its savior Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh But nourishes and cherishes it just as Christ does the church Because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound. And I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself and let the wife see that she respects her husband. God 's word Rick has already said uh I preached the part A or part one to this of July 18th. And there was vacations and a whole bunch of things in between But in that day we looked at how this mystery is presented Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, takes the closest union that humans can experience Two lives separate to a point a male and a female. Male and female And those two lives separate to a point come together and have a union that is Presented in nature, creation, and spiritually as this union of two becoming one And Paul looks at those pictures of husbands and wives and under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and he says This is what it is that Christ would join himself to us, his people. This is the profound mystery that I'm describing. And in this passage, we know in context where Paul's writing to the Ephesians, he's writing about what it is to be filled with the Spirit, what it is to be the people of God, what it is to be considered Controlled by the Spirit of God. And in the beginning part of chapter five, he's talking about imitators of God and following closely and walking in step with the Spirit and these things. And to be controlled not by wine or by the senses or by physical things that we take into our system, but by the Spirit of God Platoma as it fills us and we are led and brought along by the Spirit. And then we will be people speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and giving thanksgiving. And this union of people that are brought together simply and because of Christ has brought them to himself And the world's gonna see that, and the world is gonna marvel at that, and the world is going to inquire into that. And so Paul says, what we have here, brothers and sisters, what we have here is a profound mystery. Christ and the Church. And certainly this is found throughout Scripture, the idea of marriage and as a type or pointing us to God and his dealings with the his people. Psalm 45, Isaiah 50, Isaiah 54, Isaiah 62, Jeremiah 2 3 31 Hosea 1 through 3 chapter 11 chapter 14 Matthew chapter 9 John 3 2 Corinthians 11 and the passage that Rick read from Revelation It's clear that God wants us to get a hold of this concept. So we look at these verses to do that. We see verse twenty-four, Paul's pressing this analogy. As Christ is the head of the church and he himself its Savior. So wives interact together In verse 24, the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands and everything. There's the analogy, the equation again. In verse 25, the direct connect, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Husbands, that's the way you're to love. And see it clearly again stated in verse 29. No one ever hated his own flesh, but he nourishes it, he cherishes it, just as Christ cherishes the church. The equation. See, it's a one-for-one. It's an analogy. We're supposed to take time, stop, and look at what's being described there. And Paul uses the analogy that none of us can get beyond. You take care of yourself. You love and nourish and cherish your own flesh. That's how Christ loves the church. He says, husbands, love your wife the way you love yourself. For to love your wife that way is to love yourself. And we we get really start to get boggled with this mystery, this profound mystery And we're reminded of the priestly prayer that Jesus prayed in John 17. That his personal protection and provision over his bride is his glory. Don't believe me? Look it up, right? John 17, verse 10. John 17, verse 22, as Jesus prays to God the Father. The glory that I had with you from all eternity, now this glory I give to them I'm going to glorify myself through a people. They're going to be not desirous of worshiping They're going to be not desirous of holy living. And I'm going to transform them in such a way that their lives are going to reflect my glory. As they are grown from grace to grace and glory to glory and they're conformed to my perfect image, they're going to cause the world to see those good deeds and give you praise, Heavenly Father. That's the connection. We have the double emphasis there In verse 29, of nourishing and cherishing. I don't want to leave this too soon. I want us to see this, to nourish our bodies, to cherish our bodies. And then to love someone like that. That's what Paul is saying, Christ has done. The glory that's due Him, He wants to be in us. So the Greek word for nourish there is to tenderly care. Think now, remember the analogy. Christ is saying, This is how I love you, my beloved, to tenderly care, to protect. It's used again in chapter 6 of raising children. John Calvin translated Ephesians 6. 4, to let the children be fondly cherished. This is the idea that is carried here. And then you have the double emphasis. Whenever you're studying the word, and there's a double emphasis to nourish and to cherish. We take note of those double emphases because God is saying, this is my care for you. The word cherished there is found in the letter, the first letter that Peter wrote, speaking of a mother. And you see them throughout the congregation. tenderly holding the little one, the precious little one, who can't walk on their own yet, who needs everything from them. That's the picture of a cherished One who is cherished and loved. And Jesus wants you to hear that that's the way He loves His church. When I preached this a month ago, we we looked at the love that the bridegroom has for the bride. We looked at the love that husbands are called to love their wives with. It's a love that sacrifices. Verse 25, husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. It's a love that purifies. He condemns sin. He will not tolerate sin in your life or mine. But he cleanses from sin as well. It's the tough and tender love of the bridegroom at work in us. To convict of sin and to comfort with the gift of repentance. He cleanses from the pollution of sin He laid down his life so that condemnation couldn't come your way, and he lived his life so that cleansing was possible. It's a love that nurtures. We looked at that. It's all over this passage. the comfort and care that Christ has for us. And it's a love that never ends. Paul says for this reason a man will leave his mother and father and a woman leave her home. And he's Pointing the listener to the fact that those two are joined together as one, inseparable. And when he speaks then of the profound mystery, it's a union with Christ that occurs and lasts for all eternity. So we gather one in seven to rehearse for that time when sin doesn't distract us. From pure and unadulterated worship and praise and exaltation and connection and union with the one who loved us and laid down his life. for us. So today, four points. Bridegroom. I want to be a better bride. Or better, maybe better spoken, I want us to be a church that grows together in the grace that God has So richly lavished upon us and grows together as that bride whereby the world will see a difference. And they'll inquire of the hope that we have. Is that your prayer as well for the church? For us as his people Well, let's look at four points of how to be a better bride. As we uh launch into this, I'm well aware that many of us have been to marriage retreats. We've read plenty of material on marriages. Maybe you've even benefited from the private personal counsel of another as you've had your marriage looked at closely. And all those things are well and good And maybe, and that's how I want this sermon to be presented, I preach with the expectant hope that God and His Holy Spirit will be at work in you and me Those of us who are married, those of us who are preparing to be married, that he'll work in us to bring specific instances where we can repent, where we can rest again in his righteousness, and where his Yeah. Spirit can be at work in our marriage for the better. But this isn't particularly about a marriage lesson. So take what you get as benefit God will bring your way, but we're going to look at what it means to be the church. I want us to see the profound mystery. Like Rick prayed, it was interesting because in my notes actually here I want us to see what it means to be called to be the church, to be called in the church in Columbia, to be the church in Howard County, to be the church in the United States of America, to be the church in the world and to the uttermost parts of the universe. The praise to the glory of God So we see here the first characteristic or the first thing that a bride is called to is a bride is called to willingly submit to her head. Willingly submit to her head. You know, in verse 22 where we began to read, there's a word in your English translation in mine, the word submit, but it's not really found in the Greek there. It's in verse 21. In verse 21, it says, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. That's the foundation for how husbands and wives and parents and children and masters and slaves are to relate to one another. What is it? Mutual submission. And so what the English translators have done is taken the foundational verse, verse 21, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, and said, Wives to your husbands. Husbands love in this way. Children, obey your parents. Parents, do not exasperate, but nurture, rear them tenderly. Masters, don't exasperate your slaves. Slaves submit to your master as to the Lord. These are the things that have to do with mutual submission. And so the first thing that a bride is called to is to willingly submit to her head. Thank you, Rick, for reading from Colossians chapter 1. He that is Christ, the head of the body, the church, he is the beginning, the firstborn of the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. There's a functional difference between the head and the body, but there is glory to be shared. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace. between sinful man and holy God by the blood of his cross. The Bible doesn't let you get very far. Or stray too remotely from the cross and the work that was accomplished for us there. And so we don't want to stray too far either. The word submit here is uh hopitasso. It's a military term. It means to willingly uh relinquish your rights and submit yourself voluntarily to the authority of another. That's what we're called to do as the Bride of Christ, to come under the submission, to come under submission to his leadership. This concept is found throughout the New Testament. In Philippians chapter 2, we see that picture of The one who was equal with God, who did not consider equality with God something to be grasped And Paul says, let each one of you not look to your own interest, but to the interest of others. Mutual submission. In Hebrews chapter 13, the writer of that book tells us to submit ourselves to our leaders because those leaders have an awesome responsibility. They have to give an account. for what they've done to oversee our life and our doctrine. So submit and make their make their task a joy. In Romans chapter 12, none of you should think more highly of yourselves than you ought. But to consider the other, do you see the mutual submission? Do you see what we're called to? And one may say, how does this fit with the bridegroom and the bride again? And you recall on the night in which he was betrayed, the one who would lay down his life for you and for me. The one who was about to be uh spit upon and mocked in a in a trial that had no basis, in fact. Bringing accusations against him that he was completely innocent of on that same night In which he was betrayed, the Lord of glory, the one who spoke all creation into existence, wrapped a towel around his waist. Listen, beloved, he wrapped a towel around his waist and took a basin of water and knelt before the disciples, one of which Was to betray all of which were to flee from his presence very shortly, and he washed the disciples' feet When we talk about mutual submission, how dare we begin to assert what we have a right to? Amen. I feel that always in my heart when I'm called to do something. Oh boy. And it's a reminder to place John 13 square in front and to see a towel wrapped around the waist of the Lord of glory. He did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for the many. The Bible talks of marriage as mutual submissiveness and mutual possessiveness. The 1 Corinthians, Paul's teaching on marriage is so uh great in that way that mutual possessiveness is presented. The the structure, the functionality The difference between the roles doesn't include a definition of superior and inferior. And if you need To search for that, see where Paul uses the analogy of just as the head, just as the husband, just as the man is the head of the wife. So Christ is the head of the church, even God is the head of Christ. There's something to that, and I think that's why Paul speaks of a profound mystery. We will be unraveling that mystery for ages. So the bride is called to willingly submit to her head The bride is also called to openly acknowledge her own husband, her one and only husband. In verse 22, Paul says Wives submit to their own husbands. And in verse 33 he reiterates, let the wife see that she respects her husband, singular, possessive. The discussion here is that the bride is called to openly acknowledge her one and only husband to the watching world. That's what makes marriage successful, by the way, if you want a marriage lesson. If you're embarrassed about your spouse, trouble, right? The problem of the church is that idolatry is as old as mankind. Our first parents, Adam and Eve in the garden were unwilling to submit to the Creator and they were unwilling to demonstrate their love for him by their submission and their obedience to him, each one in that act of disobedience believed that there was something greater than God. That's idolatry. And they took and they ate the fruit and it plunged all of us into this condition whereby we have to fight against Our hearts creating idols that would take the place of the throne of God. It's for many of us, as many of us are sitting in this room listening to this sermon. There are that many potential idols possible and then some. What is it? An idol is anything that we worship other than God. It's anything that we place our trust in other than God. It's anything that we seek to be secure in, other than God. Idolatry takes An overt form. You know, we see it in some and we say, oh, that's hideous. How disgusting. How could they serve that thing, that dedicated, that enslaved? And we see that, and sometimes we're repulsed by that. But idolatry also takes a subtle form, a form sometimes when there isn't really something readily identified. What's going on? They seem to be so faithful, so dedicated, but there's still something at war for the supremacy of Christ inside. It could be simply the absence of Christ as preeminent. I saw a tweet this week from the Valley of Vision. It was heart penetrating, and I sat there and had to read it a couple of times. I want to read it to you, and I'll probably read it a couple of times. My sin is that my heart is pleased or troubled as things please or trouble me without my having a regard to Christ in those things. My sin is that my heart is pleased or troubled by the things that please or trouble me without my having a regard to Christ. I think we have to guard against apathy toward Christ as much as we have to guard against overt antagonism toward Christ. Because it's in the apathy toward Christ. It's in that subtle lie of the devil where we believe we can kind of go through this life without Him as our life and strength and righteousness and hope and peace. So the bride is called to openly acknowledge the one husband. Not worship another, not submit ourselves to another. Have you thought about what takes your uh time and attention If you have no other thought, what thought comes to you first That's one way to gauge an idol. It's also another way to confirm that you're a creature of flesh. But it is a good barometer to see where we spend our thoughts, where we spend our money, where we spend our energy, where we spend our worship. So a bride willingly submits, a bride openly acknowledges her husband, a bride joyfully seeks and receives the nurture that the husband provides. You see, we're people of purpose, and the purpose is that which Christ set for us. The purpose is that you and I would be conformed to the image of Jesus. Not just be a slightly better version of Tim, Boyce and Jean 's son, but that I would be the image of Jesus Christ. That's the reason he died. That's the reason he cleanses. That's the reason he purifies. So that eventually I'm a part of that bride. that is presented to him at that marriage feast of the Lamb without spot, without blemish, without any wrinkle, without any impurity whatsoever. Can you even imagine that? Can you picture what it will be like to be out of the presence of sin? There will be no distraction. There will be no thought. There will be no you and me interacting and you don't like me and I don't like you and boy I remember ten years ago when you said that and I shot that and what We it'll be it'll be all be gone. We'll be out of the presence of sin. We'll be freed from the power of sin, the penalty of sin. Will be presented and the sacrifice of Christ will be overlaid and we will be with him forever And the bride is called to joyfully seek and receive that cleansing while we're here in this present age. Christ didn't save us so that we could just stay the way we were when we got saved. He saved us so that we would be transformed by the power of the renewal, the washing of the water of the Word. The church is described by Paul in his letter to Timothy as the pillar and the buttress of truth. It's where men are dedicated to study the word, to be tested as men who are qualified to do that. And then that word is proclaimed. Seek out a church where the gospel is clearly preached. Seek out a church where the sacraments, the two sacraments that Christ gave to his people to picture the union that his bride has with himself, the Lord's Supper and Baptism. Seek out a church where loving and firm church discipline takes place. Because therein you will have growth. And really, the church, the local church, the expression of Christ's body on earth, that's where that takes place. Parachurch, uh para to come alongside church, parachurch serves well when it serves to come alongside the church and support the mission of church. Not to replace church. So this isn't an anti -parachurch message. This is a pro-church message and a pro-Parachurch message if parachurch is coming alongside church and supporting the mission of the local church. We need a lot to get this message out to this world at this present time. We need to work together But we need to support the bride. Again in John 17, we hear Jesus refer to the washing of the water of Word. The cleansing of his scripture preached to you, studied in small groups, conveyed one-on-one as someone comes to you with a reproof or instruction. Jesus said, Sanctify them, purify them, make them holy, Heavenly Father. Sanctify them by what? By truth. What is truth? He goes on, thy word is truth. It is in dedication A personal study, corporate study of the Word of God that we will be purified. I want to ask you a question that I asked myself. Now, this may be ironic for you because I'm the one preaching. How do you prepare for the preaching event How do you prepare for what it is when the corporate gathering occurs And the minister of God in the stead of Christ stands to proclaim the word, how what is the preparation like for you? But this week, I really wrestled with what is the preparation like for me Do I make sure that Saturday night is different than Friday night and Thursday night and Wednesday night? Do I ensure that I've prayed for whoever that individual is? Do I catch the email that comes from the office and I see the text and I follow the admonition from the precious one that sent it out that says, Read through this and ask the Lord to open your heart to his word. I'll be honest with you. I might if there's five steps I just listed, I might do two of them. Maybe one. Sometimes four Whatever. But this event where we ask for God's Spirit to supernaturally superintend the preaching of his word is important. I believe it. And I know you do too. So the bride is called to willingly submit to her head, to openly acknowledge one husband, her one and only husband. to joyfully seek and receive the nurture and to hope and to press forward toward the goal of godliness which God has called us heavenward in Christ Jesus. You see, there's a future event that's going to occur. We're not there yet. Take a look at my life. And I'll look it right back at yours. We're not there yet, but we will be. And it's the hope that we will be that keeps us driving forward, pressing forward. Correcting in love, coming alongside one who has sinned, and gently restoring that fallen one With the love of Christ, sharing the burden, doing the things that are required in a body where there are many members and yet one head who's directing it all. There's a future hope. The bride with hope presses forward to the goal. The story of our union with Christ, you know this, is at its heart a rescue mission. We're not anything close to what we will be. And Jesus knew that when he gave himself for us. Jesus knew what you were like when he died in your place It's a rescue mission. We were enslaved to sin under the penalty that our sins deserve. And Christ came to set us free He did so the only way possible. We needed someone to obey perfectly the law's righteous requirements. Only Christ could do it. We need someone who was a satisfactory sufficient uh substitution in our place, and he, the Lamb of God, laid his life down willingly To take your place, to take my place, beloved. There's a song that uh we usually hear it around Christmas time that the Christian group down here sings. How many kings? And I love that song. I think Sophia Waske sang it um a couple of Christmases ago. We'll get her to do it again Listen to the rescue mission presented. Would we do it this way? Follow the star to a place unexpected Would you believe after all we've projected a child in a manger? Lowly and small, the weakest of all, unlikeliest hero. Wrapped in his mother's shawl. Just a child. Is this who we've waited for? Because how many kings stepped down from their thrones? How many lords have abandoned their homes? How many greats have become the least For me, how many gods have poured out their hearts to romance a world that has torn all apart How many fathers have gave up their sons for me? The song asks the question, how many? And it gives the answer Only one. Only one bridegroom. Only one Hope. Only one who can restore you to a holy God. Only one who can protect you from the wrath of God to come. Only one who can nourish and cherish you. Only one who can cleanse you from the pollution of your sin. Only one, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord of Glory And so how can we be a better church? How can we be a better bride? I mentioned Kevin DeYoung earlier. He was at a conference in Baltimore in May And he preached on the topic of the church. And at the end of his message he he went through a litany of things of how the church could those twenty and thirty somethings gathered there, how they could respond and maybe be a more active part of their church. I'm gonna take his list and I've adapted it drastically. So if you hear the sermon, it's different But I'm giving him credit because boy it punched me right in the eye. And I not intend to punch you in the eye. But how can we be a better bride? Find a good church. I believe this is one. Find one where the gospel is preached, find one where the sacraments are practiced according to Scripture, find one where there's loving and firm discipline, and get involved in the church. Introduce yourself to someone. Follow up with someone who hadn't called you back. Go ahead, do it. Become a member. Commit yourself. Make a public commitment. Commit to Christ out loud and open. Acknowledge it. Invite friends from work to see you do so. Stay at that church as long as you can. Put away thoughts of a revolution at Starbucks where you can meet Jesus on your own or the decorpulated Christianity. Nothing against Starbucks, by the way. Recognize that life is lived out in the mundane. It's not a flashy world we live in. But all the glitz and glamour of the world want you to think that that's what your church is supposed to be Go to church Sunday and worship in spirit and church and truth and pray for that to happen on Saturday. Be patient with your leaders. Rejoice when the gospel is faithfully proclaimed. If you have a question about that, gently approach the one who proclaimed it. Because he wants to grow in Christ too. Bear with those who hurt you. Give people the benefit of the doubt. Say hi to the teenager that no one notices, and welcome the old people with blue hair. That was the young. Shake a hand to somebody with a tattoo Send a card to someone on the prayer list. A card, not an electronic mail. Volunteer for the nursery. Quite the thing because it's about 110 degrees in the nursery today. Read the emails that come from the office all the way to the end Invite a friend to come to worship with you. Take someone out for coffee. Plan your worship and giving before Sunday morning. Sing the songs like you mean it. If you don't, pray until you do. Be thankful that someone vacuumed the carpet instead of you Enjoy the Sundays that click and pray for the Sundays that don't. And in all things, rejoice in the one who loved you and gave himself for you. Let me pray for us. Heavenly Father, we ask that you would be at work in us to make us a better church. Lord, we pray that with boldness because you're at work in us, and with confidence we look to you to accomplish the work that only you can do. We pray for mutual submission. Among ourselves. We pray, Lord, when we're unwilling to submit, that you would remind us of the towel and the wash basin and the Lord of glory. Kneeling before the disciples. Lord, hear our prayer. We ask for it in Christ now. Amen.