We come again to 1 Peter. And over the last number of weeks, we began this series in 1 Peter, living the resurrection. And this resurrection described by Peter is described by him as a living hope. Because it is a hope anchored in the living victorious Christ. But what's interesting is that I believe that this letter is primarily about the reality of a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But connected to the key theme of a living resurrected hope is this. It is in the context of suffering. What's interesting is living the resurrection in a life that often doesn't seem touched by resurrection. As we've heard over the last couple of weeks, we recognize that those that he's writing to, he's just begun to open up the theme, the context. of a living hope in the midst of suffering that he will continue to unpack throughout the chapters as we go through them. It's important for him because this hope produces a joy that is so anchored deep in the soul. It is through faith that this joy takes this anchor, and this joy in faith, interestingly, paradoxically, is made more complete, more beautiful through the trial of suffering. It's refining. That I will tell you is a paradox A living hope full of joy anchored in the soul in the midst of gut-wrenching difficulty and trial. What we cannot do when we face the paradox like this in Scripture, we cannot flatten it out and choose the one or the other. We cannot simply look at the brokenness of the world around us and say, well, it's just broken. I'm giving up. But nor can we simply look at the scriptures and highlight the hope as if we can just be victorious without any paying any attention to the difficulty in trial. We have to have them both together because I believe that they are both together in the work of Christ. Suffering and glory that gives us hope, even in the midst of suffering and trial. So we come, as we've gone through these first opening verses, to a new section, verses 10 through 12. Peter connects it to what he had just said in these words when he says, concerning this salvation. So here now the Word of God, verses 10 through 12. This beautiful salvation. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you searched intently with the greatest care. Trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you when they spoke of the things that have now been told to you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things. Will you pray with me? Father, we now ask that by the work of your Holy Spirit, by your promise, I pray that you would bring this word alive to us because it is living, but we would ask that you would invade us. With the truth of this great salvation. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning, as we look at this new section, in many ways, what he does in just three verses, he summarizes The greatness of the salvation through Jesus Christ, the gospel itself. And so what I want you to see this morning is that these verses give us the history of the gospel. It gives us the content of the gospel and the beauty of the gospel. The history, the content, and the beauty. of the gospel. Let's begin with the history of the gospel. You'll notice in verses 11 and 12 He begins in verse 10 referring to these prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you, talking about how they searched intently. What's interesting is he's beginning to set up the history of the gospel by showing us the origin. Now, what I want you to see through these few collections of phrases, he shows us very quickly its origin. Notice. He says, the prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you searched intently and with the greatest care. Those are to be synonyms. With great desire, with great work, and with great care they searched. And then it says in verse 11, trying to find out the time and circumstances to which, now it says, the Spirit of Christ. In them was pointing. And then he says, when the Spirit was predicting the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. And then notice these first few words in verse 12. It was revealed to them. Now, why do I bring this up? Because he's telling us through the verb tenses the origin of the verb. The history of the gospel. It is this. It's what scholars call a divine passive. Notice, it wasn't the prophets. Who dreamed up when the suffering was going to take place, or the person who would suffer? It wasn't the prophets who were pointing to the time. It wasn't the prophets who suddenly desired within themselves to find out the times. No, it tells us. That it was God through his Spirit, the Spirit of Christ, working in and through the prophets. Notice, it says, it was revealed. Do you hear the passiveness? It wasn't they they didn't search the revelation, it was revealed to them. Through whom? Through the Spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit. The origin of the gospel is God Himself Hold with me. Look at the unity. The unity in the history of the gospel is given to us clearly here. Because notice what he does. He draws a very clear parallel. He begins in verse 10 by saying, the prophets. Through the Spirit of Christ working in them, predicting the times and circumstances about the one who would suffer. But then look at verse 12. He makes the transition. Verse 12 it says, It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you when they spoke of the things. Now watch the switch, it's here. That have now been told to you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit. Peter is saying that the history of the gospel began through God's initiative, working through the Spirit of Christ in the Old Testament prophets. That it was then predicted, and now the apostles who preached the gospel hear Peter literally preaching to them through his letter by what? By the Holy Spirit that came at Pentecost. That I stand before you this morning, May 12, 2012. I do so, not by my own dreaming But by the calling of the Holy Spirit on my life to the gospel ministry to preach, not a message that I dreamed of, but a message that came to me by the Holy Spirit through the scriptures that were preached by the apostles, carried out through the through the prophets, carried out, ultimately, given to by the Spirit of Christ from God Himself. Do you see that the history of the gospel is about one thing? That the initiative the carrying it out, the empowering of it, the continuance of it, and the symmetry between the Old Testament prophets and the New Testament apostles down to the present-day preachers who are preaching the gospel, it is this. The story of Christianity is about God giving the message to man, not man working his way to God. The source of the power of Christian gospel, the Christian message, is not dreamed up by any human being sitting in this room. It was not dreamed up by the early church fathers. It was not dreamed up by the apostles. Go back and read the gospels. It was given as a gift by God Himself. The story of the Christian message is the history of what? The salvation of the Lord is not man to God, but God to man. Christianity teaches and the Christian understands that the emphasis is never, never, never on man's actions. It is alone on God's actions towards man. If you switch it, and oh how we are tempted to do so. We will rob the gospel of not only its true historicity, we will rob it of its power. Because we must be willing to hear what the history of the gospel has said about us. What Peter is implying here about the history, Paul says explicitly when he says in Romans 3, verses 11 through 12, there is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away. They have together become worthless. There is no one who does good, not even one. Paul, the apostle, the preacher, was carrying on what he had heard from the Old Testament, Psalm 53, verses 1 through 3. God looks down from heaven on the sons of men. To see if there are any who understand, any who seek after God, everyone has turned away. They have together become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. The gospel tells us that this is not our gospel. It is an alien good news, thought up by no man nor woman, for we did not seek after God. God Seeks after you. And here in giving to us the history of the gospel Peter does this. He then gives us the content of the gospel. Now, here's what's so beautiful about these words. In three words, three words, Peter summarizes the entire content of this gospel. That has originated to God and come to us. These three words are grace, suffering, and glories Do you see it? Let's go back to verse ten. Concerning this salvation. The prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you What Peter does, he uses the word salvation, and then he uses its synonym, grace. And he takes all that God has done in Jesus Christ and uses one word, grace. Grace and salvation that was intended for us concerning this great salvation, salvation from whatness? It is this: rescued from an incurable flaw. In our nature, original sin. Let me say again. This grace, this salvation, is about God Himself. Rescuing us from an incurable flaw, original sin And grace is Christ saving us from our sins As we see the word grace, this grace has come to you, and I want you to hold on to that phrase. Now look at the next word: suffering. Verse 11, trying to find out the times and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when he, that is the Spirit of Christ through the prophets, predicted the sufferings of Christ. What I want you to see, if I could draw up a diagram, he's just done this. Grace has come to you Sufferings come to Christ. Said another way. Through the prophets, grace was intended for you. Suffering was intended for Christ. Do you see the amazing reality of the content of the gospel? But then he goes further. He says this. It doesn't end with sufferings. He says the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. Watch. Grace has come to you. Sufferings have come to Christ Therefore, glories now belong to Christ. Goes all the way back to where he began in chapter 1. The resurrection. Isn't that what he said in the opening verses of 1 Peter? Let me turn there just very quickly when he says these words. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ in him. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power. He's just given to us In these three words, what he said just earlier, grace has come to you, sufferings to Christ that were followed by glories. Let me build on the inference. Let me build on the historicity by saying to you, in three words, grace, sufferings, and glories. He has just summarized the entirety of Isaiah chapter 53. If it's been a while since you've read Isaiah chapter 53, let me remind you of these wonderful words. See if you can pick out the grace, the sufferings, and the glories. He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was cursed for our iniquities, the punishment that brought us peace. Do you hear the grace? The punishment that brought us peace. Was upon him. By his wounds we are healed. Do you hear the grace? We're healed. We receive peace. He receives suffering. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, he did not open his mouth. He was assigned a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, though he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth, yet it was the Lord's will to crush him and cause him to suffer Though the Lord makes his life a guilt offering, here the glories. He will see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. And after the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life and be satisfied by his knowledge, and my righteous servant will justify many, and he will bear their iniquities Therefore, he will give him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong, because he poured out his life unto death, and was numbered with transgressors. for he bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Do you hear the grace? Do you hear the suffering? Do you hear the glories? And may I say the resurrected Savior is now sitting at the right hand of God the Father and is interceding for everyone in this room right now. The content of the gospel sent by God Grace meant for you, suffering, and then glory for Christ. Now let me ask you a question I want to say a couple of things, and I want to go a little deeper about this gospel of grace. The gospel is not three things. The gospel is not merely intellectual transformation In an intellectual assent to transmitted information about Jesus. It is not merely behavioral transformation. Where Christianity is just following the rules. And it is not merely emotional transformation. where coming to Christ has to be demonstrated by some emotional response, and you need to keep that up. The gospel is never merely intellectual, behavioral, or emotional. It is far more than that because of this. Grace. When he says, Grace was meant for you. Do you know what grace is? I'm sure there are many here this morning who could say to me with textbook accurateness, accuracy. Grace is, you can finish this sentence, unmerited favor, right? Yes and amen? Okay. But does that get at it? It doesn't. I'm not saying that answer is wrong. It's merely it's certainly not wrong. But I'm grateful to Dr. Brian Chappell, who I sat in his classes, president now of Covenant Seminary. He taught me to go deeper in grace. Jerry Bridges, in his book, Transforming Grace, has taught us, as we've gone through it as a staff, to go deeper in grace. Yes, grace is unmerited favor. Giving to those whom we have no obligation to give. But I will tell you, it is so much more than that. And here is what I have learned. It is not as though humanity in its incurable flaw are like beggars before Jesus. Asking for the bread of salvation, and he comes up to our cup as it were, like a homeless person on the street, and drops the nickels and quarters and the riches of salvation into our cup. Because he was not obligated to do so. Unmerited favor sounds like, if we're not careful, that God is giving to us even though He's not obligated to do so. But I will tell you that the deep grace of the Scriptures goes much deeper, and it is this. It is this, that at the cross, as we looked at a few weeks ago, Jesus Dying on the cross for our sins, for our iniquities, looked out on a crowd. They were not holding out cups, asking for the bread of salvation. They were spitting at the Savior. Grace is not giving to those that you are not obligated to give. Grace is giving to those who deserve the opposite. Jesus, looking out on those who cried out against him, said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And when he died, and he said those words, I want you to see there is a reason why we call it amazing grace. So I looked up in the thesaurus. What are some synonyms for amazing, alarming, staggering, bewildering? Astonishing. It's a blow-your-mind, electrifying, stupefying act of God. And here's the key grace has come to you I'm indebted as well to Tim Keller who said this and asked this question. Have you been disrupted by this grace? Have you been invaded? You see. If you have been invaded, if you have been disrupted by this amazing grace It will change you intellectually. It will change you behaviorally. It will change you emotionally, relationally, inwardly, outwardly. Just because you come to church and you've done so faithfully, you may know the outline of Christian grace, but that does not mean you know the content of Christian grace. Are we willing this morning to ask ourselves the question, how do I know this grace? I'll ask you this question. Has your life, has your relationships Has your intellect, has your behavior, have your emotions, have they been invaded by this grace? Why do I ask this question? It is because the beauty of the gospel, this grace, this salvation, has captured heaven. Do you see it in verse 12? Look again with me in verse 12. Says these words: It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you. When they spoke of the things that have now been told you by those who have preached the gospel by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, and then some of my favorite words in all of the New Testament. Even angels long to look into these things. Do you know why this has so captured my imagination and captured my heart? Because in that phrase, what Peter has just done, he's just told us how beautiful the gospel is. Do you know why? It's so beautiful. Because it is, well, you see it in your outline. It's great. Why is it great? I don't mean great because it's cool. I mean great because it's big. You know why it's so big? It's captured. Are you ready? It's all there. It's captured the entirety of heaven. If you go back in 1 Peter chapter 1, from verse 1 all the way down to verse 12, do you see who it's captured It is captured the triune God, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, and even to the angels. Do you see that heaven itself is bent on one thing, bringing glory to the triune God by showing Grace to those who deserved the opposites. And God the Father, giving of His Son, who died on our behalf Giving of the Holy Spirit who worked through the prophets and now through the apostles and now through merely a man preaching to you the great vastness of the beauty of the gospel. You see. And if it is captured, heaven itself, if angels long to look, what implications does that not have for us? Because the scriptures tell us we are a little higher than the angels. If the angels long to look What are you longing after? Do you see the greatness? But I want you to see the joy. Because I have to come back. I don't want to leave you. Yes, if you've answered the question, if you can say, has this grace invaded my life? If you're able to say yes or if you're not sure, what I want you to be aware of is that message is meant for you. For you, regardless of where you are. If you are not a Christian this morning, the message is still for you. Writ large by the greatness of heaven. For you And if you are a Christian, I want to say that this passage is very instructive for us. Because if heaven is captured Through the greatness of the gospel. And they are eternal. What implications does that have for us? And here's the reality: it is meant to spark a joy. If the angels long to look Then what they're looking at should have transformative power about what I long for. And if I understand, as C. S. Lewis has wisely taught me, That what I long for as a man and as a human being has an ultimate home And if I stop short and invest my longing in things that I can see and try to find satisfaction with my hands, I will only know joy and satisfaction. In lowercase letters. It will not satisfy. This was given to me this week through a great video of a flash mob. That actually went well. That was actually beautiful. On the Metro in Copenhagen, the Copenhagen uh Philharmonic Decided to surreptitiously get on the train at different times. They all got their instruments, they had them in the bags under their seats, and what began to play with a simple flute line Was the beginnings of a song called Morning Mood. It's uh written by Edvard Grieg. If you don't know, that's okay. I knew the song, not because I knew Edvard Greece. It's because they played it a lot during Bugs Bunny It's okay, I knew it. I'm like, I could see it. I could see his little ears coming out of the hall. I'm like, oh yeah, I know that song. So here's what happened. It started with a flutist, right? So she starts and then the obo came out. And then all of a sudden, people reach down, they grab their violins, put them on their shoulders. Teenagers took their iPods out of their ears. Adults began to strain. And soon the entire orchestra was there on this metro train. Playing this beautiful song. If you want to see it, there'll be a link on the CPC blog this week. I'll put it up there But here's what's amazing. By the end of it, I'm in tears And I took it home and I showed Kate. By the end, I'm in tears. She's in tears Then I decided to actually go to YouTube where it was originally uploaded and I began to read the the comments. People said, I'm in tears. And I began wondering as I was preparing for the sermon, why? We long as human beings for beauty. And when we see it, we get it. But here's the problem: it doesn't last It doesn't last. Glory, as Christianity teaches me to hope for it, turns out to satisfy my original desire, and indeed to reveal an element in that desire which I had not noticed. By ceasing for a moment to consider my own wants, I have begun to learn better what I really wanted We usually notice it just as the moment of vision dies away, as the music ends, or as a landscape loses the celestial light You know what I mean. For a few minutes we have had the illusion of belonging to that world. Now we wake to find that it is no such thing. We have been mere spectators. You could see it as the people got off that metro train. And as they stood there on the platform, they began to look longingly on the train. They didn't want to get off, but they had to. The video ended. The song was over. My tears dried up. See, that's what Lewis was describing. But he says this beauty When we respond that way, beauty has smiled, but not to welcome us. Her face is turned in our direction, but not to see us. We have not been accepted or welcomed or taken into the dance. It is not physical objects that I'm speaking of, but the indescribable something of which they, that music That symphony merely was the messenger. And part of the bitterness which mixes with the sweetness of that message is due to the fact that it so seldom seems to be a message. Intended for us, but rather something we have merely overheard, but we pine The sense that in this universe we are treated as strangers, the longing to be acknowledged, to meet with some response, to bridge some chasm that yawns between us. And reality is part of our inconsolable secret. We ache for beauty. We long for it, but we know the secret. One song is not enough One concert is not enough. One human being will never be enough to satisfy us. One good job, one good kid, one good victory. It's not enough. If you're honest, I know in my heart I want more. But Lewis has merely described something that is deep within me, and I believe deep within everyone who can hear my voice. But here's what he says. For glory means good rapport with God, acceptance by God, response, acknowledgement, and welcome into the heart of things. The door on which we have been knocking all of our lives will open at last. Do you see, friends, wonder of wonders that we meet with the beauty in the gospel, as this text tells us Not as strangers, not as those who merely overhear it, but those who find in the secret beauty of the gospel that has now been made public This message was meant for you. And it will satisfy the deepest of your longings. Because your desires have been looking for a home, and it will not find it until it is in Christ Himself. And if the angels long to look, do you know that the angels long to look even though they will never be participants in it? Do you see? The gospel was never meant for the angels, yet they longed to look at it It was meant for you to be received, to participate in And to have deep soul-anchored joy. And if this is what God has done from beginning to end, Who or what? Who or what can ever replace it or take it away? Praise be to God. No suffering, no joy could ever eclipse it. Because it is from God Himself, by His Son, through His Spirit. Grace to you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, come by this Spirit, through your Son, by this word. That we may see how great is your salvation. Father, we thank you for the many beauties that we see in this life. That point us to the ultimate beauty of the gospel. Lord, help us to see the gospel, the deep grace, the source of it. And the one who has given it, that we may long with all of heaven to be captured by it. In Jesus' name, Amen.