The scripture for the worship of our God this morning is from the Gospel of John, chapter twenty. The Gospel of John, chapter twenty. I'm going to add add two verses to the printed selection. I'm reading out of the out of the King James Version. Here Now God's word. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews. Jews came Jesus and stood in the midst, and said unto them , Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his sides. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you, as my father has sent me, even so. Send I you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Whosoever sins you remit, they are remitted unto them. Whosoever sins you retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, or the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples. Therefore said unto him, We have seen the war. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hand the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and Thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within and Thomas with them. Then came to Jesus, the doors being shut. And stood in the midst and said , Peace be unto you. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hand. Reach hither thy hand. And thrust it into my side, be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord, my God, Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written, that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and And that believing, you might have life through his name. Blessed be the Lord who has given to us this, his word. Let us ask for his. Blessings, our Father and our God. Open our hearts as you opened Thomas and the disciples. Open our minds as you did theirs. Challenge us as you challenged them. They are Commitment be as theirs. By the power of thy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm grateful for the privilege of standing before you again and sharing the scripture. One of the most important Books that I have read in recent years was Hiedrich Bonhoeffer's The Cost of Discipleship. remained in the quietness and the sanctity and the sanctuary of America. He had a teaching position. But he felt the call to go back to his beloved Germany. and dare to raise a voice and a witness in his church, the Lutheran Church, against the regardlessness of the Nazi movement. And so he went back to Germany and he preached and he practiced and he was imprisoned. Only a matter of a few days before his the end of the war, he was put to death. He had written a book and was translated then called The Cost of Discipleship. And in that book, he spoke of cheap goods. Grace and costly grace. He said that Jesus never called his church to cheap grace. It was costly grace. And so David Bonhocker sealed his testimony with his own blood because he believed his Lord Jesus would have him there and paid. Costly. You and I have read and reread and read again the story of Thomas. Someone whom the name Thomas on that character. Unfortunately, that word is brought over into the New International Version. That is not supported by the Greek language at that point. You're not doubting. We'll come to that in a moment. The significance of Thomas in the scripture is uh rather minor We read his name listed among the list of the disciples on several occasions. But it's in the 11th chapter of the Gospel of John in verse 8 where Jesus has said that they They in the Judea are angry with me and they've stoned me to death. And then right after that news came concerning the death of Lazarus and would he come or the sickness of Lazarus. Would he come? And Jesus said, Yes, we'll go. And Thomas spoke up, knowing that Jesus had just mentioned the anticipation of death by stoning. And Thomas said We 'll go with him, that we may die with him. That is not exactly the statement of a driver, is it? It's the statement of a dedicated man with a solemn conviction who is looking at the cost. Thomas, as one of the disciples , was part of the group that was going to continue the Christian faith in its institutionalizing process. And this is simply uh the the idea of of of Christ now getting ready to leave this earth, but leaving behind an organized body to continue what he is teaching and preaching has been. And this we mean by the institutionalizing of of Jesus Christ. in the work and the witness of the church. And so the disciples are gathered. They're gathered there as the group. They're still being numb. They're still convenient. confused, still elated, but not yet have they been turned into the kind of group that they will become after Acts chapter 2, and after some of the Chrysalis's experiences. of emerging from their butterfly nature , or rather from their worm nature into their butterfly nature. They have some changing to do. And so they were gathered. The first time Thomas not there. The second time Thomas being there. I wouldn't remind us, and this is why I I changed the reading. with the scripture for what I had previously given to your secretary, to incorporate these last two verses. These are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. And this belief is not easy believism. It is not cheap grace, to use Bunhoffer's translated words. It is costly grace. This is believing on Jesus. Jesus is expensive. I grew up in American fundamentalism. And I began to be suspicious as years went on, of the easy invitationalism that goes forth under the name of Come Under the Banners of Jesus Christ that began to bother me increasingly. And that's why in my definition of evangelism, I believe it's God's sons to spiritually dead sinners to fullness of life in Christ. That's God's summon, that's not a casual invitation. It is the king demanding. It is the sovereign compelling. And what is it he wants? He wants all of me all the time everywhere in everything. Now friends, that's costly. That is not easy believism. In this passage of Scripture, John has listed Thomas's previous statement in the eleventh chapter. Together with this statement, as part of his support for the concept of what it is to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. But whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Everlasting life that begins in this life. He that has the Son has life, present sense. You and I have entered into that everlasting life. lasting life. But what is involved now as well as involved when you and I pass beyond the pale and the veil of death. But so the gospel purpose here is to set forth what is involved in coming to Christ. I prefer to view Thomas as a thinking believer. Let's look then at that. We come down to verse twenty six and following. And again, and after eight days again his disciples were therein were within and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the door being shut, and stood in their midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Shalomala. The characteristic Hebrew Aramaic grief. Then he repeats precisely what Thomas has said. There's a balance there in verse 27 to verse 25, the parallelism that you see there. The finger The hands, reach forth your hand, thrust it into my side. There is that balance. And now we have an interesting use of shading of Greek words. this point. The simple word for belief is pistus, P-I-S-T-I-S. And believing is taken from that pistolo or pistalone. But this is a different word. It's P-I-S-T-O-S. The Greek language is capable of shades of thought which bring out such beauty, such depth. Amen. Jesus said to Thomas, Be not faithless, or perhaps unfaithful. The King James retains that. But then why did it retain the second use of it. Be not apistos but pistos. Be not faithless or unfaithful but faithful. What Jesus is saying to Thomas is, Thomas, you are to be one of the assembled brought-out disciples. I am committing to you and all of them listening. So this wasn't not just for Thomas. This was for all of them, although specifically it was most pointedly. Administered to Thomas, even if Jesus' later conversation with Peter was pointing to be administered to him, but it was for all of the disciples to hear and from which to grow. Thomas I want you to be faithful. This boss has the idea of a faithfulness in trust. Hence we would think of it in terms of a faithful servant. carrying out a commitment. You see , in the Gospel of Matthew, just before Jesus died, our Lord tells a number of parables. Preparing the disciples for his departure. And one of the parables that he tells has to do with the nobleman leading and committing to his departure. disciples gifts and talents. The five, the two, the one. Coming back and requiring of them an accounting as stewards. But the scriptures fellows that is required of a spirit that he be found faithful. Jesus is saying to Thomas and the disciples, I am committing to you my teaching My death, my resurrection. Be faithful. Be faithful in his proclamation. Be faithful in his presentation. Be faithful in your preaching. Be faithful. in your practice. This in a very real way is our Lord's resumen Thomas to the task of an apostle. even as a little later he resummons Peter to the task of being an apostle. Thomas has had some trouble putting it all together. He's been mulling over what did Jesus mean in all of his teaching and preaching and practice? What did what was Christ after in all of this? I think many of the disciples had trouble with this. That's why they had given. Believing in the written's report when they came back from the tomb. Their words seemed unto them as as idle tales or conceived fantastic hallucinations. Whether there was Peter and a little with him. John and Randall number the two. But I think all the disciples had some problems with this, not just Thomas. Thomas was lying things over and he was not there for that empirical evidence. That Jesus presented. He had not seen that resurrected form of Christ. He had not heard the voice of his Lord. Others had. And he simply found the difficulty in fitting it all together. It was not that Thomas disbelieved. He was not apostate. He had not now rejected what he had been taught, what he had learned, but he was trying to fit it all together. What does it mean? Dear friends, There may very well be some of you in the same condition like this day. You're trying to fit together what does the Christian message and the Christian faith and the person and the claim to And what does it mean for me And one of the claims that it makes upon my life. And to that end, I would look at the confession of Thomas. And the Lord Jesus said to him, Be not faithless But faithful. And Thomas responded, My Lord and my God. He has now witnessed the omniscient Lord Who knows that the very thoughts and the intents of the human heart? Perhaps he had heard Nathaniel recount how that Jesus had seen him under the fig tree. And with his heart. And now the Lord Jesus comes and says to him, almost locate him what he has said. This is a shocking experience. It demonstrates the continued authority of Christ over the affairs of the heart of a man, of a woman Reach forth, feel, touch, place your hand. Now we don't read that Thomas ever did that. Nor may we assume that he did. The picture is really quite graphic, isn't it? He simply responds, My Lord and my God. What a total confession is this. You are my messiah, my mashurak, my messiah who has come, who has given his life for me. You are my redeemer, you are my savior. You're my Lord, a sense of personal identification in the salvation of his soul A profound statement for a Jew to make, accepting the claims of Messiahship. And then he says, My God. Again, a very profound statement for a Jew to make. My sovereign, my owner, the controller of my destiny, the Lord of the universe. The creator of the world, the border of time and space, his energy You're my Lord, my Redeemer, my personal Savior, but you're my God, and you control all things, and all things are yours. To your praise and to your glory. And Thomas is there in acknowledging Not uncertainty, not a basillating Flash in the sort of faith, but a firmness of conviction he is not Thomas the Doubting But Thomas, the thinking believer, the thinking disciple. For him it will no longer ever be cheap and easy grace and believism, but costly grace. that requires of him his very life. If we may believe the traditions of the history of the church, Thomas left that whole section of the world and moved it to coast of India, near Kerala or Kerala Italy uh of India, and there established the Christian Church According to the history of that church in that corner of India, indeed the history is a very old one. And why not believe that Thomas put the message there? He was a sent one The thing that we would observe in this passage of Scripture for us is Jesus' challenge. to commitment. He goes on and he then uses the term bestow, believe Such that a continuing of believing is essential to a state of trust for stewardship. A continuum of a walk with the Lord is essential in representing Christ in this troubled world. A continuing of a devotional conversation with your Savior is essential if you and I are going to be witnesses of Him. And it may be costly. In my memory as a pastor My mind often goes back to one of the elders that I served that with whom I served in the first church in Franklin Square, PC. Arthur Hanson was a elder in that church and a young man. He didn't have a great depth of spiritual background and heritage. But he knew the Lord. And he served his Lord in a very faithful way. Very quiet, had trouble stammering. He would take his turn preaching, conducting prayer services, witnessing. He said to me, one day I asked him Martin, how long have you been working for Long Island writing? Oh, about twenty years. Said, You're faithful, you know your work. How come you haven't been promoted? He smiled in a shy sort of way and he said, Well, Pastor, I could have been, but it would have run against my testimony. To be compelled to do some of the things that the executives felt they had to do. Do and to be. I thought it would have been a compromise in my witness for Christ. And that was about all art said, but I never forgot it. I saw him so faithfully dead. illustrate his his his time and his abilities. When we built our congregation our congregation built its church there, Art was there with his sandwiches in his hand at lunchtime. He knew building and he was checking on the architect and checking on the contractor. And he gave of his services. But it was costly for Arnt. He could have gone higher in his company, but the cost. would have been a cost of compromise and he was not willing to do that. Jesus is saying that if you're going to be part of the spreading of the gospel, then I I want you to understand that you must die to yourself. You must deny yourself. You must take up your cross. You must Share my yoke. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. My yoke is easy, my burden is light, and you shall find rest unto your souls. The cross of our Lord Jesus Christ is not a picture. Of lush satin cushions. It's costly. Thomas was counting the cost. was a thinking believer. When my God summoned me to love him, I was not aware of some of the costs that would come. You and I learn these costs as we go through life, don't we? I hope I have delivered Thomas from the definition of doubting, Thomas. I hope you look upon him as a thinking mature believer who had some struggles putting things together. But I would appeal to some of you, perhaps some of you younger people in your teens. in the early twenties. What is Christianity all about? Is it worth the price? Does it make any sense at all? May I not have empirical evidence as always of support for my my actions? No, you may not. Empirical evidence does not answer the needs of personal faith. It's helpful to have certain things and attestations and supporting evidences But empirical evidences will never produce saving free. Never, never, never. And this is why Jesus goes on and he says, you have believed because you have seen. And you've heard my voice, but blessed are those who having not seen and having not heard yet will believe. And that's the church of the future to which I am sending you and the other disciples in its establishment and in its development. You and I have never seen We have never heard, we have never felt our Lord Jesus Christ. Yet we have believed. And the glory of our God has been our reward. Peace has filled our troubled souls. A sense of purpose has given to us a filling of the vacuum that might have been. The burden of our sins has rolled away. And my life and yours are claimed. These things are written that we might believe. And when you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son. Son of the living God. And when we promise we respond, my Lord, my God. Now it is that Jesus says, I send you. And to Notice how it all began, this particular section, receive the Holy Spirit, who is sufficient for these things, our sufficient Of the Lord, and so we go back into the power of the Spirit. I have come in recent years to view the Gospel of John in a different light and the many. I see it as the transitional book from the times of the apostles in the sense of the being disciples to the book of Acts. The preparation for the coming of the Holy Spirit in this great demonstration of power. And I've come to see the believing in the book of John is very much related to the work of the Holy Spirit. Which work of the Spirit is developed and carried out in the book of Acts and throughout the rest of the New Testament. The power for witness, the power for bearing the cross, the power of sharing. The yoke, the power for denial of oneself, the power for holy living, the power to struggle with sin that indwells us, that's that calls against us. For all of this is the Spirit of God working in you and in me. Jesus calls us. He does not call us to flowery beds and ease. He calls us to his service. And he wants us to share with Thomas that glorious confession, my Lord, my God. Do you know him that way? This morning. When you accept Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are accepting Him as your Lord as well. You do not make Christ Lord any more than you You make Christ God. You accept Him for what He is. You respond to what He demands. He God. He is Lord. And my soul rise up, acknowledge his lordship, rejoice in his deity, serve him. Ask him for strength, for wisdom, for guidance, for counsel. Ask him to convict you are sin This is the cost of saying with Thomas, my Lord, my God, let us pray. Oh Lord. We rejoice in your mercies and in your grace. Again, as we read these glorious passages of scripture and put ourselves for Any were and see ourselves as they were. Gracious God , move our hearts. Hearts. of obedience , lives of devotion , of sacrifice, of service. Help us we pray. Remember whose we are. And whom we serve. Even our risen Lord Jesus, the blessed Spirit of God, the Heavenly Father, servants Are we of the sovereign triune God? In thy name we pray. Amen.