Thankfully, that has rarely ever happened in our congregation, and in every case so far we've been able to effect a reconciliation. What would I do in a situation like that? Well, after seeking to enter into your pain with you, to not minimize that in any way. And then to seek to help you to see what ways there might be that the relationship has deteriorated, things that need to be repented of, and what there may need to be done to Provide reconciliation, restoration. Let's face it, sometimes we are in relationships where we've done everything that we can do and we are left with now simply saying, I must endure and seek to love the best I can in this relationship. But where do you get the strength to do that? It's at that point that I think we need to see something supernatural happen that often doesn't happen in today's kind of counseling. What happens at that point is that I might ask you something like this. How much do you really want to know Jesus? I believe God is giving to you now an opportunity to understand something of the depth of the cross that perhaps you have never seen before. How anxious are you to get nearer to Jesus? Are you willing to do anything so that you might know Him better? Do you remember what Paul said in Philippians chapter 3 verse 10? Paul said, I want to know Christ. And I want to know him so thoroughly that I want to know the fellowship of his sufferings and even his attitude and death. Brothers and sisters, we can't really know Jesus unless we're willing to do anything to get near to Jesus and even experience the fellowship of his suffering. None of us ever chooses that kind of a situation. But when God gives us that kind of a situation, where do we go? And so for the next three weeks, I would like to take you on three visits to the Garden of Gethsemane. Because I believe, particularly appropriate at a time of year like this, that there is no better place for you and for me to know Jesus better. And to find supernatural resources in our own lives for those hurts and those pains, like understanding what Jesus experienced In Gethsemane for you and for me. Now I must confess to you that This message was very difficult to prepare, not just because I was away four days this week, but because in preparing it I was intensely aware of the fact that I couldn't really begin to fathom the depths of Gethsemane. And to begin to enter into the emotions of Gethsemane. And so I need the Spirit's help in a way that I'm unusually aware of this morning, and you need the Spirit's help. To open your heart to see Jesus and to understand something of what happened at Gethsemane. In our imaginations, let's go back, and this week and next week I would like for us to look at the agony. That Jesus experienced there. And then two weeks from today, that first time that we will go to two services. And it will be the same message at the first and the second service. I'm not fool enough to prepare two different messages for those. Be the same message so you'll get the the end of the Series in either case, we'll look at the prayer that Jesus prayed at Gethsemane. He recalled that it was nearly midnight. When Jesus and the eleven disciples had finished the Passover Supper, which Jesus had used to inaugurate the Lord's Supper. And after they had done that, they sang a hymn as they went out. And they went out from that upper room, east of the city, past the temple, out of the walls. Across the valley of the Kidron and across the slopes there east to what was called the Mount of Olives. And there at the base of the Mount of Olives was a little garden, a grove. It was called Gethsemane. The Bible tells us that that was one of Jesus' favorite places to pray. And I can imagine as Jesus went out with the disciples and his very last fellowship with them. That his mind must have gone back to the number of times that he had had sweet fellowship with his father there in that garden praying, getting away from the crowds and gathering strength from his fellowship with his heavenly father. And he goes there now to meet with him one last time. The word Gethsemane means oil press. Because it was the place where the olives from the Mount of Olives were pressed or crushed to be used for anointing in the temple. Jesus, the Anointed One, now goes to Gethsemane in order that he might be crushed and pressed for you and for me. Let's read from Mark's account what it was that took place there. From Mark chapter 14, beginning with verse 32. They went to a place called Gethsemane. And Jesus said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. He took Peter, James, and John along with him. And he began to be deeply distressed and troubled. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death, he said to them. Stay here. Keep watch. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. Abba, Father, he said. Everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Yet, talk what I will. But what we you wrong. And then he returned to his disciples and he found them sleeping. Simon, he said to Peter, are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? Watch and pray, so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. When he came back, he again found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy. They did not know what to say to him Returning the third time, he said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough. The hour has come. Look. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise! Let us go. Here comes my betrayer. Now the first things that I want you to notice as we look at this passage this morning should jolt you in such a way that you would never quite look at sin the same way again. I want you to notice Jesus' response when he grasps the full horror of sin. That's the first point. When Jesus sees the horror of sin. You notice how Mark states it. Three verses. 33, 34, and 35. Look what verse 33 says. They go along to the garden. Takes Peter, James, and John along with him, and he began, it says, to be deeply distressed and troubled. Now that word deeply distressed really doesn't capture what the Greek word says. Because the Greek word that's used there is a word which speaks of alarm. It's a word which speaks of astonishment. Of someone who's amazed or appalled at something, it always has the element of shock and surprise. For instance, the word is used in 1 Samuel 14, 15, in the Greek translation of that Old Testament passage, describing the time when God rescued the Israelites by causing an earthquake to come. Which produced, the word says there, panic among the Philistines. And the word panic is the same word that we have here in Mark 14, 33. They panicked and fled. It's the word that's used of the crowds in Mark 1, 27. Speaking of Jesus' teaching, Mark says that the crowds were astonished at his teaching. It's the same word that's used right here in verse 33. Well, it's the word that's used in Mark sixteen, which describes the woman, marry him, and she comes to the tomb, and she finds there, instead of a closed tomb To be able to try to anoint Jesus' body, she sees an open tomb and an angel. And it says that she was alarmed at the sight of the angel. And you see, what I want you to understand is that this word always speaks of something that is overwhelming, that surprises the person, that takes them unexpected. And so Jesus here is not simply deeply distressed and troubled. He's appalled at something. He's alarmed at something. There's something here that astonishes him. In fact, look at what it says in verse 34. He verbalizes this by saying to them, My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow. To the point of death. Now if anyone else said that, I'd say it was for effect. If anyone else said that, if I said that, or if you said that, I'd say, well now you're you're really upset about something But you're really not upset to the point of death. Jesus never exaggerated for effect. And so when we see this, I think we need to take it at face value. Jesus is saying There's something here that shakes me to the very core so much that I am in danger of succumbing to it. It's something that has so astonished and alarmed me that my soul is overwhelmed to the point of death. In fact, look what it goes on to say in verse 35. That when he says to them, please stay here, keep watch, he needs their support. Jesus needs his disciples. And when he goes on a little further, Mark says that he didn't kneel to pray. See what it says? It says he fell to the ground. He was struck down. He collapsed to the ground. under the weight of something that so appalled and astonished him that he couldn't even stand before it. And you begin to see here that there's something more than first meets your eye when you read about this account of Gethsemane. What is it that could so appall and astonish the Son of God who unflinchingly faced down demons? Who fled before him in his earthly ministry? What was it that could produce such a reaction in our Savior? And I think the answer to that is that at this point, Jesus began to stare into the very pit of hell. Jesus began to see the weight of the sin that he was about to bear, that he was at this moment beginning to bear. Up till this point, he has simply been eligible to bear it. He has had to demonstrate that he would be innocent, the perfect Lamb, the Son of God, without any fault or blemish. But at this point, he begins to bear the sin. And when Jesus begins to see the weight of your sin and my sin, the consequences, the essence of it. Of what it means for you and for me to disobey a holy God when he begins to see that and he begins to feel that. The terror and the horror of it far exceeded even his expectations. Can you begin to fathom what that means? The Jesus who all his life knew that he had come In order to die for you and for me, is now struck to astonishment with what it means to go through with that. At this point, I believe that Jesus begins to see all the ugliness Of the maliciousness of what sin really means. He begins at this point to see all of the hatred, the bitterness. The malicious gossip , the returning of evil for kindness. He begins to see at this point all of the lusts, the rapes. The tortures, the mutilations. He begins to see here now all of the vindictiveness All the arrogance, the blasphemies, the utter rottenness of the human heart That you and I are only so lightly in touch with it. Jesus sees it to its very core. And the result is that his soul is overwhelmed. He begins to be astonished and alarmed and appalled. And he falls to the ground under the weight of it. And I wonder as I think of that , If there's anyone here this morning, any of you who have looked lightly at the sacrifice of Jesus for sin. You've said glibly, I'm a Christian. I believe that stuff. I believe Jesus is the Son of God who died for our sins, but it's in a very generic and general term for you. You've never really received the Son of God as your own personal Savior. You've never appropriated those sufferings to say. God, I see for the first time what my sin deserves. How appalling it is How deserving of judgment and wrath it is, and how Jesus bore that for me if I believe and trust him as my Savior. If you'd never had, let God's Spirit wake in you this morning, that you might see what Jesus has done, and that it can be for you if you trust Him. We need to go on. And notice in the second place the temptations of Satan that Jesus faced. Notice the agony of his fighting the temptations of Satan. Now in the first agony, he was awestruck by sin. That's those two blanks there under number one. He was awestruck by sin. In the second place, we see him attacked by Satan directly. Notice in verse 35. Going a little further, he fell to the ground and he prayed if possible the hour might pass from him. And then in verse forty one you have that reference again to the hour. Returning the third time he said he's still sleeping and resting enough. The hour has come. Now, to what does that hour refer? Well, Luke and John tell us, in the references I've listed there for you. They tell us that the hour is the hour of the power of darkness when the Prince of this world comes upon Jesus. And it's as if now he's being thrown into a pit with a monster in order to engage him. And the raging monster wants to tear him apart. But he goes into that pit for your sake and for my sake. Now what's the nature of these temptations? There wasn't a physical struggle, there wasn't physical combat. It was totally and entirely a spiritual struggle, an emotional struggle, and those really are the most difficult ones, aren't they? You see, the fact is he couldn't see Satan. And when you and I fight against Satan in temptation, we don't see him. We're not assaulted with temptations from some little red man with horns and a pitchfork. It's thoughts that come from within us that seem so natural, that seem so plausible, that are so seductive. Because they seem simply to be the rational thinking of our hearts and our desires. And Jesus now engages Satan In the fiercest possible temptations that Satan has been planning and thinking, and all the time that he has understood what Jesus has come for. And now he realizes that it's his last opportunity to detract Jesus, to defer him. To stop him in his course. And I believe the essence of those temptations was that they shouted Jesus in every way possible Stop your course. Abandon the course. Stop and get out of this while you can. And I believe the nature of those temptations, while we're not told what they are. Can speculate that they probably followed along three lines at least I think at least one of those temptations was that Satan assaulted Jesus from within his feelings and in his thoughts. To tell them, you will not be able to endure this. Abandon your course. You simply will not be able to endure what is about to come upon you. Perhaps he portrayed before him in the most hideous detail the pictures of crucifixion, the physical suffering of what would happen But more than that, his abandonment by his disciples. What it would mean for him to have his mother watch him suffer so. And ultimately, what it would mean for him to be abandoned by the Father that he had fellowship with from all eternity. And Satan is whispering to him, you will not be able to endure it. And I believe that that happened because of what we read in verse 36. You see, Jesus responds to what's going on here by praying in verse 35: if power, if possible, the hour might pass from him. And then he says specifically in verse 36, Ahba, Father, Daddy, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Take this cup of wrath that I'm about to drink. Take it from me. Everything in me recalls from it. There must be another way. Far off in my limitations of the incarnation, I can't see all the possibilities. Is there another possibility? But if there isn't He says he's willing. He can't see how he can endure it. But if the father's called him to go through with it , He prays for the strength and declares his willingness. And sometimes you and I Can be in that situation, can't you? You can't see how you'll be able to endure it. You can't see how you'll be able to go on. And all you can do is to say, Father. Jesus endured Gethsemane for me. And if he could do that, he's not calling me to do anything near what he has done. All I can do now is to say, Father. Take this away. But if there's no other way, then not my will, but yours be done. That's what Jesus struggled with. The second temptation, I believe, the second way this came to him was that He was shown vividly how utterly he would be abandoned. You're going to be utterly forsaken by all. Don't you see that no one is going to care for you? Don't you see that your disciples are going to turn their backs on you? Here's one that you loved, and he right this moment is betraying you. Can you remember those acts of kindness that you expressed toward Judas? Can you imagine how Satan would have brought before Jesus all the kind things that he had done for Judas and for the other disciples? Satan's saying, what are they doing for you now? One's betraying you. The other ones are out there sleeping. That's how much they care for you. So Jesus goes back to wake them up and he's disappointed. Are you still sleeping? And then he goes back again to wrestle With these temptations, with the intense desire to abandon his course. Then can you imagine how hideously he must have portrayed the Father? As abandoning him. You'll be abandoned by your father. And perhaps he would have even suggested that this whole thing was a plot. By the Father with the Spirit, in order to disenfranchise him, to get him out of the throne. All along the Father has pretended to really love you. But right now he has you in his grasp. And what he really wants to do now is to curse you and to destroy you so that he will have heaven for himself. What kinds of temptations must have gone through Jesus' mind? And I think that's linked with the third thing. It was in fact the most threatening temptation of all. That is to whisper in Jesus' ear. They're not worth it. You're not worth it. I'm not worth it. We're not worth what he would have to pay for us. Can you imagine what it means for Jesus to think of what he will have to endure and then what he will get for it? And I believe that that's part of why Jesus went back to see the disciples. He goes back to look at Peter and James and John to remind himself. Of how precious they are to him. Like a mother wrestling in prayer for her infant who's sick. And perhaps in danger of losing its life. And she keeps going back to check with that infant, to see it, to check on its welfare, and to renew her struggle in prayer for its well-being. Jesus goes back. Oh Peter, James, John, look worth something, will you guys? I mean, you know, here their eternity and your eternity and my eternity holds in the balance. If Jesus looks at them and he says, you know, you're right. They're not worth it. These guys are disloyal. Here's one. He just told me a few minutes ago. Oh, you know, I'll never leave you. And if everybody else leaves you, I'll go to the death with you. Here he is snoring louder than the rest of them. They're not worth it. And if at this moment Jesus flinches and succumbs and says, You know I can create another whole race of beings. Let's abandon these to Satan. You can have them. You and I would have been under Satan's control forever. But you know the point of all this is that it's actually true. You and I are not worthy. We can't hope that Peter and James and John will look worthy of Jesus dying for them because they couldn't. You and I could never look worthy enough. The point is that Jesus set his love on them. He set his love on you and me, and for some reason unknown to us, that we can't begin to fathom. Jesus said, You're worth it to me. And so Jesus endured. And Jesus went through the three times of agony and came through it. With his will determined, strengthened even by an angel, Luke tells us What a pathetic sight! A creature strengthening the Creator because of his unwillingness to give up his creatures. And so what can we do? You can't be worth it. But what you can do is in your life this week, say, Jesus How can I show you my love? How can I express to you my gratitude For what you paid for me. For the fact that at that moment you did not flinch and give up But you went through, even to the cross, because you loved me so much. Lord, how can I, in resisting a temptation, In an opportunity to love someone for your sake, to share something of the good news of Jesus with a person it needs to hear it. What can I do? Look this week for those opportunities to say to Jesus, I love you by serving him. And then don't miss the one last thing here, the warning. Because Jesus says to them Verse 38, watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. Remember that it's the same demons, the same malicious spirits who tempted and tortured Jesus in Gethsemane Who want to cause you to abandon your course also? Who want to deflect you with just the subtlest of temptations With just the subtlest of compromises to keep you from walking straight in the service of your Lord. Watch and pray For you can never withstand him in your own strength. Watch and pray this week alone, with your best friend, with your spouse. with your children, with your small group, with our concert of prayer, that you will not enter into temptation. That you will not fall is the word that he uses there. Into temptation. Because Jesus who resisted is your strength. And he can give you the victory to resist as he did. Amen.