Remember John's up here. Any of those of you who looked at the April newsletter, I want to assure you I did not come to the first service in my bathrobe with my cup of tea In fact, um someone asked Bill McDill said uh What's going to be the difference in the messages? I assure you there isn't any difference in the message of the first and second service. The first one isn't the hey guy's message and the second one the dearly beloved It is nice to be able to worship twice with different worship. And uh I have really been amazed at how God has enabled you as a congregation through your love for and grace in the Lord Jesus to be able to pull together in a relatively short time for us to mobilize and have the kind of ministry that we're having now, all the extra staffing to be able to do this. The worship leaders are totally separate We have uh a team of six now, regulars, three for the contemporary, three for the classic. You may be wondering how John Isaac ever got in to be the classic. He wasn't at that meeting when we assigned him. But it's good to be able to see what the Lord's doing in this. If you have your Bible, I hope you do, please turn to Mark chapter 14 so we can look again at that Account of Gethsemane that John has just introduced. Let's hear God's word. From Mark chapter 14. Verses thirty-two to forty-two. They went to a place called Gethsemane. And Jesus said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. He took Peter, James, and John along with him, and he began to be deeply distressed. In trouble. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death, he said to them Stay here and keep watch. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. Abba, Father, Daddy, he said, Everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me Yes. Not what I will, but what you want Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. Simon, said to Peter. Are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? Watch, pray, so that you will not fall into temptation. The Spirit is willing. But the body is weak. Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. When he came back, he again found them sleeping. Because their eyes were heavy. They did not know what to say to him. Returning the third time, he said to them Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough. The hour has come. Look. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us go. Here comes my betrayer. This is the third of our visits to Gethsemane. Coming here because we want to know Jesus better. We want to draw close to him. We want to know him more than we know anyone else on earth. Because we believe that the best place And certainly at least one of the best places to come to meet Jesus, to know his heart, to know his love for you, is Gethsemane. We've come here. To know him. The first two visits we considered the agony that he endured there for us. Do you remember how we looked at how Jesus was not simply deeply distressed, but he was astonished, he was appalled. When he finally saw the full weight of your sin and mine and the hideousness of it, as it began to descend upon him. We saw how, as much as Jesus knew of sin, nevertheless, when finally the full weight of it came with to him face to face, it far exceeded even his expectations. We saw that here he was not only astonished by sin, but he was also directly attacked by Satan. The temptations of Satan, whispering to him again and again in every possible way, abandon your course. Give up. You'll never be able to endure it. You are utterly alone. These people aren't worth it. We considered how true that really was, wasn't it? We're not working. We'd have probably been sleeping along with the rest of them Only the fact that Jesus set his love on you and me and determined that we were worth it to him. Did he continue in his course and resist the temptations? We saw that he was utterly abandoned by the Father. Utterly alone. So alone, forsaken in the deepest hour of his need, so that the Father would never forsake you. You and I, in crying out to God, would never find ourselves to be so alone. I hope that these last couple of weeks have increased your love for the Lord Jesus. have perhaps put in a new and fresh perspective your service for him. Why it is that you serve him and love him. But there's another lesson to be learned about Gethsemane, from Gethsemane. And it's the lesson from the prayer that Jesus prayed there. Verse 36. I want for us today to focus on just that one verse, 36, to look at the prayer that Jesus prayed and what we can learn from that. Abba, Father, Daddy, you create, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me And yet, not what I will, but what you will. I believe that we can see here five keys to productive praying. Five things that we can learn from this one verse. If the Lord's Prayer, we so call is a pattern for our petitions in praying, that is, what we pray. I believe that we have in this one verse a pattern for our practice in praying. How we pray. And I believe that we can see in this one verse five key elements to how to pray productively. And so as we go through this, I want for you to notice, first of all, the nature of his prayer. That's the first blank. And then secondly, we'll look at how God answered him. And in looking at the nature of his prayer, as we look at these five keys, I want you to think of your own prayer life. And I want you to be thinking which of these five keys is most missing, most efficient, most absent from your own prayer life with the Lord. And then to ask God to do something new in your life this week, that that area by the Spirit of God will begin to come more into the pattern of verse 36. It's amazing how much you can learn about prayer from just this one verse. Let's just spend a few minutes looking at it to learn what we can in the time we have this morning. The first thing that characterizes Jesus' prayer that we see here was that it was intimate. That's the first blank A. It was intimate. He prays Abba Daddy. And of course, you recall, those of you who have been around for a little bit, our series on God as Father. We looked in the last couple of months at how daddy, this word, the Aramaic word, Abba, is a very precious word. It's the familiar, intimate term that was used only by a child within the family context toward the father. I recall seeing back in the the nineteen sixties a picture that showed uh little John John Kennedy playing under the his father's desk in the Oval Office And there were a bunch of dignitaries around, but uh the photographer had caught the bemused expression of John Kennedy as he was looking at his son playing under his desk. There was absolutely nothing that qualified little John Kennedy to be in the Oval Office during the time of that meeting, except the fact that he was the president's son. And that was enough. It gave him access. And so you and I have that same access simply because we are sons, and we need to feel it. John Duckworth wrote about a president. A few years ago, he wrote about a president who very much wanted to talk with and to consult with the people that he served. And he writes of some of those that came to see him. He says the first person that was ushered in was a housewife. Without acknowledging the president's smile or outstretched hand, she plopped down in a chair. And then she shut her eyes tight. Dear Mr. President, she said in a nasal sing -song voice. Thank you for the world so sweet. Thank you for the food we eat. Thank you for the birds that sing. Thank you, sir, for everything. Goodbye. Before the president could say a word in response, woman opened her eyes, got up, and walked out The president sighed. Pushed the button for the intercom. Next, please, he said. The door opened. And in came a stout man who wore a tuxedo. Again the president's hand was ignored. O thou chief executive who art in the White House, said the man, clasping his hands and looking at the ceiling, O thou in whom so much doth constitutionally dwell! upon whose desk has been placed the most effective blotter. Incline thine ear toward thy most humble citizen, and grant that thy many entities may be manifoldly endowed upon the fruitful plain. Wincing, the President closed his eyes and rubbed his temples. And may thou dost hearkeneth whatleys shall thou evermore entwain asunder , the man concluded in a loud monotone Excuse me, said the president, but what goodbye? said the man, seeming not to hear, and walked out. The president sighed again. Next This time the door opened and there seemed to be no one there. Then the president looked down and saw a man crawling through the doorway on his hands and knees. Oh, Mr. Great and Awful President, blubbered the man, not looking up from the carpet. I am but a disgusting piece of filth in your presence. No, I am less than that How dare I enter here? How dare I think that you would do anything but grind me into the floor? Please get up, said the President, offering his hand. You don't have to do that. I want to talk to you But the man went right on grumbling. I deserve only to be squashed under the weight of your mighty desk, he whined. I could have never gotten an invitation to talk with you. It must have been a mistake. How can you ever forgive me for breaking in like this? Oh, I'm so sorry, so sorry, so sorry. Still on his hands and knees, he crawled out. The man's groaning faded down the hall President shook his head, then slowly pushed the intercom button. Next, he said, sounding tired. In moments a young man entered. He was wearing headphones and bopping up and down to the music in his pocket stereo. No doubt the kind of guy to go to the contemporary service, you know. Hey, Prez, the young man said, ignoring the offered hand. What's happening? He looked out the window. Nice place you got here. Hey, like I'm so glad we could have this little chat, you know. I mean you're not bad for an old dude, I guess. Uh you don't bother me and I won't bother you, okay? Well, gotta go. Hang in there. He walked out The President drummed his fingers on his desk. Next, please, he said wearily. An elderly man marched in, staring at a piece of paper in his hand. We now we won't say this as somebody who comes to the classic service. He too ignored the president's greeting. Mr. President, he declared, keeping his eyes on his list, I want there to be a parking space for me when I go downtown this afternoon Now not a parallel place, mind you, but one that I can drive right into. And not one with a parking media either. See to it that none of those meter maids give me a ticket. Now this is important. The president cleared his throat politely. Speaking of important, he ventured. How do you feel about my program to feed the hungry? Would you like to have a par - and another thing, he man continued, I lost my best golf club. Potter, can't seem to remember where I put it. Now you find it for me, will you? Gotta have that club before Saturday. I know you can do it. Goodbye. With that the old man got up and shuffled out the door. The president slumped in his chair. He goes on and on and on with the people that come. And finally, there's a little boy that's ushered in The little boy came in, looked around the room, his eyes were wide. He said, Are you really the president? The president smiled. I really am, offering his hand. The little boy reached up and shook it. And then he sat down and folded his hands in his lap and waited. The President watched, amazed, as the boy sat politely for nearly a minute. Isn't there something something you want to tell me? The President said finally. Something you have to recite or ask or say? Little boy looked down for a moment, thinking, and then he looked up. Yes, he said. I guess there is. Well what is it? The President asked. Thank you for inviting me, the little boy said. That's all. When the president heard that, he couldn't seem to say anything for a while All he could do was smile. But then they talked and talked and talked for the longest and most wonderful time That's a picture of how you and I can come to our daddy who is in heaven. Jesus knew that. And he dressed him as Daddy. I remember just this week I was out praying and I was thinking about that and I was seeking to enter into the feeling of that, gain that sense of intimacy, saying, Daddy. And I couldn't get it. I wasn't feeling it. I wasn't feeling. You know how you try to pray and you don't feel close to the Lord and you there seems to be a distance. And I was distracted I finally had to give up and go on and say what was on my mind and get on with my business. The next day, I was bothered by this, you know, I think I'm supposed to preach on this Sunday about the intimacy and I don't feel it, it's not my life. How can I preach from experience? How can I tell these people we can do this if I don't experience it myself? The next day I was thinking of something else, and as I was thinking about today, I simply decided to relive Gethsemane. And I read the verses we just read here a few minutes ago, and I sought to enter into them, to relive them, to experience, to think of what it must have been like to have been in there in the garden, to have seen Jesus and to have watched him. To enter into what must have been something of his mind and what he had done for me. But after about ten minutes of that, I found myself spontaneously crying out, oh Daddy. You did that for me. No, I think that so often you and I seek to gain a sense of intimacy with our Father, and we don't have it because we're so distracted. Because we've lost the art of meditation. So let me suggest that this week, if you want to enter into this key element of productive praying, the sense of intimacy that cries out Daddy, Father. You don't seek to get it in some direct way. Lord, just help me to feel intimate, but rather that you take some scripture, particularly a passage of holy wheat, and that you enter into that Did you put aside every distraction for a few minutes and you just relive, get into that scene and think about what's happening? Experience it, relive it. You find that if after a few minutes of that, the Lord doesn't enable you to feel an intimacy with Him through meditation. But not only do we need to be able to call our father daddy. We need the second key element here to be confident. He was confident Verse 36, he says, everything is possible for you. And I believe that there is a value When we are in a struggle, do you remember that Jesus was here at this point in the deepest struggle of his life? That there's a value at that point in expressing, in articulating out loud to God, everything is possible with you. You could heal Philip Weker tomorrow if you decided to do so. You could heal Whatever person in our congregation going through whatever difficulties, physically, relationally, jobs, whatever it is Everything is possible with you. You could provide the $1. 7 million for the new facility tomorrow if you decided you wanted that for us. To verbalize a statement of faith. Tell God everything is possible for you. And then remind yourself of scriptures that have spoken of God's great works and of experiences that you've seen. I wish I had time to recount some, but we don't have time to go on into those. But think of some of the ways that God has shown, that He is the God of, in fact, the impossible. And then to state it. And find your confidence built as before you pray, you remind yourself of the power of the God that you're praying to. Then the third key is that Jesus was boldly specific. Boldly specific in his praying. There's a great honesty and directness to his prayer. He says everything is possible for you. And then, unlike us, he doesn't beat around the bush in a bunch of pious, vague statements. about how he was feeling and you know how he really wanted the kingdom to be advanced. There was a lot of things that sort of, you know, and he sort of skirts around the issue. Jesus goes right to the point and says, take this cup from me. I cannot at this point bear to go on and to drink this cup. Father, take it. Everything's possible with you. There must be another way. Take this cup. So much of our praying is so vague and so wimpish, isn't it? I'm reminded of Haddon Robinson, who had was the president of Denver Seminary, and at one point Needed to raise $20,000 for the seminary for an urgent, immediate project that they had. And he went to a wealthy businessman, had lunch with him, and described something of the project. The man said, what do you want me to do? Sometimes when I start beating around the bush and I get to a point where I don't know what to pray. And we all have those times, don't we? I mean, there's times when the Bible says That we don't know how to pray as we ought. And the Spirit groans in us. We admit that. But it's also true, isn't it, that a lot of times we do know how to pray more than we'll admit. And I sometimes will imagine God saying to me, Alan, what do you want me to do for you now? It helps me to get to the point. Well, Lord, I guess what I really want is you to take this cup from me What I really want, Lord, is that we need $1. 7 million. We need the county to give the approvals. We need you to do a work of renewal and revival in our midst. We need you to bring us people who are open, spiritually hungry. For you to raise up people to do ministries. There's a lot of things we need, and we can be direct about. I hadn't Robinson thought about it and he said, well sort of cleared his throat and said, uh, I was wondering if maybe it could give a thousand dollars toward this So the man wrote out a check for a thousand dollars, pushed it across the table, and he said, You've insulted me. Hadn't Robinson thought, Oh boy, I'd blow it with this guy. I shouldn't have brought up money The man said, you insulted me because either you thought that I didn't have the means to give $20,000, whereby you have underestimated how wealthy I am. Or, you knew how wealthy I am, was, are, whatever, but you underestimated my generosity and willingness to give for the Lord's work. In either case, you've insulted me. Robinson thought of how like that we are with the Lord We 're afraid to ask him with bold, honest specificity, Lord, this is the need. Everything's possible with you. Here's the knee. But then with that to combine the fourth key to be submissive. Fourth thing is he was submissive. Take this cup from me. That is my heart's desire. That's what I long for. I'm not beating around the bush. There's such a refreshing honesty to what the Lord says. Five simple words: take this cup from me. Right to the point. But then he stops and he begins to sweat. Now we can read those words, yet not what I will, but what you will. In such a casual way. But Luke tells us that Jesus began to sweat profusely in this cool garden as he agonized. With the matter of his will. Until he could finally cry out, yet not what I will, but what you will. And I believe there might have been a half hour between take this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will. I believe there was a great struggle at that point And I wonder for some of you here, whether there are things that you have prayed and you have been in a bit. You've acknowledged God can do anything. You've been honest with him in what you want him to do. But the one thing you haven't done is to lay your agenda before him. is to say, Father, nevertheless, there may be something that you want to do that's not what I want, and I'm willing for that. I was reading this week about a fellow who lived in the Midwest and said uh when they lived on the farm they used to order a lot of things by catalog. And there was a box that you could check in that catalog. Somebody said after the first service, I gave this illustration, I didn't plan to give it, so might as well give it again. Didn't plan before And he said uh that he had used to check that box. He identified with it. I don't know anybody here does, but it was his box and he could check and it said, willing to substitute What that meant was, if you don't have, if you're out of stock with what I'm ordering, I'm willing to let you substitute and choose something else. This fellow said they'd always check that box. They'd sort of hoped that they didn't get what they wanted because they knew that the catalog owners, the company, in order to keep goodwill, would always give you something better If they couldn't give you what you ordered. How many times do we go in prayer, believing we have a good Father? Father, everything's possible with you. Take this cup from me But I'm willing to substitute. I'm willing to let your will cross over and substitute in my life. I'm willing to let you do something else that will honor you more greatly. There will be something that you choose for me. And it may be that that could be the breakthrough in that matter that you've been praying for weeks or months or years. When you finally this week get to the point of saying before God, maybe with sweat, yet not what I will, but what you will. You notice, that's the end of the verse. But there's another key, and it is that he was persistent. He was persistent. You see, verse 36 tells us he prayed that. But apparently he had not broken through with full victory on that. Because in verse 39 you read that once more he went away and he prayed the same thing. Then in verse 41, you read that he returned a third time after going away to pray. The fact is that you and I many times need to persist again and again and again. I think sometimes we have an idea that Gethsemane was Jesus going in, prayed, gained the victory, came back out, in and out, in and out, in and out. I would wager that his times of praying, each of them were at least 30 to 45 minutes. Now how I know? Because we know the disciples were wide awake when he left them. And when he came back, they were sound asleep. I don't think they went to sleep in five minutes. Not on a night like that. I believe that perhaps this took two hours of that night, of Jesus wrestling and persisting and going back. And saying, God, my father, daddy, everything's possible. Take this cup. Then he comes to that, yet not what I want, but what you have. But when he goes back out, he realizes that hasn't really captured him fully. You ever experienced that? You've said it, you feel it a little bit, but it's really not your whole heart. And so you go back again. And on a deeper level, you enter into with the Lord, wrestling through with that same issue. And you may have to go back again and again and again and again ten, fifteen, twenty times. Over a period of weeks or months or years of persistence until the Lord gives you the victory, so that you see the contrast. Of how he went in and how he came out. I heard a story of someone who It was a farmer couple, again in the Midwest. They lost all their keys. The husband lost the keys somewhere in the cornfield in the fall with all the corn all over the ground, all the the stalks, the leaves. Over a period of three or four acres, they prayed and asked God, God, show us where these keys are. And they began to mark off and began to try to go systematically the next morning to find those keys. One hour, two hours, three hours, persisting, praying, seeking, no keys. They're about ready to give up, and they met together from this certain point, walked together And they said, let's pray together one more time. And ask God to show us. They bowed and they prayed, Father, you're able to do this. Show us where these keys are. We need them. They're onto everything that we own. He had another set of car keys in his pocket. When they finished, his wife said she heard a jingle. She was a little irritated, so I'd dropped those two now. Said, no, I don't have right there in my pocket. Yeah, I heard a jingle. Looked under his foot. And there were the keys. Now God could have shown him those keys right at the beginning. But they were so much more impressed with how God answered because of the persistence. It bound their hearts to the Lord, you see. And sometimes I believe the Lord wants us to persist again and again because in doing that, he binds our hearts to him. So when he gives us the answer. It's so much more precious and more personal. And look how he answered. That's the second thing. First was the nature of his prayer. The second is how he answered the answer to his prayer. First thing to notice is that God sent an angel to strengthen him. Now we're not told that in Mark, but we're told that in Luke, in chapter 22, verse 43. And I believe that that's very significant. You see, God did not answer Jesus' prayer, take this cup from me. But in not answering it, he showed his supernatural work in his son 's life. An angel came to strengthen him. That certainly was Jesus' need at that point. It must have greatly encouraged him. And I believe that for you and for me, there's a clue there to how God works in our praying. Sometimes he will not answer what we've asked, but his denial will show his hand so specifically in our lives. That there's still great comfort and the sense that he has hurt us. Second thing is that he gained a great calmness of spirit. You notice the contrast of the struggle in verses 35 and 36. Overwhelmed to the point of death, falling to the ground, crying out, struggling. And then what you see in verse 41, after he's asked him, are you still sleeping and resting? He says, Enough, the hour has come. Look, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. He sees the lights of Judas, the soldiers off in the distance. And he says, Rise, let us go, son of man, here comes my betrayer. You see, he's gained the victory The Father has given him that calmness of spirit to drink the cup. And so he's answered. He's answered by not removing the cup, but by giving him grace to bear the cup. We need to be careful to think that God's answers are always in terms of healing or of removing the pain. Sometimes God's answers are just as dramatic. And giving us the contentment, the joy, and the calmness of spirit in the midst of the pain. How much more has the Lord Jesus been glorified Through Johnny Erickson and giving to her a joy and a calmness of spirit as a quadriplegic by not taking away her paralysis By giving to her a joy and a contentment that has honored the Lord in a unique and supernatural way in the midst of the pain Then the third thing that we see here is that Jesus indeed did drink the cup. How's that an answer? His specific request was: take the cup from me. And yet he drank the cup. How is that an answer to his praying? Because God's deeper purpose in Jesus, and Jesus' deeper longing was to have a people for himself. Jesus' deepest longing was that every time he went back and he saw those disciples sleeping, that they would not be lost, but that he would have them. And so Jesus drank that cup to its bitter empty dregs, so that you and I would drink the cup to its fullness of blessing. And this Friday evening at the Tenebrae service, in remembering Good Friday, we will drink the cup full of blessing. Because Jesus drank the cup empty of cursing. And that was his longing. And God gave him his deepest longing. So that you and I would never be abandoned because he was. Have each of you this morning tasted of that cup of salvation? Have you tasted of what the Lord has given because he suffered for you? What's the key of these five that's most missing in your life You say, well I thought the first one when I heard that and then I heard the second one. I thought, well, you know it's the second one. I heard the third well no, it's really that one and four. Well, all of 'em. Sure, we could all say that But what's the Spirit speaking to you about particularly this morning? Say, that's the area that I want you to grow in this week. That's the area that I want you to experience more faith and fullness Let's bring that area to him now and ask him to work. Let's pray Lord our God, while we confess that we are all deficient in all these areas, we lack the sense of intimacy, the confidence of beliefs that you're able and willing to do all things. The honest, bold, specific ability to just come to the point, to be able to submit our will to you To be able to persist. Lord, we pray that for whatever you're speaking to each person here, that you will have the victory in that. That this week will be a week of growing in their faith. For each of us to know more of what it is that you're teaching us about prayer. It will grow that by next week we'll have learned something about this. This verse will be very precious to us as a model, as a pattern for how we can approach you and know that you hear us. In Jesus' name.