Have you ever been in a situation where you felt absolutely helpless, and you cried out to God and if nothing changed, and your helplessness became hopelessness? Perhaps you've tried working out the same old problems month after month, year after year, with your husband or your wife. Nothing really ever seems to change. And now you come to a place where you say, I don't have any feeling left for that person. There's just no feelings of love left. And I feel trapped. As a Christian I should stay in this marriage, and yet I feel absolutely helpless. change anything. And I'm becoming hopeless that anything is ever going to really change about our relationship. Or perhaps you've got financial problems that are overwhelming you. come to the film series. You're coming to Golden's course. But the simple fact is there's more going out than is coming in. And you don't know how to change that. And every month things seem to simply get worse. And you say, I'm just feeling helpless. I'm trying to Be a good steward, but I feel like I'm trapped and I just don't know what to do about this problem. Perhaps you've been let down by someone, someone at work, someone of your friends. friends, someone in your own family. Betrayed. You feel like you've gotten a knife in the back. You feel like for all that you have tried to do, not only has there been a lack of gratitude, but the person turned on you, and you feel that you struggle with bitterness, and you feel betrayed and let down and helpless, and you wonder why isn't God hearing you? Well now think David was in a situation very much like that in Psalm 28. In Psalm 28, we have David in a desperate situation. And God has given us this precious part of the of his word, so that we might know that he understands those kinds of feelings when you and I have them. Whatever the particular cause of the helplessness you feel or have felt, whatever the temptations for hopeless God says, I understand that. Look at the experience of my servant David and see they are something that you yourself can identify with. You know, the October readers digest had an audit. on eight questions that people most often ask ministers. I just saw it last night. The second question was, what can I do when I am so discouraged I feel like giving up? Does God have anything to say to that? A not simple pat answer, an experience and reality. And he gives it to us here in Psalm twenty eight. Some of you may know that I've done uh quite a study of David's life. I I love studying his life. I've learned so much from him as a person. I've studied his life for some years now. And one of the things I particularly delighted in doing in that was to take a look at all the psalms that are attributed to David, and then look at all the events in his life and try to master up where I think he might have written each song. They all give you little clues. Some could have been written in lots of different places. But sometimes it helps me to to be able to match up the events with a circumstance in his life so that I can see that really fits right there. And that's probably the kind of experience he was going through when he wrote that. It helps me to see him as a real live person to do that. Well, it's interesting that in this psalm, there's a number of times he could have written it. He could have written it, for instance, in the early days of his life, when Saul first chased him out of the court, and he took refuge in Naoth, and then God miraculously delivered him out of the court. Or he could have written this song the time he came back or later on, maybe 15 years later, to zip lag, uh at the lowest part of his life Where after all of the discouragement, being chased again and again by Saul, he comes back to his camp, and there is his home all burned to the ground. His wives, his children are taken captive, they're nowhere to be seen, and everything is absolutely in shambles and ashes. Everything wrong. And then his own men turn against him and say, We think we ought to stone this guy because he's been a rotten leader. We think he's got problems. That was a desperate situation. Or it could have been written later on in his life, where his own son, Absalom , not only wasn't obedient to him, not only wasn't following in the faith, but he turned against his own father. David and tried to overthrow his kingdom, so that David finally had to flee out of Jerusalem and to run for his own life, with Absalom his son, hunting him to kill him. Interesting, most of the commentators seem to think that that was the situation in which David wrote this psalm. Personally, I disagree. I think there's evidence, I don't have time to go over it now. I don't think that situation fits, as well as the situation in 1 Samuel 23 to 26, where David is a fugitive in the wilderness of Ziff, on a particular occasion, You may recall, when he was hunted by Saul and had a faithful body of men who were themselves constantly in danger of their own lives, saw this group of people in this little town of Kila. And Keila was an undefended town. It was vulnerable to Philistine attack, and the Philistines swept it and they were about to take Kila. And they would have taken that town and destroyed it and perhaps wiped it off the map. And David asked God what he should do. God said, I'll give you the victory. And so David took these men at the risk of their own lives, and they went up and they captured, they took that town, and they drove off the Philistines, and they saved the lives of all. All those people in that little town. And then he went back into the wilderness. You know, sort of this little band riding off into the sunset. Who was that last band? That was David, you know, and Saul's anthra. Wow, he's been our deliverer. What a man. Agree how God has used them. And you know, over the next couple of years, twice the people of Kilah betrayed David and his men to Saul, revealed their hiding places, so that Saul and his army could destroy David and his men just so that they could get the favor of the king. Talk about ingratitude. Not only was it absolute based in gratitude, but it put David in the noble danger of his life. Because Saul came at that time with a huge army. And David was trapped in the wilderness of Zen. That I believe most fits, if you look at this Psalm now, what is the center of the writing of this psalm? Let's look together. That is Psalm 28. Let's read that and be able to enter in to some degree in David's experience as we see this as a pattern for times of our own, discouragement. Psalm 28. Let's hear God's word. O Lord, my rock, do not turn a deaf ear to me, for if you remain silent, I'll be like those who have gone down to the pit. Hear my cry for mercy, as I call to you for help, as I lift up my hands toward your most holy place. Do not drag me away with the wicked, with those who do evil, who speak cordially. With their neighbors, but harbor malice in their hearts. Repay them for their deeds and for their evil work. Repay them for what their hands have done and bring back upon them what they deserve, since they show no regard for the Works of the Lord and what his hands have done, he will tear them down and never build them up again Praise be to the Lord, for he's heard my cry for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I am helped. My heart leaps for joy and I will give thanks to him in song. The Lord is the strength of his people A fortress of salvation for his anointed one. Save your people and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. I want for you to notice that there are five parts. To this song, seeing your bulletin outline? Five parts with five Ps in order to help you to see the connections and to remember them. I want particularly this morning to focus on the content, the context of verse 8. Because as I mentioned back in September, we're going to be spending a few weeks looking at verse 8 of this Psalm, the Lord is the Lord. Excuse me, verse 7, the Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him and I am helped. My heart leaps for joy, and I will give thanks to him in song. We'll be taking a look at that verse, as I say, over the next few weeks in order to encourage us to help us in God's accomplishing his purpose in us that he has given in Ephesians 1, 19 to 23, of enabling us to experience something of that incompetence. Great power of Jesus Christ in his resurrection and ascension. And we will see this in our own experience. May the Lord grant that to us. But before we look at that verse, I want us to see the context, and so this morning to see that whole psalm, and then particularly. To notice the connections between the part of the psalm so that you can see how verse 7 fits in. First of all, then look at the five parts. In verses 1 to 5, you see the problem laid out. In verses Verse six, you see David's prayer answered. In verse seven, you see his personal testimony shared concerning what God had done. In verse eight, you see the principle stated that he's discovered from this. And then in verse 9, you see his plea for God's people that comes from it. First of all, then notice the problem that's laid out here. Put yourself in that situation. Here's David. In the wilderness of Zip, surrounded by nothing but barren wilderness and rocks in particular. Rocks all over the place. A geological paradise, but not much for anything but anybody else. All these rocks As far as the eye can see. And David, in the quiet, mysterious quiet of this wilderness, writes verse 1, To you I call, O Lord, my rock. As he looks about all these rocks, he thinks of God as his rock that cannot be moved. And then as he thinks of all the silence of this wilderness about him, a silence unbroken by any living thing, He says, Lord, do not turn a deaf ear to me. Don't be like these rocks that don't answer. These rocks that just sit there in silence. Lord, I cry to you, you're my rock. Don't turn a deaf ear to me for a You remain silent as these rocks are, then Lord, I'm going to be like those who have gone down to the pit. A helpless, desperate situation. You see, three feelings particularly coming through in these first. First of all, there is that feeling of helplessness. Lord, I call to you. Lord, if you don't answer, if you're silent, then I add it. You know, it's kind of a modern equivalent for this Hebrew colloquialism. I'll be like Those that go down to the pit, that is those that go down to the grave and beyond that shale or hell. David is saying, If you don't answer me, Lord, I have no other hope. Do you see something about prayer in that? David's taking God seriously. He's saying, God, I cry out to you. Lord, you've got to answer me. There's nobody else I can cry to. He said how far different that is from saying, Lord, I really am in a bad street here now and I'm praying to you to help me out of this. meanwhile you know you're not really depending on that very much, you're working out everything else that you can in order to get this thing taken care of. And you're sort of using prayer as something to baptize or some kind of a veneer over all the plans that you and I lay to get ourselves out of the situation. The Dave says there's no Other hope I have. Nothing. Lord, I'm taking you seriously. Lord, you've said that I can call on you to hear me. And Lord, if you don't hear, I don't have any other plan. There is nothing else. You see how that must please the Lord to hear. He says, Now here's somebody really depending. He really is putting me to the test. He's saying, Lord, there is nothing else. I'm crying out to you. Lord, he says, verse two, hear my cry for mercy. I'm helpless. I'm hopeless without anything else. I call to him for help as I lift up my hands toward your most holy place. Do you notice three times David says to you how personal are these first two verses? To you I call, O Lord. Him I cry as I call to you. You perhaps. I lift up my hands toward your holy place, or the holy place of course is the symbol of God's presence to you. Notice also that David wrapped himself up in this prayer by his physical gestures. As well as by what he was saying. Notice what he says there in verse 2, I lift my hands to your holy place. I'd like to recommend that to you when you're in a difficult situation or a track. You know, I find that. There is a there is such a close connection between my body and my feelings and as I cry out to God that sometimes it very much helps me if physically I express to the Lord what my situation is. Do you know what the Hebrew word for worship literally means? It's not a word that means to worship in some abstract ways. Literally, the word simply means to prostrate yourself flat out on the ground. And you have here in a prayer of pleading and petitioning. A lifting up of the hands, empty hands, saying, Lord, there's nothing I can do but reach out to you with empty hands for you to answer. And I would suggest it the next time you're Trying to express yourself to the Lord, and maybe you find your mind wandering. Maybe you're asking yourself, Am I really taking God seriously in all this? Or do I feel my prayers are just going up to the ceiling and bouncing down again? Lift up your hands to God. Prostrate yourself on the floor. On the road. Throw yourself before God and express with your body and with your heart those things that you're crying out to over. I think the Holy Spirit uses that with us to help us to fully express ourselves to the Lord. That's what David did. You notice also who he did it to. Not only does he say you, but as I said before at the end of verse 2, he says, I lift up my hands toward your most holy place. But that's the reference to the holy of holies in the tabernacle, where the Ark of the Covenant dwelt. And so what David is really saying here is, Lord, there is only one thing I have to hold you. And that's the fact that you are a covenant God who have Bound yourself to me. In that holy of holies, Lord, there is an ark, and in that ark there is the table of the law. And that law is your covenant that you have given to your people. And now I know that I can't keep that law, but you have said that a Upon that ark, the lid of that ark is called the mercy seat. And that mercy seat is the symbol of the fact that you yourself are going to somehow, in a way that I, David, can't understand, you are going to Meet the demands of that law and show mercy to your people. Hey, you see what this song means for you and for me as believers in Jesus Christ? Very simple. It means that you and I translate verse 2: I lift up my hands toward Jesus. Jesus is the one who came sitting on the mercy seat so that he met the full the hands of the law by sacrificing himself so that at Calvary, at the cross, Jesus Christ took those full demands of the curse of the law upon himself, so that for you and for me who lift up empty hands to Jesus, there's nothing but mercy. We know that we shall find mercy in time of need. And so take this song, personalize it, let this song eat into you so that you can feel what this means to lift up holy, helpless hands, empty hands to Jesus when you're desperate. David not only felt helpless and hopeless, he also felt vickeed, we read here in these verses, because he had been so grievously mistreated, whether it's Absalom, which it could be, or, as I think more likely, the situation At Keilah. David says, Lord, don't drag me away with the wicked, with those who do evil. Don't let me be cursed and destroyed alone with those who are under your wrath. I feel like that now. I feel like I'm estranged from you. But Lord. Don't do that. Who speak cordially with their neighbors? Thank you, David, so nice of you to help out in our time of ease, but harbour malice in their hearts. If we can gain a little bit with Saul, that's all right, enough for David. Repay them for their deeds and for their evil. repay them for what their hands have done, bring back upon them what they deserve, since they show no regard for the works of the Lord and what his hands have done. He will tear them down and never build them up again. Do you see what he's doing? He's laying all that bitterness and that resentment and he's saying, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And so David gives that to the Lord. He says, Lord, that's for you to carry. Lord, I pray that you will judge that. I pray that you will take that, but it's not for me to take it into my own hands. Interesting that between Psalm 1 Samuel 23 and 26, the first and the second time that they betrayed him, David had the anxiety. encounter with Nabal the fool, which he was going to destroy. He was going to destroy Nabal because of the insult. Take the vengeance into his own hand. But he met Abigail in the Lord. You remember Abigail dissuaded him and she said, Vengeance is the Lord's. Don't do this foolish thing. David learned from that and the fact that God judged that and judged Mabel in a very few days that he could trust God with vengeance. And so he gives it over to him. And he says, Lord, you judge this. And then between verses five and six, there's a period of time. You just can draw a line through that. There's a period of time that goes past, and then all of a sudden in verse six there's a burst of praise. Praise be to the Lord! Please heard my cry. mercy. You can't just read these psalms, you're gonna sort of monitor right on through, you know, and you read right from verse one to nine. You've got to think of what's going on there. So you gotta stop after verse five and you've got to let it sit there and you've got to say, now think about that. That's a situation. That was a situation for a period of time. The first period of time was when David was being chased by Saul in the wilderness of Zip, and there was a mountain there. And Saul was coming around with a horde of his troops. And David was on one side of that mountain with his little band of soldiers, maybe three hundred, and saw that his thousands in his army all around the other side of the mountain, and it was just a matter of time before they surrounded that mountain and David had had it. There was nowhere else to go. He was trapped. It was as if he was in a cage, and all Saul had to do was come and close the door. He was gone. The second time was when David was in that same wilderness, and Saul had come with even a larger army, and he had come to Mo. And there was nowhere else again that David could go. Now what exactly he wrote this, I don't know. But you've got to realize that he's in that situation for some period of time. And then do you know what happened? Amazing what God can do. I mean, you think you're in a situation, I think, no answer to it. There's nothing I can do to get out of this. The first time, do you remember what happened? Saul was coming around and he was closing in from both sides of that mountain. Just as David was crying out, saying, All is lost, Lord, you've got to answer, or else we're like those that go down to the pit, and there's nowhere else that we can go, and he's lifting up empty hands, saying, There is no other plan that I have. And all of a sudden a messenger comes riding across the desert. This fellow comes. Right at all these words into Saul's camp and he says, Saul, Saul, the Philistines have attacked your garrisons. They're sweeping through the land. There's an emergency back here, and Saul says, Oh no, no, that's gotta wait. I'm going after David. He says, Saul, you're an idiot. I don't care how much you hate that guy. The whole kingdom's at stake, you've got to go back. And they persuade Saul to stop his chase and to go back and to fight the Philistines to save the kingdom. You always see a kind of a sense of humor in that David's saved by the Philistines. Can you imagine Saul going back? The Philistines delivered that blankety blanket. But he goes out after him again. Here again, residents of Keila come to Saul and they say, Saul, we know where he is again now. He's right. down there in this little area. So Saul says, thank you very much for your loyalty to the kingdom, and up goes the army again. And they're all after David again. And they've come to him again, and this time the Lord really shows a sense of humor because they're all coming ready to attack the next morning. And God brings Saul to a place where he's sleeping, and he puts such a deep sleep upon him that David and his guard go up right to Saul. Do you remember? And he comes up to him in that sleep, and he takes his spear at his junk right beside him. And then it goes right back to a distance across the distance. Again. And the next morning when Saul gets up and he says, Where's my jug and my spear, you know? There's David across in the far hill. He says, Hey Saul, do you lose something? There he is, holding up his spear in his jug. Saul says, How'd you get that? And he says, Saul, you got another amount of sleep. So heavy. The Lord's delivered you into my hand, and I could have killed you. Now, David, Saul, won't you believe that I really don't want to destroy you? And you remember how Saul pretends to repent, or perhaps fought real remorse at that point, and let's David go. And amazing Now can you feel that when he writes this? Frage be the Lord! Free cards by crying for mercy. This is by the way why I this in the next verse why I don't believe this refers to Absalom, because he goes to the world. Goes on to speak about how the Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I'm helped. My heart leaps for joy. And I'll give thanks to him in song. That was not his response when he was delivered from Absalom. He wept out and cried, Oh, Absalom, Absalom. Would when I had died. Sorry, it wasn't leaping for joy, that's the thing. But this is a pure, unadulterated joy. That God has heard him and he has delivered him. And so it is this personal testimony that follows from that prayer being answered. And then following from that, in the fourth place, you see a principle that he discovers from this. Now verse seven, that personal testimony, I'm running right over. Because we're going to spend a number of weeks looking at that verse and really exploring the depth of what that's saying. But right now I just want you to see it in the context and how that personal testimony then leads on to a principle that David states here in verse 80. And that principle is that the Lord is not just my strength. He's the strength of his people, a fortress of salvation for his alone. I think that's more instructive. Because a lot of times, when I hear personal testimonies, I say that's terrific what God did. But you ever hear a personal testimony that makes you feel jealous about the person as if that person has said Boy, God really blessed me. And you know, I really trusted in it. God was so faithful to me. And the emphasis, in some subtle way, gets so directed upon the person and what God has done for the person that it's somehow a unique blessing. Why doesn't God bless me like He blesses Him? And maybe that's my problem, maybe I'm jealous and that's sinful. But sometimes I think it is that in our testimonies we tend to focus upon ourselves. And there can be mixed Up with that joy, a certain amount of pride that says, Boy, God's done this for me. You know, I didn't think that I was worth very much in the kingdom. And now God did this. And he showed me that I'm really worth something in his kingdom. And in a sub Rather than going simply from that humility that says, God I'm helpless, there's nothing I can do but lift empty hands to Jesus and I come and I say, Lord, I I'm amazed that you've been faithful and and that you've shown mercy to me, it's sort of like was in some way maybe I earned it by my faithfulness. But David moves right from his testimony to say, no, this is a general principle. I want to encourage you. This isn't something that's just for me. Don't you see the principle of the Lord's is straight for all his people? I want you to see his faithfulness. I want you to see his strength. Don't look at David. I just happen to be in this situation and God was merciful on a sinner. But look at the Lord and his strength, because you can claim it too. I would encourage you. That's what he's doing for us this morning. You see, 3,000 years later, he's still encouraging these people to say, you know, Columbia Presbyterian. Don't just look at my experience. See it applying to your experience. The Lord is your strength. He's going to be a fortress of salvation for you because of his anointed one, Jesus. Through whom that salvation comes. And then from that principle, God leads them to a larger prayer. Notice that verse 9, there's once again a prayer. It begins with a prayer and it ends with a prayer. Verse 1 and 2 are a prayer. For David. Verse 9. Has nothing to do with David. Verse 9, he has now seen God's faithfulness, and that gives him a prayer for God's people. A plea. It comes from this principle. And so he prays, Savior people. People, bless your inheritance, for their sh be their shepherd, and carry them forever. I can't help but wonder if there wasn't perhaps a bit of a pang as David wrote there that God would be the shepherd of his people when he thought of the people. Back to those peaceful days in Bethlehem when before being hunted like a wild animal, he himself was a shepherd and knew what it was to take care of his sheep. David said, Now, Lord, you're my shepherd. I'm a wandering sheep. And Lord, oh Your people, as Jesus saw them in Matthew 9, scattered about as sheep without a shepherd, need you to be their shepherd. And so his prayer is for God's people. Now, let's look at that again and see the connections. Because I want you to see this. Look at them on the back. Do you see the flow of this song? The desperate circumstances produce an urgent prayer. And so David lifts up empty hands to Jesus asks. Asking for God's deliverance. That prayer enables you to see God's dramatic answer in delivering him out of the clutches of Saul. And that produces three benefits. Three benefits that come from his helpless situation. First of all, a personal experience of the saving, delivering power of Jesus Christ. You see, only when you and I are in helpless situations Do we really believe that God has answered? See, there's always that temptation when we're not helpless to think, Wow, really nice that the Lord did that. But you know, the sun was probably going to come out someday anyway. And you know, I probably would have worked that situation out sooner or later. But it's when we're helpless When we realize that we're helpless, that when God answers that our personal testimony has the ring of truth, God has answered, I trusted him in a helpless situation and he came through. worth it. That was what Linda was saying. He said, there I was nine years ago and I was in that situation. That was the last thing in the world that I wanted. You see now why I said she took my point. That was the last thing I wanted. But God worked. And when I look back on that, From my personal experience and testimony, I could say it was worth it for what I saw him do. If you're in a kind of situation this morning that seems helpless, may I encourage you in the name of Jesus Christ. God is preparing you to show himself in your life. to produce something, I don't know what, but something that will enable you to say eventually, by God's grace, that was worth it. He's my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him and he came through. I was helped. My heart leaps for joy, and I say my song to this godness to faithful. The second benefit that flows from that is to see a deeper principle which applies to God's people. To be able to see something more about his nature, to get a bigger view of God, to understand more about him, to have a more balanced view about him so that you can encourage the body. You see, our biggest problem, I believe, is God. Christians is that we have such an imbalanced view of God. If you and I had a balanced, accurate view of God and we really believed, we wouldn't have any problems. Because we trust him implicitly, we would follow him, we would be able to walk with him in the way of. But so many of our problems are wrapped up within an imbalanced view of God. And when one of us in the body experiences God's grace in in a profound way and they testify to the rest of us, here's what God is like. Then he said, Yeah, you know, I really have been following imbalance imperfect view of it. And now I see Jesus a little more as he is. And that really encourages my heart. Because as he really is, is always far better than I'm conceiving him to be. And so maybe God's worked in your life. Maybe he's answered some prayer. But have you pursued that answer in rejoicing in your own personal testimony to learn some general lesson about God's nature from it? Don't just simply focus on the deliverance. What do you learn about God from what He's taught you and bringing you through that thing? What can you encourage the body with as you see that He's a strength for His people, not just you? And that you might use that experience to encourage others. And then thirdly, it's a deeper and broader prayer life. The third benefit is that he makes a plea for God's people that are based on those new insights. He's learned now to Pray in Jesus' name a little bit more of what that means. He's going through lifting empty hands to Jesus to see Jesus' word and show him a little bit more what it means to pray not just for myself, not just for my family, not just for my small group. To begin to pray for this body, to begin to pray for the Church of Columbia, to begin to pray for God's people in Maryland, the United States, the church and the world, to begin to pray, Lord, save your people and bless your inheritance. Lord, you're able to do it. I couldn't believe you. It worked in my situation. You have seen you do that. Now oh Lord, there's a rush of that faith and that gratitude. I want to press on and I want to learn more about prayer. See, if you don't do that, you'll latch right back in your prey. Because faith's like a muscle. And the more you use it and exercise it, the stronger it gets. But if you don't use it, it atropies. And the danger many of us have is when we see God work and we see him deliver us out of of a situation that seemed hopeless, we said, now I can rest for a little while. I can just praise God and I can sort of move on. You know, I'm sort of tired of praying. God says now's the time you ought to press on and you ought to learn to pray larger petitions and you want to plead more now out of that faith that I'm giving you, so that you might see me do more things to show my faithfulness in deeper and wider ways in a prayer ministry that I'll give you. It's at that time we ought to maximize that. It's not back off. Maybe you're in a situation this morning where God's really Encouraged you in that. Press on. Large your pleas. Pray for the church. Begin to see God answer deeper and larger things as he stretches your faith. Where are you in all of this? What is it that God's trying to teach you? That fits somewhere in the experience of David here. How are you responding in that? Don't draw dichotomies in your life. A dichotomy that says, I really am trusting God, but on the other hand, I'm really just trying to work things out by myself. I remember sitting with a woman one time in my ministry. I was over at her house because she had said she was going to commit suicide that night. She affirmed to me in unemotional tones that there was no question of the fact that she would not be there the night. next day. She said, I'm just gonna take my life. There's nothing left for it. I'm taking my life tonight. I knew that she professed Jesus Christ and so I said, Well where does Jesus Christ enter into this? She says, Oh, there's no question it He's faithful. I believe that God can do anything. I said, well then uh how is that relating to your problems? And there was no connection. I could not get her over a period of four hours to make a connection between the fact that with the mind she was saying that God was faithful to everything that he could do and he could do anything. But her life wasn't worth living one more day. And only after the four hours of talking and pleading and praying, we came back the next day and she's still there. But we do have that tendency, don't we? That tendency to say on the hand. God can do anything. But then to pray and to live as if we're helpless and hopeless. Let's learn to lift up empty hands to Jesus. Let's pray. Lord our God, tell me that you do we have here a hope that is beyond anything that the power of positive thinking could ever give to us. Thus the hope fixed in you and Your objective reality. And the fact that when we are in a helpless situation, that we can cry out to you as our rock, and you're not like the rocks of the wilderness of Ziff. You're a rock that hears And you're a rock that can work and answer, and you can even work the mighty armies of Saul. You can take care of whatever financial problems there are if we trust you. We can take care of the marriages that may seem the most hopeless of any in this room. He can take care of whatever needs, whatever disappointments, whatever tragedies. Whatever discouragements, you can bring any of us here, Lord, to be able to testify that you are our strength and our shield. Our hearts have trusted in you and we've been helped. For our hearts leap for joy, we sing in our song to the Lord. Lord, in some of these cases it can be very interesting to see what you do because the situations do seem hopeless. But you have told us that your purpose for us is that we might experience the incomparably great power of Jesus Christ. That power that was experienced when he was raised from the dead and ascended as the king on the throne of all thrones, above every power and dominion both in this age and the age to come. And you want for us to know that power. And so we give our songs to you. We pray that for those who need to know it and their discouragement will know it this morning. For those who have seen your work and are encouraged, will see the principles that you want to teach them from that. Learn and encourage the rest of us. And that those who have been encouraged in their faith will not back off and coast. But we'll press on to learn to deepen and widen their pleas for the Church of Jesus Christ that you teach us to be a praying people. Lord, we look to you for these things. In the name of the Lord Jesus. Who sits on the mercy seat and waits to hear us? Amen