Okay, which would he enjoy more? The ministry or the Lord Himself? Here 's that my friend talked about four things today for you , Sadhguru , you guys. I used to come in to seed and bank to me and talked about the four things. And talked about thanking the Lord for his material provisions. And gave uh you know, I decided we've had the opportunity for some examples of that. The second one is a bank alone for answered prayer. There's an example for that. According to Dankeroids for those for his reason embrace in those situations with these kinds that we can't really figure out what he did. That's available for that. And I think the most of this we thought it writes easy to thank the Lord for material things that the Lord has given to us. Thank the Lord for the wealthist of prayer that we see Advantage even those times when we don't know what he's doing, but we're going to advance him to his listening way. Then what about folks? Think of us to know Jesus himself and how he's become more passive to him to reason eat. Maybe you felt a little pause at that point, a kind of an embarrassed oh yeah. Because it's so easy to bank a leg for our experiences. We get so easy to forget about it. The Bible can answer himself. So the Jesus himself has become more accepted to as a person. Because this morning as I wrap up this session, this section of the patient's identity of three, I would like to do it by focusing on three pictures But the Bible gives us, about the church, which focused on its relationship to Jesus. And I'd like to focus on our relationship to Jesus and three pictures that the Bible gives us this morning. You remember, I thought Peter 2, 9 and 10, both our passage, so we spent so much time in during this past year. And Peter says that you are the chosen race, the royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. So that you might declare two sages who called you out of darkness into his wonderful life For you who were once not a people have become the people of God. We saw there how God has constituted us to be his own personal people belonging to him. And how that's the very essence of the covenant that you've established with us. I will be your God and you could be my people. The first elements that we have of God is in the book of Exodus Well God said in Exodus chapter six. I'd like to return with you to that because I'd like to read that it specifically this morning We put in up to verse 67, I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. That's the first time in the scriptures that God said that And let's see what he means in the context of that. So uh let's read along and follow along as I read from Exodus chapter six, the first seven verses Then the Lord said to Moses, now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh because of my mighty hand. But he will let them go. Because of my mighty hand, he will drive them that is the Israelites out of his country. God also said to Moses, I am the Lord. I appeal to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob of God Almighty, that by my name the Lord, Jehovah I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they lived as well. Moreover, I've heard the groaning of the Israelites, and the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. Therefore say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free me from being slaves to them, and I will be given with acts of that God and mighty acts of judgment. I will take thee with my own people, and I will be with God. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God is walking out from under the earth of Egypt. The name, Jehovah , is defined by verse seven. I will coach you with my own people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am Jehovah who brought you out and glory of your victim. He says earlier you see there that uh I appeal to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob of God Almighty, but by my name Jehovah I did not make myself known to them. Now you read in Genesis. You'll find that the name Jehovah appears a number of times. So what does God mean by this? We need to be able to explain to them what that name meant. The name that means the God who is the covenant people , faithful God, who calls out a people to himself. He takes a group of sinners and says, You are my own people. Now Rabban as you have declared it in this place, takes it also scriptures to explain what is meant by that And we've identified that to show you with a number of pictures of what we are as a people. With three that I'd like to focus on this morning that has particular reference to our relationship with him are the pictures of the case as a bind, as peace, and as a bride. And I'd like to finish this view by focusing on those three pictures. Because they view about in a very conscious and intimate way with our relationship with Jesus and to prove us, his sufferings, and the bride When you see in the bulletin outline, a number of 50s listed under each of these points. Here for you to be able to check later. But all I want to do for you this morning is simply take those fixes from 52 So we can get the big pictures, so we can understand the flow of what God is trying to communicate to us in giving us these pictures of Himself and of who we are So just look at our disclosure so that you might be able to understand what it means that to do, right to do it. Because first of all then is a vine. And Jesus is the pre-vine. In Psalm 80 and Isaiah 5, the scriptures tell us that God brought a vine out of Egypt But he planted that vine in a very fertile hill. He put a fence around it, he built a watchtower in the center of it, to guide it so that no one would be able to destroy it. And God says that he did everything to that barn that was necessary for it to produce abundant fruit. In expectation of the fruit, I think he's gonna gain large back. He 's going to be able to contain all of the grief from that group of the grief in the body God says he waited. What did the bow to do? Because rather than receiving the accepted sweet fruit of righteousness, rather his people to do the bitter fruit of sin and assassin. The people did it to the taste until God says, What can I do to my body that I haven't already done? I've given it every advantage. Everything it was possible to be for, I've done to my people So I'm going to take that vine, I'm going to rip it out of the earth. I'm going to destroy that vineyard. I'm going to lay it waste till it become a place of lies and thores and a wasteland. Jesus comes. And Jesus says, I'm the sea. Jesus says the third is really the brother. That must be connected to the Bible. We must be finding our life in Him in order to produce the truth that God is expressing. Jesus says this is only to ever produce the sweet fruit of righteousness, you must be rooted in me. You must be feeding on me. You must be abiding in me. You must be drawing your light from me. He says in John 15 verse 4, Remain in me, and I will remain in you, and nobody else can bear fruit by his flesh. It must remain in divine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am divine. You are the worst fruit If a man remains in me and I am in him, he will bear much too. Apart from me, he can do nothing. But he gives an alternative in this. He says, Now if anyone does not have remaining me , he's not that branch is thrown away and given the balls will be picked up and thrown into the fire and buried. What are you this man? Are you abiding to divide the season? Or are you seeking to produce the truth? of righteousness, the fruit of a life that's pleasing to God in your own life. Think of a fellow who came to me this week A fellow who is very distressed, depressed , discouraged about a lot of things. He says, I read the Bible and he says I see all the displays to do and I try to do it. What else can I do? My son was missing that he was fine rather than process. He was seeking to be a bind to do for his own seat without being remembered to the tree by Jesus. So it goes like that. Just try to follow the sequence, it's easy. But unless you relate to Jesus Christ by faith, unless you've come to realize that you can never to be that peaceful in your own life by yourself, then you will never know life yourself. By agents. If you try to simply follow what Christianity teaches, if you simply try to do what the Bible says, but you've never given your life to Jesus Christ as a person. You've never humbled yourself before him and come to realize that you need his sacrifice on your behalf. You need his life to be united to you so that God can forgive you and make you over a communication. You'll be fitted. And the fruit will be bitter in your life. He added to himself and appeal, one of you who may not have trusted Jesus Christ in your own life. I find a principle of peace for us existence. You see, the lessons for us. So many other I find I find a real system, a lot of a great one. You know, when we're not a grapefinder, we pick up a book on grace. And and we read this book about grace and we study what's grace. Great buys is supposed to produce. When you read about cocaine rates, ice grapes, high grace, and the long grapes, you say, Well that's better, that's what I'm supposed to produce. I've got to get busy. You see if we can get going there and uh what comes out? Well, if you get any fruit at all, if you sort of a study Dribbled up sort of thing, looks more like a raisin than a bright. The fruit's bitter. Wow. Because a sort of great vine can never produce fruit, it has become disconnected from the vine itself, from the nucleus, from the soil. How many times we have sisters in our view We read the Bible, we read the truth, we read what we're supposed to be doing, but unless we're invited to Jesus, we find that we're doing it in our own faith and we're producing a good thing. In the last weeks and months we've talked a lot about what the church ought to look like. We've talked a lot about what we as Christians ought to be producing as seed I want to say to you right now that I understand that it does taken something that you have to simply get busy and do, then it's nothing but a bunch of heaven It's nothing that will produce nothing with our congregation but discouragement and deceit as we simply try to felt up, looking like a New Testament saint What Jesus is trying to remind us of this Lord is you and I have to be connected to the Bible. You and I are about to be drawn our life from Jesus himself. So that as he in whose power comes through us, God is able to produce by his Holy Spirit that fruit being thine eyes. That would work to keep us by the sickness. He wants to see us how close he wants to be to each of us in our own lives. So that his power is our power in producing the truth that he tells us about. Now that same chapter John fifteen, Jesus went on to say in verse thirty thirteen But I told you this so that my joy may be in you. And your joy will be complete. Later life has no one in this. Then one lay down of life for his friends. You are my friend if you do what I command. I don't want to call you servants because a servant doesn't know his natural service. He's what I've called you friends. Everything that I've learned from my father, I've made learned for me. Jesus doesn't want to just give us a list of rules for how to be a safe. Jesus says, You're not safe. I want that relationship with you. This is wrong from me, my life. Be the kind of Christ and the kind of disciple that I've called you to be. Oh, let's be careful. We don't read the Bible as simply a manual to tell us how we are to live. without being remembered. Day by day, long upon Jesus. Day by day spending time in his word so that we can understand who he is and what he's like and worship him Spending time in prayer, calling upon him, asking for his faith. Spending time dwelling in our laws for him, delighting him. That 's being divine. That 's feeling the grace, delighted to divine. Separate this particular details of feet, and Jesus is the separate The Bible tells us that all ye like peace of God of life. And the Lord is my shepherd, I come at once. You know, we accept in Bible culture was a very humble occupation. Because we can imagine the contrast of trust The Jew, as he read in Psalm 80, that you who sit and throws between the prisoners come forth, speaking of God's exaltation. The one who was behind that veil that no one but the high priest could approach in him once a year behind all of the gold and the tapestry He has displayed there a picture of you between the peregrine on the Ark of the Covenant. God says, I God God am the supper of Israel You who leave Joseph like a flock. The God became a terrible supper. He 's the God who leaves Joseph out like a flock and lifted him carried him in his arm. De pictured by God here as a lamb that God is told, tenderly forth. And he says concerning the captivity, I brought you up And guarded you as lambs in my arms and carried you away from the captivities. I carried you as those that I was tenderly needing as peace Jeremiah tells us this, and God says, He who I have scattered, I will gather again, and I will watch over his flock like a s We might have. When we see that prophecy, the view that's the home expensive And then you're small among the claims of Judah. Out of you will come to me one who will be the ruler over Israel. His original of old from ancient times. This the everlasting God is coming to be born among none. What's he going to be like? Because he will send he will find and settle his flock in the strength of the Lord. And in the majesty of the name of the guy of the Lord his God, they will move to serious All his words were weak to be one to the other. And peace will be. Jesus comes with the good shepherds. In contrast to the shepherds of Ezekiel 34, whom God has said, These are the shepherds who cares for nothing but to take care of themselves and feed themselves in the reward of Jesus. And he says, I'm the good shepherd. I'm the good shepherd who is a deeper control. I say to my people, you are my people But I will care for you. And these people then will know that I the Lord their God and with them. And that they, the house of Israel, are my people. You are my people. The seat of my pastor, and I am the God, who says the sovereign world. He's the survivor separate who will leave even the mind of the mind and go out and seek for the one last land Because each one is confident to me. Jesus speaks to me, finds you. The Jesus takes care of you because you're not just a part of the horde that is the case. Because he declared for you and for me, individually. He called it for you and you You think the Lord doesn't care about the heartache that you have, about the difficulties, about those things that you're struggling with now? He can say when you're struggling. I care for you and holding with a lamb in my eyes. And I care for you more than you could ever know. Jesus comes and says, I am the big subject. And in John 10, he describes here what that means. So he tells us, I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the peace. How it holds not to supper who owns the seat. Because when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the seat and runs away. And then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters him. The man runs away because he's a high at hand and fears nothing for the feet. But I am the good for him. I know my feet, and my feet know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life to deceit. Jesus. He's been suffering to the cause of the needs of the season, willing even to lay down his life. He can heal and to leave. He laid down his life. Because he's the shepherd, he became the Lamb. And as the Lamb, he became the Lamb's slave, to sacrifice, to substitute himself. And in laying down his life for us, Jesus demonstrated his tender care for now that he's given, he's risen of his supper. And encourage to you, an encouraged to me, the dependent thing. Oh yeah, we are alive that the moon came on independence He said, yes, Lord, I'm received. Like a two-year-old that learns his loser part of their vocabulary. I can do it myself And go on through the rest of our lives to maintain cons. I can do it myself, Lord. Lord, I've read the book on past years I I know what it means to compare peace, Lord. I know what people ought to do. I know how to find pastors. Lord, I know you word past me. I can find a place to grieve. I can find a flu to drinking Can we support what the Bible tells us? We realize some people are very wonderful. Therefore, it's the second grade of their side and says What are you going to stop and let me take care of you? Because you're not accepted. You're deceit. And the Lord wants us to be fruit. Why do we insist on trying to be sufficient? Also we admire our dependence and let them take us to live on and fearful. Instead of all these long told me, Lord, I can do it myself. I have a Lord delight in our admitting, in simply confessing our dependence on him. In calling to him, in being able to simply come to his life and say, Lord, I need you to be my sister. Because there is the pundit of what it can be for as a public We say we just came this morning, changes, like a supper believe it. Must believe we tender so In this blessed past you see this, for I use your falls to first. Blessed Jesus. Blessed Jesus. You fall. Let me eyes Place of Jesus, blank of Jesus , you of God and does. You are yours. Who are you defending? Be the guardian of our land. See to your flat. Consider the present. When we go up there, like it be , like it easy. Heal the problem when I'm trying. Like it beauty. Blessed Jesus, see you said it as you can say as you see. But the Lord gives the fear of the church in our relationship to Him. The picture of the church is a bride, and Jesus is the brightness. Ezekiel 16 is the fullest picture of this in the Old Testament. It supposed to a god finding a despicable, abandoned orphan lying in a keenest night. He said, that's my people. I found you there abandoned and despicable and nobody wanted you. And I washed the blood off you. I feel you. I prepare you. And I raised you up and then I love you. And I married you. I became your husband. And I became a perfect mother and husband to you. I gave you all of myself and decouraged him and faithful. And as I gave to you everything that a husband could possibly give, what would you respond? Jesus tells us our response to his people is the unfaithful. The unfaithful are not only to the adulteress, but God says, You is my people, we're a godside for the adultery. You indulged in promiscuity. You became a prostitute. Not only did you become a prostitute and give yourself to any other God , and sell yourself to anyone else who wanted you. He says that that wasn't even enough thing. So he that a prostitute has enough respect to charge for his services. You my people pay to have people coming to you. You pay to have your lovers to you, and you had no respect left. You indulged in unthinkable acts and degraded yourself in the vilest way possible. And what's the response of the husband? God declared to us in Hazel, but I called you back to myself. I went into the wilderness all to you and I sought off for you, and I viewed you and I called you with my love And I brought thee back to myself as thy wife. And the Lord consists for us there, his love that knows no bounds and no limits. Jesus Christ. And Amarquis says, I am that bridegroom. I'm the bridegroom. And so you ask why can my disciples not fast and why do they cease when I'm here? How can you cease? How can you fast? And the bridegrooms in the middle. And Paul tells us that Jesus is that bridegroom, the cares for his bride, and so he gives himself up for her. How could God take a prostitute for a life? Because God Himself deserved that life. God himself cleansed that wife, and God himself cleaned to the sin of that life, and Jesus cleaned himself up to his life. So Jesus says I've washed you and I've cleansed you and I've listened you without any spot or any winter because you're my bride and I love you. And what I respond to do to our driving, I respond to prepare ourselves for the wedding peace. Our response is to look forward to that very day when there's going to be the feast and offering, the webinar feast of the morning supper of the Lamb. And we read in Revelation In anticipation of that. Then I heard a voice from the throne saying, Praise our God, your servant. To you who fear him, both small and great, and I heard what sounded like a great multitude, like the roar of rushing waters. Like loud peals of thunder, shouting, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God Almighty reigns, and let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory. For the weather of the Lamb has come and his bride has made himself ready. Fine women wide and clean has given her to wear, for the fine women calling for the right of us, for the famous. You notice that that fine woman is given to her to wear. robe of our own that the Lord has given us to us from Jesus and raised in life. Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding couple of the Lamb And I saw a new heaven and a new earth where the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And there was no longer any sea, and I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, this is the church, coming down out of heaven from God Prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the plane saying, Now the dwelling of God is with mercy. For he will live with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with him and be their men. And then we have a conuscular text of Revelation twenty-one of the picture of what it means for God to be our God, and we to be our people. I focus on the very apex of that relationship of a bride to the bridegroom, of God who himself is our husband. What I was trying to do is With a level. The level of a prostitute is refused and forgiven and restored to that place of honor. Restore to a husband who should disown it. Restore it to a husband who should curse it and cast it out. God says your husband, I've taken it to myself. But I love you. You say, Lord, how can you love me? How can you love me the way I am and how unfaithful I've been to you? Because I say , I'm the bird room. And I love you. And I love you because I put my love upon you. And nothing that you can do is surprise you We can discern me from that fourth force of my mother. How do we say that from this time? Like a bride who wants to find out how to be a good bride. We pick up uh better homes and gardens, how to be a good bride or something, you know? The eternal woman Uh, read some sex manual and find out, this is how I can be a good drive. Learn the techniques and the skills. Is that what a man's looking for? That 's certainly that 's what the bride will receive from it our heart And any man will tell you as a husband, you can blow it on nine out of ten of the techniques of being a good wife in God. And why are the devotions? Because our demonstration of a question we are powered doing , that's good. And that's the Jesus is looking at the nearly of his life. He doesn't want simply the collect husbands. He doesn't want us to simply study the Bible as a manual. And to be simply able to say, well this is what we ought to do and this is what we ought to do if we're cycle and it's the truth. And then simply crank up a little deal, give each other some tech task and get to work. Jesus has our heart. Because he is doing it. No matter how much we do and how busy we are in serving him, if he doesn't have our heart , because it happens. He would want your heart. He wants you to be. He wants you to love him and he wants you to take the power. The power is a loving. Think for our time with you or I have time with the Lord in 50s and relationships. Take this time to say , I think. I just want to tell you, Lord, that you're more important to me than anything else in the world. Lord, I just want to tell you now how much I love you. I wish I loved you more. But now do you know that I love you What is time about my life? I say that's not practical enough. It doesn't get anything done. It doesn't get me through the go and lay all the needs that I have to go before the Lord But I'll tell you that's the heart of what it means to be a Christian. That's the heart of what God's desire is come up to his people. But to come before we can love him What do you mean with value in the line system? What do you mean the line system You need most to examine and to ask it all to think. One deals with a plant, the second deals with an animal, the third deals with a person. Do you demand that intimate dependence of a part on the body that gives us nourishment? You need to learn to rest in tender care and to peace upon the subject. Do you need to learn to behold your devotion and your love to him? Give him your heart To your adoration as you gradually, where are you doing independence? Where are you resisting your care? One of your last declares you love to your beloved. All of the worship Jesus with our true eyes, with our good purpose, and of the faithful and perfect wisdom Let's meditate on what that means to us. Let's meditate on that this week. Let's not simply look at the Bible as a manual to know how to be recipited. Rather can look at it as a love letter also. The declaration of God's love to be fearful And to respond to that in our adorations or go to the pencil. Oh what I die. Neglect the relationship that you have given to you so often and take forms instead of things How often do we have looked at being a system as something that we simply have to learn about and then do? Lord Jesus, be made to these three things you've given to us this morning. Perceiv ourselves as graces, be made into him, feeding upon you with our binds. I see, humbly dependent on you to carefully suffer as a bride waiting upon our guidance and mother , that it responded that I love to you. All Lord God, we pray that you are happy to satisfy And the most like time today and just to simply enjoy you We cannot focus on our experience and the things we see oriented and all of the things that are part of our experience as systems. part of the joy of being system, the fellowship that we enjoy with one another. Uh the ministry that we enjoy in serving. What's that happening? Come out like these things take the focus for replace you. Lord, we want to give you our power. We want to be found with peace to worship you. We want to worship you now. We want to be caught up with you. Our Lord, we love you. We love you, Lord Jesus, who are our vines. We love you, Lord Jesus, for being a good and faithful separate good. We love you, Lord Jesus. Because you're a bride woman who has no reason to love unfaithful brides, adulterous brides like us. The good logic , this last text, this kind of fix. Those are the two levels. Because the first love is You see how well it's like the cloud.