Gethsemane. We come to this place as you've already been able to feel with hushed tones, with our shoes off of our feet, because this is holy ground. We come here because we want to know Jesus We want Jesus to be more than a theoretical construct to us. We want the Bible to be more than simply a list of things that we ought to do. We want to know our Jesus. And we understand that to know Jesus, we can't really know Him unless we go with Him to Gethsemane. And so we're going there in order to understand something of the agony that he endured last week and this week. And then next week, as we begin our two services, we'll be looking at the prayer that he prayed. We go there because we find there Our greatest comfort and our strength in difficulties in our own lives. When you're tempted, What better place to go and know the fellowship of Jesus than at Gethsemane? When you're seeking to return kindness for hatred, good for evil. When you're seeking to return warmth for bitterness, what better place to go and to know the strength? Of the fellowship of Christ than at Gethsemane. When you feel utterly alone and misunderstood. What better place to have your needs met than at Gethsemane? Eleven short verses in Mark's Gospel. You've just heard them There's a world of feeling to understand here. And so we go to See the agony that Jesus endured we saw last week. The first thing that there, remember, Mark points out, verse 33. That Jesus was deeply distressed and troubled as he went to Gethsemane. You remember we looked last week at the fact that that word Deeply distressed is a word which reflects in the original the idea of being appalled, astonished, the idea of being amazed at something. It's the idea of being alarmed. It always has the idea of panic and surprise to it , the idea of astonishment. And then we saw that Jesus said, My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. If you and I said that, we'd be exaggerating for effect. And Jesus never exaggerated, and so he is overwhelmed to the point of death, in danger of succumbing. And then we read in verse 34 that he fell, excuse me, verse 35, that he fell to the ground. He didn't kneel But he fell before something so appalling that it threatened to overwhelm him, that he who was able to face demons unafraid Now finds himself nearly overwhelmed. What was it that overwhelmed our Lord? The only thing I can understand of this and the use of that language is that at that point Jesus began to see the full weight and essence of sin. He saw it to his very heart and he began to feel the very burden of it beginning to descend upon him. He's at this point beginning to move from being eligible to bear our sin to To actually bearing the sin itself. And the prospect, the realization of what sin is in its essence, the horror and the weight of it So far exceeds his own expectations that he's astonished and in danger of succumbing. And all of you and I could have been there at that moment, what terror we would have felt to think that maybe Jesus won't go through with it. Maybe all of this is for naught, and I will be lost forever after all. Because unless he goes through this and faces it. You and I have no hope of ever being right with God. We saw also last week Secondly, the first thing was the horror. He sees the horror of sin and is awestruck by it. Remember that. The second thing was that he fights the what? What was the second word? He the temptations, thank you. Little review here, you know, you gotta keep awake, keep get going. He re he sees and fights the temptations of Satan. He's attacked by Satan, not physically. It's only the thoughts in his own mind, and yet everything within his own mind is shouting to him, abandon your course. And we saw last week how Jesus was tempted, and we can't know exactly what the nature of the temptations are, but we have some clues from the text. And I suggested three things at least that I think he was tempted with. The first that he was tempted with the fact that he would not be able to endure it. Everything in his mind was saying, you will succumb, you will not be able to endure the this reviling of sinners, the suffering. The crucifixion and the abandonment, the curse of your father, you will not be able to endure that And secondly, we talked about the fact that he was probably told, you're utterly abandoned this, you realize. And perhaps, we don't know, but perhaps Satan even insidiously whispered in his ear, you know, this was all just a plot from the Father. In order to destroy you. He has you now where he wants you. He threw me out of heaven. Now he has you where he wants you. He's going to destroy you. So that he'll have heaven for himself with the Spirit. Fiendish imagination could possibly conceive to get Jesus to abandon his course was thrown at him at that moment. The worst temptations that you have ever felt can compare with the pressures that Jesus was under at that point. And I mentioned that probably the worst of all, the most dangerous of all those temptations, was the one that said, they're not really worth it, you know. I mean, here you are ready to be separated by and cursed by your father for what? For them? You you beg them to pray with you. Go back and look at them. See what they're doing. And Jesus goes back, and there they are, his closest friends on earth, sleeping away while Jesus agonizes in the fight. And we saw, remember last week, how the point of this is that we're not worthy. The scriptures make clear in the response of the disciples that we're not worthy in the least. Of all that he's ready to do for us, and of all that he is suffering at that moment. For some reason, he set his heart on these disciples He has set his heart on you and he has set his heart on me. And we're not worthy of what he has done. And so we don't need to try to be worthy, because we never can be sufficiently worthy. We can respond in gratitude to his love. But we never dare think that we have earned or been worthy of anything that Jesus has done in his sacrifice for us. That's so clear here in Gethsemane. For some reason, Jesus has been willing to pay this awful price in order that he would have you and me with him for all eternity. This morning I want to focus just a bit more on that price that he paid, which is the third point here, that he endures the abandonment by the Father. He endures the abandonment by the Father. He is abandoned by the Father. Jesus knew that this hour was coming from all eternity. Have you ever thought about that? Have you ever thought of or heard of someone who knew, perhaps let's say in your own situation, that you were to go to the doctor and the doctor were to say, you have a particular condition in you right now, and It's not going to uh necessarily do you great harm right now, but uh ten years from now You're going to need an operation. It's going to be a very painful operation. We'd rather not have to do it. And I once went to a doctor, looked at my wisdom teeth. And after looking at my wisdom teeth, he said, You should hope you die before I have to take those teeth out. He said, In twenty-eight years of practice I have never seen such a rotten set of wisdom teeth. Very comforting to me. It made me pray all the more earnestly for the Lord to come. But I knew that sometime he said, if in fact you live long enough, you're gonna have to have those suckers taken out. Now let's suppose that you were living in the dread of some operation that was going to happen to you. In fact, this operation was so bad he called in his whole class. Just to watch him do it. Really made me feel great. Everybody's arrayed around here, all the lights coming down, you know. I said, We're gonna watch this because if I can pull this one off, guys, this is really But you have something that you're looking, and you dread that. Every once in a while, what you're enjoying, you think that day's coming. Someday I'm going to have to go through that. From all eternity, Jesus knew with the Father, this day is coming. And I'm willing to do that. Because of my love for my people. And so I imagine that as Jesus went into Gethsemane, can you imagine the feelings? When he went in there and he said, Father , This is the hour that we always knew would come, isn't it? And now it's here. I've thought of that a little bit, and I've thought of my relationship with my own son Dean Imagine for a moment that Dean and I made an agreement that somehow, for some reason, you were threatened with death. And you could be delivered from that if Dean were to give his life in your place. Can you imagine Dean and me discussing this and agreeing, Dean? No matter how piteously you cry out to me when that moment comes, we're agreed that I'm going to ignore you. I'm going to turn my back on you, and what's more, I will be the one to inflict the curse and the torment on you that is going to deliver this person or these people from death. What does that do to our relationship? And he comes at that moment, and we've known it's coming, and there's the day. As I tried to think about this week, I find my mind was recoiling from it, and I simply couldn't get in to the emotions of what that would mean. For me to give up Dean in such a way. Think of that as a parent. And then think how infinitely more the Father Decided to do this with his own son, Jesus. How from eternity they had shared together a perfect fellowship. They had hurled galaxies into space together. They had thought up Earth. They had thought up the animals. What fun they must have had as they had thought of the different kinds of animals, orangutans with red rears, and all the different animals that you and I play with and enjoy at the zoo. They thought up man and woman and love and families. And these were the things that constituted their fellowship, as well as infinite other things that you and I can't begin to imagine. And now that father is about to turn his back on that son. And he comes and he says. I know, and you have known, Father, that this hour would come. And now it's here. It's here when we need to face it. But Jesus still cries out, Abba, Daddy, everything's possible with you. Isn't there some way to possibly remove this cup? What a loneliness Jesus must have felt at that moment Just a few hours before, Jesus had said to his disciples, I've eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you. And he enjoys the fellowship with those that he treasures so much. Why did he love them so much? I don't know. Why does he love me? I don't know. But he says, I eagerly desire to eat this Passover with you. He loves to spend time with you. He cherishes you. He loves your fellowship. It was that same time do you remember that after the supper he said to them, You've stood by me through my trials. And he acknowledges his appreciation for the fact that while the crowds have gone away from them, nevertheless they stood by him. And he affirms to them that that has meant a lot to him. He says, I will give you the kingdom. And do you remember how the disciples said, Lord, where are you going? And he says you can't follow, and they say, why can't we follow you? We want to be with you. Again, there's that affirmation of the importance of their fellowship together. Do you remember how Peter, beyond all the rest, said, Lord, even if everyone else here were to deny you, were to leave. I would go with you to prison and to death. I will never leave you. Is that Peter? He's back there right now, a stone's throw away, flat out, sleeping away, not even thinking of what Jesus is going through. Do you ever have someone come to you and they begin to unburden themselves to you, and perhaps you hadn't even planned it, but all of a sudden they begin to share with you a deep burden in their life. And as they begin to do this, you find yourself drawn to them and you say, Well, I don't know what else I can do, but I'll certainly pray for you. They say that'd mean an awful lot to me. And then they come back two weeks later, and they see you, and they're eager to Share with you what God has done or their feelings and all of a sudden you realize I forgot to pray for this person. It totally slipped my mind and You're there telling me how much this has meant to me and boy I just totally forgot. Yeah, boy, you talk about guilt. Ever felt that? What must the disciples have felt when Jesus wakes them up just a few minutes before he has said, please? I mean, how many times did Jesus ask the disciples, please do something for me? And here's one time that he is saying please Watch with me. Pray as I go. I need you to be praying with me. And just minutes later, there they are, caught asleep. Well Lord, it's been a long day, you know. A Passover meal was good, but you know, it filled me up and oh Lord, I I need sleep. My needs come before my caring for you. And everything shouts to them, they care for you so much less than you had hoped or supposed. Alone. How utterly alone he must have felt at that moment. And so Jesus goes back and he prays again. You know, another thing to notice from that Is that you and I sometimes think that when Jesus saved us, that he thought he was getting a better deal than he did. You ever felt that Lord, I've disappointed you so many times, or so many times that I have thought that I could be a better disciple. And I haven't done what I had hoped. I've let you down. Lord, you must be so disappointed in me. I wonder if you'd really known what I would be like as a disciple if you would have ever even bothered to save me. Called me to be among your own. This story, I think, helps us to see Jesus is not disappointed because he knows what we're like. We're no different from those disciples. And so those disciples who he continued to love , those disciples that he encouraged, those disciples that he set his heart on, they're no different from you or me. When Jesus called you, he knew the very worst about you. There's nothing that you do that surprises him There's nothing that you do that causes him to rethink the covenant. That causes him to say, boy, if I'd known you were that bad off, you know, I'm not sure that I'd have brought you into heaven. I'm not sure that I would have included you among those who are really precious to me. And so often you and I feel like we're the off-scouring of the saints, don't we? Jesus says, You're no different from the rest. I know your heart as I knew their heart, and he knew you perfectly when he called you to himself. But he goes back to the Father now and he prays again. Abba, Daddy. I think he uses that not only because he used that as his common Designation for his father, but because particularly at this moment, he wants to remind himself that there still is that relationship. Can I still call you, Daddy? Do we still have that relationship? And do you notice that in the Gospels, when he says that, there's no answer Silence. And he says, everything is possible for you. Anything you can do. There's still no answer. And he goes on, Father, please, anyway, any other way, there must be some other way, take this cup from me. I'm ready to succumb under its weight No answer. Utter silence. Then he reflects Prostrate on the ground, he says, yet not what I will, but what you will. And again, there is nothing but silence. No answer. Finally, an angel comes to encourage him lest he succumb under the weight. And he sweats, and the sweat is pouring off of him. And the agony and the torment of what he's going through. Listen, there's Christians today who say , Jesus died for our sins But there's other ways to God for those that have never heard of Jesus. There's other ways possible. I can imagine that That there might be another way that God has designated other than through the name of Jesus. Let me tell you that if you read these verses, and if there was any other way. For a person to be made right before God and not endure his wrath and torment Then the Father is a monster to have not heard the prayer of his son and to have delivered him. You see, either there is no other possible way, or else God is a monster, because God could have Provided another way. There was some other way in order to be right with him. And Jesus didn't necessarily have to die. But the father ignored his plea and said, I'll let you suffer this torment anyway. To me, one of the strongest arguments of the uniqueness Of the work of Jesus Christ and its necessity for any person to come into a right relationship with God is the fact that when Jesus prayed this prayer, The Father ignored and allowed him to continue in the course he had chosen. There's no answer from heaven. There is no other way. And you and I need to remind ourselves of that when we are tempted to think that concerning members of our family, of our friends, of people we work with, or people in other countries Without the gospel, we think, well, maybe they're not in as serious trouble as I'm sometimes inclined to believe, just because they don't happen to have consciously received Jesus the way I have. If there's another way, then the father is not the father of the Bible that I read, for he has ignored the cry of his son if he didn't need to. There is no other way. And Jesus is utterly alone because that is the only way that you and I could be delivered from our sin and its consequences. And we see here the cup of God's wrath poured out upon his son, that cup that Isaiah said was a cup to make nations stagger. And Jesus now drinks that cup in its utter emptiness and aloneness for you and for me. Have you ever felt misunderstood? Have you ever felt like you're abandoned? Have you ever felt utterly alone? You and I tend to say, life's unfair. Why do I have to endure this? Why you pick me? Why don't you answer? Why is it that I seem to go on so long in my life? Without the comfort, the answer from God that I would expect him to give if he really loved me And I invite you to see that such experiences are the Father's invitation to you to go to Gethsemane. And to enter into a deeper relationship with his son Jesus. In order to go uniquely to that place so that you can enter in, as Paul said, to the fellowship of his sufferings. And that by going there you can begin to understand what it meant for Jesus to endure aloneness, abandonment. So that the Father would never abandon you. And so that by knowing something of that fellowship You would be able then in the deepest part of your heart to rejoice in the fact that the Father hears you when you cry out to Him. Simply because he refused to hear his own son at that moment. And because he refused to hear him and abandon him, you and I will never be abandoned. You can call upon God and you can know that even in the agony of your own soul, in which you enter in something to the fellowship of the sufferings of Jesus, that God in fact does hear you. And as you enter into that pain, it simply causes you to love Jesus more. And as you love him more, you understand how much he loved you Because of the price that he was willing to pay. But have you ever entered into the relationship with this kind of a Jesus? rather than the cheap imitation that's offered in our culture. If you haven't, I invite you to do so now. And if you have, but there are questions in your life, there are concerns that are unanswered. There are things that you can't understand why life is the way it is. You think of Sarah Rue Mullineks reported in the Flyer this week. The teacher who was strangled by the student that she went to tutor. I've heard from Someone who knew students teached tutored by her that she was in fact the most loving and caring kind of person, saw good and potential in everyone Indications are that she was a believing Christian, had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, went to Emmanuel's church. Right here across the border in Montgomery County, a church that wants to be part of the coalition for renewal. And yet she was strangled Why? Does God work in the ways that He does? We don't have the answers But we can go to Gethsemane and understand something of a love that is unshakable that will take us through any of our questions Let's go there now personally and privately Lord Jesus, we cry out to you. We want to know you. Oh Lord, we're so tired of putting off Day after day and week after week, what it means to really enter into fellowship with you. We settle for such superficial fellowship. We want to read your word and get a quick blessing from it. We want to understand something that will make us feel good for the day. And we have missed that deep fellowship of knowing your heart, of knowing what you endured at Gethsemane because of your great love for sinners like us. Lord, we want to come to you right now. And we want for you to take our hearts. We want for you to, Lord, meet us in a new way. To reveal to us, to open our eyes and remove the scales that we do and understand something of your love for us. Lord, hear us as we come to you in our brokenness now.