When you're under spray or in smile or in difficulties of any kind. I would suggest that there's no place to go like the Psalms. I come to appreciate that more and more as I get older. The Psalms give expression to our emotions when they're in turmoil. We 'll solve to give perspective to our situation, like when we're lost in a forest, and somehow if we could get up in an airplane to look over the land and find out where we are. The Psalms give encouragement for us to see God at work in the situation, to encourage our faith, and to help us to continue on trusting and following Him. That's what I did this week. On Tuesday, I decided I needed to go out and to fast and to pray for the entire situation that we were in. Concerning the board meeting that night, the closure meeting the next day, the entire situation we find ourselves in as a church. And as I went out, God met me in Psalm 66. This was the word I believe he gave to me, and so I would like to share his word with you. The thoughts that I think are so appropriate to our situation Whatever situation it might be individually for some of us or corporately as a congregation of his people. We get it together. Now let's look at it bit by bit. First of all, you see in this Psalm 66, you see a large picture of God. It begins by telling us that God created all the earth in verses 1 to 4. I believe that the reason so often that we worry and fret over our difficulties is because we don't have a big enough picture of God, isn't it? We don't think that somehow God is able to handle the situation that we're in. Do you remember in the early church, when the early Christians We're declaring what we read in Acts 4. 12 that there is salvation found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men, which by which we must be saved. But they were threatened by the religious authorities of that time to not speak that message. And they went back and they held a prayer meeting in response to that threat. And what was the first thing that they did? They didn't begin by talking about the situation. They began by reminding themselves and the Lord of how great he was. And so you read down in verse 24 of Acts 4. But when they had heard this, they raised their voices together in prayer to God and said, Sovereign Lord, you made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything that's in them. Then we go on to quote Psalm 2 about how vain it is for man to shake his fist at God and to think that he can overturn God's rule and his word. And then they go on to lay their request before the Lord. And so you have in the crisis, whatever it was in Psalm 66, that same kind of dynamic. And I suggest it's important for you and for me, whenever we find ourselves in a tight situation, don't begin by looking at the situation. Look at how great God is. Get your mind totally off of the current crisis. And simply look. And as he says there A God who has created all the heavens and the earth. Shout with joy to God, all the earth, sing to the glory of this name. Offer him glory and praise. Say God, how awesome are your deeds. I was out It was just good to stop and to listen to all the birds that were singing. And they were carrying on a whole chorus out there on Tuesday. Guess because it was especially warm or something. They were really feeling their rings. I'll tell you, they're out there singing their arts out. How awesome are your deeds. Buds are beginning to open up. Maple tree blossoms were all over. Daffodils were coming up, corpuses in blue. How blossom are your deeds, the cycles of the seasons. Get my mind off of all of this around me and look to God and to worship. So great is your power that your enemies cringe before you. The Hebrew word there cringe means to become small, to shrivel up. And to have the picture of these who are the enemies of God's people and of God. You were so mighty at one point, such a threat. And it's as if you have somebody who's able to threaten you in some situation, maybe somebody you work for. Somebody that you see who's orighing against the gospel, and all of a sudden they're standing before Niagara Falls. And there they are, and they look now, who were so large before, all of a sudden they look so small. What will it be like for God's enemies to stand before his throne in that final day? The psalm tells us they will look small, according. They will cringe in their tininess as they're reduced to size. And all the earth bows down to you, basing praise to you, basing praise to your name. Moving from how great God is, he then moves on to what he has done of redemption. Not only do we see his greatness in creation, but we see it in the redemption of his church, of his people. In verses 5 and 7, come and see what the Lord has done, how often his words can that same faith In man's big head, thou not simply the glory of creation, but for you and for me, and what did he do for you and for me Well it's the Old Testament version of the gospel. He turned the sea into dry lands. What is that? That's the Exodus. That's the Red Sea, the Sea of Reeds, where God parted that sea and God did the impossible for his people. Then God who took his people, who were slaves, and he brought them out from Egypt, and God said, I will force the very sea, you know, to redeem my people. And the Egyptians were drowned in that very same sea. To the people of God, it is salvation to stay past through And to the Egyptians it was destruction. Then it goes on, you pant their death through the river on foot Speaking of coming into the kingdom, the Jordan River, as they passed into the land. And as you remember, they took then Jericho and Ai and the southern uh cities and the middle and the north, and all the land was laid open for them. As God fulfilled his promises of salvation to his people. See, this is speaking about the cross and the tomb. He's speaking about the fact that God has done the impossible for you and me to bring us out of the slavery of our sin in Jesus Christ as He laid our guilt on us. Him. For God has brought us into the land, the kingdom of his salvation, the kingdom of his dear son, bringing us through as the open tomb, as Jesus walked through Alive from the dead, and we follow him as those who are risen from the dead in his training. And so he said, look, look at these awesome deeds that God has accomplished for his people. Come, let us rejoice in him. He rules forever by his power. His eyes watch the nations. Let not the rebellious rise up against him. And then the psalmist moves into the particular recent situation. Having looked at creation and redemption and its landscape, he says, I'm going to combat our situation. What's been happening in our own experience recently? And it describes a period of testing and difficulty, a period of pressure and burden upon God's people Now what's he describing? We're not told himself. Some commentators think that this is describing the time when Israel was under attack by the Assyrians under Senator. And God brought about that tremendous deliverance under King Hezekiah. Perhaps it's that, we don't know. All we do know is there's a particular period of crisis and pressure. Look at how it's described in verses 8 to 12. Praise our God, O peoples, that the sound of his praise be heard. He's preserved our lives and kept our feet from slipping, so there was a danger of slipping, there was a danger of life here. For you God tested us A time of testing. You refined us like silver. You refine silver by putting it in a furnace so there is heat There was hurt. Flames hurt. It was a difficult time. He brought us into prison. The literal word in the Hebrew is a net used to catch birds. It's a it's a prison, a restriction, something that can find you. We don't track, you say. We looked all around us. There didn't seem any escape from our situation He laid burdens on our backs. That's Tulaman God. Look Lord, this is what he did Yeah, let's not digging it whether you allowed it to happen or whether you were behind it. The fact is that you're in control and this was our experience We found ourselves with burdens and with pressures. The word has the idea of pressure weighing you down, a tremendous burden upon you. And that's the description of the experience of the people of God. Then he goes on and he says, You let men ride over our heads. Talking about a helplessness. Here we are, wounded, we're down. There's nothing we can do to defend ourselves. We feel absolutely helpless and at the mercy of others. We went through fire and water. Did you ever watch a building, burning, flames? And as you see that conflagration and the whole thing is being consumed and the building is so hot that the that the uh the very structure of it's melting, and you see it going down, you say, boy am I glad I'm not in that. I'm sure glad I didn't get trapped in that. And God said, He put us through that fire. You ever go across the Chesapeake Bay Bridge? Not on a bright sunny day, but on a stormy day. And you look far down there from those towers and you see the murky water and you see the waves lapping up back and forth. And you look down there and you say, boy, I'm sure glad I'm not down there. I sure am hoping they built this bridge right when they were doing it. I hope they built it for the long haul. You look down on that water and God says to you, You put us through that murky water. You let us go down. You let us go down until it seemed like we were overwhelmed with the fire and the water We were trapped. There was nothing we could do. There was pressure upon us. Feel the burden of the people of God in this situation. Then notice how verse 12 finishes. But, but, but you brought us to a place of abundance. But you brought us through to a place of overflowing refreshment. The Hebrew word has the idea of reviving someone. It's the idea of being drawn out of the murky depths and out of the furnace into a beautiful garden. And you look at all the tulips and the daffodils and everything is coming up so beautifully, and your soul and spirit is refreshed in quietness, peace. The ideas of an overflow abundance of refreshment. But you brought us through. To that place, the psalmist says, That was our experience, but you brought us through. Now let me say that I personally don't think that this is a promise of a crystal cathedral lying ahead of us. I don't think that that means that well because we have problems with regard to facilities now, that means God's going to provide us an abundant facility. No, I don't think it means that. I think it means that God will provide us exactly what we need to worship and to minister as His people. That the spiritual abundance is of our spirits and of our souls as we trust Him. That we can look back on this situation. Six months, a year from now, and we can say, praise God for how he showed us faithfulness and how he enriched us as his people. By trusting him through the difficulties of his time. A spiritual abundance. It's so precious to think that God is doing that for us now. He cares for you and for me so much. That he is going to show us his power. Do you remember what we said? I remind you of this practically every year. Is our purpose as a church You remember it's from Ephesians chapter 1. To know him, to know our calling and encouragements. And what's the burden? To know what? His power. To know his power, do you remember what it says to him in Ephesians 1? To know his power, that incomparably great power for us to believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength that he exerted, which he exerted in Christ. When he raised him from the dead and seated upon his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all, in dominion and authority About every title that we've given, not only in the present age, but also the one to come. Jesus is seated on the throne. He wants us to know his power. And yet we don't have needs, we don't lose power. Now we've got a need. That's an opportunity for God to bring us to a place of abundance. a place of seeing his power, so that you and I can praise him in new depths and heights as his people together. But I'll notice that that's the first twelve verses. Verses 13 to 20 then switch gears. And you move from a corporate experience To a personal experience. Notice the narrowing of this psalm. We start first of all saying God has made all the earth and has spoken with his praise with the entire earth. Then he moves down and he says, now then he has called out a people to himself. And he's redeemed us. He's brought us out of Egypt, out of slavery, and he's brought us into his kingdom. Now the state is his church. Then he moves down more now and he says, No, our present experience as his people, right here. This is what God has done in our experience together. And then it takes all the last almost half of the psalm to zero in on one person and God's word in that one person's life. Notice who that person is. Who is it? You don't know. It's an anonymous person. Anything can relate to this. It's someone who has not even been recorded for this. Some commentators think it is the king, think that this is Hezekiah speaking, if it's in fact the deliverance from the Assyrians. That might be But you can read for the psalm yourself. There's no real evidence, tangible, hard evidence that it necessarily is hesitant. In fact, some things seem to me to slightly go against that. This is simply some anonymous saint who, in the context of corporate deliverance, says, Let me tell you what God's done in my life. Let me tell you about his faithfulness to me. And so as God does that, he's focusing on that interplay between the corporate and the individual deliverance. And how you see the two encouraging one another. Now notice the testimony. The testimony is he now has been faithful to me in my time of being personal. Notice two things about this experience of whoever this is. First, they'll notice the nature of prayer, and then secondly, notice the nature of God, you see. I think there's important lessons for us, practical lessons in our experience right now, individually and as a congregation, in the experience of this person, whoever it was. First of all, notice the nature of prayer. Two things were told about the nature of prayer in the life of the saint. First of all, the praying was trusting and thankful. Look at verse 17. He says, I cried out to him with my mouth, and his face was on my tongue. That is in a difficult situation. He's in trouble, verse 14. He's in trouble. It's a situation that's probably appropriate to all the descriptions of the fire and the water, the pressure, the helplessness described in the verses before. He says, I am in that situation And I cried to God with my mouth, and his praise was on my lips. It reminds us of Philippians chapter 4 Where we're told that when we pray, again in verse 6, that we forget our requests made known unto God with thanksgiving. With Thanksgiving. Again, reminding ourselves of his faithfulness, all that he has done, his faithfulness, and then in that context Say now Lord, here's my trouble right now. Lord, here's my difficulty. Here's the situation that tends that that threatens to overwhelm me right now And that is cried out not as a complaint, but as a word of trust because it's mingled the banks giving. God, I know you can take care of this. Have you thanked God for the situation we're in at the meeting house? Have you thanked him and said, Lord, I thank you that you've put us in this situation now? That 's a difficult situation, but I thank you for that. But I thank you in whatever situation in your own life Some situation is very difficult for you. You're struggling with it now. You don't know your way out of it. Well, you say, God, I thank you for that situation because it's an opportunity to see your power I beg you that you are capable of handling this. And so I lift up my pride to you with thanksgiving. So our crying to God should never be by way of complaining, but by way of offering unto Him our needs for thanksgiving. And secondly, notice that this prayer is of a person whose heart is sincerely yielded. to the Lord. Sincerely healing. Verse 18. Verse 18 says, if I had carried sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. Now, I don't know about your background, but I have heard that verse used numerous times as a proof text for the fact that one of the conditions for answered prayer is to not have sin in our lives. Now, I don't know about you, but that's always sort of bothered me because it sort of ruled out any of my prayers aren't being answered. In fact, I know some people who make it a practice of when they're done to pray, they'll start off by confessing. And they go through a list of every possible sin that they can think of, just so God will make sure he hears their saree because they've met the qualifications of Psalm sixty six, eighteen. If I carry sin in my heart, God wouldn't hear me. I'll say another Because I've got every possible sin that I can think of before I lay this request down. I would suggest to you that is not what this verse is talking about. And if that's what you've been labeling under, I hope this will free up a little bit What this is talking about, I believe, is a heart of sincere yieldedness to regard to the request It's simply saying that I offer this request without all kinds of footnotes and qualifications saying this is how I want it done. I change my own simple ways in how you're going to work this out. I think it's most Clearly demonstrated and illustrated in Edith Schaefer's book, Legrie. And when she talked about the struggle of their pay for a facility that they needed in order to stay in Switzerland, she describes prayer and explains it this way. There are Christians who really almost envy the answers to prayer that they hear about, but they have specific answers to some specific request without the rest of their lives being changed in any way. They've left some prayer advancement in some realms and they would like to know what it's like to be led by God's direction in certain aspects of their lives. They may even present two alternatives to God in their prayers, but they push the rest of the possibilities away. They're very conscious of this because the inward doubt of to be honest before God when one asks, show me thy will is a very real struggle. It's easy to pledge to oneself certain things which really erase the holy quest and a moment. This is not only true at a time of crisis, but it's true any one time one asks to be shown God's plan. Many Christians want the excitement of a reply from God, but not the pain of the struggle. That's what I think verse eighteen is all about. I don't set my own agenda and say, God, here's my request. Here's my E. Now, alternatives A, B, C, and D are all fine and begin to running. But I reserve the right to exclude D, F, and H because that is why it's so hot. And if you've got to do it that way, I just assume you don't do it. And he says, if I had cherished sin in my heart, the Lord would have emulved the whole thing. He says, if you come to me, as Gardner Taylor says, crying out, Thy will be done, the spirit in me groans is striving too deep to be uttered. As I lay myself open and vulnerable before the Lord and I say, whatever way you want to do it, Lord. Then I'm open to see God's work. Then I, as an individual, am open to see his power in the way he chooses to demonstrate it. then we as a congregation of his people do not project the way that our events should go now to make it successful and to accomplish all kinds of good things that we had in mind pre-determined should come out of this experience God may have very different things in mind. And the way that he projected this story should end. We have to come not cherishing our own ways and sin in our hearts. And with entire sincere yielding to say, God, here we are, here's the need. Your will be done. As we see specific alternatives come up, we lay them specifically before the Lord But we don't predetermine that's the way he must act. That's the pattern jihad Let us also link with that. There's a picture of the nature of God, not only of prayer. The nature of God is told to us here that He's a faithful God. About this then, because it's indirectly communicated. Look at verses 13 to 15. It talks about offerings If this worshipper is blinging, he's bringing it before the whole congregation. That's where sharing his testimony. And what are the offerings The offerings are thank offerings. You see, when he says that these are to fulfill his vows, he's referring to the law that says that when you're in trouble and you make a vow to me The vow is simply to say that Lord when you deliver me in answer to this prayer of my need, then before the congregation I will offer a thank offering, which is a kind of fellowship or peace offering. I will offer that offering before the congregation as testimony of your faithfulness. And so what this Psalm is saying is, Your Honor, I'm offering this offering As a testimony to the fact you've heard me, you've answered the prayer, you've brought me to that place of abundance and overflowing refreshment. God's been faithful to his word. We don't know what the particulars are. We can't write the particulars in our own situation. What we can say if we know is that God will be faithful. We will be able to offer, as Hebrews uses the word, sacrifices of praise, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name at some future time as we look back on what God did through our situation here. The will to be faithful. And not only is he faithful, notice the last thing. He's tenderly caring. You see, it's one thing if God would be faithful, but he could be faithful and set up criteria for having our prayers answered that none of us would ever meet, and we'd have no hope of the fact that he hears sinners like us But notice what he says, he finishes saying, but God has surely listened. If I had Cherry said in my heart, he wouldn't have heard me. But God brought my heart low before him and listened to me. He listened and he heard my voice in prayer. Praise be to God. He 's not rejected my prayer, or withheld his love from me. What a testimony. What a testimony to be able to come. And now that this same God is listening to you and I Pour out our needs to him this morning, this afternoon, through this week, in whatever area, to know that he has not rejected our prayer. He is not withholding his love from us. Because he has shown us that love in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ has once for all died so that Heaven's gates are open, and God says you draw near with sincere heart and full assurance that you can approach the throne of grace to find help in time of need and never be turned away. But he can never reject the Son Jesus, and we come in Jesus. And so we know he will never reject our praise. Be careful our motives. God may have to work and delay his working so that he works in our hearts. That'll never reject our prayer. You see, my concern for us as a congregation is not whether God wants to show his power that he's promised to us as a church he wants to show us in Ephesians 1 19 to 23 My concern is not that God is able to take us through and to deliver us and provide the facility he wants to and to provide spiritual abundance that he wants to produce in our lives and hearts as a congregation of his people. My concern is that we won't pray. Our concern is that we'll look at this situation with a kind of objective interest to see what God will do. They're saying to the I think a real danger because we do tend to live such independent lives that we may look at this situation and we'll say, this is what CPC is going through now. It's going to be interesting to see what God does in that. You found yourself thinking something like that? It's going to be interesting to see what God does with those folks. It's going to be interesting to see how the elders and the trustees handle this situation. It'll be interesting to see what God does and what we how we look back on that situation some months from now. Without somehow the personal identification that brings me to his my own needs of my family, of my home of my own walk with Jesus Christ to also lay before him the needs of this body of my people with whom I'm identified. Do you see what Psalm 66 is saying? It's saying that corporate deliverance and personal deliverance are wrapped up together. See that? Verses 1 to 12 tells us about the life of the body. The body has gone through a crisis. And they have seen God's deliverance. And right within the same song, linked together so you can't separate them, is the testimony of one of those saints who says, God delivered me And my deliverance encourages the body. And the body's deliverance, as I see God working in this life situation, encourages my life. But if you look on with a certain detached interest at what's happening, then when God answers, you don't get the benefit. Because again, it will be of some interest to you. But only as you link your destiny, did you link your joy with what God does with us as a body. So that you are crying out to him as we cry out together Wednesday evenings, as we cry out in fair parties in small groups, as we cry out together here on any situation As we cry out to him because we care what he does, then when God answers, we're all encouraged. And that encourages you in your own family situation. See that God will answer you too. And so let's make sure that we don't separate what God's joined together. The sense of corporate deliverance, the individual deliverance of God's people. And that if this morning you see what God's doing, you say, that really encourages me in my own prayer, for a particular need that nobody else here knows about But it really encourages my heart to trust God. And then as you see God answering in that in some time, perhaps in the Lord's Supper service or some other occasion, you share that with us. And that encourages us. It encourages me. It encourages the elders and the trustees and all the rest of us to pray together for God's work in us as a congregation. You need to join those things together. Finally, let me just turn you to those verses 12 and 20 and commend to you, memorizing those. And watching God fulfill them. First of all, you let men ride over our heads, we went through fire and water, but you brought us to a place of abundance. I suggest you memorize that. Memorize that and claim it. The days and the weeks ahead. And that you'll note that with verse 20, Praise be to God who has not rejected my prayer or withheld his love from me. Verse 16 is a statement of testimony. Come and listen, all you who fear God. And let me tell you what he's done for you. And so let me in conclusion. Give a word of personal testimony. You probably know that these past weeks haven't been the easiest for me. It's been nearly two months now that this issue has produced tension in the meeting house, and there's been a great deal of tension. There's a lot of tension. It rises, it falls, it waxes, it wanes. Sometimes it's not so bad, sometimes as it seems to be now. It's rather intense. It's not been something that I would choose I've been compared to the priests down the street from Auschwitz who carried on services objectively while Jews burned. I've been compared to the Nazi Party, to Jim Jones and various other characters. There's tension here. But let me tell you, and I mean this from the absolute bottom of my heart, if I had it to do all over again, I wouldn't hesitate for a moment The situation has brought the Lord closer to me. Did he show me how I've gotten soft on my understanding of what in fact the Lord has delivered me from? It 's giving me more of a love for him and for his word. I'm not saying that I would have written everything the same way, but I'd write it now, and the things that I have learned from the rabbis. The things that I have learned in dialogue with people now maybe things that I think I could improve to help them to understand what in fact I was saying and what I was not saying. But I wouldn't hesitate to go through the experience. God's faith. And he has used this personally in my life To bring great spiritual refreshment, to put my life in perspective and to put away the things that were just toys To help me sharpen my focus on what's really important. And that's been worth everything. Let me say, as we come, whatever our experiences are. God will meet us. He'll bring us to a place of abundance. He's not rejected our prayer. He uses all of the pressures and the difficulties to show us his faithfulness and his goodness and his kindness. And I bless him for that now. And I commend him to you as sufficient to trust whatever you need. Let's pray. No , no, we thank you then. You love us so much that you don't let us drift spiritually. But when we say we want to see your power, when we say that we want to see and know your reality , Did you hear us and take us seriously? God we said here very easily nearly a year ago that uh we wanted to get out of the meeting house. And you simply rearranged the schedule. That's up to you. And Lord, we know you have a good thing in that. We know we can trust you in that. And we pray, Lord, that in the name of Jesus, as we see you working in us corporately through that, that you will encourage each of us individually. I pray, Lord, for those who are here right now this morning really discouraged in their own lives about some personal need, something that seems overwhelming to them That you would lift up their hearts right now, as they see your greatness, as you increase their understanding of your majesty and of your power and your sufficiency, that you will show them how evidently sufficient you are. For all of our needs. That you have not rejected our prayer, but withheld your love from us The goal made wide over our heads and we seem absolutely helpless and defenseless. They will go through fire and water. You will bring us to a place of overflowing refreshment and abundance. We claim that We claim that for each individual here this morning, for each family, and for ourselves as a body of your people. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's sing that hymn which picks up the thought from Isaiah 15