It's good to be with you this morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Mark chapter 4 Last week to celebrate Easter, we went to the actual resurrection passage of Mark chapter 16 And this week we resume back where we are in chapter 4, starting at verses 21 through 34. Where we where we are in Jesus' ministry is um his initial wave of influence and excitement and the buzz around him has certainly been there. But we've also seen how controversy is starting to follow him and pushback is starting to follow him. And we're at a point in the Gospel of Mark where the question is put before us, though not s explicitly stated. The question is, if the kingdom of God has come in the person of Jesus, Why is it that not everybody's responding the same way? And so we have here at the beginning of chapter 4, which John Song preached John several weeks ago, the parable of the sower and seeds, where we pick up today in verses 21 and following. It really is a continuation of this This one thought, this one episode in the Gospel of Mark where Jesus is speaking to first a crowd of people. They're on the the coast of the lake and he's in a boat and the crowds are gathered and he begins this parable of the sower. And then we see that he's with his disciples and there's others that are with him and they are asking questions about what did you mean by that? And he's explaining the parable, verses 10 through 20. And where we pick up in verse 21 is that continuation of that conversation. It's one of two places in the Gospel of Mark where there is a big chunk of undivided attention to something that Jesus is teaching. And we should take note. So let's pray for the Lord to bless us and help us in that task. Jesus, we do pray for your word, your very seed, the message of the kingdom of God to go forth, as it did in your own proclamation, and as we seek for your Spirit to be among us and go forward in your word, even now to us. As we grapple with things that are hard to understand, and as we seek to Seek you for that understanding. Would you be our teacher? Would your spirit guide us to that understanding? And may we know more and more of what it is. For you as our King and for us to live in your kingdom. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thy kingdom come. I don't know if you heard it. Some of us said your, some people said thy. Wayne got louder and said thy. You know, it's natural. It's how you learn the prayer, what translation you may have used, or what context you've prayed that prayer. I typically go to thy because I've been saying that prayer since I was a boy, even when I didn't know what it meant. We often said it before baseball games, with my coach and his short coach's shorts and his cigarette hanging out of his lip and his Milanta in the pocket of his shirt. He gives us the r you know the the hoop raw and the let's go team speech and then he says all right let's pray hats off and we go play our game That's one episode of my life where that's familiar to me, thy kingdom come. Another episode was as an intern. And I was teaching a class with a fellow man who was in his late 80s to a class of people who predominantly made up of people older than 65, but maybe even older than 70, 75. Now, we were preaching or we were teaching through the Gospel of Matthew for that class. And I was vividly struck by the weight of the time that I came to where Jesus is teaching how to pray in the Gospel of Matthew. And I'm teaching this class to people who have said this prayer so much longer than I've ever been alive. What does it mean to ask that of the Lord, thy kingdom come? Well, I think some of that is pictured here in this passage as Jesus gives these parables, these comparisons of what the gospel or what the kingdom of God is like. We've been introduced to the concept of parable in other places, even earlier in Mark in reference to how he preached and how he taught in his ministry, but certainly in the beginning of chapter four, we see his purpose and why he teaches with parables. Parables are really just comparisons. They can be more complex, elaborate stories, illustrations. They can be small sentences. Seeking to make comparisons to something which often can't be described with imagery and experiences, lived body details of our lives that we then try to make connections between the two. And Jesus in his own ministry is doing that. But the problem that's also in this text is that it shows us that we often mishear Jesus. We have our own opinions about God's vision for his kingdom. We often want it to be our vision. our perspective on what we think things should be. At times in history, this literally is territory or a political structure. Or rulers and the leadership structure. And that certainly involves kingdom. But what is Jesus referring to? What's his vision for his kingdom? And so as we look at this text, it really is quite simply, Jesus is talking about the kingdom of God. And he's inviting us to hear him. So we're going to look at the text in three brief ways, if you're following along in the text. First, we're going to be looking at God's kingdom uncovered. Second, God's kingdom grows. And then third, God's kingdom embraced. So first, let's look at verses 21 through 25. I'll start by reading those verses as well as the rest of the passage. This is Mark's gospel. And he said to them, Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, or and not on a stand? For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest, nor is anything secret except to come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. And he said, The kingdom of God is is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows. He knows not how. The earth produces by itself. First the blade, then the ear, then the full grain, in the ear. But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come And he said, With what can we compare the kingdom of God? Or what parable shall we use for it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which when sown on the ground is the smallest of all the seeds on earth. Yet when it is sown, it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants, and puts out large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade. With many such parables, he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. He did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples. He explained everything. This is the word of the Lord. So as we're looking at Kingdom Uncovered, we are looking at those first verses, 21 through 25. And we see already he's going into imagery. He uses two of them. He uses a lamp and he uses a measure. Now, one question that we can ask, it's a legitimate question, is who is he talking to? And I think first let's lean in with that. I think the text is pointing us to that he is still talking to that same group of people that he is talking to about the explanation around the parable of the sower. It's that group of people, his disciples, his twelve, but then also look back earlier in chapter 4, there are those people with them. So it's a smaller subset of the people of the crowds. So the twelve, and then people who may or may not be following Jesus, but they are certainly people who are curious and wanting to know more. And so he goes into this and explains about a lamp and a measure. So verse 23 through 23. A lamp is really just the common household item in in that time and place, just as we would flick on the light. or use a flashlight or or even a candle if if electricity goes out. It's a device to see things. There's nothing so mystical about the imagery that he's using. And in this context, as a tool, it's used specifically to reveal something that is hidden, to show something that is secret. Likewise, when he refers to a measure, verse 24 and 25, he is again comparing it to an instrument. A measure is merely some a device, a cup, for instance. Something you would maybe measure out something out of a jar or a basket, referring to its capacity. So in both of these imagery images , Is embedded in this invitation to pay attention, to listen. Do you have ears to hear? What is going on? He he's unpacking What he's talking about with the use of parables. And so as he uses this imagery of a lamp and a light, he's saying something about the earlier parable about the sower and the seed. You see, there's something that's going on with Jesus and his ministry. He is, from start to finish, he's declaring something about the kingdom. He's making claims about how God works. He's making claims about who he is. That's one of the key takeaways from the entirety of the Gospel of Mark Who does Jesus say that he is? And what he's getting at is not this secret knowledge that Only the initiated can understand. Or only that if you find it, if you look hard enough, you can find it. No, what he's getting at with this imagery of uncovering is that by his very person, with his message of his gospel about the kingdom, He's saying the kingdom of God is being revealed. Now it's not it's not entirely new. It's not entirely hidden from everybody's view in that Everything that Jesus stands for and speaks about and does with his actions is a fulfillment of what God has been revealing about himself for thousands of years prior to Jesus. And so again, it's this proclamation of who God is and him entering into our story and revealing himself. telling us who he is, where we can at a distance look at creation and say, and be amazed and be in awe of the splendor and the beauty and the majesty and the mystery. And we can say, wow, what does it all mean? Or who who put this together? And we, of course, we have our own theories about all those things. But then it goes a step further. That which is not fully understood, when Jesus is on the scene, he is about uncovering the kingdom. The beginning of his message is the kingdom of hand the kingdom of God is at hand. It is now with me here. God is entering into your story. And he is uncovering who he is. And what seemed as something hidden and something seen as secret is now visible as a lamp. And as Jesus invites us to pay attention and listen to this, he uses this cryptic message or these cryptic phrases in verses 24 and 25 about this measure. Verse 24. And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear, with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. And then that is held in tension and expanded with verse twenty-five. For to for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. God 's uh Jesus is declaring some mystery about the kingdom, some truth in his uncovering that says, to the degree that you understand, is the degree that you will receive The measure you give is the measure you get, and then more so. For if you understand the kingdom of God, then you will be given more. I confess this is very hard to get your my head around. The closest thing I can get to as an example is kind of keeping with the agricultural metaphor. When I go out and plant a garden. And what I have, if it has come to fruition and has ripened, and there is a wonderful harvest. That which I had, I'm actually, I received more out of that harvest. But if the harvest is not good, and the the the vegetables and the fruits wither what I had goes away. And it truly is something that is going on in this in the kingdom of God As Jesus is uncovering God's ways, God's purposes, God's character. For if you try to understand these cryptic phrases alone, it really draws your attention to yourself, doesn't it? I'm guilty of this. You insert yourself into the parable and focus upon what you have or don't have. It might be very natural to think that way, and to look at these verses in terms of equality and fairness. Those are certainly values that our culture holds in high esteem. So it's easy to look at this and think about it in those terms. But I think that's the wrong focus. I don't think that's what Jesus is drawing our attention to. I think he's inviting us to consider his kingdom in these ways, that he's less concerned in this text. Now I would say that he's very concerned. But in this text, he is less concerned with who has understanding and who doesn't, as he's concerned with the question, do you understand the kingdom? It's a question. It's a breadcrumb to get our attention, to get us to ask more of it, to yearn for more of it, to have our imaginations. pricked, our emotions stirred in ways that we say, I don't what is he say? What is he saying? And it becomes this circle, this spiral that feeds back onto itself. Because we don't come to this text and say, I don't understand it. Let me go away from the text And get understanding about it. No, the point is that Jesus is uncovering the kingdom, and if he is the lamp and he is the measure, then we come back to him time and time again and we seek that understanding from him. Jesus is preaching about the kingdom of God, and he is scattering the seed of his message, inviting people to hear and understand, and he is the lamp. He's the light that uncovers the kingdom of God. And so the question is, do you have ears to hear Secondly, God's kingdom grows. Now, Jesus tells two parables with this. First God 's kingdom grows mysteriously. Look at verses 26 through 29. Jesus gives a parable about a mustard seed. In this parable, Jesus describes a farmer and a seed, and he's not so much talking about the way it's distributed, the scattering of the seed as we just looked at, or even the way it's sown. looking at earlier in chapter four. This is looking at the plant itself. The plant, so to speak, is the main character of this parable. And the growing seed is being compared to the fruit of the proclamation surrounding Jesus' preaching and teaching about the kingdom. The sleeping and the rising of the sower doesn't mean that he abandons his work. It certainly doesn't tell us how he worked. We can assume he weeded, he watered, fertilized. Those things I'm sure we can assume. But the point of the parable is not to draw our attention on the work of the sower. Rather, the seed. grows automatically in ways that we can't understand. The seed must follow its natural course and appointed time Indeed, the kingdom of God has been uncovered by the coming of Jesus, and in his ministry it was proclaimed, and in his life it was embodied. With both his words and also his actions. So here we see Jesus drawing our attention to the growth of the kingdom. It has a beginning. Very small seeds. It lands. It sprouts. It grows. And without our understanding, Even with our ability, we may know how to manipulate the environment in ways that benefit its growth. But the point of the parable is that it grows mysteriously. And then there's an end to that growth. There's a harvest. There's a planting and there's a harvest. And Jesus here is drawing our attention to even echoing the prophet Joel, chapter 3, verse 13, with this imagery of the sickle to the harvest. Verse 29. When the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. This indeed is pointing to a time when there will be the end of time, when Jesus does return again, when the harvest is ripe, and there will be judgment. And as Pastor Randy shared several weeks ago in his sermon, the beauty of the gospel is that that word of judgment is good news. To those who hear and to those who receive. But it is a caution for those who don't And who are struggling and who are asking questions. And I'll come to that tension in a moment. In these parables, our imagination is directed to the mystery of the scattering of the seed as an outworking of God's sovereign purposes. God is the one in control. He is both the planter and the way the seed grows in these parables. He fulfills his purposes through the Messiah, the messianic work of Jesus. The one that is to bring about the restoration of all things. And that idea, those expectations of the kingdom kind of get unpacked a little bit in the next parable, where he describes it as Um the the I'm sorry, the uh the second point that um verse thirty-two um No, I'm sorry. I haven't moved on to that yet. I'm caught up where I am. We'll go there now. The second parable is the parable of the mustard seed, as you look to uh verses 30 through 31. Uh 32, I'm sorry. This is where we see that not only does the God's kingdom grow mysteriously, but God's kingdom grows abundantly. Now, this this passage, this parable is often used as a way to say, see, Jesus doesn't know what he's talking about. The mustard seed is not the smallest seed in the kingdom or of the earth of all of the world. And the mustard plant is not the largest of the garden plants. And this is the genre of parable, of the illustrations that Jesus is using. His intention is not to be specific. He's not declaring a fact that is an assertion of verifiable evidence that indeed this is true, but he's taking something that is based in their experience. Even at that time, even just kind of Jewish wisdom, there was a comparison of mustard seeds being a small seed. Jesus uses mustard seed in another parable, talking about the smallness of faith. And so what he's getting at here is more by comparing the mustard seed to the kingdom, he's describing the change from the smallness of the seed to the abundance of the result. And he draws our attention to its branches. He draws our attention to life, being impacted by those branches, being Protected and given shelter, provided food, and in the provision of the branches, many birds find rest. Jesus is not comparing the kingdom to the mustard seed particularly. But he's pointing us to what happens when the seed grows. His point is showing how unremarkable small beginnings of the kingdom may seem, but how mighty And how amazing the results that are produced. And the birds of the parable, some some scholars would say that it is Specific allusion to Ezekiel chapter 17, even maybe Ezekiel chapter 31. But all over the prophets there are references to things like the birds. And recognizing of who's coming to the branches. So on one hand, it could be Jesus might be specifically saying something about the nations coming to him to be a part of his kingdom. But he certainly could also just be just drawing our attention in a generic way of see how the kingdom grows and how abundant it provides. So if the kingdom of God grows mysteriously by God's initiative and his appointment without human intervention, likewise it grows abundant. To full maturity, because God is growing it. And it has purpose for the blessing of others And the beauty of this parable is that we're actually the birds. We're not the seed, we're not the sower, we're not the seed. We're the beneficiaries of branches We're the beneficiary of God's grace, his provision, his messianic rule and reign. And goodness that comes in and says, I am here. My kingdom has come. And I'm restoring all things I'm making all things new. I'm making it possible for where you are existing in a kingdom of shadows and brokenness. And where nations rage and roar and fight, where its citizens are anxious and rebellious and fearful. My kingdom provides shade. My kingdom provides rest. My kingdom provides everything you need because you are being restored in a right relationship You flock to me. As a tree gives shade to birds, so we are invited to come. Do you have ears to hear? And then lastly, God's kingdom is embraced, verses 33 and 34. This just speaks to, again, kind of closing out this section of the chapter. We learned about it at the beginning of chapter 4, and Mark is closing with a similar thought. He's explaining what's going on. in Jesus' teaching method. As he proclaims something true about the kingdom, as he is modeling something that is True, but something that is beautiful and something that is to be experienced in discipleship with Him. And this gets to the idea of insiders versus outsiders. That question of who is he speaking to. If verse 34 says He uh I'm sorry, 33, with many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. He did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples he explained everything. So if he's going about in his ministry just being vague to the crowds, but then only his disciples get understanding, what is this relationship between the crowds and his disciples? Well, on one hand, he has already pointed us to a future harvest where there is going to be a separation. There's going to be a separation of those who have and are given more, and there are those who whatever they did have will be taken away. But that time is not now. That time of judgment in the positive sense Is now in the preaching and the proclamation of God's goodness in his kingdom and the invitation to come. Because he is not just talking to his disciples to give them insider jargon and they get all the good stuff. Because we do, we can take from the text. It's those who were curious. You've piqued my interest. What do you mean by this? And so those who are in the moment, in a snapshot, outside of understanding, the invitation. The gift is there. Come, hear, seek understanding, seek my kingdom, seek my righteousness. Harvest has not come yet. And so I plant and I bring growth. My kingdom grows. Mysteriously, my kingdom grows abundantly. Come. Come be a part of my kingdom. That is Jesus' invitation. It's not a matter of do you have understanding or not. The focus is upon do you hear the voice of the teacher who gives the explanation. Do you long to hear his voice? Do you long to have him give you understanding? Do you long to have him come to you? And be with you and tell you more of his kingdom. Are your imaginations stirring? Is your heart pricked? That is the invitation of the gospel. Do you hear Jesus' voice? Do you have the ears to hear? And do you respond? Because there's time to respond in all kinds of ways. That's much of what the parable of the sower is about. How people don't understand how they respond in different ways. Because the way we respond is truly a gift and truly a work of the Spirit. One scholar says this, only those who penetrate the mystery in the present will share in the glory which is yet to be revealed. Because God enters the world through the word of the kingdom proclaimed by Jesus, the matter of one's response to Jesus is of ultimate seriousness. The beauty of the kingdom is that understanding does not mean that you understand everything. The beauty of the kingdom is saying, I am following Jesus, and I know that he's going to be giving me understanding. I'm going to come back to this passage when I'm a new believer. I'm going to come back to this passage when I'm 80 years old. The Lord has me live that long. And I'm going to come back to it in new ways and understanding it more and more. Because this is the thing that shapes our understanding of who God is, as it shaped the audience then. Because that's in some ways that's the beauty of how Jesus uses parables. He does it to shake you. He does it to challenge your sensibilities. Often in the prophets. They speak about cedars, big trees that hold these branches that extend out and give shade. Jesus knew his scripture. He changed it. He talks about a mustard plant. Who talks about a mustard plant? He's waking you up to say what you think, what you expect. About the kingdom of God, what you think the Messiah is to do, to come in quickly, have the harvest now, shake up everything, kick out the Romans, bring order to the temple. And that be now, it's like Jesus: you're here, do something, act now. Everything in our being wants that. We want that now. Where are you, O Lord? Why aren't you acting? And Jesus is reminding us again and again: my kingdom has come and is growing It's growing mysteriously, it's growing abundantly, and it is beautiful So what you expect, what you long for, it's not so much do you long for the understanding, do you long to make sure you're on the inside with Jesus or not? Those things are important questions, to be sure. But do you long for Jesus? And do you have the ears to hear? Pay attention and hear Jesus' invitation. The beauty of that man that I mentioned that I taught that class with was I knew stories about him. I knew that he was a prisoner of World War II. He was captured in the Battle of the Bulge. I knew he was there was a lot of interesting stories with that. Don't have time to go into. I knew he was an insurance salesman. I knew he was a father. I knew he was a husband. I knew he was an elder in the church. I didn't know when he died. And when he died, I was very sad. I was confused a little bit, mainly mainly because I put him on a reference for getting this job. So I was I was also embarrassed. But I I was sad. I was sad But just as we taught together about the kingdom. He had ears to hear. He knew his king. He knew The kingdom of God. And what was small beginnings whenever he first believed. Small beginnings for the people in his life. His family, the people that ministered to him, the experiences that he lived throughout his life, he now sees in full. And so as we live our lives in all of our struggles, in all of our Fears about the kingdoms of this world seem to be shaking and crumbling and falling. The encouragement that Jesus gives us is: His kingdom stands. His credit kingdom never crumbles. It only gets bigger and it gets better His kingdom has come. You don't have to be looking for something hidden. It's a lamp on a stand that illuminates everything. The kingdom of God is when we believe and have faith. The kingdom of God is when we push back. And repent of our sin and say, this addiction has no power over me, though I struggle for the rest of my life. The kingdom of God is when we say, I am grieving, but I have hope. The kingdom of God is when we say, I'm afraid of tomorrow, but I trust the Lord. The kingdom of God is in the presence of Jesus Christ. In his physical body then, and in his message. But the beauty and the mystery of our faith that we are going to be celebrating at this table is that by faith and by his grace we are joined with him. We are united to him. And those promises and that reality of his kingdom can be experienced even now when everything else feels like it is going to hell. But we know from the word of God the gates of hell shall not prevail. Because God 's kingdom has come. And so when we pray that in the Lord's Prayer, we are actually imploring God to make it more and more a reality. Make your kingdom come. We long for it. We want it. Come, Lord Jesus. We know you have come. We know you have died. We know you have been raised from the dead. And we know you're coming again But come, Lord Jesus. Make your kingdom come in our lives, in our hearts Make your kingdom come, expand in our spheres of our life, our families, our workplaces, as we participate in what God is doing in the world. It is not dependent on us. It is based by God's grace and his initiative. But likewise, we get to play. in that garden that he is tending. And we get to participate in that harvest. Do you have ears to hear? Would you respond to Jesus' encouragement? To trust in him Let's pray. Father God, we do pray that your kingdom come in our lives and in our experience. May we receive it. May we know it, may we thirst for it, may we hunger for it. May we hope. And may that hope shape how we struggle, how we experience pain, how we flee temptation, how we suffer together How we encourage one another. We do all of this because you rule and you reign. And you are restoring all things, and for that I give you praise. In Jesus' name. Amen.