Good morning. Let's try that again. Good morning. Oh, that's better. I like that. Thank you. As I was thinking about how to begin this message, I wrestled with it for a while, and I finally realized that what I needed to tell you to begin this message is that there is no one so blind as those who will not see. There's no one so blind as those who will not see. There was a man named Jim. And he was a man of deep faith. He lived somewhere in the Midwest along the side of a river. And he was a man of profound confidence that the miracles that God told of in the Bible took place, the parting of the Red Sea. Peter's invitation at his own request from Jesus to join Jesus out walking on the water. The miraculous healings that had taken place. And and one day as Jim is in his home on the side of the river, there's a storm and the river begins to rise. And at one point he decides this water is getting too high. I need to climb to a higher place. So he climbs up onto the roof of his porch. And as he's sitting on the roof of his porch, someone comes by in an outboard motorboat. And they say, Would you like a lift? And Jim says, No, thank you. God, God will do a miracle and save me. Well the water continues to rise. The storm continues to rain, the the floods rising, so he decides he needs to climb the gable on the porch roof to get to the roof of his house and sit on the ridge of the roof of his house And after a while another outboard motorboat comes by and the guy looks at Jim and says, Would you like a ride? And Jim says, No, no, no, thank you. I mean God will save me And the guy looked at him sort of like he's crazy and and goes on to find somebody who wants a ride After a time the water is rising so high that the ridge of the roof can no longer keep him above the water, so he climbs the top of his very high chimney. And now a helicopter comes by. And the woman in the helicopter lowers the ladder and says, Would you like a ride? And just says, No, thank you. God is going to do something and God will save me. And the lady looks at him like he's completely bonkers. She pulls up the ladder and she flies off Well the water continues to rise, and finally finally Jim can no longer hold on to the chimney, and he's swept off into the river as it flows and he dies. And so he finds himself face to face with God at judgment. And Jim looks at God and says, You said you'd save me. What happened? And God said, I sent two boats and a helicopter. What more do you want? Jim was blind to the help that God was sending. And in this passage, there's tremendous blindness amongst the people who are seeing Jesus' ministry. And brothers and sisters, I see in myself blindness. Let me open us in prayer. Father, as I read this passage and as I think and I pray and I study, I am profoundly affected by the fact that you taught us to pray. your kingdom come, that we anticipate that it is yet to come. And Lord, I have to confess that frequently that is so deeply ingrained in me that I do not expect your kingdom to be present. And so I pray that you would open our eyes, that you would preclude us from blindness, that you'd open our ears, that we would hear That as a result of having eyes and ears that are fully working, we would speak. We would speak your truth and speak of your glory. And Father, I pray that you would give us hearts that are deeply in love with Jesus That recognize Lord Jesus, you are Lord, you are King, you are the one who brings with you kingdom wherever you go. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that as we look at your teaching, as we look at your works, that you would shape us as men and women of faith. Not of general faith, but of faith in the Redeemer who has come, and faith in the Redeemer who will come again. And so we ask, Lord, that you would give us that wonderful balance of knowing that on the one hand we do continue to pray for your kingdom to come in its full and consummate glory. But at the same time, Lord Jesus, you have already come. You have already established your kingdom. And we live not in an age where we await the coming of your kingdom, but in an age where we are part of your kingdom. And we look for the full manifestation of that kingdom to come as you return for us. In your name we pray. Amen. There's three points that I want to make from this passage today. The first of which, as you see on your outline, is that Jesus inaugurates the kingdom. The second is that the presence of the king and of the kingdom require a response from me And the third we're really going to look more at next week is we look at what are the two tests that reveal to us where we belong? Which kingdom is our kingdom? And so in the first point, as we look at the fact that Jesus inaugurates the kingdom, there's two points. The first of which is that where the king is, the kingdom is. And the second is that the king who has come and is among his people in this passage is doing the work of the king and the work of the kingdom. So let me just start with the fact that wherever the king is The kingdom is. Tom read Matthew chapter three As he's looking at John 's message, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. This is the one of this is the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make way, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his path. The Lord is coming. The Lord is about to be manifest, and in fact in in that same chapter. The Lord is baptized, and the Father declares of the Son As the dove comes down from heaven, and the Spirit of God descends on Jesus, a voice from heaven says, This is my beloved Son. With whom I am pleased. King has come Jesus, from the beginning of Matthew, is being revealed to us in some hidden and some very blatant ways as the King. And in this particular passage, Jesus himself makes plain that he's the king. He is the one who binds the strong man. He is the one who accomplishes the work of the king. So, what is that work? Well, first and foremost, it is defeating Satan. There is a cosmic battle that's going on. It's an implicit Presentation of the kingdom, but it is cosmic and real. It's not something that we see with our material eyes. But it is a battle that rages and Jesus has engaged in and is defeating Satan. So that immediately after the voice comes down from heaven that declares that Jesus is the beloved Son of God Almighty. Jesus goes off into the wilderness to engage in battle with Satan. And he goes and faces the temptation, and for forty days and forty nights he fasts. And then he faces the temptations from Satan. And at the end of those temptations, in chapter 4, verse 10, Jesus says to Satan, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And then the devil left him. Jesus is overcoming Satan. Jesus speaks in our particular passage about overcoming Satan. He says in verse 29, how can someone enter into the strong man's house and plunder his goods? Unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. Jesus says, You think that I have come and I'm casting out demons by Beelzebub? Can't be. I am overcoming Satan. I am defeating Satan, and any kingdom divided against itself cannot stand. The word that's used there is devastate. It's devastate or depopulate as if by a civil war. And Jesus is saying that that he is not working to accommodate Satan, he's not working to support Satan, he's not working to accomplish Satan's goals. He's come to devastate Satan. He's come to destroy the kingdom of Satan. And he's come to bring and to establish the kingdom of God. He does so by accomplishing a second work of the king, which is healing A couple of weeks ago, as Tim was preaching, you saw Jesus heal a man with a withered hand. Jesus expressed his love to this man who was broken. Jesus revealed his glory and his power by doing something none of them could do and healing the man's hand. And the result was that the Pharisees went out and conspired against him how to destroy him. The lines were drawn. And in this passage today, there is a demon-oppressed man who is blind and mute. Matthew is recording what Jesus has done, and Jesus is making it completely clear that this is a spiritual battle. This is not a man who happens simply to be deaf. Who happens simply to be blind. This is not a physical issue. This is a spiritual issue. The man is expressed as a demon-possessed man who is blind and deaf. He's brought to Jesus because this man cannot experience community We all normally have five senses. We have sight, we have hearing, we have taste, we have smell, and we have touch. The two most significant senses that we have that lead us in relationship with other people are the senses that lead us outward, those senses of speech and hearing and those of sight. You hear from a distance, you see across a distance. This man was cut off so that the only people he could be in contact with were those he could smell, those he could touch That was it. And he was brought to Jesus. And Jesus does something absolutely astounding. The word is that the people were amazed. They were flabbergasted. They were stunned. Jesus did something that they had no expectation he would do. Because this man they knew to be deaf, this man they knew to be blind, was now speaking to them. He was now acknowledging them and seeing them visually. He was back into community. He could live as a member of the family once again. And I get stunned by that. I think of Helen Keller and I think of of her family who took good care of her and of Annie Sullivan who finally was able to communicate with her. In spite of the fact that she could only sense by touch and smell and taste. And that breakthrough led to her being able to be educated and being able to be a contributing member of the community. And I'm astounded. I think of how much freedom Jesus brought this man. How he gave him life again But don't lose sight of something really, really profound here. This man was blind and deaf because he was demon-oppressed. He was a slave to Satan. And the greatest freedom that Jesus gave him was not his sight and his hearing, it was freedom from the demons. And the people who knew that saw the power of this prophet exerted against Satan's own demons. And we're astounded. And their response is, could this possibly be the son of David? It was tentative, it was it was fearful, it was it was it wasn't anything but confident. But it was the right question Could someone who could do this? Could someone who could take on Satan? Could someone who could free this man from his blindness and his deafness? And give him back not only the ability to hear, but the ability to speak? Could this be the Son of David? And the Pharisees who are listening, who are watching, who've already come to the conclusion that their task is to destroy Jesus. Step in and say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't understand. You saw something, it was remarkable, but you don't understand it was remarkable because it was done as an agent of beal. He's trying to con you. He wants to destroy you. He wants to destroy you. So there is a tremendous need for clarity Matthew does a great job of bringing us to the point where there's more that we need. We've seen the miracle, we've heard comments, and we don't understand what took place. In Hebrews chapter one, the author of Hebrews says something remarkable. Long ago, at many times and in many ways. God spoke to our fathers by the prophets God speaks. God not only does the work of creation, God not only creates the universe, but God speaks and is known. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also He created the world. And so the third work of the king that Jesus does in this passage is to teach And I want you to recognize that in the way that Matthew has structured this, there is a confusion that arises amongst the people because they've seen something astounding. And you would think that being wise human beings, people with great mental faculties, people who could look at something and interpret truth, they would have immediately come to the conclusion, not a tentative conclusion, but a clear and astoundingly powerful conclusion that the Son of God has come. He's healed. He's cast off the demons. He's given sight. He's given voice. He's given hearing. What more do you need? What more do you need? But the people come and they come tentatively with a question. Could this really possibly be the son of David? And the Pharisees come with a conclusion. Absolutely not. Can't be. I tell you, he's working the works of Beelzebub. Jesus, the one through whom God now speaks to us, teaches Brothers and sisters, we will not understand by observation. We will not understand simply by the powers of our observation. Because we're created as revelation receivers. God didn't intend for you to be able to watch, to observe, to understand, and to respond. God has always intended that you receive his truth. God has always intended that you be the one who hears him as he speaks in the past through the prophets. And through the Word, but also through Jesus. And it is God who intends to give you an understanding as to what is going on and how things are working and what really in truth is happening. It is God who makes it clear to you. And that's why this word is so absolutely essential to your daily life. Because this is how God speaks to you. This is how God makes clear what is going on, what is truly happening, the spiritual and cosmic realities. God makes it plain in the Word. And you cannot understand, you cannot live apart from the Word of God. So we're revelation receivers and Jesus speaks and Jesus speaks To those who observed. Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. That's the term for a country that is depopulated through a civil war. No city or house divided against itself will stand. If Satan casts out Satan, he's divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And to the Pharisees he says, And if I cast out demons by the eldible, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. And the most central thought of this passage, but if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. And then he tells you the implications of the coming of the kingdom. If you are not with me, you are against me. And everyone who does not gather with me scatters. If you are not with Jesus, you are against Him. Think about that for a moment. It doesn't say that if he's not with you, he's against you. It says if you're not with him You are against him. There is no neutrality. None. Jesus is either central and is your king, or he's your enemy The two kingdoms are at war. And Jesus says that we are to do one of two things We are to repent and gather, or we are to deny and scatter We either repent and gather with Christ and respect Him as King. Certainly He's Lord, He's Savior, He's bridegroom But he's king. And as I was thinking about this passage, one of one of the things that I've been wrestling with is the question of will I allow Jesus to rule? Several years back in in evangelicalism there was this battle of can Jesus be Savior without being Lord or must he be Lord If he's also savior. That's a that's a silly question Jesus is either God, and we aren't, or Jesus isn't God. It's not even a question of king, it's a question of God. He is the sovereign creator of the universe. We cannot live God-focused, man-centered lives. God is either the center of your existence, He is the ruler, He is the sovereign, He is the one to whom you say yes, sir. And the one who loves you so well that sometimes that intimacy leads to a question of is he my servant? Because he loves me so well. Or is he my God But I want you to think about something for a moment. If Jesus does not have the right to use you, he's not your God. We tend to think, or at least I tend to think, if I'm going to be honest, much more about how God serves me because he loves me than I think about how he has the right to use me, because I am his steward. And sometimes because we live in a fairly comfortable and affluent society, it's a fairly easy thing to say Well, yeah, God can use me, but I know that God wants to use me by giving me this situation, by making my life good, so that I can go out and tell other people about how God will make their lives good, so that they'll want to come to him, so that he'll have more followers Brothers and sisters, the language that's used here is that of warfare. And I want you to think of World War II. And I want you to think of General Eisenhower, who is the supreme commander of all Allied forces in the European theater. And and for a period of time it was more North Africa and it was more the Asian, the Pacific theater that was going on and and most of what was happening in the European theater was small actions and bombing raids. But there was a time that was coming. There were invasions of Italy. There was an invasion of France. And Eisenhower had the responsibility overall, the buck stopped with him to determine how the forces were allocated. for those invasions. And so he was thinking of D Day. And he knew the ships And he knew the forces and he was training them and he was sending the forces in and he was gonna have he was gonna have paratroopers come in and soften it up and he was gonna have the artillery soften it up and he was gonna have the bombers soften it up. But he knew that the Germans were prepared. And he knew that he would have to send in wave after wave after wave of soldiers And he knew that those in the first and the second and the third waves were going to their death. Because as the landing craft hit the beach and they dropped their doors and the machine guns raked across those those ships Pretty much everybody died. As the artillery came and was blasting the ships as they came to shore. Many of the ships never even made it to the point where they could drop their their gate and the men could try and get to the beach And Eisenhower knew the units that he had to send in the first and the second and the third and the fourth waves But if those waves didn't go, then then there would not be a time at which the soldiers made it to the beach. There would not be a time during which the soldiers could take the positions of the Germans, and the invasion could move forward. And so Eisenhower knew that those men were sacrificing their lives for a much bigger, much larger event. The defeat of Germany. And brothers and sisters, if you've fallen into the thought that God is your God, and that God is, in a sense your caregiver, and if God is the one whose ultimate task in history is to take care of you so that you have a comfortable existence, then you have far too small a goal. You have far too small a view of the kingdom. You have far too small a view of God because God's goal is the honor and glory He deserves. It is the defeat of Satan's kingdom. It is the coming of heaven and of the new earth. It is the defeat, the total, utter defeat of sin. God has a huge goal, and he has the right as God to use you. You are either with him or you are against him. And Jesus is declaring to the people at this time, the kingdom has come, and you are with me. You will, as Pharisees, relinquish your position, you will relinquish your power, you will relinquish your honor, you'll recognize that there is a coming of the kingdom, and you will follow me. You will honor me. You will relinquish your position for my glory. Like John, who said, I must decrease That he might increase. John understood that it was God's kingdom that was coming, not John's. But the Pharisees, as they see this man healed, conspire against him. How to destroy him. Because they understood. They understood that with the coming of the kingdom of God, that they were about to become toast. They were not going to be the people who had the honor, the worship, the reverence, and the respect of the community, because Jesus could use them as he wishes. Brothers and sisters , Are you a citizen? Are you a trustee? Are you a tool of God? Or are you in some way still thinking of yourself as a king? Because if you think that you can be a king in Jesus' kingdom, and maybe you're not a king, maybe a duke You know, maybe a knight. Then there's a dual authority. And Jesus says, every kingdom that is divided against itself is laid waste. Brothers and sisters, the kingdom of God will not be laid waste. Is Jesus your king? Is he your God? Even more bluntly, is he gone and has he invited you to be a part of his family? What role does he play? Jesus goes on and he talks in this section about blasphemy. Therefore I tell you that every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people. But the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. That blasphemy against the Spirit is basically what we've been talking about, the fact that Jesus is not God That Jesus is not the authority, Jesus is not the king, Jesus is not the ruler, and the Spirit of God has not come. Because Jesus, frankly, is doing something conniving. Pharisees had it right. Jesus was doing miraculous and amazing things, but he did them in a tricky way. And he's not declaring what he really says, he's declaring he's not declaring the coming of the kingdom of God. What right does Jesus have to you? There's really two answers. The answer that's most important for you right now is the answer that you believe. Do you believe that he has complete and total authority Complete and total right that when he puts you in places of difficulty, that when he uses you for kingdom good, for bigger good than just your good, that he's right Or has he failed? Do your difficulties mean that Jesus has failed The second answer is is is the true answer that's completely separate from any relationship with you Accept that Jesus loves you and has brought you in to his family. He's brought you in to his kingdom. That answer is that he is God. Without any interpretation, without any question, without any addition from anyone else, he is, has always been, and will always be God. He has complete power. And you see that over and over again as people try to take him, as people try to punish him, as people try to exert their power over him, they can't. They try to stone him and he walks through the crowds. They take him in the garden, and his disciples try to rescue him, and he says, Don't you don't you know? That if I were inclined, I could call down twelve legions of angels. Men, I am not at risk I own the situation. And I go to judgment. And I go to my death because I go to save you. Jesus is never, never at risk. Jesus is never less than God. We need to see that. We need to know that. We need to recognize that when Jesus makes a bold statement of the coming of the kingdom of God, that it means exactly what he just said. And we need to take confidence in the fact that this sovereign Redeemer is God who has the power to save and has the will to save and saves. The third point from this passage that we're going to look at more next week is that there really are in this passage two tests. Two tests that will reveal to me Which kingdom I belong in. And those are the tasks of my speech And the tests of my doing. And I want you to read 1222 through 50 this week. And I want you to think about it. And I want you to look at it. And I want you to follow. Every time speech, speaking Hearing comes up. Because those themes are being developed in this passage by Matthew. And I want you to think as well about doing I want you to think about what it is that the Pharisees do, what it is that the people do, what it is that Jesus does, and what comments Jesus makes about the role of doing as a member of the kingdom. And lastly, I want you to reflect upon the fact that it is because Jesus is a sovereign redeemer that you have hope. Because Jesus is saving his people and he's preparing them to understand what he has come to do. Brothers and sisters, left to ourselves, we will not speak kingdom. We'll speak treason. Love to ourselves, we will not do the Father's will. We will be rebels and civil war We 'll fight in the Civil War, we'll be in insurrection, we'll battle against God, and we'll deny his deity and his authority to our dying breasts. But we have a Redeemer. We have a Savior who has come, who has redeemed, who deserves our worship. Let me pray. Jesus, we do pray that your kingdom would come. But we also recognize in many ways that you have already brought your kingdom and it's here. We ask that you would open our eyes like you did the deaf man and the dumb and the blind. We ask that you'd open our ears that we might be able to hear and understand, that we would be effective at receiving the revelation that you give us, that we would be men and women who are hungry to know the truth that you give us in your word. That we would not be like those Pharisees who were blind and who were deaf because they were filled with Satan. Lord, we ask that you would flood us with your Spirit and that you would use us for your kingdom and for your honor and for your glory. And we pray this in your precious name. Amen.