Well, this morning some of you saw with great anticipation and undoubted excitement that the sermon is on tithing. And this has nothing to do with the fact that earlier this week I got hacked and my pastoral uh email account evidently solicited from a lot of you gift cards. Please know that as long as I live, the only one I will ever solicit gift cards from is Ken Williams. For those of you visiting, that's my father in law. Never see a bust that I'm not tempted to throw on him. Love him dearly. If you have your Bibles with you today. Please turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter fourteen. Excuse me, that didn't sound good. Please join me in prayer before I read for us, beginning with verse 22. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you that it gives us guidance in every area of our life. Lord, we may even say whether we want it or not. But Father, you are our Maker. You are our King, you are our Redeemer, and Lord, you are the one who has authored the book of life and know every single detail about how it is to be best lived. to your own glory and our great and eternal advantage. And so, Father, we ask that you would bless this reading of your word to us. We ask that you would help us to see great and wonderful things in your law. And Lord, we pray that in as much as the preaching is obedience to the words of your book. Lord, we pray that it would be helpful and useful as well. We pray these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen. Deuteronomy chapter 14, beginning with verse 22, the word of God. You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year. And before the Lord your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil. and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe When the Lord your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the Lord your God chooses to set his name there , Then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the Lord your God chooses. And spend the money for whatever you desire, oxen or sheep, or wine, or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and your household. And you shall not neglect the Levite who is within your towns, for he has no portion or inheritance with you. At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and lay it up within your towns. And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do. This ends the reading of God's Word. So what exactly is tithing? If you were to open up a dictionary and look up T-I-T-H -I-N-G. The idea is to give a tenth of all that you earn to God. And in the simplest terms, that is what a tithe is. It is the giving of a portion, specifically a tenth, back to God. But to think of it just in those kind of crash mechanical terms is to miss the point behind the tithe entirely. Why did God instruct his people in Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Malachi , Amos , throughout Scripture to tithe? And to tithe in a certain way with a certain attitude. Well, in the first place, because the tithe is an act of faith. The tithe is an act of faith. It is something that you do first. In every instance where tithes are described, they're associated with first fruits. So for example, if I have a 10-acre plot of land and I'm bringing the harvest in, and I get that first acre harvested, that's one-tenth of my acreage. That's my tithe. The first thing I bring in. Now you might think, if you're anything like me, well, maybe I should hold off a little bit Because a terrible hailstorm might cr might s you know fall upon me and ruin eight of these acres, in which case if I tithe now, that's 50% of my harvest. You see the logic? We would prefer to tithe last. We would prefer not to with faith say, this is what by the grace of God I anticipate this year. This is what I have sown. This is what I expect to reap. We are invited, indeed commanded by God, not to take so calculating and fearful in approach to giving to the Lord a portion of what he's given to us. We are called upon by God to give first. to give first. Even in the New Testament, in 1 Corinthians, we see this in chapter 16, where even in the case of a special collection being gathered, The Apostle Paul, speaking by the Spirit, instructs the church on the first day of the week. Set aside a certain amount in keeping with your income. proportionally. Do it first. It is an act of faith because it is a giving first to the one who matters most. It is an act of faith, it is also a demonstration of gratitude. Throughout the scripture, God has made it very clear that He is the owner of all things. The proverbial cattle of a thousand hills. He is the one who caused the rain to fall, that caused the crops to grow. He is the one that gave you The dendrons that enable you to make all the connections in that beautiful mind of yours that helped you program that computer. He is the one from whom every good and perfect gift has come. He is the one to whom we look as often as we're reminded that the scriptures say, we have not that but which we have received. He is the giver of every good and perfect gift. And so we give to him in a demonstration of gratitude. Joyfully, cheerfully. We say, God, you have given me so much. Look at these other nine acres I'm preparing to harvest. Here is the first acre. Gratitude, a recognition of true ownership. Tithing is something else that we rarely think about. It is a gracious law. How many of you honestly think, and you don't need to raise your hands, how many of you honestly think tithing, oh, that's the most gracious law in the Bible Don't we often begrudge it? Don't we often think, God, why couldn't you be happy with three percent? I could swing three percent. Well If we were ancient Israelites, we would only be aware of one other percentage. Extracted from us by a power above our control. That would have been the Pharaoh In Genesis chapter 41, we read this instruction that Joseph gives to Pharaoh. Let Pharaoh proceed to appoint overseers over the land and take one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt. The twenty percent was the tax rate at the time. Now, the ancient Israelites didn't have a king who exacted a tax And God basically says, I'm going to charge half of what Pharaoh charged you. Now that to me is very gracious Think about what the Lord Jesus said when his disciples asked him if it was right for them to pay taxes to Caesar. And Jesus asked if he could see one of the coins. And the coin, sure enough, had an image of Caesar on it. And he said, whose image is that? His disciples said, oh, that's Caesar's. And Jesus' famous response, we'll render onto Caesar what is Caesar, and onto God's what is God's. Now, what is that great object that bears the image of God? It is yourself. From head to toe. Fingertip to toe tip. It is you in your entirety Could not God just as easily have said every single thing? I would urge you to put explicitly and demonstrably at my disposal. Instead, in his great grace to us, he instructed his people, bring 10 % of your harvest. And bring it into my presence. And I want to take the next portion of this sermon. to explore the why of that in this great central text on tithing, because it has a couple of features in it that I think we often forget. Why did God require tithing? That's the heading here if you're keeping notes. Look at what tithing is. Now we ask, why did God require tithing? Keep in mind in Psalm 50, God says through the psalmist Asaph, I have no need of a bull from your stall. He has no need for our tithe. He doesn't eat grain. Believe it or not, the currency in heaven is not the U. S. dollar. He has no use whatsoever for our money Why does he institute tithing? You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year and before the Lord your God in the place that he will choose to make his name dwell. You shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. And here's the first reason God has instituted the tithe. That we may learn to fear the Lord always. Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We learned that as kids, perhaps, from the book of Proverbs. We learn about that in Psalm 119. And I think too we could learn a lot about that from Job chapter 1. If you consider the most righteous people that ever existed in the pages of Scripture, of course Jesus Christ is the only truly righteous one, but there are a couple people who stand head and shoulders above their generation. For example, Noah, who alone was found righteous by God and his whole generation, John the Baptist, among whom none born of woman were greater, and Job Who's introduced in Job chapter 1 as one who had no equal, was more righteous than everyone in his generation. And two reasons are given for why this was the case with Job. He feared God and he shunned what was evil. And we often think, I want you to think. Step back and or or just relax for a moment. Let your mind follow this uh this prompt. If you were to describe the godliest person you know How do you describe that person? And I want to tell you how I tend to think of that person as a Man of my own culture and my own generation and my own devotional literature from the last uh part of the 20th century. We tend to think of godliness in a very righteous man as someone who loves God a lot and does lots of great things. Wherein lay Job's righteousness? He feared the Lord, and he shunned evil. Do you see the difference? He had this healthy, keen awareness of the power and the reality of sin crouching at the door. And he doubled down in his efforts to say, Oh God Almighty, I will serve you. There is no lackadaisical how close can I get to sin and still be on the good guy side of the ledgers There is an earnest and a deep desire to live his life in a manner that reflects that the Maker of all things has drawn near to him by his Spirit. And invites him to worship. Fear of the Lord is something that is bigger than but inclusive of loving God. It is a love for God that embraces the entirety of God's attributes and being. It is a love for God that recognizes his power. It is incomparably great. His wrath against sin, even his fatherly displeasure with my own. And it lays itself upon all of these aspects of who God is, knowing that that God and no other is the God who is for me. That God, and not a God who will look at my sin less severely. That God, and not a God who will chastise more gently. That God and not a God who will exculpate his holy law. less carefully. The God who has revealed Himself in Scripture as the maker of heaven and earth alike That God is the object of my deep love and my constant worship. And one of the ways that we can remember to fear God always, to be in this right relationship with Him, on our knees before Him with open hearts and minds desiring to be full of His truth. is to recognize continually his ownership over all that is ours, his gracious provision over all that he has given us. And the minute I stop returning to the Lord a portion of what he's blessed me with , That is the same minute that I begin to think that he actually merits less. That is the same minute that I begin to think that I actually deserve to keep more, because after all I'm the one who's fighting through a virus or a flu to write two sermons this week. God forbid. That I may learn to fear the Lord my God always. I will tithe. There's a second reason that is even rarely, more infrequently considered by Christians like me. Briefly, that God requires tithing that we might feast and rejoice before the Lord together. Listen to this. And honestly, I I I I'd encourage if if any of you have ever done a study on this particular verse before, come tell me about it afterwards. Because I I have never done a study on this verse before. God then gives this wonderful word that look if the trip from where I set my name and ask for the tithe to be collected is too far of a journey and I've blessed you with too much and The tithe of your uh your your grain and your seeds is too much to bring all that way. Liquidate it Turn it into cash, tie it up in your hand, you know, bind it close, put it in your purse, carry it in your wallet. This is the idea in ancient language, and then bring it to the place where my name has been chosen to dwell. And there, verse 25, you shall turn it into money. Oh, pardon me. And there, verse 26, you shall spend the money for whatever you desire. oxen or sheep, or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite prays, and you shall eat there before the Lord your God, and rejoice you and your household, and you shall not neglect the Levite. Don't forget about that guy. Have you ever thought that that's the reason God gives the tithe in Deuteronomy? So that once per year you can take all that God has blessed you with and come and celebrate before Him you and your entire household and the Levites appointed to care for you. And you are to purchase and buy whatever your heart craves that is godly and right. You are called to a festival at which God is the host, and he would take what you give him and pour it back out upon you. And you and your family, from youngest to oldest, and the Levites associated with your ministry, celebrate and rejoice before God. Together. I don't know if any of you remember, I I don't know what's required reading anymore in elementary schools, but I I still remember Stone Soup Stone soup is a story that's set in some Revolutionary War period. It was never clear to me whether it was the French or the American Revolution, but I know it wasn't the English. And you've got some soldier walking through a town and he's starving and everybody's starving because in times of warfare there's famine and shortage. And he comes up with this idea with his buddy that he's gonna uh get someone to bring out a big cauldron and he's gonna uh he's gonna bring a uh if fill it with water and start s start stirring it up and everybody's hungry. So everybody's coming. What do you got? What do you got? Oh stone soup. Oh, what a stone soup? Well, put these stones in it. It's amazing. Well, can I have some? Sure. But you know, it'd be even better if we had a little bit of carrots. Oh, I got a little bit of carrots. And here come the carrots. Another person, well I got a piece of celery. And before long you've got a full-on chicken, beef, broccoli stew going. Because everybody brought what they had that they might celebrate together instead of starve alone. And there's a sense in which I think of that I think of the fact that each one of us is called by God to bring to the Lord a portion of what He's blessed us with so that we all together might celebrate before Him. And how do we do that? Well, we do that by doing this, by celebrating the Lord's Supper, by having a church in which to gather. By having ministries that encourage and build us up. By having staff that is able to meet needs at various times and different life events. We do that by having deacons able to assist. We do that in so many ways. Some of which are connected to or funded by our tithes, some of which are not. But there's a sense in which we as the people of God we tend to remember that we get out of things, usually what we put into them. You invest your heart and your soul in the family of God, and you receive love and truth. And those things are available to all of us at every step of the way. But is it not the case that we have found in our own experience That when we are fully engaged in the pursuit of serving and obeying God together and putting our gifts at the disposal of God's people, that we benefit the most. And bless the most as well. And that brings up the last point. Why did God require tithing? One, that we may learn to fear Him Two, that we might rejoice before the Lord together. And three, that we might be blessed in everything. Look at the last verse of this passage. After the description of this covenantal party where the tithes are brought in and the people celebrate in this tremendous feast before God. The family, the Levites, and we have a description here that the The Levite, this is every third year, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your town shall come and eat and be filled. That the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do. And there are commands to which the Lord attaches a blessing. Famously Honor your father and your mother that it might go well with you in the land the Lord your God is giving you. And here is another one. tithe that you might be blessed. And what that blessing looks like may be different. It would be a great miscarriage of justice and an abuse of this platform for me to say, if you were to tithe, you will win the lottery. You won't. In fact, if you tithe, you will have 10% less money to spend on vacations and car payments. and educational opportunities for your kids. But if you tithe I can speak from personal imperi uh personal experience. Though God does not always Pay back the tithe with dollars. I have not begrudged tithing a penny to the Lord my God, even when it involved sacrifice. I have never found him to be less than faithful. And while there are things that I went without, arguably things that I needed God gave me Himself. Should we tithe today? A couple of questions that are worth asking. In part, this has to do with how we look at the Old and New Testament and their relation to each other. There is no explicit command in the New Testament that we are to tithe. But neither is there any explicit command in the New Testament that we are to stop tithing. And we stand in a tradition of Christianity in which we put great stock and the liberty of the conscience, the freedom of the individual believer's conscience. We have a whole chapter about that. in our confession of faith that we believe to be a good summary of Christian biblical doctrine. But we do know that there are Certain principles and realities that are still very much at play in the New Testament. First, the reasons for tithing still exist today We all of us need to fear the Lord. How often do we find our fear of the Lord slipping? Well, let me ask you this: when 's the last time you sinned boldly, if I can quote Martin Luther? You cannot sin boldly and fear the Lord. You cannot commit a sin Knowing you're doing something contrary to the will and the purpose of God, and at the same time Have a healthy biblical fear of the Lord. So we all need to have these reminders, this habit, this reflexive faith -building exercise of tithing because God has attached that to fearing him in ways that are healthy and beautiful and good. We need to celebrate our great salvation. We have a lot of needs to celebrate what God has done. We might say, uh honestly, it it takes money to run the lights I don't mind telling you, I could sure use an associate pastor to help me uh lead in helping us to celebrate to whatever extent my gifts uh equip me to do that. There are innumerable ways that our celebrating our life together in Christ requires support from the congregation. And so that reason for tithing still exists today. And let's think about those Levites. In 1 Corinthians 9 14, the Apostle Paul speaking by the Spirit says that even as those who served at the temple ate from the altar, so too those who labor in the gospel must make their living from the gospel. And think broadly about that. All of those who labor vocationally in the church for the sake of the gospel, whether we're ordained servants or not. We also need to live. And I do want to say thank you, because as the pastor of this church, I I live beautifully well, and I am deeply, deeply blessed by this congregation. And please know that that is the truth. And I am immensely grateful for it. We have many opportunities as a church. Originally, this sermon was going to be preached to coincide with our annual meeting. We have many opportunities as we look forward to the new year to grow, and nearly all of them will require the support and the tithes of the people of God. That means the tithes of people like me and the tithes of people like you. You might think, well, Pastor, do Levites tithe? Are they supposed to tithe? Didn't that already get tithed on? Let me read for you something from Numbers chapter 18. And the Lord spoke to Moses. Saying, moreover, you shall speak and say to the Levites, Levites, who didn't have a portion, they didn't have a tribal allotment, they had the tithe to live on. When you take from the people of Israel the tithe that I give have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present a contribution from it to the Lord, a tithe of the tithe. Yes, your pastor tithes. Yes, those who work support as well. But what does the New Testament teach us about giving? First, it says we should give first. 1 Corinthians chapter 16. We read this. Now concerning the collection for the saints. And keep in mind, this is more of a diaconal collection, not so much a a routine collection of tithes and offerings as we would conceive it. This is a collection taken by one church to meet the needs of another faraway church that's suffering. These are the instructions the Holy Spirit gives. On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come. So the idea of convenience is there, the idea of proportionality, and the idea of giving by faith. Give first at the beginning of the week. Don't wait till see, well, what's left over after I've done everything I need to and want to. Give proportionally. We already saw that as you prosper, and we see that again in 2 Corinthians 8 verse 3. We see that the Apostle Paul writes of the churches of Macedonia that they gave according to their means and beyond their means of their own accord, begging earnestly for the favor of taking part in the collection So there's again this biblical idea to give according to your means, to give according to what you are able to. We have giving cheerfully. 2 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 7. The Lord loves a cheerful giver and sacrificially. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8. 3, sometimes even giving beyond our means is appropriate. I remember when this building was built. Not the addition, I wasn't here for that, but when this building was built. And the session of the church under Alan Harris's leadership had invited someone to come and help with the campaign to raise the funds to put this building together. And I was a young man at the time. I would have been in uh uh senior in high school or perhaps in college and doing youth ministry here. And the fellow who came and he preached a series of sermons on giving, he said something that really, really grabbed me. He said to the congregation, You're not giving sacrificially unless you gave something up. Boy, that really got my attention. Because I was a young man working at Duke's Delhi. Doing private saxophone lessons, playing in jazz bars and nightclubs, lots of disposable income. And I realized I haven't given up a thing. I haven't sacrificed a thing. What have I given up? And it was because of the sacrificial giving of so many of the saints. Who have laid the foundation here at Columbia Press that we have this incredible facility, this incredible property This incredible place to gather to celebrate the goodness of God. This incredible vision to host and to sponsor and to partner and to send people to the corners of the world. And you, by grace through faith, are part of that great family, that committed, happy few. Am I a cheerful giver today? Do I give with faith and gratitude first, quickly? Proportionally, does my giving demonstrate and reinforce a healthy relationship with God? Where I love the God who has revealed himself in his entirety all of his attributes? Do I fear the Lord like Job? In what ways do I contribute to the celebration of God's grace here at CPC? In what ways do you? And I would ask you preeminently, do you love God because He first loved us? Because the one who gave the most for us to be in relationship isn't the one whose tithe is greatest. You see, Jesus didn't come as the first of ten sons that God gave up for us. God so loved us that he gave his only son. that whosoever believes on him might not perish and have everlasting life. A sermon on tithing is something that they say churches should receive from time to time. It's not something that is on a pastor's list of favorite things to do. There's more difficult subjects for sure, but it is definitely on the short list of ones that we gen d generally like to assign to interns. Um I opted not to do that with Edward, but next year, buddy. Um Let me offer you this thought. First, I have no idea and will never know by careful design who gives what. We as the elders don't even know that. There are a very select few people who count and who put together your tax receipt. And that is sacred information that is not available. And I don't need to know. I don't want to know. As your pastor. I would challenge you and urge you to embrace the grace of tithing. Embrace it. Test the Lord and see if he is not good in this. And yes, let me reiterate, you will have less money at the end of the week. This is not a buy this ma this magic hanky and all of a sudden you're going to get a check in the mail. You're not getting a check in the mail Trust the Lord in this and give your tithe To the celebration of God's people, that we might continue to grow and spread and support more. And taste and see that the Lord is good. And he will come himself. And if you're here today and you think, wow, did I pick a good Sunday to visit the church? Not only does the pastor have the flu, but he wants all my money. Only ten percent God 's tithe is something that is a blessing. And I cannot preach it as anything less than that. I can't, because I've found it to be a blessing. And in the same way that I would urge you to save sex for marriage. And to drink beer only in moderation, or if your heart craves strong drink. Did you notice that text I read? In moderation, I would say tithe and unleash God's best plan for your life by best and most closely obeying the plain teaching of Scripture. It is not a burden because it's part of God's Word And all of God's commands are there that we might have hearts set free to run in them. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks for all that you've blessed us with. Father, we thank you. And Lord, we are so humbled, even as we look around this beautiful facility and this property and consider the truly sacrificial giving of so many of your people. Who had the eye of faith and the heart to go way beyond tithes in so many circumstances, Lord, that there might be a place for people like us today to gather to celebrate your covenant faithfulness. And Lord, this morning we are gathered to celebrate who you are and what you've done for us and to rejoice in the fact that we are a household of faith. We are a family of believers because of who you are and what you've done. And we have each one of us brought ourselves and any gifts we had with us this morning and we present them to you. And Lord, what a blessed privilege that you return those gifts by giving us yourself. And Lord, be with us now as we come to your table and receive from you so much more. Then even a hundred percent of every piece of income we will ever earn could possibly purchase. We bless your holy name, and we humbly ask that you bless us in Christ's name. Amen.