Hi Mike and Jen. Um Mike and Jen Costanzo are in Japan this Christmas time and they download the sermons each week, so I thought it'd be nice to say hi to them. In fact, why don't we all just wish him a Merry Christmas? Let's do it together. Merry Christmas, Maysk and Jen. There you go You know, it's uh hard to be away from home at Christmas. And um, Mike and Jen, we miss you. Uh thanks for doing that, joining me. Uh because you know it it's hard to be away at Christmas and and that's one of the reasons, isn't it, why we rejoice so much that God is merciful to bring the Costanzas home this afternoon so that they can be home for Christmas. So that what looked uh impossible a couple of days ago they will now experience. And that's a great blessing. It's been really moving to me to see how God has worked in and through the body to minister to them as a family. Um we talk often about the body of Christ and how it should function. And it's it's really just a wonderful thing to see when the body of Christ does function like it's supposed to function. What a blessing that is and how amazing it is, the sacrificial love expenditure of time from many of you, that um is given for them because you fit feel knit to them, tied to them. And uh that's a wonderful thing. On the other hand, for uh a number of us, the Garvey experienced that terrible accident last Saturday morning where their one month old baby died. The result of the accident, the injuries, and uh number of the kids hospitalized, still going through a a lot of treatment, a lot of recovery for the weeks ahead. Um for a number of us that's um been disturbing because it has provoked certain latent fears in us about God, hasn't it? I mean Many of us when we go on a trip, we pray for journeying mercies. We hope that that somehow seals the fact that we're going to be safe. And here they no doubt have prayed for that. They were in a terrible accident. What how do you reconcile that? Um For some of us, the fear of losing a child, God wouldn't let that happen to a Christian, but it did, and it does. We're praying that God will just deliver us from any terrible tragedies. And we see in this that Christians are not immune. to accidents and great loss and heartbreaking situations. So it's disturbing It's interesting that in the Christmas story you have fear. In fact, you have terror. Now for you maybe it's not those kinds of fears. Maybe what more is your kind of fear is The fear of living the rest of your life with a spouse that doesn't seem to have set their heart on you Doesn't seem to really love you or hold your happiness in very high priority. Or maybe it's the fear of being trapped in a job With no end in sight that seems a waste. Or maybe for you it's a fear of Being trapped in some other kind of painful situation, some fears of the future, physically, emotionally. There's all kinds of fears. But one thing that we generally do not face as a fear in our culture is the fear of facing God. The fear of being swept unexpectedly into his presence, having to give an account for your life, knowing that your whole eternity is going to depend on the verdict of the next few minutes. We don't think about that very much. Time magazine last month had an issue where the cover article was on why we fear the wrong things. We fear dumb things and don't fear the things that we should fear. For instance, do you know that you're much more likely to die from falling out of bed than being struck by lightning? Think of that next time you get up. Or that, you know, we all know that you're safer in an airplane than you are in a car. We fear often trivial things. And we don't fear the really important things. And so we look again at Luke's account of the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, and you see in verses 8 and 9 the matter of fear. There were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them. And the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. They were scared spitless They were cowering in fear. Just two things want to look at this morning, this Christmas Eve. Number one, we want to consider their fear. Look at their fear. Terrified shepherds. And it prompts the observation that Whenever angels appear to human beings, almost always the first thing that they say is, don't be afraid. Back in Luke chapter 1, the angel appears to Zechariah in the temple. The first thing he says, don't be afraid, Zechariah, your prayer has been heard. The angel Gabriel appears to Mary and he says, Do not be afraid, Mary. You found favor with God. The angel comes to the shepherds, and the first thing that he has to say before the rest of his message, don't be afraid. Because you see, since the fall, the presence of God is a terror to us. I mean, right after the fall, you remember Adam and Eve. We read the Bible in Genesis 3. God was walking in the cool of the day, and Adam and Eve hid themselves out of fear. In Genesis 28, Jacob is fleeing from the wrath of his brother Esau And he sleeps and he has a vision of the presence of God and he wakes up and he says, God is in this place. It's a dreadful place. Moses cowers before the burning bush which is not consumed because it reveals the presence of God. And when Moses brings the people out and assembles them around Mount Sinai and God comes to appear to them, the Bible says that there was a boundary placed around the mountain and anyone who crossed and touched the mountain would be instantly killed. And the people were in terror. The mountain shakes And when God speaks, they beg Moses, please, you intercede, you speak for God, because his voice terrifies us. When the temple is built, the tabernacle and then the temple, nobody can go directly into the presence of God on pain of death. Only one person, the high priest, only once a year can go into the Holy of Holies, and that after extensive, elaborate cleansing ceremonies. And so the people live in the fear of a God that they've offended. When Isaiah sees the Lord thrice holy in the temple, his words are not, wow, that's really great. He says, Woe is me, because I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips. My eyes have seen the Lord. The presence of God is a terror to us because we know that we're not on good terms with Him. And so for some of you who may be here because of a holiday, you hear that and you think I have two miserable choices before me. Maybe I should be more religious. Then I wouldn't have to fear God so much But if I become religious, I'm going to give up all my fun. You know, it's like the old bumper sticker. Where is the fun in fundamentalism? And so I can either become religious and give up all the things I really enjoy in the hope that maybe God will accept me, or I can simply continue to hold God at arm's length and risk standing in terror in that last day. Boy, what options. What a choice. It's kind of like a woman that I was talking to this past week, not from Columbia Presbyterian, lest you think. that I will reveal your conversations if you talk to me. You don't know this woman, but she was a woman not very happy. She was weeping as I talked to her. She was telling me, uh, I know I drink too much I know that I'm not coping very well with life. I believe that God is merciful, but frankly, he doesn't seem to be of much help to me right now. I think about myself, I feel miserable, I wonder why I have such a low view of myself and where is God and all of it and on and on and on. As she was talking, I finally had to say gently, I know that you think your problem is that you have too low a view of yourself. I would like to suggest to you that in fact I think you have too high a view of yourself. At least all your thoughts center on yourself. And then I said, you're like a person who's inoculated themselves against grace, because sin is merely an annoyance to you. You're like a person that's in the ocean, and all you're thinking about is that the water is uncomfortably cold. But if you come at a certain point to realize that you're drowning, and somebody has a life preserver Your attention will shift to how you feel to focus on the life preserver And there's some of you here this morning for whom Jesus Christ is not the center of your focus. He's way out on the periphery. Of rather general vague interest at Christmas. Because you're focused maybe in your misery. Maybe in your thoughts of how the Christmas is going to work out, what it's going to be like tomorrow. What if during this service the angel of the Lord appeared as he did to the shepherds? And the glory of the Lord shone in this place. How would you feel? If your focus is a materialistic secular focus, that may suggest that your materialism And all your thoughts about what you're going to get tomorrow would melt like a snowball thrown into a 400-degree oven. Some of us here need to be terrified with the presence of the Lord I told you about that little finch that I saw last December, and as I approached it, it didn't fly away, and I knew something was wrong because healthy birds fear people. A couple weeks ago, I understand that some people saw a raccoon back behind the one of the temporary buildings during the granite school time. And they were alarmed because the raccoon didn't show any fear of people. Healthy raccoons fear people. It's a healthy thing when you and I see the presence of the Lord and we're terrified. But The gospel doesn't leave us there. The angel comes and says, do not be afraid. For I bring to you good news of great joy, which is for you and all the people. Now here's the main point of my message. We need to connect the gospel to our fears. Some of you live in hermetically sealed compartments. You talk about Christ, I believe in Christ, I believe the gospel , believe it's good news. And that's over here. And over here, in a totally separate compartment, are all the things that I fear and dread and am anxious about and fret about and all those things. And I don't make the connection. And Christmas is about making the connection. The angel says, Don't be afraid, I bring to you good news of great joy. So that's the second point. Consider the message. That banishes the fears, that deals with the fears, that deals with the terror that you and I have. Consider the message that drives out the fear. The angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be to all the people. What was the great news, the good news that he brought to the shepherds? Good news, fellas. Sheep prices are going up. You're going to get a raise. Not what he said. Good news. Your boss is going to give you better benefits, and you're not going to have to spend all your shifts on the night shift out here in the cold. Good news. That woman who rejected you is going to change your mind and marry you. No. Good news. Your sick child is going to recover. Good news. The Garveys are going to make it home for Christmas. Nope. See, it's something infinitely greater. Something that outweighs and connects to all the fears. This day, in the town of David, a Savior has been born, who is Messiah the Lord. Four things that the angel says, and it's interesting that those four things are the fulfillment of the four prophecies that we've been looking at in Ezekiel. Look at each of the four. First of all, you notice he says that in the town of David, that's Bethlehem. We're going to look at Bethlehem more tonight in the Christmas Eve service. I 'm going to kind of visit in our imaginations the history and what Bethlehem was like. Now who's this message to? It's to shepherds. And so the shepherds, when they hear the town of David, they identify David. Yeah, he was one of us. He was a shepherd in these same fields. And so he says, Come and go see where this one, this shepherd, is being born. You're laying him in a manger. We said last week, because that's where you feed sheep. And he's going to feed the sheep with himself. And so that connects to Ezekiel 34, where if you remember Ezekiel said, I'm going to send you David. The true shepherd. The shepherd who comes to tend his sheep. One person came after the service last week and said, I need to talk to you. Because I'm like your grandson that you know I said I was let's go this way and my grandson said no I gotta go this way. This is the right way, no no no no And with a tender heart wept as he came back. I'm sorry, Grandpa. And so this person said That's what I've been. And I need to come back to the shepherd. And in just the space of just a very few minutes by the end of the service, by the end of the message, to the end of the service. We talked and recommitted himself to Christ. What about you this morning? Do you need to recommit your life? To the shepherd. What better time than on Christmas Eve to say, a shepherd has been born to me? And I haven't been following the shepherd. I've been going my own way. But this shepherd is here. And he's here to tend me. Sheep can't take care of themselves. You need a shepherd. I need a shepherd. Come, come to Jesus. The angel goes on. In the city of David, a Savior has been born. Savior is a deliverer. And here he's picking up on Ezekiel 11 and 36. Now, the delivery that he's talking about is not from the Romans. It's a deliverer from sin and death. And we haven't gotten to look at Ezekiel 36 yet, but you don't think I spent all that time preparing for Ezekiel 36 and you're not going to get it. So you're going to get it next Sunday And providentially, it is actually a very good message to get just before New Year's because it talks about a lot of new things. It's God saying, I'm going to cleanse your heart. I'm going to give you a new heart. I'm going to put my spirit in you. I'm going to give you a new spirit. And I'm going to build a new relationship where you will be my people and I will be your God. The deliverer has come to do what you and I could never do. To take your sin, my sin, upon himself, so that he could give you a new heart and a new relationship with himself. We've heard from time to time from this little classic, the Valley of Vision, some of the prayers from hundreds of years ago. Here's one perhaps you haven't heard. It's a prayer for Christmas Eve or Christmas morn. It focuses on Jesus born as a Savior. O Source of all good, what shall I render to you for the gift of gifts? Your own dear son, begotten, not created, my Redeemer, proxy, surety, substitute. His self-emptying, incomprehensible, his infinity of love beyond the heart's grasp. Herein is wonder of wonders. He came below to raise me above, was born like me that I might become like him. Here in his love. When I cannot rise to him, he draws near on wings of grace to raise me to himself. Here in his power. When deity and humanity were infinitely apart, he united them in indissoluble unity: the uncreated and the created. Herein is wisdom. When I was undone, with no will to return to him, and no intellect to devise recovery, he came, God incarnate, to save me to the uttermost. As man to die my death, Savior, to shed satisfying blood on my behalf, to work out a perfect righteousness for me, for you. O God, take me in spirit to the watchful shepherds of Bethlehem and enlarge my mind. Let me hear good tidings of great joy and hearing, believe, rejoice, praise, adore. My conscience bathed in an ocean of repose, my eyes uplifted to a reconciled father. Place me with the ox, the ass, the camel, the goat, to look with them upon my Redeemer's face. And in him account myself delivered from sin. Let me with Simeon clasp the newborn child to my heart, Embrace him with undying faith, exalting that he is mine and I am his. In him you have given me so much That heaven cannot give me more. Unto you is born a Savior A Savior, who is the Messiah, the Lord. Messiah Means that he is the one who has come to establish the new kingdom of God, to set all the brokenness and fallenness right, to rule and reign unopposed forever and ever. A kingdom without pain or death or any fears Connect your fears to the gospel. Connect your fears to the kingdom. Connect your fears to the Messiah who rules fearlessly. and who abolishes all fears in his sovereign role. For he is Lord He is the Messiah who is Lord as Messiah. That's the fulfillment of Ezekiel 17, Ezekiel 21. Where you remember we read about the ruin of the Davidic monarchy and of Jerusalem, a ruin, a ruin, until he comes to whom the rule rightfully belongs. And when he comes to establish that kingdom, all things will be set at peace. Nothing that you fear now will you fear then. And you have the beginning of being able to live without fear by faith in Christ. For he is the Lord. He is Lord of all. You see there the fulfillment of what we talked about and looked at in Ezekiel 17. Where you saw that cedar, and God says from that cedar, the Davidic monarchy, it's going to be destroyed, it's going to be fell, but I'm going to pull out of that one little shoot, one little sprig. That little shoot is going to grow to become the most majestic of all cedars, and the birds will find their refuge in him, and all the nations will acknowledge this cedar is the cedar of all. It is majestic beyond all. It is King of kings and Lord of Lords. This is the Lord's doing. He is Lord. He is Messiah. He is Savior. He is shepherd. And he bids you to connect your fears to his provision. But you know, that message, which was for the shepherds and the angels said, is for all the people. Is for you this morning if you connect your fears to the gospel. For you see, it's not good news for you unless he is your shepherd, unless you can say, If the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, because He makes me to lie down in green pastures. And to sit beside still waters to restore my soul. Is he your shepherd? That's where the news becomes good news. That's where you take your fears and you connect them to the gospel. I have fears. I have dreads And I have to remind myself again and again when I begin to fall into the anxieties and the I don't see how this is ever going to work out and what's going to happen in this area and I begin to fret, say but Lord. The gospel connects to that fear. I need to see the connection of the sufficiency of Christ. He's not good news to you if he's not your shepherd. He's not good news to you if he's not your savior, if you haven't trusted in him to give you that new heart, that new spirit. That is able to live at peace, reconciled with God, and above the circumstances of this life. And you say, oh, my Christmas has been ruined. This or that has happened. And oh, what is it going to be? It's all gone. Oh, just, you know, hope better for 2007. But this one, write it off. It's terrible. I can't be happy. What? When the news is given to you, unto you is born this day a shepherd. in the city of David, who is Messiah, Savior, Lord, for you in your need, to live out of that this Christmas Eve. It's not good news to you if he's not your Messiah, with your heart fixed on his kingdom and the hope of his coming. And in his lordship, able to say with verse 14, Glory to God in the highest, whether I get what I want or whether I don't get what I want. And on earth is peace, peace in my heart. Because I have his promise. So this morning we come. We come recognizing that Paul made that connection when he wrote to the Romans. He said to you in words of Romans 8, you did not receive a spirit that made you a slave again to fear? You don't have to be in bondage to fear this morning, because you've received the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Daddy, because you see what? The Spirit Himself is testifying with your Spirit. He's whispering to your heart. Go ahead. Call God Daddy. Go ahead. You can do it. Jesus Christ has opened the way He's reconciled you to the Father who is judge. You can look in the face of glory and not be terrified. You can call God this morning, Daddy. You can connect your fears to the gospel. And so if we are now his children, then we're heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings. In order that we may also share in his glory. It doesn't remove the sufferings. But it's good news of great joy Because the gospel overcomes every fear that you and I have this day Because that one that comes from that couple from Nazareth is the one that Paul writes of. He humbled himself. Became a man. Became obedient even unto death so that God would raise him up And would seat him in the highest place and give him a name which is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee would bow and every tongue would confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Amen And he meets your fears. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we come in our weakness In our fear and in our trembling, oh Lord, how foolish we are. We we worry about all the little things of what people think and some of us look at Christmas as another bullet to dodge and think that I pull it off, that I Did I get through without shame and criticism and on and on and on? And Lord, our hearts are so fixed on the trivial things of this life Lord, raise us up with a shepherds to see, unto you, to each of us, is born this day. In the city of David, a Savior who is Messiah, the Lord, that our hearts would be connecting your coming, your sufficiency. Your saving work. Your reconciliation. Your calling us to be children that can call God, Daddy. Here's my knee, Daddy, I'm afraid. Daddy, I don't know what to do here. Daddy, I'm preoccupied. Daddy, help me. Give us hearts by your Spirit to come boldly to recognize because of Jesus We can come to you as your children. We can come and we can celebrate the good news of the child. Who was born to save us? Oh, Lord, bring us to the shepherd. Bring each person here That we would come to your feet. We want to follow you. We love you. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in one. May those hearts, those words come into our hearts as true and living and powerful. I pray that for each person here. This Christmas Eve in Jesus' name. Amen.