I wanna pick I want you to uh picture a scene with me, if you wouldn't mind. Typical coffee mess just outside of a typical workplace cubicle. The discussion among the co-workers goes something like this. Someone who used to be fun Who used to be the party guy is no longer fun because he got born again. Whatever that is. group think ensues in this discussion and they're hard pressed to understand the concept and then the attention turns to you because they heard when you started the office that uh you go to church sometimes. And the most vocal of the bunch ask you a direct question then. What is this born-again stuff? Only they don't necessarily use the word stuff. The way we see this, it's a providential crossroads. There's a choice A dilemma. We could play dumb and let the ire of that group be directed somewhere else, or we can acknowledge the one that gave his life for us. And by the same power that raised him from the dead, that same spirit Is at work in you to make you born again, born from above, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. What do you do? What do you do? The dilemma is one of myriad that Christ's followers face every single day. Just in our normal course of events. Over the next three weeks, we're wrapping up the series on living the resurrection. From 1 Peter. We began this week after Easter, and we've been looking at various things that the Apostle Peter, the one who walked with Jesus, the one who was restored on that beachfront. After his denial of Christ, he was lovingly restored by our Savior. And Peter pinned this letter for a church that was in the midst of a world that does not like God. Nor does it like the gospel of God. A couple of weeks ago, Pastor Dan showed us in the beginning of chapter four how since Christ suffered in the flesh We're encouraged then to cease from sinning, even though some keep on sinning. And the power of the sinless one who takes the punishment of his people on himself, and then we can look squarely at judgment to come because we're safe, we're secure in Christ. And then last week Pastor Randy reminded us that Peter urges his readers to see each day as if it was what? The last day. The end of all things is at hand. We don't know the time of Christ's return, but we know that it is at hand. And Peter, in that, with that perspective, with that in view, he says Love one another deeply. Don't waste time doing other things. Let the demonstrated love of Christ flow through you because God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whosoever believes on him should not perish, but have everlasting life And so Peter says, listen, there is an urgency to living the Christian life. We pick up the end of chapter four today, 12 to 19. If you have a copy of the scripture, I invite you to turn to 1 Peter chapter 4. As we read from God's Word, let's trust God to give us the wisdom that we need. Peter says this, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word, to our hearing of his word, and to this preaching of God's word. Let's pray together to that end Heavenly Father, please, we so desperately need the truth of this passage to become deeply planted in our hearts. We pray that you would use it, Lord, to meet us in a particular way, to encourage us to walk with you in a more faithful way. Lord, to challenge us where we don't And I I would pray also, Lord, for those who do not know you as Lord and Savior, that you would use this word to show them the beauty of the sacrifice of the Son of God given for sinners. In whose name we pray. Amen. Amen. While we might not feel the intensity as some Christians today feel around the world, the intensity of persecution, there is a very similar feel toward Christianity as there was in the time of this writing. Things change and things stay the same. Most scholars date Peter's letter, this first epistle Right around the time of A. D. 64. If you know anything about early history, that's about the time that Nero let Rome burn And he was content to do so for many reasons, I'm sure, but one of the things he did in the aftermath of that was to assign blame to the Christians. And a widespread persecution took place, but the church was strengthened in that persecution. One of the purposes for which Peter writes this letter is to prepare for suffering. To prepare for suffering. Preparation is half the battle Even though that there were very accurate weather forecasts last weekend, prognosticators in abundance At this time, one week ago, we could only speculate, we could only imagine. the devastation and the destruction that was to be in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. One week ago it was mere speculation But there was preparedness, and there was forecasting and there were warnings that, if heeded, helped with that preparation. Life does truly turn on a dime. The text before us today was written to prepare God's people for suffering, but it focuses on a particular type of suffering. All suffering is painful and to be endured By God's grace. But this particular type of suffering is suffering for the cause of Christ. Suffering because we belong to Jesus. Suffering because we're identified with Him And Peter writes specifically to the beloved. There's nothing new for those of us who have been working through 1 Peter this year. In chapter 1 and 6 and 7, Peter tells us that Christ's followers will be grieved by various trials. Those trials are intended to bring about the genuineness of our faith. In chapter 2, Peter says that we're to live lives of honorable conduct when, so that when, not if, so that when they speak evil of you That they might see your good deeds and glorify God who is in heaven. In chapter 2 and 19 and 20, Peter says that We see God's supplying grace when we endure sorrow unjustly at the hands of unjust or cruel masters. In chapter 3, why would there need to be an instruction for what to do when we're reviled if we shouldn't expect to be reviled? In chapter 3 and 14, Peter encourages us, those who belong to Christ, to remember that we will be blessed. For righteousness' sake. There's no need to be troubled. The blessing is sure and certain. For those who belong to Christ. And then in chapter 3 and verse 17, Peter reminds us that it's much better to suffer for doing good If we're doing God's will, then for doing evil. See, the theme of suffering is throughout this letter. What Peter wants to do, I think, in these verses we look at today is to focus our attention. for suffering for the cause of Christ, for the sake of belonging to Jesus, in response to his love. So he starts, beloved. I want to make three points if I can. Try to make three points today. I apologize for a blank outline page in front of you But the three points are this, that although expected, some suffering is actually avoidable, but you really shouldn't avoid it. The second point I want to try to make is fulfilling the purpose for which we were made is often experienced through suffering. I'll repeat these ad nauseums, so sorry. You're writing. The third point I want to make is that all those who suffer for righteousness will not be ultimately disappointed. But rather, they will rejoice with a joy that is exceedingly above all that you can ever hope or imagine. So the first point, Peter says that although expected, some suffering is actually avoidable. But you really shouldn't avoid it. And I think he proves his point here. In talking about suffering, Peter knows his audience. And he knows the reminder that needs to come with this preparation. And he says, beloved. It's a jam-packed word. Beloved, it's a term of endearment. It's loaded with meaning. It's a reminder for us who belong to Christ. That we've been loved with that lost thing-seeking, sinner-redeeming, self-sacrificing love of God that was demonstrated powerfully on the cross of Jesus Christ. It didn't stop at the cross, but it gives the Spirit of God to sanctify, to grow, to seal, and to bring to completion that which God has begun. I love that, man. The lost thing, seeking, sinner redeeming, self-sacrificing love. It's all packed into that word. Beloved Beloved, listen. Peter says, God loves you. He wants you prepared for the suffering that is to come. He wants you to stand with Christ. He wants you identified with his one and only Son who suffered and bled and died in your place. Beloved, listen. So there's a reminder here Peter says, hey, don't be surprised as if something surprising was happening to you. Don't be surprised. Expect suffering. The root word for shock and surprise and astonishment actually shows up twice in this verse. It's a double emphasis. Peter is saying, basically he's saying Don't be surprised as if something surprising was happening to you. You should expect it. Why are you surprised? This is a world filled with tribulation. Expect suffering, especially those who claim the name of Christ. If you take a walk around Centennial Lake this evening. You have a relatively low expectation that somebody's going to jump out from behind a bush and yell boo, try to scare you. But if you go back in time several days, the days leading up to October 31st, and you go on one of these weird walk-through the haunted woods trails that people construct You should have a very high expectation that behind every bush and tree and twig, somebody's going to jump out and yell boo. And if you took one of those trails and somebody did that, you should not be surprised that they did that. That's the way that Peter wants you to see the fiery trials that are to come. Don't be surprised. Why would we be surprised? The gospel is an offensive message. It offended me. It offended my pride. It said, Tim, you cannot live a righteous life. You cannot stand before an accounting and be found right. Tim, you are a sinner. Tim, those sins justly deserve punishment forever The gospel is an offensive message, but the gospel is a glorious message, because in that same message, the good news follows the bad news. Tim, Jesus Christ, loved you, gave his life for you. And if you'll trust in him, simply believe. He'll give you his righteousness. You'll be clothed in that. You'll be forgiven your sin, adopted as a child, secure in Christ, inheritance that will never spoil or fade, and kept in heaven And you won't day, one day we'll see him face to face. And that's a glorious message. But it is offensive to the world. It's a stumbling block to think to those that think they can somehow stand before God on their own. Jesus told us to expect the Hatred. Remember John 15, Jesus says these words. Sobering words. If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. We get the the the you hear the ecclesiastical things that refers to the church. It's a Greek word, ekklesia, and it basically means those who are called out from. We are the called out ones. Jesus calls us out of the world. That's exactly what he's saying in that passage. But he says, the world hated me before it hated you, but because you belong to me, the world will hate you too. The Bible's clear about the hostility that will be directed toward Christians, not the caricature of Christians who stand on street corners and burn other religious writings and those who uh hurl vitriol on Facebook and social media, not those caricatures Christians, those who claim Christ as Savior and Lord, those who simply do what they do, living their lives by faith and humble reliance on God's grace seeking to please their God. Those are the ones that are going to receive the ire. My grandma Flora had a big ugly pug dog. And it was so ugly and mean it didn't even have a name. We just called it Pug. It was chained up in the backyard behind her house in Boonesmill, Virginia, and it was chained up back there so that the undesirables in the community would not walk through my grandma's backyard and enter my grandma's back door and take my grandma's things from my grandma's house. But Pug was mean and nasty. And he was mean and nasty at you for you just being you. If you went to fill up his water dish, he'd snarl and growl at you. If you took the dinner scraps from the table, he would try to take a bite out of you. Simply you being you Pug wanted your destruction. And that's the reaction of the mind that is hostile to God. You simply being you, beloved. The world is going to bring fiery trial your way. So Peter says, Don't be surprised. In fact, expect it. But he doesn't stop there. Because it could get really depressing if it stops there, right? He says, listen, don't be surprised at the fiery trials, if something strange was happening to you, but rather rejoice. Rejoice. Insofar as you share in Christ's sufferings, you will to that same extent rejoice with exceeding joy in that day when God's glory is revealed. You get the picture? Those who claim Christ, those who belong to Christ, those who stand for Christ, those who acknowledge Christ. They will not be disappointed in that day. They will not. This is the promise of God's Word. It's a promise for my heart, my weak and pathetic heart, your heart. Rejoice when you suffer. So that's why that's the kind of suffering that's actually avoidable, but you really don't want to avoid it. Brings us to the second point. Fulfilling the purpose for which we were made is often experienced through suffering. Fulfilling the purpose for which we were made is often experienced through suffering. We were made with a purpose. That purpose is to glorify God Many of you have memorized the shorter catechism, the first question and answer. What is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Maybe you've seen the modern English version. What is man's primary purpose? Man's primary purpose is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Maybe you've seen the Treky version. What is man's prime directive? Man's prime directive is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. No matter how you word, the truth of God is reflected there. We're created to reflect his glory. Nothing changes that purpose. In the fall on the garden when Adam represented us and sinned against God, God's glory was radically corrupted in us. Our ability to glorify God was radically corrupted in every fiber of our being. Mind, heart, emotions, and will. We've all sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and yet we're called to bring him glory, Paul wrote to the Corinthian church. Therefore, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, Do it all to the glory of God. You see, we've lost our ability to glorify God, but the command to glorify God still rests on us. Only as Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, comes to accomplish what we could not do, live a perfect life, die a satisfying death Before a holy God, can we hope in Him to glorify God with our lives As we fulfill our primary purpose, see this also. Because this is about suffering. Peter says we're not alone in the suffering. I see two ways that we're not alone in the suffering. The first is found in verse 12: we're not alone in the suffering because a sovereign God is in charge of this world. Sovereign God is in charge of this world. We're not alone in the suffering. Remember Peter said, don't be surprised as if some strange thing were happening to you. The verb translated we're happening here can be read to occur by chance. What Peter is basically saying is, in other words, not only should we not be surprised when fiery trials come our way, but that we should know with certainty that those fiery trials are coming our way because a sovereign God Is bringing them our way. He's testing our faith He's burning off stuff. He's chipping away those things that were us that won't be us when we're conformed to Christ's image. But the sovereign God is in charge. We're not alone in the suffering. We're also not alone in the suffering, as evidenced in verse 14. There is a loving God involved in our suffering. Verse 14 says, if you're insulted for the name of Christ, you're blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. This word used for rest here in this verse is the same word that we see Jesus using in Matthew 11. Come unto me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. It's a it's a respite from toil. It's a refreshment. It's the thing that you long for. It's what makes our souls go, ah Sweet relief. And Peter says that there is a loving God involved in our suffering, so that when we suffer for the cause of Christ, the Spirit of glory. Rests on us. He brings encouragement to us. You've probably experienced this. You take a stand for Christ, you make a choice that is for righteousness and not for sin or the flesh. I'm not talking about a political statement. I'm talking about living your life for Christ. And in that you might receive reviling. Someone might make fun. They might laugh. They might ridicule. They might just pass on by. But there's something in you that settles this peace. There's something that's supernatural. It can't really be explained. It's a peace that passes understanding. It's the spirit Of glory and of God refreshing your soul with truth that you're in the right track You're in God's way, so walk in it. Walk in it. Walk in God's way. That's what's going on there. It's a wonderful truth. Rest is only available, though, Peter says, for those suffering for the cause of Jesus Christ. The actual Jesus, the biblical Jesus, the Christian Jesus. Those suffering for the one described in this revelation, the one described in the Bible. Those who belong to him. Peter says in verse 15, let none of you suffer for the heavy-duty crimes, for the murderers, for thieves, for evildoing. Nor the, relatively speaking, the lighter fare, the just troublesome metal meddling. If you suffer for those things, that suffering has got different purpose behind it. There's a correction there. The rest that the Spirit provides is to encourage your heart. When you're walking with Christ and for Christ, God is with you in that. Which brings us to the third point. All those who suffer for righteousness. All those who suffer for righteousness Will not ultimately be disappointed. But rather, they will rejoice with everlasting joy. Those of us who have recognized our need of a Savior have cried out for mercy by faith. We've been saved and by grace we now stand. In a new way, we have a new life, a new heart, and a new identity. We're those of the way. We're the ones who are called Christian. We have Christ's name now on us. That's what verse 16 is about. If anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God in that name. As the kids say, represent, yo. Right? It's so simple. Don't be a poser, don't be a pretense, don't fake it. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew 10? He said, Whoever acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge him before my Father in heaven. That's a precious promise. It's astounding to me. But Jesus goes on in verse 33 of Matthew 10 to say, but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny him before my Father who is in heaven. Chilling, sobering , terrifying words To be named with the name of Christ You only need to go a short distance from this building to see yard signs with names of presidential candidates emblazoned on them. This election this Tuesday and all the heat and vitriol and everything that's going on. I heard a story this week and I see the person that told it here, so I'd probably get it wrong, but they'll correct me I'm sure of a parking space dispute that occurred this week at a local retail establishment. And somebody was pulling out so there was an open space And another person saw a car that was trying to get to that space and pulled right in front of them. And when they got out to talk about the why The person who took the space said that they had seen the name of the candidate emblazoned on their bumper, and they decided that they needed to take the space instead of that person. Now that's a mess. There there's all kinds of wrong with that. But we see how important Being associated with a name that's not ours is. And that's what Peter's saying We already know this. We memorized the Ten Commandments of the little boy and girl in Sunday school. You shall not take the name of the Lord in vain. When Jesus taught his disciples how to pray, he said, Pray this way, our Father in heaven, hallowed, holy, honored be your name. See, to be called Christian, to be named with Christ is a big deal. Because it means we are the ones who say to the world I believe that without rescue from another I go to hell. I believe that he died in my place. I believe that his blood sufficiently covers all my sin, past, present, and future. And I believe that he is the trustworthy one and he'll see me through to the end. I believe that. I stand with Jesus Christ in that truth. This is important. That's why Jesus said, Listen, count the cost before you make the commitment to me. The world's going to hate you. The reward is great in heaven. But you will suffer. For my name's sake. God takes the honor of his name very seriously Beloved, listen, the election this Tuesday is very important. We get that But the election that occurred before the time began, before the foundation of the world, there was an election. That's the most important election that could ever happen, where God, by his grace, simply by his sovereign choice, chose all who would have his name. That's the election that truly matters. Whatever comes Tuesday Because God said, I'm placed my name on you. You'll represent me in this world. You'll bring me glory. I'll grow you up. You'll glorify me. I'll get the honor. You'll get the good. That's the plan. That's what he's doing. And those who don't know my name, I'll send you into the world to teach them my name and who I am and what I do. To those rebellious people that through Christ He's given them the right to be called children of God Sons and daughters of the Most High, the beloved. That's a high honor indeed. That's why Peter stresses that God's loving discipline is for those who have the name. It says, so judgment must begin at the household of God. Household of God people have the name of Christ That's why the judgment must begin there. He's not content to have us stay where we were when we came to faith. He wants us conformed to the perfect and spotless and beautiful image of Jesus Christ. That's what he's doing. He's working that out. For his glory, for our good. So let this how the judgment begin at the household of God. We're not going to regret doing the right thing for him. We may suffer for it here. But there we will rejoice with exceedingly great joy And Peter quotes this Proverbs verse. There's a warning here. There's a warning in this passage. Because only those who belong to Christ That suffering will work out its way. Peter says, if judgment begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? Then he quotes from Proverbs 11:31: If the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly? And the sinner. See, we think that grace makes the threshold this pathetic and small thing. It's when we come to faith that we begin this journey with Christ, where He's molding us and making us over into Christ's image. That's not the end of it, that's the beginning of it. Maybe you recall Paul's words in Acts chapter 14. This is an incredible story. In Acts 14, you see Paul stood to preach Jesus Christ. Salvation for all those who would believe. There is no other name given, right? And then they stoned him. And he was left for dead. His body was discarded outside the town gate. He was revived, and he Uh after I guess he got his strength back, you know what Paul did? He went back to Lystra, where he was preaching and got and was stoned. Went back to Lystra, and Luke records in Acts 14, because he wanted to strengthen the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying to them, Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. That's how it's worked out The warning is for those who have not submitted themselves to God now. And I would encourage you, if you're still wrestling with the claims of Christ on your life. He is more than worthy of your surrender. He's more than worthy of your devotion. Now is the day of salvation. Why wait So we conclude with these thoughts. Peter says, Let me give you one last word of encouragement, verse 19. Therefore, we could probably include the beloved again. Because the tenderness of this apostle who had lived a such a life, he wants his readers, he wants us to hear The encouragement to you to trust God. You will not be disappointed. It says this. Therefore, let us let those of us who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good You see this term in trust, it's a banking term. It was used to secure a deposit. You put something in safekeeping, and it's there for you when you go back. It's the word we've already seen in 1 Peter 2. When reviled, Jesus didn't revile in return, but he continually entrusted himself to the one who judges justly. This is the same word entrust that Jesus spoke from the cross when he said, Father, into your hands I entrust or I commit my spirit. Jesus is communicating through those words and Peter reiterating that for each of us today, that there is a trustworthy one. That you can commit yourself to, in whom you will not be disappointed This word creator is only used this one time in the New Testament. Of all the terms, of all the qualities, of all the characteristics, of all the names that Peter could employ to encourage the reader, he uses faithful creator. And I dare you to try to come up with someone or something else more worthy of your trust than the Almighty Creator God who sovereignly oversees all of his creation and faithfully interacts with his beloved to safely bring them to completion. When his glory is ultimately revealed. But I know it's hard. I know it's hard to stand for Christ R. C. Sprohl says that the hardest time to believe that God is faithful is when his hand is heavy on your back. I know it's hard. That story I begin with was me in the cubicle. It was me 22 years ago at NSA My desk was right next to the coffee mess and all the sailor talking whatever going on out there. And they actually did. There was a guy in another division who had gotten born again. And they knew I went to church because I said I'd gone to church. And they turned directly and talked to me, asked me this question, what is this born-again stuff? They didn't say stuff. Just putting the pressure on. And I shrunk back. And I was very thing. Some coffee. The fear of man at that moment for me in that choice was greater than my love for God, my fear of God, the holy reverence of the one who had given himself for me. And I remember that thing, it was like a blur, and even immediately following that conversation, I started to lament. That afternoon, that evening, the next day. And then I started to pray. And I said, God, it's not the first of my disappointments of you, uh to uh to you But Lord, if you'd be pleased to give me another opportunity and give me the grace to see it through. I would like that. Maybe foolishly praying that, maybe naively praying that. But when you pray, watch out. 'Cause it was probably about a week to the day later, same scenario, me same cubicle, them same coffee mess, same conversation, because the weekend had occurred and this guy hadn't gone out to party with them. And they asked me almost verbatim, not exactly, but almost verbatim, the exact same question. I could hardly contain the joy I felt. I was smiling on the inside, trying hard not to snicker and laugh as they asked the question, because I knew it was coming. I knew it was coming when they were ver when they were uh mouthing the words And by God's grace, not anything within me, by God's grace, he gave me the words to speak. I know all about John III. I know all about Nicodemus' visit to Jesus. I know about being born from above, being regenerated in the Spirit. I know about that because it's happened to me, and it's true from the Word of God, and I let them have that Probably more than they ever wanted or ever asked again, by the way. And listen, my encouragement to you has got to be this If God can do that in me, He can do it in anyone He can make us faithful. Look for the opportunities, certainly. But when you fail, look to the faithful Creator who is in charge. And stand for Christ. Let me pray for us. Dear God in heaven. Help us, Lord. We need to stand in the grace that you've provided. We need, Lord, the truth that you're the faithful one And Lord, then we'll just trust you for the grace for the moment. We'll trust you for the strength in our weakness. And we'll trust you. That as we stand for Christ and if we encounter those expected fiery trials, that you are with us in the suffering. Because you are the sovereign and you're the loving God. Christ, hear our prayer in the name that is above all names. Amen.