Good morning, Saints. It's good to be back. I was just mentioning to someone I had don't think I've stood here since the uh installation, Pastor Bob. It's great to be back uh here to see the some old friends. And maybe some new friends too. But I'm Pastor Stan Long. I work for Baltimore Antioch Leadership Movement, a ministry here in regionally, and uh we're we're doing a lot of things. We're uh trying to do some some small house church plants. We're working at a seminary. We're trying to to just proclaim the gospel of making disciples. here in our region, um in our old age as we have pastored f here in in town for many, many years with uh with Craig Garriot, Maria Garriott. And uh so it's a great it's great to be asked to to preach again. Uh This Sunday morning, this Lord's Day, and I'm I'm I'm gonna look at a passage in the the book of Psalms, Psalms 71 verses 15 to 19. I've been this year, as this year began, I began to say, what are some parts of the Bible that I that I need to prop myself up in? Here's a secret. Pastors don't know all the Bible well Equally. We don't know equally well. And I said, What what what is what are some areas of scripture that I'm weak in? And one was I I thought about the Psalms. Many of the Psalms I know very, very well. And some Psalms I said, what's there? So I I I I've this year I've been personally on a journey to to get propped up in the Psalms that I didn't know well. And I'm just going through the Psalms. I'm like in the in the 80s right now, but uh A few months ago I was looking, I was reflecting on Psalm 71, and this one jumped out at me with some great principles and um And I'm going to just preach on verses 15 to 19, alluding to some of the other things. So if you uh if you have a Bible, um I'm going to read from verse 15 to 19. This is an NIV translation of Psalm 71. My mouth will tell of your righteous deeds, of your saving acts all day long, though I know not how to relate them all. I will come and proclaim your mighty acts, sovereign Lord. Will proclaim your righteous deeds, yours alone. Since my youth, God, you have taught me, and to this day I declare your marvelous deeds. Even when I am old and grey, do not forsake me, my God. Till I declare your power to the next generation, your mighty acts to all who are to come. Your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens, you who have done great things. Who is like you, God? Let me pray. But I pray you use this message, Lord, to encourage us. To challenge us to be your people, no matter whoever you are in our lives, may this time in your word draw us closer to you, Lord and my God. And we'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 71 is one of those psalms it's it's hard to get a hold of because there's a lot going on as the psalmist is is is is sort of looking at all the issues that are going on in life, but as I looked at it, some things jumped out at me uh about Who his God is. Who God is. God is a refuge, a a rock of refuge in verse 3. He is a a fortress. He is a deliverer. He calls on God for deliverance. Several times he says, You're my hope. You're the one who you're my help in time of need. You're the holy one. You're the sovereign Lord. So with all he's going through, with all we go through in life, we look to who God is, our God, for hope, the one who can bring us through the things that we're going through But the the the primary thing that jumped out at me in this song, because of where I own my life, is in even the commentators again to look at that, this song is a song Asking for strength in old age. Strength in old age. And there's a lot in this passage about you it's clear that he is, the psalmist is up in years. And uh I can identify with that. Maybe some of you can too. Maybe some of you can't. Hang around long enough. It'll start making sense to you. Your desire, your one of your unspoken goals is to become old, probably. Woman in Catherine Hankey. um British believer in the in the 19th century. She was part of what's called the Clapham set, which is a sect, which is a very these are some Anglican believers who were very committed to the scriptures. And applying the scriptures to society. The most famous member of the Clampham said was Wilberforce. We know him as the one who promoted for the uh abolition of slavery in the the Western world in the British Empire. But he was a group part of an Anglican group of believers who were really dealing with more the upper class as opposed to the Methodist dealing with the lower class. But Catherine Hankey was a member of this group and she wrote a 52-stanza poem that became public in 1867. at a YMCA gathering in Montreal, Canada. At that point were uh a tomb was given to it. And it was popularized by during the D. O. Moody revivals in the later part of the 19th century. The lyrics have become famous. I love to tell the story. Of unseen things above, of Jesus and his glory, of Jesus and his love. I love to tell the story because I know it's true Satisfies my longings as nothing else can do. I love to tell the story. Twill be my theme in glory to tell the old, old story of Jesus And his love. It was a poem. 52 stanzas. Thankfully there's not 52 verses to the song. But her life had a single purpose. It was that others would know Christ, that she would tell the story. That's an example for all of us, isn't it? To know Christ and to make him known. Saints, we are here on earth to point others to the only hope, the only righteous one, Jesus Christ. That's why we're here. I'm not talking about that today. Talk about this gospel, this story. And again, you see the outline on your bullet, and there's three things I want to say. I want to talk about understanding this story proclaiming this story and then living out this story in our world. Understanding the story. Well what's the story? What is this story about? In just our text, eleven times in these verses, we have the first person pronoun. So it's a personal story. The psalmist is personal. It's a personal story for those who know it. It's a story that's to be experienced, right? I was thinking about Romans chapter 1. Paul links the gospel about justification that he's about to explain in Romans. He links it to the story of Jesus. Look at the introduction to Romans. Before he gets into all that justification stuff, look at the first four verses. He links it to, it's a story about the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. In Romans 1. 16, he says this gospel is the power of God, the power of God for salvation. Question. How has if you claim Christ, how has God's power been demonstrated in your life? By transforming your heart and transforming your life, your behavior? What behaviors have been transformed? What attitudes have been transformed? Maybe it's he maybe God has kept you and kept your heart from experiencing pain The pain of sinful behavior. Maybe that's the power of God in your life. What is your story? We used to use the word testimony. You don't hear that word too much. What is your testimony if you if you claim Christ? Is it about the joy Christ has given you? The peace he's given you, the purpose in life he's given you? Is it about radical deliverance from something? Drugs or demonic activity or what? Something like that? Deliverance? Is it about not no longer pursuing love in all the wrong places? What's your story? What's your testimony? Is it about God sovereignly protecting your life? Through family, through parental guidance, through shielding you from deep guilt, shame, despair that many of your peers have experienced. How has the power of God been manifested in your life? Understanding the story. In these verses, in these texts, the second person pronoun is also used 11 times Because ultimately, though it's the personal story that we experience, ultimately the story of Jesus is the story of Jesus. It's about him. It's about God. It's not about us. Verse 15, it's about God's righteous deeds, his saving acts, verse 16, his mighty acts, his righteous deeds, verse 17, his marvelous deeds, verse 19, his powerful, mighty acts. It's about what God has done, first and foremost. God 's story is not, as some people would think, nonfiction myth. It's real stuff that happened. God 's story is not really perspective or opinion or axioms or wisdom. It's grounded in stuff that really happened, real events that happened. As good old Francis Schaefer long ago would say, God's truth is true truth. It really happened. If they had cameras in those days, you could have seen it. observable events that were visible, audible, and the gospel writers were eyewitnesses of these things. Look at the first part of 1 John The writer John says we we saw him, we touched him, we heard him with our own , we experienced personally the gospel witnesses The text has in mind, though, the some of the deeds of Israel. Think of the deeds of Israel. Think of the the the the that the Old Testament faith is based upon the mighty deed that God did in Israel's history Think about the Red Sea, that great experience where they were in slavery and through Moses, God led them out and they went through the Red Sea. An observable event. that the the Old Testament continually goes back to is God's mighty hand there. Well think about the conquest in the wilderness The mighty city of Jericho. How could these these this ragtag group of people knock down the city of Jericho? Well God did it. God did it. And Jericho fell down Think about the story of David and Goliath. The Philistines, the great mighty Philistines, and their champion, the giant Goliath. David, the little shepherd boy, comes and uh observable deeds that God did. And the nations, when they heard about it, they were in awe. Who is like this God? Our New Testament faith, though, is also grounded in deeds. It's grounded in historic deeds, tangible deeds. I mean, Jesus was a Jewish carpenter from the little city of Nazareth, wasn't he? A Jewish carpenter in a city, little town of Nazareth, who lived a perfectly righteous life before the watching world. Remember his baptism? Now now you you some of you for sometimes we forget that John the Baptist, um John the Baptist, he wasn't really a Baptist, he was a baptizer. But anyway He probably he was probably the cousin of Jesus. Some say cousin, some say he was a relative. Depends on the translation. But they were related. And if you remember the baptism of Jesus, John there is there and people are coming to confess their sins, right? And he sees Jesus in line. That's his cousin. Which means they probably knew each other, right? You know, they had some family reunions, right? You know. And you know what family reunions are like, you know. Everybody's having a good time, the kids are doing mischief, but Jesus was never doing a mischief. I don't know what was wrong with him. They're telling stories about, you know, the time he got lost and and he was talking to the religious leaders. You know, family reunions, you know, times, you know. You have family reunions, don't you? Okay, so so he he sees Jesus in line and he remember what he said? Am I gonna baptize you? He now maybe he knew the story of But the angel coming to Mary and maybe Elizabeth, maybe he heard these things about Jesus being divine, but no, he had seen the life of Jesus. He knew there was something different about Jesus, the man, because Jesus was indeed more than a man. So Matthew's gospel says this. That Jesus said, No , baptize me. This is to fulfill all righteousness. So the baptism of Jesus by John was something very different than the baptism for other people. But it was observable, and everybody saw it. And remember what happened? The voice comes from heaven. They heard. The dove comes. The Father, the Son, the Spirit, all this. This is my beloved son, who I'm well pleased. It's recorded, they saw it. Observable historic events. Fulfilling righteousness. You know, in Paul's Writings, the gospel is primarily about the righteousness of God, right? That Jesus Christ fulfilled for us that we might be saved. In Romans 3 it says, there's no one righteous, not even one. Righteousness, being in right standing before holy God. No one, only Jesus. Has those credentials. And so he can become the substitution for us. 2 Corinthians 5. He became sin that we that we might become righteousness. It's given to us, it's granted to us, as we are declared righteous, we are justified. So the Gospels give us the facts about Christ, person, and work. Paul in the New Testament letters explain the meaning of Christ's person and work. So the gospel is grounded in historic events. If we if If we know the gospel is the love of God, we have to have it only the love of God, then our understanding of the gospel is not complete enough. It's more than just the love of God. God's love is demonstrated for us. I was looking at the book of Romans, chapter 1. I was looking to say, when does the book the word love show up in the book of Romans? In the first chapter, he says to the people he's writing to the Romans, he says, you're loved of God. And then he explains the gospel as this thing, they're declaring the righteousness of God. And the next uses of the word love is in chapter 5. As he's explained justification, we're declared righteous because of what Christ has done. In chapter 5, he says, God demonstrates his own love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. The story of God's love is love was his motivation. That's why he went to the cross. It's a story of his love. But we don't understand the story. We don't understand what what happened on the cross, that he became sin for us. We were justified. So there's our story and there's God's story. And we're called to proclaim it. Should we proclaim the story? Yes, we should proclaim this story. And some people say we should just Preach the gospel and if necessary use words. You probably heard that phrase. Preach the gospel. If necessary, use words. In other words, let your life be the message only. People don't want to hear you hear about Jesus. I would say to that, wrong. No, no, no, no. Nobody earns heaven by modeling your life. Nobody understands Jesus by seeing your life. It is granted by faith in Jesus Christ. They won't know that your life might be a little bit different, maybe a little bit transformed, not because of you, but because of Jesus Christ. In verses 15 and 16, verbalizing the message is essential. He talks about my mouth will tell. I know how to relate them. I will come and proclaim. I will declare, verse 18. You probably know Romans chapter 10. It talks about confessing with your mouth and believing in your heart that God has raised Christ from the dead. Wonderful verse, a great verse for salvation for those who don't know Christ. Instructing us on what some of the basic things are. But then right after that, Paul goes into a little discussion. How can they believe unless they hear the name of Jesus? How can they believe in Jesus if they haven't heard the name of Jesus? And then he goes on into a discourse about the proclamation of the name, because people need to know the name. How do we do this? How do we proclaim? How do we proclaim this message? Let me suggest that, like the psalmist, we kind of have to intermingle My story and his story. There's an intermingling that we have to learn to do more and more as we process our own life in Jesus Christ. And that that that that that can be a challenge to figure out how to do that. You have your own personal story. How do you mix the two? Particularly a challenge for friends and family. How do you build a bridge when they know your whole story? They know the good, they know the bad, they know the ugly. How do you build that bridge from your story to Jesus' story? See, the spirit of the age minimizes the importance of the old story of Jesus. The spirit of this age says, we don't care about those old things. Tell me about your life. Not about Jesus 2,000 years ago. Tell me about how you have navigated this world, this crazy fallen world, this confusing world. The world where sometimes up is down and down is up. The days of old involved hieroglyphics and ancient scrolls and books. The present world, we have computers and smartphones. The days of old had chariots and clipper ships and we have automobiles and airplanes and astronauts The days of old, there was this oppressive, toxic masculinity that reigned. Now we have girl power. The days of old there was repression and sexual inhibition. Now we have freedom and liberation. Don't tell me about your old Bible and your old ways. This is the new world that we live in, right? Right? How do we merge the story of God to our story in our contemporary world? The problem with that kind of thinking is they miss the premise. See, we can't, and we do too. We give in to the assumption that the death of the carpenter from Nazareth has nothing to do with our 21st century life. The challenge for all of us is to take the conversation from your story to his story, to get Jesus back into the conversation. In the book of Acts, it's interesting how in the book of Acts several examples of of of of how this happened. One is in is Acts chapter 2. The day of Pentecost. The 120 disciples are there. The Spirit of God falls upon them. They have an experience. And Peter stands up and explains their experience. Isn't just Their experience. This is a divine happening. It's a divine experience. And he draws a bridge from their experience to the Lord Jesus Christ, who's in heaven, has given them that experience and has saved them. Somehow Peter builds a bridge. Well, somehow, we know it was the Spirit of God that did that, right? The Apostle Paul does the same thing several times in the book of Acts. He's called to give it a What are you doing out there? Why are you rallying up all the Gentiles and the Roman people out there? And so he stands up before kings and Jewish leaders and and tells his story. And if you look at chapter 22 and chapter 26 both times, he begins with his own life, his own story. I'm a Jew, I was raised from Tarsus, and he builds a bridge from his own life His own experience is the encounter of Damascus Road to the fact that this message is for everybody, not just for him. Now, how do we do that? Process that in your own mind. How do we build that bridge from my story to his story? That's how, but proclaiming it, we proclaim our story, but not just our story. We proclaim his story, but not just his story. We merge the two together. What are we saying? We're saying that we need to understand the story. Proclaim the story. The last thing, we need to live this story out. Talk is cheap, right? We do need to live the story out. The last few verses, 17 through 19 Since my youth, God has taught me. To this day I declare your marvelous deeds. Even when I'm old and grey, do not forsake me, O God. Till I declare your power to the next generation, your mighty acts to all who are to come. He says, I am old and gray. Some of us can say, Amen. I understand that. I'm old and my gray isn't here. It's here, as you can tell. But I can testify and give an amen that with the performance there 's there. That verse jumps out at me. Again, I I was blessed to be converted at a very early age, age twelve in the context of a Baptist church. Notice notice also, I need to point out in verses five and six, he he he he points, he says, um You've been my hope sorrow, Lord, my confidence since my youth. From birth. I've relied on you You brought me forth from my mother's womb. He even goes beyond the time where he consciously understood. From birth, he says. There's a lot there for us to understand about our own world and the things going on in our world But but God has been been with him through the ages. And I have to testify that that uh I got saved pretty young and God has been with me through the through the teeny years, through the college years, through the through the years in ministry. God has been faithful to me, and now I am old and gray, or old and bald, as my uh granddaughters remind me. But every day as I live life with the joys and the disappointments of life, I can say that I need Jesus every day. Can you say that? Did you understand that you need Jesus every day? You need I need his forgiveness every day because every day I stumble and fall. I need his word to guide my life because I don't understand unless his word gives me insight And you use power to enable me. If you pray for power to do the strength to do what I don't want to do And even the strength to do the things I do want to do, because again, this is a psalm for people in old age. And sometimes when you get old like us, the spirit is willing, but you don't have the energy to do it. Who can testify to that? No, you don't have to raise your hand. But as you get older, yeah, I need to do that. But you don't have the strength and energy to do it We ask the Lord for strength. We humbly seek to live for his glory. And we verbally declare the message of repentance and faith as one beggar. pointing out to another beggar where they found bread. I love the story in Luke chapter 18. Two men going to the temple to pray. One was proud, praying about his many exploits and his supposed acts of righteousness and piety. The other stood in the rear, feeling unworthy, just in the rear there. He cried out to God. Be merciful to me, the sinner. And Jesus' commentary said, the latter one went away justified or declared righteous Not the one who thought he was righteous and holy. It was the one who humbled himself and said, God be merciful to me. He's the one who was justified. You see, he personally cried out to God. You see, it is personal. Jesus' blood is only effective for those who cry out to him for mercy, who bow before him in repentance and surrender. Who confess that they are needy. So they trust his finished work on the cross for forgiveness and express to him a deep heartfelt desire to follow him. as Lord. Verse 18 talks about declare your power to the next generation. Generations. We need to be alert to the historical cultural conflicts of our lives. Generations evolve and move on. And we must admit more and more that things change and things are indeed changing rapidly during this 21st century. A few weeks ago, uh one of my granddaughters, Aliyah, had a question for me. Pop-pop, that's the one, pop-op, pop -up! What apps did you download when you were my age? I said Apps. So I had to give a discourse about cell phones and how there were no cell phones. There were used to be these old phones. It's a different world to her. Just this week, I heard my wife Terry talking to uh Ariel, who lives with us, her eight-year-old granddaughter, explained to her what a black and white television was That doesn't commute. You mean you can't see color? It's a different world. This generation is living in a different world. The cultural context changes, but the story of Jesus doesn't. It is still as relevant today as it ever was. And we need to live that out and express and show that to a doubting world, a world that they might see and believe. In the last verse, the psalmist delights in God's uniqueness. And again, just remind us there's only one God, only one gospel, only one way to meet him. John 14, 6. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. Again, the Acts in Exodus chapter fift the the verse says this. Um Your righteousness is go God reaches of the heavens. You've done great things. Who is like you, O God? So again, that's the end of our text. He goes on and talks about other things, but in our text, s we're going to stop there. But Your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens. You've done great things. Who is like you, O God? Who is like you, O God? Interesting phrase. Back in, again, the Exodus experience when they went through the Red Sea. If you remember that story, in chapter 14, the victory is accomplished, and then chapter 15, Moses' sister Miriam, the prophetess, she grabs a tambourine and breaks out into a song, and we have the song of Moses in that chapter. And uh in verse 11 of that, you know, she says they're delighting in this victory where the horse and rider were tossed into the sea after they went through. Verse 11 says this of Exodus 15, 11, who among the gods is like you, Lord? Who is like you, majestic in holiness? Awesome in glory, working wonders, the wonder of God who opened the sea for them, and they went through, and then when the Egyptian armies went through, the sea closed. And the armies were drowned. The book of Micah, the prophet Micah in the Old Testament, the last chapter, climax is verse 18, Micah 7, 18. Who is a God like you who pardons sin? and forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance. You do not stay angry forever, but delight to show mercy Who is a who parties like you? The 18th century Presbyterian pastor Samuel Davies wrote a song based upon that that that verse. Great God of Wonders All thy ways are matchless, godlike, and divine, but the fair glories of thy grace More godlike and unrivaled shine. In wonder lost, with trembling joy, we take the pardon of our God. Pardon for crimes of deepest die, a pardon sealed with Jesus' blood. So the chorus is, who is a pardoning God like thee? Or who has grace so rich and free? Who has grace so rich and free? Samuel Davis, 18th century Presbyterian pastor. But if that's not your cup of tea, Israel Houghton was not a Presbyterian pastor. He was in 2001. He wrote these words, I think alluding to Romans chapter 8, but also this verse here. Who is like the Lord? He asks. Nobody Who is like the Lord? No, no, no, nobody. It's a gospel song. Gotta give it the gospel seal. If our God is for us, who can be against us? He will keep his promise. There's nobody like him. What can separate us from the love of Jesus? He will keep his promise. There's nobody like him. Nobody like him. There is none in heaven or earth like you, Lord. No one. Lord, we declare Who can compare? Who would even dare? There is no one like you. Again, alluding to Romans 8, nothing can separate us from this God. God's for us. Who can be against us? Years ago I became really convinced as I walked with God and looked at the Word of God. That the blood of Jesus Christ forgives me of my sins, my past sins, even the sins now in my life. And even my future sins. And because I begin to understand that God is eternal. And God knows my entire life. Hope you've come to understand that. God knows and sees He's the eternal now. There's no future with God. He's the I am, the right now. He always is. He exists in the eternal now. John 73, eternal life is knowing Jesus Christ. So I ask myself, if I'm already saved And my salvation is secure because of what Christ has done. Why am I still here? Take me to heaven! It's a logical thought when you become to understand that nothing can separate you because of what Christ has done. It's very logical. But I've come now to learn that there are several answers to that question. But the most important one is just very simple. God leaves us here on earth, saints. So we might live a Christ-filled life in this fallen world, so that seeing our life, hearing about Jesus from us, others might hunger and thirst and ultimately come to faith in Christ. We're here to point others, folks, to to tell the story about the only righteous one, Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Now think about the psalmist that said, I'm old, I'm young and old, I've never seen the righteous forsaken. Well some of us can can make that declaration. Some of us are still young. Thank you that throughout the generations, as we experience you in our own different ways , We're experiencing you, and you're a God who changes not. Now how we rejoice in that. Thank you that you have come to save a people, to engraft us into your covenant. We ask you to give us wisdom, boldness, how to explain your work in our lives to those who need to know it. Give us all the wisdom that we need and the the uh the prompting we need when it was time for us to speak up in situations. But we need you each day to have that wisdom. Pray you'd bless bless our time now as we transition, Lord, to remembering us what the story is about, the simplicity of the story. It's about your death for us. Use this time, each of our lives, to strengthen us. In Jesus' name. Amen.