The sermons that I share with you and the messages that I share is really um in my own devotion times uh that I spent with the Lord, uh God really, you could say minist ministers to me through his word And when he does that in a in just a real uh meaningful way that just stands out in my mind, I take that as an opportunity to share with you what God has taught me. Um this past summer uh was uh a real very a uh a a a very interesting spiritual uh uh life for me, a very interesting spiritual experience. Um I had the opportunity to really spend a lot of time this summer studying the Book of Psalms. Not quite all 150 of them. I mean that's just a lot of psalms. Uh but you know, a good chunk of it and to get a sense of the Psalms as a whole. Um And w was it Tim that said I was gonna do all 150 today? Yeah, I'm glad he shared that. Now I know what I need to share with you. So um But uh as I was studying the Book of Psalms uh th th this past summer, you know, a few psalms uh you study over again you're and you're just kinda renewed with in terms of its power and the message that it communicates. There are other psalms you read that you read for the first time and it just kinda strikes you as just being very unique, uh interesting. Something uh y you may have read it before But it never really caught you the way that it is it does certain. I mean, that's the beauty about the love of God or the word of God. I mean, it is so deep It is uh the way that it's been described in the past is shallow enough for a child to swim in, but deep enough for an elephant to drown in. No, the word of God is so filled with with with such richness that you can read it a hundred times and still not get enough. And that's what it was like for me as I was studying the Psalms this past summer. I just wanted more and and to just really meditate on the on the truths of God. No commentary, no no uh outside text, just me and the Bible and and seeing what the Lord has to uh had to uh share with me and um and that was a very meaningful time and as I did that one psalm in particular really stood out. as uh as being very very meaningful and the Lord really ministered to my own heart you could say uh through that psalm. Um and that is Psalm 44, the psalm uh that I'd like to share with you today. This is a psalm of lament. It is traditionally understood as being a lament psalm. The word lament, of course, just means grief, sorrow. This is a psalm of sorrow, a psalm of grieving, a psalm of anguish, or for lack of a better word, pain. There's a lot of unpleasantness you could say that is going on uh within this psalm that makes it very, very interesting. the uh the the difficulty uh uh the message of Psalm forty four. You know, pain is never a fun thing and and oftentimes I don't know about you, but I try to disguise my pain by humor. And so um the way that I have summar I try to summarize Psalm forty four is in a real classic movie line from the movie The Princess Bride. Now it it already happened to me but uh you know, I feel like I'm I'm treading on sacred territory whenever I quote from The Princess Bride because I'm sure there's some of you out there who can, you know, quote to me line by line, word for word, even tonality, you know, of of the entire movie. Um how many of you can really do that? Oh, you see you romantics out there. I knew it. I knew it. Um But uh and uh I really I'm trying to remember exactly where the line came from but and I thought about watching it again last night but you know I had a sermon to prepare. I have things to do with my life and so um So I don't know about you guys. I have things to do with my life. So uh but there was a line that stands out Yeah, and oh yeah, yeah. I watch Star Wars, that's what I do with my life. Um but there's a line in the Princess Bride that uh that really stands out at least in my mind. Um and I can't remember exactly what context. I can't quite remember um what exactly was happening. I do remember who said it. It was the big uh oh not the big but the the romantic uh uh guy, what's his name? And Wesley at one point says in the movie, Life is pain. Anyone who says otherwise is selling you something I think that's just a great line. You know, life is pain. And don't let anyone fool you. Someone who tries to tell you otherwise There's an angle. There's a hook. He's out for something because the reality is life is hard Life is filled with pain, and that really in a sense is so true. If you really think about your lives as as I thought about my life Uh we could and the reality and you see folks I don't know what's happening in a lot of your life. Some of you I do, some of you I don't. Uh but I think it's fair to say that a lot of people perhaps come today. Maybe some of you come in this morning. Somewhat defeated in in anguish. No uh sorrow Maybe some of you come in here with just a lot of a lot more questions than answers to questions, to the to st you know, struggles of life No some real hardship and and and it's not fun these are not fun things. We don't like it. No, no one ever is in spite of the the the way that we in in modern society here in the West always try to like glamorize it, you know, no pain, no gain. That's just our concept of bunch of baloney. We say that to minimize the pain that we really that we really don't like. We say that to kind of glamorize the reality that we just don't like hardship. And so life is really hard. Psalm 44, you could say, gives to us one perspective on the harshness, the difficulties uh that we face in life. Now before we get into uh Psalm forty four per se, uh it's important I think that we try to keep in mind two different types of hardships uh in life that is found within But as far as I could tell, there are really you could say two different types of harshness difficulties, trials, um, uh sorrow points in life according to the scripture. One you could say is sorrow that is brought on as a result of sin. Now, um this is so simplistic and I and I hesitate to do it this way. just because of the oversimplicity of it. But I think if you were to really just get to the bottom line of it, the way that the Bible encourages encourages us to deal with sorrow that is the result of our disobedience because of our sin is ultimately Now that is really simplistic, I know that. And I and I I thank God, and I said this in the earlier worship, and I do mean it. Um I really, really thank and I'll tell you folks, you should thank God as well for it, that we are actually at a church and some of you who are visiting us for the first time, just so that you know a little bit about the the the the value of of our church here at Columbia Presbyterian, we are a church that I really think does a a real good, solid job of teaching the people of God how to deal with sin in our lives and to how to see uh that Jesus died for these sins, that it is not counted against us because of the righteousness of Christ that is given to us by faith in Jesus Christ, that we can stand before God God, pure and innocent with the righteousness of God. That is a great thing that we as a church are are able to really communicate and know how to live now in a life that kind of struggles with that duality. You know, we are we are righteous before God, but yet we continually fail, that leads us to Christ, and we are always kind of struggling with that tandem of the of the s of sin that breaks us, that shows us our need for Christ. And uh and rejoicing in the fact that we have salvation in Jesus Christ alone. You know, we are as a church very good at at that, and but that's not really what I wanted to emphasize today. The type of struggle that I think Psalm 44 describes is of the second type And this is a sorrow that is brought on by obedience. Now that might be a different type of struggle that you might uh face because it doesn't it really doesn't make sense. We like for our pain to make sense. If we sinned against God then we s then we struggle, then we suffer. That makes sense. That works If we obey God, then we should be blessed, then we should be succeeding, then we should be doing well. That makes sense But what you oftentimes find in life is that even when you are trying to follow in God's footsteps, even when you are t you are obedient to God, what ends up sometimes resulting is hardship. I was talking with someone earlier. We're actually never really that good per se. I mean we uh we uh I'm glad the person shared it with me because I thought about it, I'm just the same way. I mean we really struggle with both types of hardship. You know, we struggled because of sin and we struggle sometimes maybe struggle with that more than we do with actually obeying God. But the r but there is that teaching in the Bible. I mean you talk read about the book of Daniel, read about the book of Revelation, the saints of God are being persecuted because of their obedience to God. And it makes no sense. You think that by obeying God we really should be blessed and what ends up happening at times is the absolute opposite. And it just kind of it's like cognitive dissonance, like theological dissonance. It just doesn't work because that's not what we want and it doesn't seem to make sense in our own ways of thinking. It's people like Job, who really you could say another way of looking at Job's life is saying that he struggled, he suffered, he was persecuted because he obeyed. God. Not because he sinned. Sin you could say of Job was brought on later. But what initiated this trial and this hardship was not sin. It was his obedience. And that's just it's maddening. You know if you really think about it, it's just crazy. But nonetheless, that is what Psalm forty-four tries to deal with. It begins pretty favorably in verse one , starting in that opening session. That Tim had read. When it says that we have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us what you did in their days and days long ago. It's given the glory to God, the victory to God, the triumph of God. And notice the emphasis. It is God who is doing the work. In verse two, with your hand you drove out the nations and planted our fathers. You crushed the peoples and made our fathers flourish. It was not by their sword that they won the land, nor did their arm bring them victory. It was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, for you loved them. As a psalmist is looking back at his far distant history, the way that God dealt with his ancestors, so to speak, what he saw it was God dealing with dealing favorably with them in the past. As he is now thinking about in verse four, he moves on to think about his days in his recent past. Verse four, You are my king and my God, who secretes victory uh victories for Jacob. Through you, again the emphasis on God doing the word. Through you we push back our enemies. Through your name, we trample our foes. Verse 6: I do not trust in my bow, my sword does not bring me victory, but you give us victory over. our enemies, you put our adversaries to shame. In God we make our boast all day long and we will praise your name forever. You see, the first part of this Psalm sounds okay. It's talking about God being victorious, God giving to us victory. It is talking about the majesty of God, the triumph of God in military warfare as well as in life. Now, if you can imagine with this type of opening, I almost at times, in my own sinful perhaps human way of thinking, wish that the psalm ended right there Because if it were to continue, I mean how would you think of it to continue? How would you want it to continue? You know, God, you did all these things. Blessed be the name of our God who gives to us a majestic victory over our enemies That would make sense. Or praise the name of our God who gives to us victory over our our adversaries. You know that that that would make sense too. You know, something lofty and majestic and exalty, something good and positive would make a lot of sense. But starting in verse 9, that is not what you find. Verse nine, but now you have rejected. You have rejected and humbled us. You, right now, as I speak, as I am praying, as I am writing this, you, O God, have rejected me. You no longer go out with your enemies. Verse 10. You made us retreat before the enemy, and our adversaries have plundered us. You gave up uh you gave us up to be devoured like sheep. We have scattered among the nations, you sold your people. For repittance, gaining nothing from their sale. Verse 12 again is even making the accusation that God is just a a bad businessman. The way that he is dealing, he is so eager to get rid of us that he is willing to sell us for nothing. And verse thirteen, you have made us a reproach to our enemies, the scorn and derision of those around us. You have made us a byword, a shame, a mockery among the nations, the people shake their heads at us. My disgrace is before me all day. Long, and my face is covered with shame at the taunts of those who reproach and revile me because of the enemy who is bent on revenge. No, this is not a very good picture that we would expect to see in this section of the Psalm. And what's even more startling is verse 17 All this happened to us, though we have not forgotten you or been false to your covenant. You see, it would make sense again if we struggle through these hardships because we sinned against you. But what the psalmist is doing here is declaring his innocence. We did not violate your covenant. We did nothing wrong Verse 18, our hearts have not turned back, our feet have not strayed from your path, but you crushed us and made us a haunt for jackals and covered us over with deep darkness. Verse twenty is even more startling. He says, If we had forgotten the name of God or spread out our hands to a foreign God, would not God have discovered it since he knows the secrets of the heart You see, he is saying here, outwardly I may be able to fool you, and truth be told, I probably can. You look at me and I can fool most of you to thinking that I'm a pretty good guy But it it it's sort of what the uh old Christian songwriter Keith Green once said in his biography when he said that if you really knew the thoughts in my heart, none of you would be my friends But here the psalmist is saying, examine my heart. Look within me. Examine the things that only you can see. And even then you would see that I am innocent. Even then, if I was in idolatry in my heart, wouldn't you know it, oh God? I mean, you know all things. You know my heart. You know my thoughts. I can't hide anything from you. So even look in the deepest part of who I am. And what you will find is that I am guilt-free. Why am I going through this? It makes no sense at all. You know, if you are one who is struggling with that With questions like this. If you are in the midst of lament or sorrow or anguish No, Psalm 44 is for you. This Psalm has been given for people who really struggle and wrestle with it. You know, for people like Job who just probably was pulling the hairs out of his head, just trying to figure out what is going on. This makes absolutely no sense at all. You know the um The Hebrew title for the Book of Psalms is actually the word tehilim, which literally means praises. Safer tehilim, book of praises. So the way that this book is understood is that it is a book of praise. What's interesting though is that if you count up The number of Psalms of Lament, Psalms like this, with the Psalms of Praise, what you find out is that the Psalms of Lament clearly outnumber the Psalms of Praise in our biblical Psalter. And statistically, if we really wanted to name the Book of Psalms by its most common, by its most uh uh dominant uh genre type, we would have to call this the Book of Lament. Because that's exactly what is the overarching theme within this book. You know, it's curious that we as a church, and I don't mean Columbia Presbyteria per se, but I mean the church worldwide, so to speak The church uh universal. The institutional church, whether you're in California, Atlanta, Chicago, New York, wherever you might be, or here in Baltimore, Maryland, we seem to uh uh as as a church communicate to you as the people of God that the majority of The Psalms are really Psalms like Bless the Lord, O my soul, all that is within me, bless His holy name. Exalt the name of our Lord our God, make his praise glorious. We seem to make you think That that is the majority of the psalms in the book of Psalms when that is in fact not the case. We don't really celebrate Psalms like Psalm 44. We really don't meditate on these Psalms of Lament. We don't like it. And the reason why is because we just don't like pain. Now one uh Christian writer said this It is my judgment that this action of the church to emphasize praise It's less an evangelical defiance guarded by faith and much more a frightened, dumb denial, and deception, that does not want to acknowledge or experience the pain of life. The w the reason for such relentless affirmation of praise seems to come less from faith but more from a wishful optimism of the people of God. Do you hear what he is saying? He is saying we just don't like pain And we may deny it in our lives. We deny it in our spirituality. We deny it in the way that we live. We deny it in our worship to God. Because you know what? We won't read Psalm forty four. We won't read Psalm eighty eight. We won't read Psalm thirteen. We won't read That just talks about the pain of the psalmist just struggling with the sorrow that he has going to. We don't like that. And the reason why we don't like that is because we just don't like to experience it. And we will run away from it. We will deny it. We will cut it out. However possibly we can do that. You know, I thank God, you could say, for Psalm 44 I thank God for this psalm as I meditated on it over this Passover. You see, I can still remember times in my life. when um in in times of real anguish, I was standing in the shower, just kind of you know, you it's debilitating. You just don't know what to do You just sit there or stand there. You just don't know what action to take next. You know you should be something. You just don't know what to do And you just kind of sit there in i in tears. It hurts. Stop it. Stop the pain. It hurts. And you don't know what to do, but just to sit there in agony. No, there's no you could say positive ending in Psalm 44, but I thank God for it. And the reason why is because it allows me, you could say, and allows you, it allows all of us to wash away all of the pretense and the font that we put up in life And to face the sel the solvable fact that we are in pain, that we are suffering, that we are having a hard time, and to in that context to still be able to worship up to God our praise and worship. to be able to worship God in lament. It frees us up, you could say to realize that even in the Psalms, life is not all. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, and that is it. There is clearly that, no doubt. But what you have is Psalm 44 that paints to you the reality of life. And it allows you, it allows me, it allows us, folks. To face up to that reality and in that context, in the mire and the darkness is all that surrounds us, to still be able to worship God in that context. Not to complain, not to grumble, not to moan, not to doubt, but to worship in lament You know, I think about this all the time, and I think about even the way that the psalmist ends it here in verse 26, you have that little bit of hope. Rise up and help us, he says in verse 26. Redeem us because of your unfailing love. You know what's interesting about Psalm 44, it is a Psalm of Lament, and most Psalms of Lament, almost all Psalms of Lament, in fact, begins with this plea that somehow transforms into a praise. In Psalm forty four, you don't get to the plea until verse twenty three to the end here. Awake, O Lord, why do you sleep? Arouse yourself, do not reject us forever. Why do you hide your face and forget the misery and the oppression and our oppression? We are brought down To the dust, our bodies cling to the ground. All you have in Psalm 44, you could say, is nothing but a plea, a cry, a cry for help with no praise. You know, the uh psalm ends this way, to give us, you could say, the allowance to be able to worship God in our mourning, in our lament, in our sorrow. But there is in fact hope. you could say in Psalm forty four. And the hope you could say is somewhat implicit. Because you see Psalm forty four is one Psalm in the entire book of Psalms. And when you read Psalm forty four in that context, What you find is that there is enormous hope. It's not meant to be just read as uh the end of the psalm here and and to send the people of God defeated and send you defeated and think to yourselves, Oh my goodness, there is no victory in this. You see, if you think about it, Psalm forty-four is followed by Psalm forty-five. Psalm forty-five is the great exaltation of God now as King, a royal psalm that declares God as the great divine king of the universe. And that theme of God as King is the great transition point for the entire book of Psalms. Psalm uh the book of Psalms begins, you could say, with the majority of the laments being in the front part of the book of Psalms. So you have Psalm chapters. Psalm three verse one. O Lord, how many are my foes? Psalm ten, verse one. Why, O Lord, do you do you stand so far off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Psalm twelve, one. Help, O Lord, for the godly are no more. The faithful have banished from among men. Psalm thirteen. How long, O Lord? How long? How long am I going to have to endure this? How long will my adversaries have victory over me? That is the way the Psalms begins. It goes to a transition point by glorifying God as King and seeing that God reigns in our lives. It transitions now to the end of the book of Psalms, where it ends, we could say, with nothing but one exaltation of praise after the other. Psalm one forty five. I will exalt you, my God the King. I will praise your name forever and ever. Psalm one forty six. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. Psalm one forty seven. Praise the Lord. How good it is to sing praises to our God. Psalm one hundred forty eight, praise the Lord, praise the Lord from the heavens. Psalm one hundred forty nine, praise the Lord, sing to the Lord a new song. And then Psalm one fifty with a tour de force. Every Poetic line beginning with the phrase, Praise the Lord. You see, there is transition, you could say, from lament to praise in the book of Psalms because of the kingship of God, because of the royal rule, you could say, of God. Not only that, you have Paul who meditates on this Psalm in Romans chapter eight, uh starting at ver verse thirty five where he says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall trouble Or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? We are considered as sheep too be slaughtered. You see, when Paul reads this Psalm, what he is saying is that the people of God going through this thing is going to start to doubt the love of God, that maybe God really has abandoned us. That maybe God has really, truly forsaken us. And what Paul is saying here in a strong argument in Romans chapter 8 is that simply is not true. It may feel like it, it may seem like it, but believe in this, it is not true. He says, There is neither angels nor demons, neither present nor future, nor powers, nor the height, nor depth, nor anything else in creation that can separate you from the love of God You may feel it, but know it. God does not abandon his people. Not only that, you can find even within Psalm 44, verse 11 and 22, where he says in verse 19. Verse eleven. You have given us up to be devoured like sheep. Uh he has scattered us among the nations. In verse twenty two, yet for your sake we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. Twice he says that we the people of God are like sheep to be slaughtered. And I'll tell you if there was any good from the Passion of the Christ movie, here it is right here, folks. You all should know that that idea of the sheep being led to be slaughtered is a direct illusion to Isaiah 53, the direct allusion you can you could say to the suffering servant of Christ. The suffering servant of Christ, as it is interpreted by the New Testament, is read as being Jesus. Jesus is the Lamb to be led to the slaughter. But here in Psalm forty four, it is saying, We the people of God are the lamb to be led to the slaughter. It is saying, you see what it's saying here is that Psalm forty four, it is not just sung by this psalmist It is not just a psalm that is sung by Jesus, it is a psalm for us to sing as well because we share now in the sufferings of Christ. You can see that this is not just the psalmist psalm, it is not only Jesus' song, but by faith in Jesus Christ. This is our psalm. This is for us to be able to share and say that the sorrow of the psalm is painful, true. But it is the sorrow of Christ which is now good. It allows us to share and to fellowship with him in a much deeper personal way. It is pain, that is true. But is the pain of Christ which is now good we are allowed to share in the pain of Jesus And not only that, Psalm forty four, you could say, was written before the coming of Christ. Before he was to come, but we now live, you could say, in the days after the coming of Christ, after his death after his resurrection that gives to us now eternal hope. There's a line, a phrase, a a a chunk, you could say, from the book of First Peter, chapter one, verse three. And first Peter is a very relevant passage and a very relevant book because that That's all you could say the overarching theme of First Peter is in fact the hope that God gives to the people of God who are going through righteous suffering. And so Peter rightfully begins in chapter one, verse three, when he says, Blessed is the God and Father of our allegiance of our. Our Lord Jesus Christ, who gives to us a new birth into a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You hear what he says to you? Not only do you are you born again, your new birth is into a living hope. Not a dead hope, a hope that is alive, because it is a hope that is based on a living Jesus. You know, there's a passage and um as we were worshiping today, the the hymn that we sang earlier actually we made allusion to and I didn't catch it the first time this morning But there is a line in Job chapter 35, verse 10, that talks about the darkness in the life of Job, and he's just surrounded by nothing but uh but but hopelessness around him And it says that even in that darkness, God gives to him a song in the night. I love that image that in our trials, in our hardship What is it that our God does to us? What is it that He does for us? He gives to us a song. But the song that He gives to us, you could say, is not just Psalms of praise that exalts and glorifies God. He gives to us Psalms of Lament that allows us the power and the strength and the courage by faith To embrace the pain and to worship God through it. And you know what? Because of that, whatever our God might ordain is right And I could say that to you with all honesty and truthfulness and to say that to you with all love in my heart as a people of God. And so we can also rightfully, as Psalm 44, verse 8 says, we will praise the name of our Lord forever. Even in the midst of trials and hardships, we will praise his name forever. May it be that we will not be deterred from an everlasting praise, that we will look beyond just the mere superficialities of the world in which we live. And that the world cannot comprehend even. May the world look upon us, the people of God, and marvel. Marvel at a supernatural heart that can praise God even in the darkest of circumstances because we have a supernatural God. That gives to us, you could say, in eternal hope, a psalm of praise, psalms of romance to give us strength in the difficult times of life. So from the mountains To the valleys, let his praises rise up to him from the highest of the heavens throughout all of the nations. May praises fill the air. Let's all pray together. Father, thank you, thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you for our Lord, who in just a powerful way, because of the cross, the resurrection, Lord, is able to transform laments, Lord, into praise. is able to, Lord, uh turn our sorrows and our griefs, Lord, into into dancing and and joy. Well it's just an amazing thing that really is beyond, you could say, human logic, our understanding of life. Something, Lord, that is clearly beyond anything that we can comprehend. Something even the world can't uh fully comprehend, Lord. It just doesn't seem to make sense And I thank God, Lord. I thank you that it doesn't. I thank you, Lord, that you give to us the strength and the gift of faith that we can look to you, Lord. Not through always through rational human eyes, but to be able to look upon you, Lord, in a way that is far beyond it And so God thank you. Thank you for passages like Psalm forty four. Thank you, O God, that you give to us hope in the midst of trials and difficulties. We don't like this times, we don't like those hardships, we don't like Uh things that remind us of it, O Lord, but you give to us the strength to be able to continually worship you, even in the midst of those trials Thank you, Lord, for it. And I pray that you will give to your people strength of heart to be able to worship you even now through the trials that they face, that we all face. And so, O Lord, thank you once again. May you be pleased, O God, to hear the prayers of your people, for we pray these things all in Jesus' name. Amen.