And a subtle but a very dramatic shift in the thinking of our country, of course, in the past fifty years of an incident. uh that particularly illustrated this to me I thought was um sometimes you just see an illustration it'll help to put things in perspective better than statistics or uh This is an illustration that Chuck Colson gives. He says, I would like to take you back to a dramatic and decisive moment in modern history. The 2nd of September 1945. In that year, the world had emerged bloodied and weary from a most horrendous war. Six years of ravish and bloodshed, often seated were on the brink of catastrophe. And now on this momentous day, the sun climbed high over Tokyo Bay and the steel decks of the great battleship the USS Missouri grew high. General Douglas MacArthur stood with representatives of the Allied powers to receive the formal surrender of Japan. With the center of the rows of taxi, metals, and ribbons, for the microphone. An old mess table covered with green felt and two straight hair. High above, the stars and stripes furled in the breeze, the same flag that had hung over the capital Building on seventh December 1941, the day the Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor. At precisely 9 a. m. eleven Japanese officials wearing silk hats, as bats, and kettlebells. climbed the stairway of the ship, with faces devoid of expression. MacArthur wearing his familiar sunglasses and visored cap walked to the microphone. He stood in We are gathered here, representatives of the major warring powers, to conclude a solemn agreement Agreement whereby peace may be restored. It is my earnest hope, and indeed the hope of all mankind, that from this solemn occasion a better world shall emerge. A world founded upon faith and understanding. A world dedicated to the dignity of man and the fulfillment of his most cherished wish for freedom, tolerance, and justice. At eight minutes past nine, MacArthur sat at the table and signed the surrender agreement. Overhead was a glorious aerial pageant, 400 B-20. And 1,500 carrier planes swept across the sky with a deafening roar. World War II was over. MacArthur then strode back to the microphone and spoke the first words of peace to a waiting world. Today the guns are silent. A great tragedy has ended. A great victory has been won. The skies no longer reign death. The seas their only commerce. Men everywhere Walk upright in the sunlight. The entire world is quietly at peace. Men since the beginning of time have sought peace, but military alliances, balances, of Power Leagues of Nation all in turn failed, leaving the only path to do by the crucible of war. We have had our last chance. If we do not now devise some greater and more equitable system or Mageddon will be at our door. The problem basically is theological and involves a Spiritual recursance and improvement of human character. It must be of the spirit if we are to save the flesh That was 1945. Year zero, as one historian has called it. MacArthur told a weary world that hung on each word that if there was hope for Mankind, it was in the realm of the spirit that we must be saved. Colson says, I think that may have been the most prophetic sermon of the 20th century delivered by Alane. on board the USS Missouri in Tokyo Bay. And what's happened? What's been our response? Of course, the post-World War II years were years of great prosperity Years of personal peace and affluence of reigning value systems within our country. So that led to the upheaval of the 60s and uh Throwing up an era of questioning all value systems, and then the self-centeredness of the 70s and the 80s, moving into the 90s and what is called By some, the survivor generation, the repair generation, the thirteeners generation, thirteen generation since the American Revolution, thirteen seen as the unlucky Generation that has to cope with all of the devastation that has occurred in these past generations. And as we as Christians think about what God is calling us to be and to do within this generation, what is it that he's saying to us? I believe that what he is saying to us is to not, as you see at the top of your bullet and the outlines there, to continue the error of privatizing our Faith. That is to have a personal faith that we can believe in Jesus' death and resurrection and then simply go to heaven. And that that's a personal faith that doesn't affect the way we live, whether it is in our business practices, whether it is in our value systems, or whether it is in the way that we stand with regard to political and public issues. It has to make a difference if we belong to and follow Jesus Christ. The second thing that it means that we have to continue to to repent of as Christians in the nineteen nineties used the tendency to cheapen our faith. To say that we just simply want to get people to believe in Jesus and to somehow get people within the fold and and we don't really worry about the fact that there's a radical understanding of lordship, but just so long as you believe certain basic minimal things That's okay. If anybody saw the article in the Baltimore Sun that was done on our church as well as a number of other churches, the title of the thing was The whole idea was that the image of evangelicals today is they simply want to gain members, whether it is by energy Entertainment or whatever else. How many of you saw Gary Trudeau's Doomsbury last Sunday? A few of you saw it, but a lot of you missed that. Well, it's a classic uh statement on this history You have this couple here with a pastor and they visited his church and he says, So what would you like to know of little church of Walden, folks? Don't hold back now. I know it can be difficult to choose a church. So this couple says, well, uh, what's your basic approach here, Reverend? Is it traditional gospel? And he says, Well, in a way, I'd like to try to describe it as 12-step Christianity. Basically, I believe that we're all recovering sinners. My ministry is about overcoming denial. It's about recommitment. It's about redemption. It's all in the brochure there. And then the the wife says, Well, wait a minute, sinners Redemption? Doesn't that imply guilt? Well, uh, yeah, you know, I do rely on the occasional disincentive to keep the flock from going astray And guilt's a part of that. And he says, uh, I don't know, there's so much negativity in the world as it is. And she says, Well, you know, that's right. We're looking for a church that's supportive, a place where we can really feel good about ourselves. I'm not sure that guilt thing works for us. And then he looks and he said, Well on the other hand, you do offer racquetball. And she looks and she says, Well, so did the Unitarians, honey. I think we ought to shop around some more. Now, that's a pretty devastating indictment about how people look at the church today, isn't it? Yeah, here we are. competing with brochures and what we can offer. Yeah, sort of throw in a little bit of guilt and a little bit, but you know, watch down, don't don't speak too much on that. Because if you do, you might, you know, hurt people's feelings or affect their self-image and they'll all go looking for another church and there's plenty to choose from. How is it that God is calling us as His people to live in this day? I believe that what happens when you're in a kind of situation like we are, and you realize that you've lost an in to the administration that's at hand. It drives you back to the basics, doesn't it? And as I thought of what it means for us as believers to go back to the basics, this independence day of nineteen ninety-three, I thought of no better passage where God said speaks of his basics for his people, then Micah chapter 6, verse 8. So if you haven't already turned to it, please turn to that. Because in Micah's day, Micah was a prophet. Who prophesied in a time of spiritual and moral decay before the great revival of the days of Hezekiah? May his words come to us before the great revival. Of the days of the 1990s in the USA, right? In chapter 6 of Micah, God gives his case against Israel, and the things that he is seeing that Israel is doing Doing wrong. But then after a number of verses of God saying, This is what you are doing that is wrong. This is why my judgment is coming upon you as a nation. He then says in verse 8, this is what to do this right. And he sums up what he requires of his people in one verse. And it's one of the most precious, powerful verses summarizing God's will for his people, to give the balance of his heart for his people and what's important in a nation that you see in anywhere in Scripture. This is not simply for us as believers. This is a call of God's universal standard for all of America. But let's face it, it's It is only for us as believers in Jesus Christ that we can hear and obey this word in order that we might set a pattern for what, in fact, following God's will is to look for. And he says in that verse, He has showed you, God has showed you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord Yahweh require of you? Read things to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God. Three simple things. Sort of you know It begs to be preached, right? Three points that are all right there, and you can't miss it, it's all so clear. What are those three things? First of all, he says to act justly. That's the first thing that we need to do and that we need to to be able to see in our day that we are practicing as God's people. That involves two things. First of all, it means that we know what justice is. We need to know what justice is. I thought a rather penetrating observation on this came from Bob Vernon in his uh book LA Justice. Bob Vernon was the assistant uh police chief of Los Angeles uh during the Rodney King riots in that time and this book came out out just shortly after that, uh after he had retired. And he mentions in this book, LA Justice, that in researching the book, he looked up Up in the dictionary, the word justice. And he said, I found that justice was defined as practical conformity to the principles of rectitude in the dealings of men with each other. So, then of course what you have to do, you've got to look up the word rectitude, right? Oh, okay. So justice is conformity to rectitude. All right, what's rectitude? Rectitude means undeviating adherence to moral Standards. So what I learned is you can't have justice if you don't have agreement on moral standards. And that's why justice is eluding us. People from every walk of life, of every race, Are starting to feel that there is no justice, and guess what? They're right. Because we have no agreement to what the moral standards are. And without that, you can't have justice. Now it's interesting that that word rectitude is from the Latin rectus, which means straight. A rectilinear object is an object that has straight lines. So Rectitude means something which is straight. And Scripture says a lot about that. Remember in Joshua chapter 1 in verse 7, God said to Joshua, I've given you my word that you If you would turn neither to the right nor to the left, but if you would walk straight according to my word, then you will prosper in all that you do. And I've listed for you a number of scriptures there for you to look up. We're not going to do it now, but you can look at them look 'em up later. Uh in order to, for your own benefit, see what it is that God says about walking straight, the importance in His word of Turning neither to the right nor to the left, but saying if you want to know justice, if you want to know what right and wrong is, my word 's the only way you're going to know it, and you've got to walk according to that word, and you don't turn either to the left. right, making it more conservative, or to the left making it more liberal, you walk straight according to that word exactly as it says. And until you and I learn that the only way The only way we're going to know what's right to do is to submit our minds to Scripture and therefore to spend a great deal of time understanding Scripture as its principles apply in our business and the things that we do. We're never going to know what walking straight is and therefore be able to do justice. And that's what God says in Micah 6, 8, we're to do. Whatever happens to the rest of the United States, you and I are to walk straight We are to do justice, to walk straight according to God's word. You remember in that classic Pilgrim's Progress that very few people read anymore, but I commend to you heartily as something to do with In fact, there's a great edition of it in our library that has a lot of modern um there there 's very quality drawings of the uh old uh that that time of uh the sixteenth century But it's a good modern text and it's a great uh edition, sort of abbreviated of it. But do you remember in Pilgrim's Progress when hopeful and Christian are walking to the celestial city, there's one where they come to a place called Bypath. And the wall the the road to Celestial City goes straight ahead, but this place, this path goes through a meadow, and it looks more pleasant and it looks Like it's going to be a shortcut. And so after some debate, Christian finally says, I say we take bypass. I think it's going to be a lot better for us. And so they deviate from God's path. And do you remember what happens to them? The path, in fact, leads them to doubting castle and giant despair where they nearly lose their lives because they decided on their own. I think It would be better to go this way. God says, go my way, and my way as clear as you study it. And once we have decided that we will go his way, the second thing is that we will be committed to doing justice no matter the cost. No matter what it costs us. That's why there are so few of God's people today that are willing to say I will do right no matter the cost of it. Even in a case like Greg where he felt his convictions were leading him to follow God in this way that it meant I may have to go to jail. Do you know that currently according to a Gallup poll, only one out of eight Americans would consider sacrificing everything they had. Uh To do anything that they considered a principle. Only one out of eight said I would even consider sacrificing what I had to do anything in my life. There is no principle That I hold. Seven out of eight Americans say there is no principle that I hold in my life that is so important that I would sacrifice everything I have for it. But how many of us? Would when we're honestly faced with it say that we're willing to do that. But now the the question was I would not that you would do it, but that you would consider sacrificing. That's That's where I think we've lost our sense of integrity. There is not the sense in our country today that my duty is to integrity, and if that means that as a believer I Follow Jesus Christ and will not bow to the idols, and you can't persuade me and you can't tempt me in any way to follow Christ. God says, do justice. Walk Straight. Walk in your integrity. One of the saddest things that I find as I talk to people is that if I talk to Christian businessmen, they'll often say, the last person I want to do business with is another Christian businessman. business man because I've been scammed so many times by those who call themselves Christians. At least I know if I'm dealing with an unbeliever, I know what I'm dealing with. What really bothers me is when I'm dealing with one who calls himself a born-again Christian and then he rips me off. That ought not to be. That is a shame and a blight upon the Church of Jesus Christ. Aren't you thankful? That Jesus walks straight. Do you realize that in his 33 years of life, if Jesus had ever deviated the slightest bit from God's revealed purpose for him, the slightest bit You and I would be lost forever without any hope of being delivered from condemnation from our sins. One slight deviation. That's all it would take. And praise God, Jesus walked absolutely straight for his entire life, never deviating to the right and to the left, and so he was eligible. To take the sin that you and I have upon us because we've walked all kinds of ways other than God's revealed purpose for us. And so Jesus has been eligible to change you and to forgive you in order that you and I would be forgiven for our perversion, for our distortion of these things. That's why we come to the second point which says that you and I are to love mercy. See, we're to do justice, or we're to love mercy. And why does he say that? Well, because I believe what God is saying saying is that you and I is from our very initial childhood love justice. Right? I mean what's the first sentence Sentence a kid learns. It's not fair, right? First sentence you ever learned. And so from the very beginning, kids have a Supreme Court honed sense of what is just. Right? Some of them feel like they could give the Supreme Court some lessons. This is fair, that's not fair, it's not just that he does it. It's not you know until As we grow, we realize we don't practice justice. And for us, justice is going to mean condemnation. Then we look at what Jesus endured under the justice of God, that God cursed him out of his justice. And because Jesus was cursed in his justice, you and I are forgiven by that because God was merciful to us because of Jesus. And then we love mercy. We'll do justice. We do justice because God is just and because we want to please Him and follow Him just But because we have been shown infinite mercy, we love to show mercy. Mercy becomes a way of our expressing and it's Experiencing in our own natures what it meant for God to be merciful on us. There are two things that this means, I believe. It means, first of all, that we need to break The cycle of evil that we've been part of in our relationships, in whatever it is, it means that you and I need before the world that sees us, that watches us, and in our practice Of following Jesus Christ in America today, we need to break the cycle of evil that's been passed down through us. Let me give you an illustration again from Chuck Colson. He says uh in this uh same address that he gave in Washington DC some years ago. He says, I recall something that happened when the Detroit Tigers and the New York Yankees were in a heated contest To the American League East league this last summer. George Steinbrenner was outraged that the Tigers would not let their star pitcher pitch in the All-Star game because they did not want him to miss his regular rotation. Steinbrenner was quoted in the press as saying, that's the rottenest thing I have ever heard of, and we're going to do it next year. Well, that's the nation. of man, you know. That you know they took him out of his rotation so that he will be able to pitch against us and you're not gonna let him pitch in the hall star. That's the rottenest thing I ever heard of. And boy Whittle next year we're gonna do exact same thing. And that's the way we think. Do me rather like a do you rather? It's only when we see the grace and the power of Jesus Christ come into our lives and we understand mercy. Mercy. Did we say no? In response to that, I'm going to break the cycle of evil. I am going to understand that what I did against God was infinitely greater. What this person has done against me, Matthew 18. I owe God ten million dollars. You know what ten million dollars is? You know that parable? I mean that's what Matthew 18 is. Ten million dollars. is really the equivalent of that. You know, all the taxes that were collected in Judea at the time of Christ for one year, all the taxes of every citizen of the country of Judea amounted to about eight hundred thousand dollars. This guy owes ten million. Can you get some idea of the scale? It's absolutely impossible but to pay. And then when his his fellow servant owes a few hundred dollars to him, then he's going to thwaddle them. He doesn't understand mercy. God says love mercy. Understand my mercy to you that he describes in chapter 7 of Micah in verses 18 and 19. Who is a God like you who pardons sin and forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance? You do not stay anger forever, but you delight To show mercy, you will again have compassion on us. You will tread our sins underfoot and hurl all our iniquities into the depths of the sea, and you can't experience that. without loving mercy. Without loving to show mercy, even to someone who has been a great pain in your life. And it means that as a congregation that we delight to have ministry Evangelicals are not looked at in this country as a particularly merciful group, are we? We are not looked at as people who would be the first ones to qualify. for those who are in need. Now I think that's that's uh not totally fair. I think the media has simply overlooked a lot of mercy within the evangelical community. But I think what God God's calling us to do is to be more of a demonstration publicly within the pro-life movement, within the matter of age or even of the homeless. To be people who show mercy and are seen as people who learn to show mercy. I don't love to show mercy enough because I don't understand my own forgiveness enough. My wife reminds me occasionally when we talk about this and I say, well that person has done this and they got themselves in this situation said, listen, mercy is never deserved by definition. Who do you ever show mercy to because they deserve it? Wouldn't be mercy if they deserved it, right? But the The fact is, you and I realize what we have not deserved and we have received. And that's what inclines us to love the show. And then the last thing is that we would then Walk humbly with our God. Walk humbly with our God. Verse 8. It says, listen, what is God showing you? What does he require of you? Act justly. Walk straight. Love mercy, understanding the mercy that you've received. And to walk humbly with your God. Evangelicals are not seen as merciful, even less are they seen as merciful But Micah 6 8 says we should be a people as soon as walking humbly with our God. For people that are not strident, arrogant, pugnacious, self-righteous. You know the Wall Street Journal in a recent article says that there's a growing contempt for religion in this country that equates the word Christian with the word fanatic. The image of a Christian and evangelical in the United States states today is that of a Michael Griffin who shot the abortionist in Pensacola or of a David. That's the even image of an evangelical event. That's the distorted view that people have of what you and I stand for. In an article in Progressive Magazine. Says that the religious right is waging a holy war against the homosexual community in this nation. We're seeing as people who have a wild-eyed glare of homosexual our eyes and are out to get people. And God says that you and I are called to walk humbly with our God. That doesn't mean we don't have a righteous wrath against sin. But it does mean that we have We have to show more carefully that we have a compassion for the sinners that are practicing those things and we treat them as human beings, and that you and I walk humbly, realizing that we are sinners. And that we have received Mercy and grace. Now the media ignores a lot of that, but I think we need to be praying that God would work repentance in our hearts, that we would be a humble person. People. And that as a humble people we're assuming as a people who care for our country and are willing to serve it. Therefore, those things that we have to stand against Against we stand against because of our concern, not because of our self-righteousness. As we walk humbly, God calls us to create kingdom palat. That was a phrase of palette project. Francis Schaefer used to use, and I always found that a very helpful one. Kingdom palette projects, constructive and creative alternatives to the mess of our society produced by Christians to show here's how as brush limbaugh says the way things ought to be. I'm not advocating that I'm just saying that you know that's the way we show it. As Christians in our Kingdom Pilot project. I think one of the best examples of this, again, is Chuck Colson, who I find so helpful in this whole thing. Chuck Colson has done this in the area of restitution. There's a biblical principle. And he says, uh, incarceration is not a biblical principle, and it's destroying this society. Now what do you do? He says you create an alternative, and so you show restitution. And so what he does is in in uh the uh prison fellowship uh they will get permission and they will get prisoners out to be able to practice restitution in Instead of simply letting them rot and learn more crime and be raped and abused and the rest of that within jail. Now he's done this and he's done it very successfully as a believer. In one recent situation where again in this address he refers to, he says that he was uh addressing the Texas legislature. Well notice what happened. He said, Now I don't know how many of you ever seen state legislatures, but it's a miracle to of democracy somehow survives anyway. When I was there, they were milling all over the place and nobody could get their attention. The speaker was rapping the gavel, but they didn't respond. He said, Ah, don't worry, Chuck. George Bush was here two weeks ago. They didn't pay any attention to him either. So I just started speaking. All of a sudden, these legislators started crowding in and sitting down. A hush came over the place. I discovered that politicians have a keen interest in prisons These days. I told them the only answer to the crime problems to take nonviolent criminals out of our prisons and make them pay back their victims with restitution. That's how we can solve the prison crowding problem. The amazing thing was that Afterwards they came up to me one after another and said things like that's a tremendous idea. Why didn't anybody ever thought of that? I had the privilege of saying to them, well just read Exodus chapter twenty two, what God said to Moses on Mount Sinai thousands of years Years ago. Here's his point. Do not try to hit secular people over the head with a Bible. They're not going to listen to it. Rather argue your case than Point out that the point you're making is grounded in the wisdom of Scripture. Think Christianly. Because we think Christianly, we will act Christianly. I think there is a depth of wisdom in that approach. Doing justice , loving mercy, and walking humble, creating with a the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian Church, within the things that we're involved in as God's people. Creative, constructive, kingdom pilot project alternatives. And then when people say, why do you do it that way and say, well this is what the Bible has said all along. This is what we're seeking to practice. And let 's show you the person who enables us to do that, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, we are in trouble in our nation today. Deep trouble. And that trouble is not all that we leave. A trouble, a shortage of policies or economic programs. It is a spiritual malance. And yet, Lord, you have Have given to us here in your word principles that we can practice. We do not have to despair. Because you have told us what you have required of us. To know what justice is and to be committed, whatever the cost, in our own walk, in our businesses, making long-distance phone calls and taking supplies. and not taking advantage of people, nor if we repent of those ways that we have compromised our integrity. And bring that before you now Lord, we have a you have people who have not sufficient We haven't really loved mercy because we haven't seen ourselves as in such desperate need of mercy. We haven't really grasped and captured But it has meant that you have acquitted sinners like us of our sin. That you have meted out justice to your own son, Jesus, crucifying Him on a cross so that we would receive the mercy instead of that justice. Lord, saturate our thinking, our hearts With what our forgiveness means, that we would be a people who would love mercy, who would be enabled to break the cycle of evil in our own lives and relationships. And who would be therefore able to walk humbly with you, creating kingdom palace projects of ministries of mercy. Or work in our lives as we think right now of those areas where we need to break the cycle of evil by loving mercy I pray that as you cause your people to walk humbly before the world, Lord, that you would call us to prayer, that you would call us, that you would call us That you would bring renewal and revival to save this nation from the course of destruction that has known. Lord, hear us preference. Have mercy upon us, we 've done it. Jesus' name.