My name is Pastor Bob. For those of you who are visiting, it's wonderful to have you here this morning. We're glad that you are worshiping with us. And we are going through the Gospel of Luke. Right now we are in chapter 11. So if you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to Luke chapter 11. I'm going to be reading for us two verses, verses 27 and 28. Heavenly Father, we ask that you bless the reading of your word to us. Lord, thank you that you do not leave us in the dark. Lord, but you shine your light upon us. And Lord, your word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. And Lord In your word we are able to know you, not completely, but truly. Not with a comprehension that covers every detail, but with an apprehension that truly knows that which we are able to. We give you thanks for this wonderful mercy. Bless this reading of your word to us, and Father, in the preaching that follows And as much as it is faithful to you and your gospel, make it powerful in our lives, beginning with my own. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 11, beginning with verse 27, the Word of God. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts at which you nursed. But he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. This ends the reading of God's Word. One of the features of American history is that we are a nation founded upon the pursuit of what we might call the good life or the American dream. This is a nation that going back to all of our immigrant stories. I think most of us have immigrant stories. For me, it goes back three, four generations. My great-grandfather, Ludwig Egstad, or Egstad Bakken, as he was called in Norway, he talked about how The America fever would strike the young men and cause teenagers all by themselves to jump on steamships like the USS America and come over and begin a new life. Learn a language, develop a trade. Find a wife, have a family, and now there are eggsteads and burguses all over the place. Perhaps you know one. What about your family? At some point somebody was interested in having the good life coming to America Countless thousands, millions of people dream of coming to places or going to other places, maybe not this country, but somewhere else where they can have a good life. And in fact, I bet you that you could go through history and you could go from one culture to another and see that people are constantly questing after this idea of a good life. A happy life. A place where they can have a reasonable expectation of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Well, the Bible has a word for a happy life. It has a word for happiness. And that word that is often translated happy is also also translated blessed. So when we talk about blessed rather are those, you could translate that happy rather are those. You could look at the Beatitudes as they appear in the Gospel of Matthew and think happy. Are those that mourn? That's a jarring contrast. You see, blessedness has to do with being right in your relations to your God and your world. to something that is proper and correct and essentially good. And whether you acknowledge it with the language of the Bible or not, You, dear friend, are questing after blessedness How many of you really wake up in the morning and say, okay, Bob Bierkus, let's see if we can't make today worse than yesterday? Every one of you is looking to have a good day when you open your eyes. You're looking to have a good stock return on your retirement portfolio. You're looking to have good interactions with your friends at the middle school lunch table. You're looking to have a good day when you go to visit Camden Yards. Nobody is hoping for misery and sorrow and gloom. You're hoping for blessedness. And this very short, short statement of Jesus, blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Is notable for the two questions that have to be asked before we get to that. One, what are these things? And two, what is the blessedness of Mary? Now That's going to make more sense as we go along. I'm going to be a little pressed for time here, so think fast. Look at how this scripture opens. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you. Now that is something, when's the last time you heard someone say, Blessed is the womb that bore you? When's the last time you said, What's the name of the womb that bore you? Uh we don't think that way. That was a very poetic, fancy, profound way of talking, obviously about your mother And we find references in literature from this time and going back even, the womb that bore you is an idea that shows up in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. This idea that An honorific way to describe your mother is the womb that bore you and the breasts that fed you, or gave you suck, as the old King James Version put it. That's talking about Mary. Blessed is Mary, through whom you came. But what are these things that caused some unknown anonymous woman to stand up and say that? Well, if you go back before Holy Week, so go back three weeks when we were looking at the previous sections in Luke chapter 11. And Jesus had been teaching some rather remarkable things about the nature of the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Satan. And he had made the radical statement that he is the person. By whom the kingdom of Satan is overthrown and the kingdom of God becomes present. In fact, he said, if you're not let's look exactly at his wording here. He says in verse 23, whoever is not with me is against me. He basically makes a very clear claim that if you would have peace with God, it requires you. To be for me, with me, to be possessed of me, to be empowered by my spirit. He's making a radical claim to be the Messiah in whom the kingdom has come and through whom God is doing his great redemptive work. And as he said these things. A woman in the crowd stands up and says, Blessed is your mother. Blessed is Mary, through whom the Messiah came. As we think about that blessedness of Mary, we have to in the first place recognize that that is a very particular blessedness. Of how many people is it true that they nursed the baby Jesus? One How many people carried him for nine months if he wasn't premature or postmature? Is that a term? One. So one of the things we notice right away is this woman stands up and says, Blessed is that one, essentially that one person. Blessed is one person through whom Jesus came. That is a physical relationship. Notice that this is not the first time these ideas have come up in the Gospel of Luke or in the narrative of Jesus' life and ministry. Turn back a couple of pages to Gospel of Luke, chapter 8. In chapter eight, beginning with verse nineteen, Jesus' mother and his brothers. By this time his stepfather Joseph is almost certainly passed away. Remember when Jesus is dying on the cross, he turns to John the beloved disciple and says, John, this is your mother. Mother, this John's going to take care of you. You're familiar with that word. Now, that would not have been said if Joseph were still in the picture. So Jesus has been ministering at a lightning pace, going throughout Galilee at this point when we're in Luke chapter 8. Busy, busy, busy. And his mother and his brothers are getting concerned for him. And then his mother and brothers came to him in verse 19 of chapter 8. They couldn't reach him because of the crowd, and he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside desiring to see you. But he answered My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. Now, notice, that is precisely what he's saying about the Blessed One. Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And it's in contrast to the exact same relationship, mother. Mother and brothers in chapter 8, just mother in chapter eleven. You see, we tend to think of relationships in terms of kinships and surface type issues We tend to think about relationships and blessed connections on the basis of speaking the language, liking the same music, driving the same car. Living in the same town, cheering for the same baseball team, dare I say voting for the same candidates We're such shallow petty people, are we not? And there is a joy to be derived from hanging out with uh Ravens fans instead of Philadelphia Eagles fans, is there not? If you're visiting today, that is a sore point with some people, but not for me. There is a joy that is derived from hanging out with people that enjoy your same kind of music. There is a joy that is derived from hanging out at a family reunion. There is a happiness, a good life to be had when you're with people that speak your language. The trouble is that we think that is the aspirational top of that category of joy or goodness or blessedness or happiness when that's just a minor point of it Jesus has throughout his ministry pointed us beyond simple physical relationships, even kinship networks, to the fact that our unity is essentially in him as Redeemed image-bearers of the living God. And therein lies the grounds of our blessedness. That's where our true blessedness can come into its own It's not simply in the physical nature of our relationship to Jesus. It's not simply in our physical relationship to one another True blessedness certainly involves those issues. They can be sources of great joy and great blessing. Notice that in Gospel of Luke, chapter 1, verse 42, Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, says this. When Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her Elizabeth's womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, so we know what she's about to say is the very word of God. And she exclaimed with a loud cry, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. So, in a sense, this anonymous woman in Luke chapter eleven is simply echoing the cry of blessedness to Mary that Elizabeth had uttered by the Holy Spirit. What this woman says when she says, blessed is the womb that gave you birth and the breasts that fed you, she was right The blessedness of Mary is very great. But Jesus points us to a greater blessing. We fully acknowledge the blessedness of Mary, and of Joseph, his stepfather, and even of his brothers who got to see him grow up like James. But Jesus says, Rather, blessed rather Are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And that's an idiomatic expression for those of you in middle school and high school English class. I trust they still teach idioms. It's a great way of saying something uh colorfully and perhaps memorably or in a way that is general practice. When he said blessed rather, what he's saying is, it is more so the case This is a greater blessing. The other blessing is not improper or incorrect. But we should think on wherein true blessedness, the fullest life, can be found. You see, it's easy for us to look at someone like Mary and say, now that's blessedness If only I could have experienced that blessedness. How many times have you thought, If only I were alive when the apostles were alive and seen the things the apostles had seen, well then the Christian life would be easy. I remember when I was a boy , middle school, and even a young man in high school, thinking, if only. If only I could have been alive and seen Jesus feed the 5,000, then obedience would be so much easier You see, sometimes we look at the blessedness of others and we think, oh, I would be so much more blessed if. And we can fully and genuinely say, blessed is the womb that gave you birth. But as some Bible scholars and commentators have noted over the centuries, there can be a smidgen almost of envy in that. as if they somehow experienced a blessedness that we can never participate in What Jesus is saying right here, but rather, is a word to you and to me And it is calling us to experience a blessedness that is not particular. It doesn't depend upon the narrow circumstances that divine the relationship between Mary and Jesus, or Joseph and Jesus. or the twelve in Jesus. It is not particular, it's universal. Blessed rather are those plural are those. The Bible is full of thoses and anyones and whoever's The Bible is full of people like you, invited to experience the highest pinnacle of the human experience, renewed through union with Christ, redeemed. Purchased by the blood, reconciled to God, indwelt by the Spirit. And there is no blessedness higher than that Blessed are you among women. A true statement to marry. Utterly true. And no one else had that particular blessing. But the greatest blessing of all is not to have been the mother of Jesus by his incarnation, but rather to be a daughter or a son of the living God by adoption. And this is the truth Jesus is driving home to his apostles and this dear anonymous woman in the crowds that day. You are offered the greatest blessing you could ever imagine. You, in your contest with the demons of this world and the vacancies in your heart, And all of these issues that have come up in Luke chapter 11 so far. You who are dealing with temptation and sin. You who are looking for fulfillment and satisfaction. You who are trying to figure out how to spend your life. You Who are wondering what's the point of it all? You are not offered a position to come in at the sub-basement level You are invited into the very royal throne room of the God of heaven because he would have you for a child, an heir. What a thought. What a thought. Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Have you heard the word of God and will you keep it? This is ancient Semitic, ancient Israelite Hebrew concept of discipleship at play here. Remember the definition for discipleship that I have embraced myself as a young man and passed on to others in discipling them is a disciple does three things. He follows another in order to learn from them, so that he can become like them. We who hear the words of Jesus saying, Come, follow me, we follow him to learn from him. We accept that we don't know What we need to, and we learn not just to have a great systematic theology so we can pass a test someday. There's this transformational experience of the Christian, of the disciple of Christ, that we call sanctification, by which we are sanctified more and more. Another word for that is consecrated, set apart for God's service. We are being worked in, transformed, growing. Not just in how we feel, not just in what we know, but in something that proves what we feel and what we know, what we do Blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And hearing the word of God and keeping the word of God are essential to understanding what Jesus calls us to. In Luke, we're just sticking with the Gospel of Luke because I'm trying to demonstrate that this is a theme in the Gospel of Luke. It is a true statement regarding the entirety of God's word. We find that Jesus says, Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like. And then in the Gospel of Luke, he tells the parable of the house built on a rock. But did you notice this? Everyone who hears and does. A couple chapters later, we looked at where his mother and brothers come. And he says, My mother and brothers are those who hear the word of God. And do it. And here he says, when he talks about the greatest blessing we can experience, blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Hearing the word of God and keeping it begins with hearing his summons, his divine sovereign command to come to him with repentance and faith. and then to live the life of a disciple, acknowledging the Lordship of Christ in every area of your life. The one who would experience the good life, the true dream, a blessedness that isn't some saccharine chemically uh bad aftertasting, unfulfilling, harmful experience of life. The one who would truly have life and life abundantly, as the Gospel of John puts it. Is the one who will come to Jesus, recognizing their sin, repenting of it with full acknowledgement, saying, Lord, I receive and accept and rest on the promise that you died for sinners like me. Here I am. I am yours. Thank you, Lord, for my salvation. And then listening to what he says and obeying him. We have developed an allergy to the word obey. We have developed a knee-jerk reaction that says, oh, that's automatically some kind of Pharisaic legalism. And I think Satan is delighted by that particular allergy You cannot be a happy Christian in disobedience. You can't It's not possible. To the extent that you are caught in a sin what the Puritans would call a sin of dominion, some some addiction, some weakness, to the extent that that is shaping and characterizing you, you're gonna be miserable, dear Christian. But isn't it wonderful and gracious that God has said, repent of your sin, and I will cleanse you from unrighteousness? You see, as Christians, we are set free from the power of sin, not just the guilt and shame of it. Such that no temptation can no longer be said to seize us, that is not common to man, and God is faithful, he will always provide a way out. That's scripture You and I are able more and more to hear and keep the Word of God. To hear and obey the Lord Jesus, who says, to love me is to obey me. We are able to have lives that are increasingly transformed as we depend upon the Holy Spirit and study the Word of God for guidance in living our life. And if we will not commit ourselves to hearing the word and keeping it, we are going to be limping Christians. Ultimately unfulfilled, weak and struggling, worn and weary. And I have a good good word for you, if that describes you, and to some extent it describes each one of us. Our intern Edward Ruiz, who, Lord willing, by May will be our assistant pastor, Edward Ruiz, his Palm Sunday sermon was based on a text in Isaiah that tells us Jesus will not break a bruised reed or snuff out a smoldering flax. That's a powerful image. You see, the read could be translated staff. It's used as staff elsewhere in the book of Isaiah And the wick, the oil lamp, two things that were used by anyone journeying through a dark world, a staff and a lamp What is Jesus saying? He's saying that as he prosecutes his work , executes his mission, as he engages in his light and life bringing activities throughout the world and history He is not going to cast aside broken implements. Weak and weary implements. He's not going to look at how bruised you are and how smouldering and smoky the flax of your wick is. He's going to look at you in all of your frailty, and he's going to say, I can work with that I can work with you. Will you follow me and be used by me? And we're going to work on getting that wick a little less smoky. It's going to burn a little brighter next year than it did this year because you are truly blessed. And you know what? Right now we might not put too much weight on that staff of your life because it's a little splintery here, but you know what? By next year, I'm going to use it as a lever to move boulders. Because I'm going to work with you. Jesus transforms us. We hear his word. We keep it. We do it. We grow. Attitudes, ideas, thoughts, relationships get transformed by the power of the risen Christ who is with you and for you. Dear friend, have you truly been blessed? You might drive a great car. You might, you know what, you might have a really cool tie that matches your shirt. You might be as handsome as Gary Aarons End of the day you still need a blessing. You need the blessing of being reconciled to your Maker. The one whom deep down you know you should call Father You need forgiveness for your sins. Will you accept it? Will you obey this word of Jesus? Come Follow, obey, live , breathe, love Christian, envy no one their blessedness. No one can be more blessed than you. Because you are offered the greatest blessing of all. Peace with God. Life everlasting. Fellowship with Jesus, who is not ashamed to call you his sibling in the very courts of heaven. The presence of the Spirit of God. Let us embrace our Savior together as we hear him and keep his word. Almighty God, we give you thanks for this day. Lord, we thank you that you do remind us when we look with uh believing eyes and we see wonderful works performed by others and we're so tempted to say, Oh, they're so blessed, oh their parents are so blessed to have such and so as a kid. Oh They're so blessed to have those gifts. Lord, help us to remember these simple words of Jesus. But rather, blessed are you. We are blessed because we have heard the invitation to come and here we are. Help us to hear and to keep, to hear and to do. Help us to render ourselves utterly at your disposal to be servants and stewards of your graces, glorying in the true blessedness that is ours by grace through faith. We pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Together we say ,