I'm going to tell you a story that I'll bet you that uh ninety percent of you have never heard And it's from the Bible, from 1 Kings chapter 13. The story takes up the entire chapter. This is a story that you carry around in your Bibles, everywhere you carry your Bible. You've been doing it for years, possibly. and you may be totally unaware of this story. Um I dare say it's a story that is very practical, very helpful, one that um we need to be aware of, particularly in our own time. And uh I think you'll see how that's true as the story unfolds. I've only ever heard this story once in a message. It was back in August of 1967. The reason I remember that was because it was a couple of weeks before Kathy and I got married. And it's the only time I ever heard it, and I have wanted ever since then to have a chance to preach this story. And I never have. So all the years that Columbia Presbyterian has been a church, I've always wanted to preach this, and I never did it until this morning. This is a big morning for me, you know? Finally get a chance to do this. Now why am I doing it this morning? Well because not only is it very applicable to us today, but it's also a good introduction to a major series that I will be beginning two weeks from today From Ephesians chapter 6 on spiritual warfare. So this morning's story will be a good introduction, I think, to help us to make a connection to what will be coming up this fall. I would like, if you have your Bibles, for you to turn to 1 Kings 13, because I will be reading a few verses out of that story, where I think it's particularly important that we see what God's Word says. For the rest of it, though, I will simply be telling the story. Now, the story takes place shortly after the death of King Solomon You remember that King Solomon was a great disappointment. If there were ever two examples of how we could never trust in a person, a human being only To save us from our human woes, it is David and Solomon who seemed to be such spiritual giants and yet failed at certain key points And the greatest love poem that we have in all of history is The Song of Solomon, written by Solomon who ironically found sexual relations to be his downfall. A guy who finally wound up marrying seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. It was a guy that had some marital difficulties, and uh to keep all these wives and concubines happy he had to tax Israel heavily. I mean, you know, it takes a certain amount of means to keep a thousand women happy in what they got, so uh And all his building projects, so at the end of his reign he became um rather despotic and greedy And when he died his son Raboam was coronated, and at the coronation some leaders of Israel came to Raboam and they said basically Rayhabom, your father, laid a heavy burden on us. If you lighten that burden, we will serve you gladly. Now it kind of seems like a no-brainer, but unfortunately Raya Baum hung around a bunch of Macho tough young bucks who thought that intimidation was the way to rule, so three days later he comes back and he says basically the Harris paraphrase, you ain't seen nothing yet In fact, what he says is, my little finger is thicker than my father's waist. You guys, look out. Well that's their answer. So uh at that point we got an overachiever in the court, very aggressive guy by the name of Jeroboam, not to be confused with Brayaboam Jeroboam is from the tribe of Ephraim up in the north. And so he leads a rebellion of ten northern tribes that separate from Judah and Benjamin and create a separate kingdom. But Jerobalm is not dumb, and he knows that if the people continue to go back to Jerusalem for their offerings, for the feast days, the festivals, that that unifying element of all worshiping at the same spot will draw them back together again, and so he decides he needs to create two other places to worship So it creates two other centers of sacrifice, one in Dan, way up in the north, and one in Bethel, near the border. And uh he says, now understand we're still worshiping the same god, it's no difference, we're still worshiping Yahweh, but we're just making the worship a little more user-friendly For instance, we're making it more convenient. You don't have to travel all the way to Jerusalem, and we provide good parking, so it's an easier place to go to. Secondly, he changes the feast days for the for the uh temple, uh for the uh feast of uh booms. uh to fit the harvest time of the north a little better. So um, you know, more a little more convenient for them. And then uh thirdly he says, now you know it's really hard to worship a God that you can't see. It really is, isn't it, to have a relationship with somebody at Don't see. Somebody says, Well tell you what we're going to do. We're going to worship Yahweh, but we're going to make a likeness. These two calves, one in Dam, one in Bethel And uh these golden calves will represent him. It'll just kinda help you to visualize him as you come to worship. Now you see, in our day we would call him a liberal, wouldn't we? I mean say, you know, he's messing with basic biblical religion. You know, he changed the place that God determined, he changed the time, he changed the way. So he's monkeying with some of the heart of biblical religion. Now uh what's God going to do And the answer comes in 1 Kings 13. On one particular occasion you have Jeroboam at the temple at the uh altar at Bethel And he's offering a sacrifice, and just as he's about to offer the sacrifice, you read that a man of God who was sent by the Word of God comes on the scene. Now this man of God, who is very prominent in this story, we're never told his name. He's only referred to as the man of God. He's referred to the man of God as the man of God nearly twenty times in this chapter. So I'd say it's fairly safe to conclude that he was a man of God. Alright? So he comes and he does something very unusual. He ignores Jeroboam and he talks to the altar. He comes up to the altar and he says, Oh, altar, a couple things are going to happen here. First of all, He says, God is going to send a faithful son out of the family of David, and he's going to come and he's going to judge you, Alter. And he is going to destroy you and he's going to burn human bones upon you to desecrate you. Then he says to the people, by the way, if you don't think that's going to happen, God's going to give you a sign where he's going to split this altar. so that you will see its ashes poured out and know that what I'm gonna say is gonna take place. Now once again, Jeroboam is not a dummy, and so he realizes that this message utterly discredits his political base and his leadership. If this man of God is correct, he's finished. So Jobaum illustrating a basic principle in Scripture that false worship always must persecute true worship. is incensed and enraged and he stretches out his hand and he says, seize him. And at that moment, the altar is split. The ashes are poured out, and Joboam's hand is withered, and he's not able to withdraw it. For a hand mightier than Jeroboam's has reached out upon him to judge him. And he who was a moment ago ominous authority is reduced to becoming an entreating child. Please, man of God, would you would you entreat God for me and intercede and ask him to heal my hand? Please? And the Bible says that the man of God did intercede. And his hand was restored whole immediately. So Jeroboam says, whoo, we got some real power here. I mean the altar is split, my hand is shriveled, my hand is healed This is not a guy that you want on the other side. This is somebody who you want on your side. So immediately he turns on the old Bill Clinton charm and he says, Hey man of God. How about you come on back to my place for lunch and I'll play the sacks and we'll have some good time together, you know, kinda hang out, and you know, I'll give you a gift to take home to your missus At that point, the man of God gives him a very clear answer because you see in the ancient Near Eastern culture to have Dinner, a meal, lunch, to have a meal with someone was to say that you were in fellowship with that person and you approved of them And so because the man of God was given a message of warning to these people, Bethel had to understand that Someone who was a man of God could have no fellowship with him. So let me at this point read what he says. It's in 1 Kings, beginning with verse 8, 1 Kings 13. See what he says. But the man of God answered the king, even if you were to give me half your possessions, I would not go with you, nor would I eat bread or drink water here For I was commanded by the word of the Lord, quote, You must not eat bread or drink water or return by the way that you came You see, you cannot give any sense of approval, of fellowship, because these people are disobeying me. They've changed the way I am to be worshipped. And I'll take that lightly. So you read in verse 10 that the man of God took another road and did not return by the way that he had come to Bethel. Well that would seem to be the end of the story now, you know. Are they going to repent? Is Jeroboam going to repent or not? But the plot thickens in verse 11. In verse 11, we read, There was a certain old prophet living in Bethel, whose sons came and told him all that the man of God had done there that day. Now, is this old prophet a true prophet or not? I tend to believe that he probably was a true prophet. It seems like he was a true prophet because he wants to have fellowship with the man of God. In fact, he goes and takes his donkey and has his kids uh saddle them up and he takes off after the man of God. And you read in verse 15 that he catches up to the man of God and he offers to him the same offer, the same invitation, come on back for a meal. In verses 16 and 17, he gets the exact same response from the man of God. God's forbidden me to do that. I can't do that. Again, that should be the end of the story. Unfortunately, it's not, because you have something very unexpected in verse 18. In verse 18, the old prophet answered, I too am a prophet, as you are. And an angel said to me by the word of the Lord, Bring him back with you to your house, so that he may eat bread and drink water. That must be a little confusing, don't you think, for the man of God? I mean, God told me, don't eat any bread or drink any water, just come straight home, have nothing to do with them This guy says, well, I'm a prophet too. And an angel came to me with a message by God that uh it's okay. Come on home and eat with me So has God changed his mind? Oh, what's he supposed to do? You read in verse 19. I mean what you ask yourself, what you would you do in that situation? In verse 19, we're told that the man of God decides, okay. I mean, this is a prophet of God, and he's speaking by the word of the Lord from an angel, so okay, I'll trust him and go home. But we're told at the end of verse eighteen that he was lying to him. So what happens? They go home and they have lunch. Now why would this prophet lie for the man of God to get him to come home. If he was a true prophet. There's a lot of suggestions from commentators about what was going on here My own opinion is that I think that he was probably a true prophet who had through the months and years, bit by bit, compromised, so that he's come to the point where he has tolerated this altar at Bethel and Dan and has not spoken definitively against it And he wants to soothe his conscience by having the man of God come back and have a fellowship meal with him. It'll also restore some of his stature in the community of people who really did love the Lord. That's just my guess. But what we do know is that for some reason he wanted to have them come back, and they do eat together, and during the meal We read that the word of the Lord came through this old prophet. Now the word of the Lord directly comes to him. No lies this time This is the word of the Lord. You read in verse 21. He cried out to the man of God who had come from Judah, This is what the Lord says. You have defied the word of the Lord and have not kept the command that the Lord your God gave you. You came back and ate bread and drank water in the place where he told you not to eat or drink. Therefore, your body will not be buried in the tomb of your fathers. Two things basically, he's saying, one, you disobeyed me. Two, your body is not going to be buried in the family tomb. Now what's amazing to me is that after that you read that they went back to the meal. Okay. Um, you know, went past the pork chop. No, wouldn't we leave pork chops Past the, you know whatever it was, you know, that they were having there. That's the trouble when you say something without planning, you know. Anyway What's amazing to me is that not only do they finish the meal, but they end it on good terms, cordial terms. The only thing I can figure is that the man of God, as he's eating there, as he's thinking, oh, okay, so I made a mistake. Uh but you know, hey, compared to what these guys are doing up here, I mean, you know, false idols and false worship and all the rest of that, hey, that's no big deal. So, you know, the Lord will understand and he'll have mercy and So my body's not going to be in the family tomb, you know. Um Oh well, you know, let's continue. So they eat and he finishes and the man of God takes off to go home back to Judah. And the Bible says that on his way home That a lion met him and killed him, probably with a blow of his paw Because the lion does not eat the man of God or his donkey. In fact, the lion stands guard over his body and over the donkey. The message is taken back to the old prophet, that the lion has killed him. And when that word comes back, verse 26 to me is just astounding. When the prophet who had brought him back from his journey heard of it, he said, It is the man of God who defied the word of the Lord. The Lord has given him over to the lion, which has mauled him and killed him as the word of the Lord had warned him. Huh Who was it that deceived him? It was you, Big Mouth. Thanks a lot. You know, I mean you're used to well that's what you get for disobeying the Lord, you know. Well, who was it that deceived him to disobey? Now I was talking to somebody after the first service. Every time I read that I get so upset at that guy until I realize he 's just like me We deceive to get what we want. And then we see, disobeying God. Has inevitable consequences. The man of God paid with his life. That's not saying he's lost. I believe he's a believer. Hang in. You know, nearly twenty times. He's a man of God But even a man of God, you see, a woman of God, can be deceived, and the consequences can be severe. I believe the consequences were severe for him because it was a warning to Israel, who was disobeying his word. If I take the life of a man of God for this small step of disobedience, what will I do to you who have defiled my worship? And then you're given one last, well, first of all, the prophet takes his bones and puts them in his tomb. He honors him, and he says Because the word that the man of God spoke will surely come to pass. God's word will be fulfilled. And then there's this chilling verse at the very end that says that Jeroboam continued in his sin without repentance. And so you know that the doom's going to come on him too, as it surely did. Now that's the story. What's the significance of the story? I believe there's three lessons here for us, for you and for me, out of this story, very pertinent to us. And the first is, quite simply, that when God speaks to you through his word, he expects you to obey him without compromise. Now that sounds so obvious, doesn't it? But it really isn't. Because we live in a day of what can be called flexodoxy. Flexodoxy is a term that I didn't make up, but it is a term in contrast to orthodoxy. Orthodoxy is means literally straight teaching. Go neither to the right hand or to the left. Following straight Flexodoxy says, yeah, there are principles, but we need to be flexible and we need to have freedom in following those principles. In the August 13th issue of U. S. News <unk> World Report, John Leo reviews a recent book by Alan Wolfe called Moral Freedom: The Search for Virtue in a World of Choice. In which he states that in contemporary America, by the surveys that have been recently conducted, Americans believe that they are principled people. We have convictions. But we don't hold those convictions rigidly. We hold those convictions with freedom and flexibility, which Leo says means That with every conviction, there is always a footnote that gives us a way out If things get tough, if it rubs too hard, well, hey, you know, you don't want to be rigid here, so you gotta you gotta kinda do what your gut says, you know, you gotta be flexible We don't realize that we as Christians are infected by the germs in the air that are articulated by another recent author, Alastair McIntyre. in his book After Virtue, who says, quote, All moral judgments are nothing but expressions of preference And that's the world we live in. That's why I believe it is so important that we come to worship on Sunday mornings, so that when you read this book as I hope you do between the Sundays, that when you read what it says, you realize this is the God who is the sovereign creator who I worshipped, who I bowed before. one Sunday. And when he speaks, I don't second guess him. I don't add my footnotes I don't follow my gut. I follow his word. And so three applications to that are first of all, it means that you follow his word, not your feelings. That's the first blank. Trust your gut is a popular notion today. And it means that, you know, as you often you read uh Feelings are more reliable than mere words. I think of a person I talked to recently who has shed off the narrow confines of the Bible, and she says that it's so freeing to just trust my gut in what I do, and is making some very unwise, damaging choices. in her relationships. But she can't see the consequences that will come from those, because her perspective only is in the immediate We can't see as God sees. We don't have his wisdom. We don't have his perspective. So trusting our gut can be a very dangerous thing. God alone speaks. with infinite wisdom and perspective. I think of the couple that I was counseling some while ago who were sleeping together, though they were not married. Actually he was married to somebody else. And um when I warned them about this, her response was , but when I do it, I don't feel guilty, so it can't be wrong Sometimes we need to educate our feelings. You see, the man of God felt quite good about going back to the prophet. I mean, hey, you know, here's a message from an angel saying, have a meal with an godly old man who wants to have your fellowship. Hey, what can be wrong with that? Feels good, you see. But it was dead wrong. Beware, trusting your gut. When God speaks, he says, I expect you to hear what my word says and to follow that. And that means that you follow that even when, as the next blanks, mature Christians, in quotes, give you advice that clearly contradicts Scripture. There are those who would tell us to do something, and um it may be what we want to hear, but if it contradicts scripture We need to be aware of it. Many of us are easily led astray because we don't know scripture well enough. So that remember the example I gave months ago about the rumble strips along the edge of the road as you drive, you know, and as a car begins to go off on the shoulder, you have these rumble strips now. So you hear the you know and you immediately know, oh, gotta get back on track. As you study Scripture, as you meditate on Scripture, as Scripture is in your mind, not just listening to tapes or listening to Christian radio, but meditating yourself. On scripture. As you memorize Scripture, you kids, one of the very best things you can do at this age To help you to live in a way that is good and enjoyable and successful as you grow up is to be memorizing Scripture now. Your minds are able to take in a lot of scripture, and you're able to do it easier and us old folks. And it'll serve you very well. Because it it enables you to detect when somebody says something that is out of sync. From what Scripture says is Ephesians 5 10 says, learning what is pleasing to the Lord. And so as you learn that, you you're able to detect by For instance, a Christian counselor. Now I'm certainly not against Christian counseling. I think Christian counseling is an excellent thing, but there was a particular person recently went to a person called a Christian counselor about a troubled marriage situation. I went to this counselor and uh this um so-called Christian counselor said, yeah, I think that marriage is really restrictive. You ought to get out of it. person claimed to be a Christian, married to another Christian. So they divorced their partner and then they said, you really need to rethink these narrow views of Christianity that you have and the person wound up jettisoning their whole faith Clearly not uh what scripture would teach. Somebody that's been considered by many Christians to be a good, reliable, helpful spiritual guide is M. Scott Peck Writes a lot about spiritual things. Writes of freedom, but M. Scott Peck himself is addicted to nicotine and alcohol He preaches the virtues of long-term family, lasting family relationships, and yet he himself has a string of infidelities, and his grown children barely speak to him. And that's not from a Christian journal, that's from Rolling Stone magazine. Be careful. Who you listen to? The man of God listened to somebody who claimed to be a prophet of God and possibly was. We'll be seeing this fall that 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 13 to 15, that Satan himself can masquerade as an angel of light and speak through His servants, human beings who deceive, who seem to be telling you what is so helpful. But if it's not God's word, you have to run from it. One other thing to be aware of is when cultural pressures, this is the third blank in the application, when cultural pressures in some unpopular teaching of Scripture seem to go against your grain. Cultural pressure. An example of that that's kind of obvious is 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verses 12 to 15. We read about uh the restrictions on women in teaching and authority. Now let me hasten to say I'm not going to sneak in what I think that passage is saying in this message But let me simply say this. It's clear that that passage is stating certain restrictions on women, gender restrictions on women in teaching and authority. that in our culture when we hear there's an immediate rejection. There's an antipathy That can't be true. God can't be like that. Or if he is, he's mistaken, or Paul is mistaken, or something, because that just, you know, we react to it We need to ask ourselves first, what does the Bible say? And not second guess God Following Scripture is a radical step of faith because sometimes it means going against with the culture, all the values of our contemporary culture. Because it says, God knew what he was talking about when he said to the man of God, Don't stay there. Come home. No matter what pressure is brought on you to stay, don't stay. And he should have followed it. And we do not follow it at our peril. The second lesson is that we see that God's word is entirely trustworthy. I believe it's very significant that in this chapter the phrase the word of the Lord appears ten times. That is the focus of this chapter. It's about the word of the Lord. And God is sending this man of God up there as a warning You are hearing from my word in your worship in separating yourself from Judah and Benjamin. Come back. Come back to me, my people. And so he gives a warning in the altar, and that is fulfilled. He gives a judgment against the man of God who disobeys him, that is fulfilled. By the sovereign work of a lion and God who controls lions, by the way, controls the affairs in your life and is in control of what's happening in your life this week You can trust his word, you see. And the prophecy that he gave against the altar That was precisely fulfilled. If you look in 2 Kings chapter 23, now your reference I think says 1 Kings 13, that's that was a double screw-up from me I put in there 1 Kings 23. And Patricia Chow said, doing any 1 Kings 23. Oh, it must must have been 1 Kings 13, because that's what I'm preaching on Well it wasn't 1 Kings 13. It's 2 Kings 23. That's where it's fulfilled. Alright, so you write that in there. See, don't listen to me. Just follow scripture. 2 Kings 23, 300 years later you have Josiah. Who is from the family of David, and it says that when Josiah came with sweeping reforms That he took the altar that Jeroboam son of Nebat had built, he destroyed that altar, he crushed it He took the bones out of the tombs of the false prophets and he burned those bones on the altar. Then he took the false prophets Who were still alive, he slaughtered them, it says, and he burned their bones on the altar. To fulfill precisely to the letter what God's word had said 300 years earlier through the man of God. God's word will be fulfilled. But don't miss the hint of the gospel that you see here. Because he also says, the son of David is going to be faithful and will bring the judgment. And so that's immediately referring to Josiah, even though it's 300 years later, but the ultimate reference is to to Josiah is to the Messiah. Where God took his own son Jesus. And he took Jesus, who was the true priest, who kept the word of God at every single point. And a Calvary God took Jesus and treated him as if he was a false priest. And Jesus was slain. To pay for your sin and my sin, who every day, day after day compromise in our obedience, in our thoughts, and our words and our motives and our deeds with what God says And so the judgments of the Word of God will occur. If you are outside of Jesus Christ this morning, you can count on it. God will be faithful. And everything that He has warned you about. Of the judgment of sin will take place. But if you belong to Jesus Christ or you put your trust in Him today, then every promise that He has made And that promise which is summed up in saying that if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith, then your life will be credited as if you had kept The word of God without compromise at every single point, just as Jesus. And you will be forgiven and cleansed. And made new. Amen. Amen. The word of God is trustworthy. And finally, you see here that this is spiritual warfare, you see. Satan masquerades as an angel of light. And so we're going to see in Ephesians chapter 6 how basic Satan, Satan's basic strategy. is to get you to distrust the word of God, to distrust the character of God, that God can't really be trusted, that God is really holding out something good for you, that you can second guess him, you can Figure it out on your own. And that's the essence of spiritual warfare. God's word is trustworthy. What does that mean for you this morning? An illustration of how there are times in our lives where All you have to hang on to is the fact that you can trust his word because you can trust his character. Did you remember that a year ago we traded homes and cars with the Mullins family who came here for three weeks and Kathy and I went to Ireland for three weeks. And the way we did that was we were to leave the cars at the airport with messages for how to find the car and how to get the keys Real, you know, we worked this whole thing out weeks and months before by email. We got to Dublin Airport that day. I went to the information desk where I was told to go, and I said, Would you Give me the message for Harris for Mullins. The guy went through his computer, went through his files, he looked and he said, Sir, there is no message for Mullins to the Harrises And I said, uh would you please check again? There's gonna be a message there. And he went in the back room, he went in all the boxes, he went everything, and he looked and he came back and he said, So there's no message here for the houses from the Mullins And I wasn't beginning to panic yet. I figured, well I got my credit cards, we'll call home. They should be at our house by now, check out what's going on, and couldn't make the calls Went back, tried again. Please try again. There's got to be a message here. No message. I mean at this point we were ready to try everything. We even prayed After we prayed, and I thought, you know, there's got to be a message Because I trust the character of the Mullins. They wouldn't deceive us. You know, this isn't some cosmic joke, you know, that he says, Oh boy, well I tell this at the pub. I got these guys over from Mark came to the Dublin Airport and I left them there. They didn't have a car, they didn't know what they were doing, didn't know anybody in the country. How about that one? Who can top that? No, they wouldn't do that, Lord. They wouldn't do it. I know they would So I, based on my trust of their character, though I had been denied twice, absolutely checking everything, I went back to a different clerk. Found somebody new, ignored the yellow one. And I said, Would you please check to see if there's a message from the Harris 's from the Mullens? And so she looked through the computer, she looked down underneath the desk, she looked in the boxes, she looked in the back, and she said, Sir I'm sorry, there is no message to the addresses from the Mullins. At that point, she had the computer turned toward her and I was hanging on the desk and I looked around Saw the corner of the computer screen just enough to see it on the edge about four names down on the left column it said Alan Harris Then I looked over, I said, Can I see that? and said, from Deedra Mullins. I said, that's the message I'm talking about. She said, Oh, that Harris I thought this is not a very auspicious beginning to our trip in this country. Things were definitely up from there. My point. I had nothing to trust to continue to go on. Except the character of the one who had given me the message. And that may be true for you, but you can trust him. Because the word of God will surely come to pass. Let's pray. Father, forgive us when we When we distrust you, when we go our own way, and we second guess in all the ways, Lord, that even this past week, we simply haven't Followed your word without compromise. Every time we sin, we're second-guessing you. We're saying our way is better. Forgive us, Lord. And Lord, we knew in our hearts the confidence that we can have in your word. That you who sent your own son for us to die for us and to rise again can be trusted at every point In our lives, in every person here, no matter what their circumstances are saying, no matter who is telling them in the kindest, subtlest ways to follow away other than what the Word of God says. Give us strength and faith that we would follow you, and that we would know your trustworthiness and your goodness in Jesus' name. Amen.