Constant force. We find that uh living in our society change is so much a constant, sometimes it's disorienting Uh I heard a story of two fellows. One was talking about going on a cruise and he said, Yeah, I went on a cruise ten years ago. It was nice and smooth and I just went on a cruise again this summer and it was real rocky. The waves were constantly twelve, fifteen feet high. His friend said, Yeah, waves are higher than they used to be. Yeah. I mean you ever you ever find yourself waking up and thinking, the sun 's coming up later now. What's going on? Oh that's right, it's fall. You know, you Certain things you think it's hard to adjust to what is normal change and what is the constant of imposed change on us. Till after a while we begin to wonder is anything constant in my life? Is there anything that I have that I can count on? People change. People grow old and they die. They move away. Your neighbors move. You're constantly relating to new people. Change. Just two years ago, this month I was moving everything out of the house that I had been born in for 50 years. I had either lived in that house or could go back to that house and sleep in the same bed in the room where I was born. And I remember two years ago as I was moving everything out, all those precious things that had been part of my life, and in those same places, you know, and you go into this room and that was always there. It was just part of my life. Writing in my journal as I went through that, nothing in this life is permanent. Nothing. Everything shifts and changes. Nothing is permanent. But we look at the scriptures, and it's when we have those feelings and we have that sense of disorientation and stress. But the preciousness of God's word comes to us from what Pete read this morning. Our God never changes. Malachi 3. 6, he tells, he says, I am Yahweh, I never change. His very name, Yahweh, implies that. So we've looked at in this Names of God series. That's another change, of course. That's coming to an end. Switch to a new series. But that name means, remember at its very foundation, I am who I am. I am the self-existent one who does not change. The faithful one. And so God, because He is the self-existent one, because He is perfect, doesn't change. Did you ever think of that? That an implication of God's perfections Is that he does not change? Because God is perfect, any change in his essence, in his being, would be for the worse. He can't get better Therefore, if he changed, he would become less perfect, less than perfect. And so because he is perfect, he cannot improve, he cannot change, and because he is perfect, he cannot deteriorate. Part of his perfection is the fact that he is constantly perfect. He cannot become worse. And so the one constant factor, the scriptures say, in our life is our God who does not change. But God doesn't simply tell us this in the abstract, as we have seen through this series on the names of God. What he does is that he gives to us names as pictures. In order to tell us what he is like, so that as Psalm 910, the very beginning of the series we looked at, says, those who know your name will trust in you. As we know his name and know what he's like, it increases our confidence in him and what he is like. And so God has given to us this name, Tsur, Roch. Now let me clear something up that seemed a little confusing last week. Somebody came to me after the service and they said, I hear that we're going to hear finally what God's last name is next week I didn't know God had a last name, but right there in the bulletin it says next week, God's last name, Rock. Don't go around saying that Al Harris says that God's last name is really rock. It's just the last name in the series. And that was dictated by the schedule. So it didn't have any particular significance as a climax. But this is the last name. And if you don't like nineteen to end, the twentieth name is Jesus. We covered that a long time ago, just didn't So if you like things rounded out, put down number 20, Jesus, and then you'll have it all complete. But this name, Sur, is a name which appears over thirty times in the Old Testament. Again and again and again in the Psalms and many other places, my rock, my rock. We come to the rock. The Lord is the rock. Again and again we see that designation. I picked, in order to be the foundation for this name as the text for us, one of the most memorized and precious promises of Scripture, Isaiah chapter 26. verses 3 and 4. If you still have it open from when Pete read, then you're ready. If not, please open your Bible. If you have a Bible with you to Isaiah chapter 26, and I'll read again just verses three and four. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord Yahweh forever. For Yahweh the Lord is the rock eternal Literally verse four is trust in Yahweh forever, for Yah, Yahweh is Tsor Olamim. Olam, remember one of his names, the God of the ages, God of eternity. And this is literally, Yahweh is the rock of ages. He is the rock of eternity. The idea of that, of course, is that he is stable. He is unchangeable Like a rock, he doesn't vary. Reminds me of Cape Cod. I always have to bring in a couple illustrations, p particularly after the summer, right? About Cape Cod. But we go to Cape Cod, I'm always reminded of the fact The Cape Cod is the very essence of instability. There is not a an ounce of bedrock in Cape Cod. The entire landmass was simply shifted by the glaciers. when they were brought down moving from New England. So a hundred thousand years ago geologists tell us there was no Cape Cod, it was simply ocean. After the last glacier age, all of that sand, the rocks, everything was deposited And that's what formed Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket, Cape Cod, Block Island, and a lot of other things that were shifted. But if you go on to that, you see that And even uh the way the Cape is now 10,000 years ago was much wider and shorter. It only went up to Truro. Simply the shifting of Winds and waves, grain by grain of sand, formed all of the vast dunes of Provincetown. Shifting, unstable. Always moving. There are roads that we used to drive on back in the 70s that don't even exist now, and washed away into the sea. But there's one spot on Cape Cod, a place in Eastham called Dones Rock It's a huge rock. Only about a tenth or more of it is above the ground and it's huge and the rest is all below the ground. And you look at that and it's always the same. Never changes, doesn't shift You look at that rock and there's the sense that you have of that's stability. That rock is never going to be moved until you realize that that rock, like everything else in Cape Cod, had been brought down from New England So it's really not a good picture of what it means that God is stable. Just this summer I read a book, kind of one of those things you just pick up in the library on a whim. called uh We Swam the Grand Canyon. And I figured anybody that swam the Grand Canyon is worth reading about. About two guys wanted a cheap vacation, didn't have enough money for a boat, so they put on a couple of fins, put stuff in boxes, and they swam two hundred and eighty miles down the Colorado River. Well, uh I won't tell you about the adventures of that whole thing. It's really kind of a fun book. But what I want to bring out is they said as they went from Lees Ferry down into the canyon and the walls began to rise Hundreds of feet beside them, and then a thousand, two thousand, three thousand, four thousand, and finally five thousand feet of sheer cliffs Going above them, above the Colorado River, receding as far as they could see into the distance. Grand granite cliffs. They said they felt like two pieces of flatsum, just specks In this mighty river, sometimes the current carrying them 30, 40 miles an hour down through the rapids. And they said they felt so insignificant. And here was the essence of stability. Here is the rock that never changes until you realize that, of course, it has changed. That's how it became a canyon. And then you move in your imagination beyond that to the entire earth, and you realize there is but one rock, our God, who never changes. Who's never worn away, who doesn't increase or decrease, who never improves or deteriorates, who doesn't change in his moods, who never goes back on his promises. The rock. You will keep in perfect peace. Him whose mind is steadfast because he trusts in you, trust in Yahweh forever, for Yahweh is the rock of eternity. Yahweh is the rock who never changes, who is always the same in his perfect character. And so I'd like to call attention to three implications of his unchangeability. You see that just another indication of change, you don't have an outline this morning. No band, no outline. What's this place coming to? You have my drawings. And that's to give you some sort of picture of the three ways that I think the scripture speaks of God as an unchanging rock. The first on the left is that this means that he is a fortress to us. Our God is a fortress. There are many psalms that speak of God. As a fortress, the rock who is the fortress, associating those two ideas. For instance, in Psalm 27 You read in verse 3 and 4: Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear. Though war break out against me, even then I will be confident. One thing I've asked of the Lord, this is what I seek. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple. For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling. He will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle and set me high upon a rock Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me. In his tabernacle I will sacrifice with shouts of joy. I will sing and make music to the Lord. The picture of this psalm is probably written it was during the time that David was being pursued by Saul's armies, though an army besieged me. Quite literally that was true for him. The armies were chasing him down by the rocks of Gedi. And there is at that place a huge rock. And David was hiding in that rock. And he sees and thinks of God. He's a refuge, and he a refugee from Israel, and he can't go back to where God's worshiped in the tabernacle. But he thinks of that tabernacle, God's dwelling place And he pictures that as a shelter. And he says, My God, you can shelter me within the place where your presence dwells. And that presence is a rock. You establish me on that rock so that my enemies can't reach me. And Psalm 1 Samuel 23 tells how Saul's army surrounded David as he was hiding in the rock. And all of a sudden God called Saul home because of an army invading and delivered David miraculously when it seemed like the end was near. You are a rock. And so he reflects on this in Psalm eighteen. Picking up that same idea, verse 2, the Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, my God is my rock in whom I take refuge. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call to the Lord who is worthy of praise, and I am saved from my enemies. Verse 30, as for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is flawless, he is a shield for all who take refuge in him. For who is God besides the Lord? And who is the rock except our God? Do you feel like in your own situation that the change and the stress Cause you to wish you had a refuge to flee to? Perhaps it's something that's going on in work. Maybe it's a thing. I remember one time, in fact when I was working on this message a while ago. I was working on a computer and It was one of those days, you know, you pushed a wrong button in the thing, instead of everything lining up. The whole screen goes Z , you know And all the tabs are screwed up and everything's all messed up and then you try to retrieve it and you get into the you know the codes and everything else and it's getting worse and worse and worse and You lose this time and a half hour goes by and 45 minutes and I can't afford to lose this. Lord, where are you? What's going on? I remember as I was gone through that, I thought, well, no wonder I'm all stressed out. I didn't have my 30 minutes in scripture today. And I thought that's a stupid thought. It's not the 30 minutes in Scripture that's my rock. It's the Lord who's my rock. And he's present right here. And I had to stop and remind myself, Lord, at any moment I can depend on you, I can come to you as the stable, unchanging factor. The kingdom will go on. The kingdom doesn't depend on whether computers do what they ought to do or whether I know enough to do them. It doesn't depend on who I work with and whether that person is going to cooperate or whether they're going to try and make my life miserable. The Lord is my rock, and he never changes. He's not in a bad mood. He's never hurried. The Lord is my rock. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast because he trusts in the rock. You're my fortress. I can hide in you. This morning Jesus Christ comes and presents himself to you as a fortress. You look on the back of this. I have questions that flow from each of these. Look at that first question. What to you this morning is the most important thing about the fact that God is a rock who will never change? Can you affirm right now that Jesus is your fortress? That you can bring your fears to him. Think of the padiyas that we have been praying for Trusted God to go to Madrid to preach the gospel, went to Madrid and disruptions, conflicts in the team Have been so discouraging. They've prayed, God, bring reconciliation, work this thing out, and it's gotten worse and worse. And finally they've come back home. Lord, what are you doing? You called us to Madrid, and now it looks like God is working out a way for them to get back to Madrid, but not in a way that they would first choose. Not as part of that original team. Lord, what are you doing? We have to remind ourselves at a time like that, he's the rock. He doesn't change. He's a fortress for us. Just yesterday talking to Len Stewart, Presbytery. The Stewart were having a fantastic ministry in Paris, France. Now they were having a ministry of some of the important people, members of the Supreme Court and the Parliament and people who were um high up in business and government there Because of a learning disability of their son, how to come home, not knowing where God is leading now, no sense of where to go in the future. Lord, where are you? What's going on in my life? He will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast because he trusts in you, the rock. So Hailumakonan. Ethiopia is experiencing revival of unprecedented proportions for that country. And Hilu is given a position in the key training college to train leaders in that land to participate in that revival and what God is doing there. And his kidneys have deteriorated. And he's been brought back home indefinitely, perhaps never to be able to return to Ethiopia's homeland with his family. Try to work out what is God doing, what is God leading, where is all this going? Everything is up in the air. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast. Because he trusts in the rock who never changes. As I've talked to the three of these, I found in every case this is their hope. It's not in people. It's not in circumstances. It's in the fact that God is a rock who can be dependent on. What does that mean for you right now? Let's pause for just a moment before we go on, just to consider in your own life where your fears are and where you need God as a fortress, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is able to deliver and protect and come to him now, just for a moment. And Lord Jesus, we remember you. For you, in the peak of your ministry, were cut off, far beyond the Padillas, the Stuarts, the McConan's. Your enemies turned against you, and when all seemed like it was going in your favor, and the crowds were declaring that you were king days later , the mobs clamored to have you crucified. And what sense did that seem to make? No sense at all to even your disciples. But it was in your crucifixion that you accomplished your very purpose for us. To take our sin, to suffer on our behalf, that we would be given your righteousness, that we would be brought to heaven. You, Lord Jesus, are our fortress. We come with our fears , with our sin, to trust you and to hide in you right now. Amen. Move to the second, the center image in this. You see that God is not only a fortress to us because he's a rock, but the scriptures speak interesting a number of times as a rock as a source of water. For instance, in Exodus chapter 17, you have that picture of Israel in the desert. They're grumbling because there's no water. And Moses says in verse 4, he cries to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They're almost ready to stone me. The Lord answered Moses , Walk on ahead of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel. Take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile and go. And I will stand there before you by the rock at Horum. Strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink. And so Moses did this in the sight of the elders of all Israel. Moses comes to the rock, and God is standing by the rock, and Moses strikes the rock, and out of the rock comes water to drink. Do you see what God is saying there? He's saying these people who are grumbling, I'm going to stand at the rock, strike me! God is the one who has struck at that rock. Strike me, and I will give water out of my being. You think I'm drawing that too far? Then turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. For in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul says, I don't want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud. They all passed through the sea. They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud in the sea. They were all Ate that same spiritual food and drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. The rock was Jesus. And when Jesus was struck, when Jesus was smitten, when Jesus was cursed for your sin and for my sin, he said, in that beating, in that Suffering upon the cross, Jesus being smitten with the rods of the Romans became for you and me spiritual drink. And so in your thirst this morning, come to Jesus. The left side is that Jesus is a fortress, and our peace is that there is no fear. That's the top blank. No fear. Because we rest in him. The center image is then that Jesus is the fountain. And he is our peace because there is no thirst. For those that drink from him. And so we hide and rest in him and we drink from him. Come this morning if you're thirsty. You find that your soul is feeling hollow this morning and thirsty. Things that you can't manage. Remember that Jesus was smitten. Smitten on your behalf, so that you could come and drink from him. He is the rock that not only protects you as a fortress, but he is the rock out of which water comes to refresh you in your thirst. You look at the back side, the so what? Can you affirm this morning that Jesus is your fountain Little lines there for you to just be able to honestly decide. Can I check that? Can I affirm Jesus is my fortress? Put a check. I affirm that. Can I affirm this morning that Jesus is my fountain from which I drink He's my refreshment, not the distractions of my toys, the things of this world, my accomplishments, or anything else. But I come and I bring my thirst to drink from him now. And I'm going to continue. I want to promise, I'm going to continue daily this week. I want just this week, specifically to set a time. beside some time to meet with him from this time to this time, right in a time. I'm going to keep that time. And I know that I need to, just like me in the times of my stress there at the computer to be able to say, I'm going to just stop now And come to my rock, not just some superstitious activity of quiet time, but look to Jesus. Nevertheless, there's great benefit in setting aside that time to say, I'm going to focus during this time of the day. simply to think about Jesus. To think about him and in thinking about him to find the refreshment for my soul. Let's pause right now and speak to God about that. And we want to admit to you now that all the things we try to use in this world to quench that thirst don't work. All the distractions, all those immediate gratifications, we're still thirsty. It's like drinking salt water We come to you now, Lord Jesus. We come to you as the rock that was smitten. So that out of that rock comes a spiritual drink. You Lord Jesus said in John 7, if anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. We want to come for you to refresh us now, Lord Jesus, by focusing our attention on you to think of who you are, what you're like. You are the friend that is everything we could want in a friend. Everything that we could want in a father. Everything that we could want in a bridegroom We come to you to drink and to be filled. Quench our thirst. Lead us this week to spend that time alone with you that we can't do now. We might be drawn close to you and what you're like, to trust you as our rock Lord, work in us. That this week will thirst for you and do that. Pray for these people, Lord. Each of us would seek you and find you and you'd meet us. For you desire to do that, I believe that. You want to do that for everyone here who's seeking you. Amen. And finally, look on the right side. You see there the third picture that comes from this idea of God as our rock? The third picture is that because he is a rock eternal, he's not only a fortress for us and a fountain to rest in him, to drink from him, but he's also a foundation on which we can build our lives. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast, because he trusts in you. Isaiah says that in verse in chapter 26. Then just a couple of chapters later, in chapter 28, he picks up on that idea. And he says in Isaiah 28, in verse 16 , See, I lay in a stone in Zion, a rock, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone for a sure foundation. The one who trusts will never be dismayed. Never hurried, literally, distracted. One who is under stress, he will be at rest. Peter picks up on this idea in 1 Peter, in chapter 2, where he says in verse 4 1 Peter chapter 2. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, see, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen, precious cornerstone. The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now you who believe, to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble. And a rock that makes them to fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. The Bible presents that Jesus is a rock, but he's two kinds of rocks. He's either a rock that's a foundation on which we build our lives, or we choose to reject him and he becomes a stumbling block to us. Upon which we stumble and fall. Do you remember Jesus gave that choice in the Sermon on the Mount? He said, The wise man who hears my words is like a man who builds his house, the house of his life, on a rock. And the storms came and they beat against that house, and it stood because it was built on the foundation of the rock. The rock is his words, his teaching, himself. But he said the person who's foolish and says, I can take or I can leave what Jesus says about how to run my marriage, about how to treat other people, about the priorities in my life. I can live my own way. He says that's like the man who builds his house on the sand. Interesting thing is those two houses look the same when everything's calm. No difference in the house. The only difference is the foundation. And the foundation is revealed when the storm comes. The foundation is revealed when you get bad news. When there's disappointment, when there's disruption, when there's unwelcome change. Not all change is bad. Some change is good. But some change devastates us. And it's at that point Jesus says that the foundation will be revealed. If it's upon the sand, it will be washed away. When we're at Cape Cod, we still enjoy building sand castles. I think Gadeen tells me I'm probably the one that most enjoys building them in the family, but Thing that never ceases to amaze us is how big an edifice you can build sometimes will take an hour or more building this humongous sandcastles. And when the waves come up, it's no more than five minutes you can't even see where it was. It takes rock, the foundation, to stand. What are you building your life on this morning? I believe that God is testing some of us right here. You may be one of them. You're being tested this morning about what you're going to build your life on. Whether you're going to go by the counsel of the world and your friends who are not Christians or things that you read from the secular press, or whether you're going to go by God's word and believe that His teaching, His Word, is the rock. Whether you're going to build your life on Jesus, it's going to make all the difference in the way that your life heads. And so if you're wavering this morning and you're saying, I trust Jesus, but somehow I gotta go by my common sense on this one. I can't really trust what Scripture says because I can't really believe. It 'll work that way. Do you believe that Jesus is the rock? The backside of that, can you affirm Jesus is my foundation? I now bring my life to him. I bring my life to him as the one who never changes, the one who's never in a bad mood, the one who will never fail me. The one who will never go back on his promises. The one who will never tire of me. Some of us had dads and moms on whom we could depend. Do you remember that security that you felt as a child? When they gave their word, they did everything in their power to keep it. God is not only intending to keep his word for you, nothing. Nothing can deflect him from his purpose, that good purpose in your life. And on the other hand, maybe you had a father and mother that didn't keep their word. You never knew whether you could trust them or not. God is that Father that you wish that you had had, whose word never varies, and who is stable and steadfast. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord, in the rock, for the foundation of your life. Let's pray. Lord, once again we come for those of us who are being tested and tempted right now to waver. I'm not really sure I can build my life totally on the scriptures and on what Jesus says. I've got to take some things into my own hands. I think I'll be happier that way. I think I know better. Lord, deliver us from our foolishness. We'd recognize that you alone are the rock who is our foundation. That we would build our lives upon you and upon your word at every point. We would find you to be faithful. Hear us, Lord. You might honor yourself through our lives as the rock. And we would affirm that in every way and give honor to you. In Jesus' name.