All the blessings that you bring us in this life. We thank you for the way that you bring us so many of those blessings. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the fact that you have promised to reveal yourself to us through it and your creation Lord, we come to it now asking for guidance. Lord, asking for knowledge and wisdom. And Lord, we come to you this morning because we know that eyes that see and ears that hear, the Lord God has made them both And so, Father, we ask you to open our eyes and open our ears that we might know you better. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Matthew chapter 4, verses 1 through 11 Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil. After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. The tempter came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. Jesus answered, It is written, Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down, for it is written He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Jesus answered him. It is also written, do not put the Lord your God to the test Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. All this I will give you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. As many of you know I have as an advocation, I coach. I coach a girls junior Barst of the Cross team at Oakland Mills High School, and it's not an advocation that I looked for It's not like I graduated from college and said, Great, now I'm gonna try to coach a J V team and to tell you the truth, me never having been an athlete, it's not something I could have ever conceived of myself doing And the first year I did it it was basically 'cause they couldn't find anybody else to do it. And I was kinda begged and pleaded to someone complied Is this is it I sounded like a fly before, I don't know what Is this working? Technology does have its drawbacks. I was talking about coaching. N now I sound like a fly in this one. I'm just not gonna worry about it That first year I coached, I want to tell you what, I was a terrible coach. We didn't win any games. We went oh ten and two, we had a whole lot of fun and we did a lot of growing as people and the team started to come together But I walked everywhere I went and I had this little yellow book with me. And every time a girl said, Coach , sh should I do this? Should I do that? I'd say, one second, and I'd pull out the book and I'd say, sure. Or I say, No, it looks like that's illegal. Can't do that That was how I coached basically. That first year. It was a learning year. It was a growing year. Then the next year came back at it again, got a little better, at least I had all the rules memorized. And it this year was my third year And this year l like the skies opened up and I got this message from heaven almost in terms of my coaching philosophy because I went there and I played against this one team that would beat me soundly Yeah, there were several teams that would do that in fact. And this team beat me for the same reason it beat me last year, which as I thought about it, had beaten me for the same reason it had last year, the year before I'd been losing to these teams for all the same reasons. And it wasn't so much that my girls didn't have the skills. It wasn't so much that they didn't want to win It was just that I was not prepared with a game plan to meet the coach's game plan. I was looking at it one girl at a time in terms of can they catch, can they throw, can they get a ground ball? And I was not looking at the bigger picture. I was not taking a step back and saying, something's going on here. I know that this coach is going to do this, this, and this because they want to pull my girls to here, here, and here so that this is an open space This year I said that's never gonna happen again. So I started keeping this this log, started writing down all the plays that all the teams I play against would run against me So that never again do I go into a game unaware of my opponent's schemes, unaware of what it is that's going to be run against the girls I'm supposed to be coaching So that they do not have to go in and get blindsided and have the score run up on them. Some of you may be saying, what what in the world does that have to do with Matthew chapter four? One of the things that I loved about middle school Sunday school here was Ruth Olson, who's moved away. But she taught us all a verse. A verse from 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. All scripture is God-breathed and useful. I'm going to stop right there on that word useful. How often when you read scripture do you say, how is this verse for me useful today? How is it useful for my life? How is it useful so that I can grow in my relationship with Christ? Because it's not simple enough to know that Christ was tempted and that he did not sin Mark and his account tells us that. In the space of about one verse, he says, and after his baptism, Jesus was led immediately into the desert to be tempted by the devil, and he was with the wild animals, and angels came and attended him, and that's it. We know those two facts. Christ was tempted and he did not sin. But here we've got this blow-by-blow In this account and in Luke's account, we've got all this detail. We've got all of this explanation about exactly what the temptations were, exactly what Satan said to him, exactly what Christ said in response to Satan and what he did. Why and how is that useful? I want to suggest that we must be like Paul Paul, when he considered temptation, considered it as something that did not simply originate from within the heart and the mind of the believer. Christians today have this idea that they are their own worst enemy Nothing could be more wrong. Nothing. If it's foolish to deny the person and the activity of God in this world, it is almost as foolish to deny that of Satan. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians that we're to forgive the brother who sins against us. And you know what his reason for that is? His reason isn't so that everybody sees you and sees how you get along and says, Oh, those Christians love each other, I want to be one. His reason is that we are not unaware of Satan's schemes And we will not out we will not let him outwit us. 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 11, if you want to look that up. Satan has schemes, and what are they? Try to imagine for a minute Christ sitting with his disciples At some point in his ministry, maybe over one of Peter's fish dinners, and they're sitting there, and Christ says, Hey guys, I want to tell you about something. Something that happened to me before I called any of you. Something that happened to me right after I was baptized, right before I preached that homecoming sermon in Galilee. I was tempted by the devil, see, and this is what happened. This is what he said to me. I want you to think about Christ and those temptations for a minute. On the top of your bulletin insert under introduction, you see I put a couple points there. Didn't number them or letter them. Christ was tempted because he had to be perfect If Christ were not perfect, he could not have ever been that Passover lamb. He could never have been that spotless, pure, blemishless. Son of God and Son of Man who could go to the cross and take your place. It could never have happened. If he'd sinned even one time He could not have been the atoning sacrifice, and you could not be forgiven, sin guilt. Now if I was uh a soccer player, if I was let's say I was a goalie, since we're having a a fantasy up here with me being an athlete, let's say I was a goalie for a soccer team that made it to the World Cup. If I said to you, I had a perfect game. That would mean nothing if no shots were taken on me, would it? It just wouldn't mean that much. Or if I was an outfielder and I started talking about how, oh, I had a I didn't make a single error today That would mean absolutely nothing if the ball had never been hit to me. Because I didn't have an opportunity Christ had to be tempted in order for that perfection to mean anything, and so he was. He was tempted. And these temptations, as we look at them in a minute in more detail, just the first one, we need to realize that in Hebrews chapter 4, Chapter beginning of chapter two we had this theme creep in and real gold print that Christ had to be made like us in every way In order to take our place, he had to be made like us. And in order to be made like us, he had to be tempted even as we are. And yet he had to be without sin. Now, we've kind of built a couple points there, just real quick in the introduction, that this temptation is necessary for the perfection to mean anything, and that the temptation is like ours. But it's not quite, is it? What happens when you're tempted into sin? What happens when I'm tempted into sin? I'm sidelined as a believer for a moment. I'm taken out. I'm made to feel guilty and worthless. My testimony is compromised, my witness is deflated. I begin to feel that I'm not worthy of being a son of God. I become overcome by guilt. What happens if Christ sins? See, Satan's motivation in tempting you and me is very, very different from his motivation in tempting Christ, because Satan knows that we belong to the Father and nothing can snatch us out of his hand. But what about Christ? His brothers and sisters had Christ sinned one time, Satan would have won. And these temptation scenes, as is the case everywhere that Christ is tempted, Satan isn't just trying to discourage another believer. He's not just trying to reduce the effective witness and testimony. He's not trying to dim the light or or throw away the saltiness of one more believer. He's going for the whole ball of wax Because if he can get this one Jesus to sin, he doesn't have to bother with tempting the rest of us. He can go on vacation But Jesus doesn't sin. Jesus doesn't sin. He's perfect. He resists the devil, and as a result, redemption is possible for you and for me. So as we look at these schemes They are of incredible importance. This little three-play book that we've been given here is one that outlines for us and gives us details on Satan's three shots at Christ at the beginning of his ministry, when he saw a unique opportunity to seek to win this cosmic stroke struggle between good and evil which he instituted and began under God's sovereignty when he first rebelled. And so they're important because they show us very much The heart and the mind of our tempter as he works against us. If I were to ask you what is the first temptation And we were in a different denomination, someone might shout out, but we're not, so no one will. The first temptation was turn these stones into bread, wasn't it? Why do you think about that for a minute? What's wrong with it? What would have been so wrong if Jesus said, hey, that's a good idea, because I am hungry. I've been out here for forty days and nights and haven't eaten I just might do that. Thanks a lot, Satan. Hey, I thought you were supposed to be a bad guy who wanted me to suffer. That's great that you gave me that idea. You know, wow What's so wrong with turning stones to bread? In John chapter 2, the very first of the seven signs that Christ gives to demonstrate his messiahship to the people who are slow to believe is turning water into wine. What would have been wrong with turning stones into bread Because whatever it was, had Christ turned those stones into bread, if he pursued his career in the ministry, he would have gone to the cross and died, and that would be it. There'd be no resurrection, and there'd be no real forgiveness for you and for me. As we look at this, I want to ask that question again, what was the first temptation of Christ? Because I think we have to start a little bit earlier. If you are the Son of God, turn these stones into bread. I think that the sin there, very obviously, is not the action itself, but it is the action as it is related to his motivation in particular. Satan doesn't come to him and say, Jesus, you're hungry. Get something to eat, man. He says, if you are the Son of God, turn these stones, command these stones, tell these stones to become bread. Satan encourages Jesus to doubt God's word And he tries to create that as the basis of his action. And that is always sin. And which word did he cause try to cause Jesus to doubt? Jesus Christ has just had quite a couple of weeks. He's felt this call to the ministry. He's gone down to that Jordan River with those throngs of people. He sees John the Baptist and says, No, John, you can't weasel out of this. You must baptize me in order that all righteousness be fulfilled. He walks into that river, he has the water poured on him, and his voice comes from heaven, and says, This is my son, whom I love. With him I am well pleased. And we're told in Mark's gospel, immediately, at once Jesus was led into this into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. You get the senses before he hasn't even drip-dried yet, and he's on his way Maybe he hadn't even heard another voice in between. And what must have been going through his mind in those forty days and forty nights when, like Moses, he's preparing For his ministry. I imagine that if I ever heard those words come out of heaven, they'd be going through my mind And here Satan, the first words that he gives to him are if you are the Son of God, if you are that one whom God loves and with whom God is well pleased, Why are you hungry? Why is it that you're in such pain? Why is it that you're here and you've got all these tremendous needs If you are God's son, just make yourself some bread. Look out for yourself The basis of this temptation is not simply that we're supposed to lead these ascetic lifestyles that don't include things like food. But it's that Satan is here tempting Christ to either in demonstration or proof of, or because of his sonship, to do things that he's not called to do If you are the Son of God, and coupled with that, Satan is desiring to see Jesus act Through doubt of God's character. Whom you loved. God's supposed to love Jesus. And yet he's got need. He's got hunger. This forty days and forty nights business to me seems amazing. To me that seems an awfully long time to go without food, but it's possible I realize I'm walking into some medical professionals turf here, but I did look in the Funkin' Wagnell's Encyclopedia, and it said you can live for seventy days without food. Only about three without water, but you can do this without food. And it was done and Jesus did it. He literally did not eat for forty days and forty nights. And here he is. He's hungry and Satan says to him, Didn't God just say something? Did he say that you were his son and that he loved you and that he's well pleased with you? Think about Satan's tactic with Eve in the garden. Did God really say? Is this what God said to you? Because it sure doesn't look like it. Sure doesn't seem to be that way. Seems like you're gonna have to take things into your own hands and kind of settle things for yourself here It doesn't look like God loves you. I'll never forget one of the Christmas gifts with which I was least pleased in my entire life was from my Aunt Bangie It was uh I was a teenager, I think I was thirteen, and it was one of these uh y you could tell right away it was a book I opened it up and it was a a teen Bible study discipleship type guide and it was called If God loves you, why can't no if God loves me, why can't I get my locker open? And that's the idea here If God really loves you, why are you in need? You better just assume Jesus that God doesn't, and you better just look out for yourself And the result of this action would have been pride and self-sufficiency. Earlier today, John read from Deuteronomy 8. I'm going to flip there, you don't have to. Deuteronomy is where Jesus takes all of his quotes from. And in this passage we read that Christ As the new Israel, Christ as the one who embodies his people, is out there fulfilling what they were unable to In Deuteronomy chapter 8, we read that God humbled the Israelites, causing them to hunger, and then feeding them with manna, which neither you nor your fathers had known, to teach you that man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. God causes us to hunger. God caused the Israelites to hunger. God caused Jesus to hunger. For the reason that we might learn something about him and his provision for us. And if we go on to this other page here Moses warns the people of God by saying, When you have eaten and are satisfied, praise the Lord your God for the good land he's given you. Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God, failing to observe his commands, his laws, and his decrees that I am giving you giving you this day. Otherwise, when you eat and are satisfied, when you build fine houses and settle down, and when your herds and flocks grow large and your silver and gold increase, and all you have is multiplied, then your heart will become proud, And you will forget the Lord your God. You may say to yourself, My power and the strength of my hands have produced this for me. And so Jesus is tempted to act in a way that leads not to a humble dependence on God, but in a way that leads to pride and self-sufficiency. As if Christ was called to perform a ministry in which he basically went around like a magician meeting his needs. And he resisted that temptation. And how did he resist it? First, he trusted in God's word. It is a comfort, I think, to all of us That God in Christ here when he's tempted doesn't make up a new verse to meet this need He doesn't say, hey, I'm God, what I say is scripture. I'm going to just tell this guy what I feel. Uh Satan, I just don't think I should do that And then we could maybe memorize that, and I'm sure it would be a favorite verse for all of us in middle school anyway. But he says to him, it is written. Instead of doubting God's word, he says, Satan, God told me. Instead of saying, I'm going to disbelieve that God really said this or that, that I'm really his son or not I'm going to say it is written. And in that I'm going to affirm that I'm going to stand by the Word of God He doesn't defend, doesn't dispute, doesn't engage in some diatribe or conversation with the devil, and he trusts in God's character. Notice his answer. Man does not live by bread alone, but every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. When we face needs, we can look at it as a need, or we can look at it as an opportunity for God to provide. How did Christ look at it? Christ said, I'm not going to misbelieve that I'm God's son and that he loves me and that he's well pleased with me just because I'm hungry. Moses did this, Elijah did this God miraculously fed them. He fed the people in the in the wilderness with manna, something they didn't know about. He fed Elijah with ravens, something I'm sure Elijah didn't know about, and he can feed me You've got it backwards, Satan. The basis for my life and my happiness and my security in being God's son does not lie in these material things surrounding me Put in God's word. And once I've got God's word straight, the other falls away. But pity the man who says, I need to have my life straight And then add on top of that God's word. It's a hierarchy here. And Jesus says, no. The Word of God is what life is all about. And in John's Gospel we read that this one who is the Word of God came that we might have life. He is in fact the bread of life. And he will not have anything to do with doubting whether or not God is able to take care of his people and his need, or doubting God's goodness and sovereignly decreeing that you and I hunger and have needs and pains and hurts in this He's aligning himself with God, and the result of his resistance is humble dependence rather than proud self-sufficiency. In America today, self-sufficiency, that's a very, very popular idea. If we look at some of our heroes, some of our uh Our stars like the Iron Man, Cal Ripkin, he can do it all. Or you know, our favorite movie people. I know that uh Arnold Schwarzenegger has one out where he looks like he could take on a whole army by himself without any uh any army clerks or something writing him paychecks Looks like he can do everything. Clint Eastwood, all these guys and and girls, everybody is supposed to be self-sufficient, able to do everything on their own I'm not sure there's many concepts that are more diametrically opposed to the Christian lifestyle than self-sufficiency. This desire and this seeking after doing everything by yourself, for yourself, onto oneself, and being self-contained. Nowhere is that a part of what Christianity is about. It's about dependence on God and the family of God. And Christ did not come to serve himself, but to serve others, you and me. And he came to serve his God. He did not come to take the gifts that God had given him and use them for himself. The verse that Peter writes to us, 1 Peter chapter 410, makes it very clear that we are to use our gifts for others. We are supposed to use our gifts not so that we're comfortable, not so that we draw attention to ourselves, not so that we are hooked-ty-doo big jobs, you know, spiritual monsters We are supposed to use our gifts to build others up. And Christ set that pattern for us. He said, I'm hungry, yeah. I'm going to depend on God. Sure, I'm hungry. I'm not gonna d doubt that he loves me. I'm not gonna doubt that I'm his son But I'm not going to begin my ministry on this foot of using these gifts I have as son of God to make sure that I'm comfortable. And how often do we, when we do our spiritual inventories, take note of our gifts and then use them in ways that we like, maybe not ways that the congregation needs How often do we take gifts that we have and use them on our terms? This is the almost the same thing here. Jesus says, I'm not going to do that As we look at other ways that this passage helps us as we are the players, and our coach, a modern authority uh analogy here Christ as our coach tells us about these schemes. What else can we learn? I think that the first thing that we need to be aware of is that Satan tempts us where we have legitimate needs. When we think of temptations, often we think about stuff like uh like when we think about sin, sometimes we think about child pornography or we think about uh cocaine, or we think about things that for for many of us anyways do not fall within the realm of our everyday life. We don't think about things that we really truly need that aren't bad. Bread is not a bad thing. To be hungry is not a bad thing. And as we look at this, we need to ask ourselves, if we are prepared to not be outwitted by Satan's schemes, what are the legitimate needs that we have in our life? Where do you hurt? Where are you hungry? Is it loneliness? Is it fear? Is it insecurity? Is it something to do with family, with job? Something to do with your private or your public life? If you know where your needs are You know where your needs are, you're one step ahead of this. Because Satan will tempt you to meet them in sinful ways. He will tempt you to meet them in spite of what God's Word says. He will tempt you to meet them in the absence of any reflection on what God's Word says. But he's going to tempt you to meet them because the second thing here is that he wants you to see that need. He wants you to see that need not as an opportunity that God has given you to grow, not as an opportunity God has given you to show you how he meets his people's needs, but as a sign of God's neglect. That he's forgotten about you. That you're in the wilderness, that he sent you there, and oh this kind of he slipped his mind and he might have been intending to teach you something like after ten days before he's certainly been too long and now he must have just left you out there I uh there I have a a co-worker at Oakland Mills one time sent a team running and forgot about the team. And the team was running and running and running and they w wound up running for like an hour and a half. And sometimes we feel like that, don't we? Sometimes we feel that God is going to start it out with good intentions to teach us something about dependence or perseverance or trust, and then he forgot about us because we're not supposed to do this for 40 days I signed on for ten, maybe, a little bit of discomfort, but not forty. God does not neglect his people, but he disciplines them and he teaches them in ways that we do not always get all that excited about. Always look at your needs and your wants as opportunities God has given you to teach you to depend on Him and to grow. And lastly then, I'm going to fill this out. I'm going to read this one and I just use the same pronouns I say. He genuinely wants me to meet my needs by myself. Satan is for the individual in a very six -twisted way. He's for the Clint Eastwood and all of us who wants to do things without God And he wants you to solve your problems all by yourself. Apart from God, apart from scriptures, apart from the body life that He's given us. And the thing that's so sad about that is we get suckered into thinking that it's not true sometimes. We think of Satan as somebody who wants to have us in chains like over a over a barbecue or something, or we think of him as somebody who wants to stick needles in us or somebody who wants to put us in one of those old Iron Maidens. Not true He wants you to be happy without God. He wants you to be happy in ways that are contradictory to how God wants you to be happy. For my own life as a young guy who's single, there have been times in the past when I was in early college where there was a girl that I really liked. She wasn't a believer. In fact, she was a very outspoken atheist It's just one perfect example of what I'm talking about and what this text is talking about. Am I going to say, well, I've got these needs I've got these desires, I've got this space in my life that needs to be filled. I'm going to meet it this way, because after all, God's forgotten about me for uh how long has it been since I went through that preteen stuff? Six, seven years back then So obviously he forgot about me and have to do this on my own. What about your life? What are those situations in your life where you have these needs And you are encouraged to assume that God's forgotten about you and left you out there. And the devil wants you to meet those needs. However, you can do it. If you are here this morning and you don't know Christ, and you're not a believer, and you think about the Bible as a bunch of uh nice stories, yeah, they are nice But they're nice because they give us hope for eternal life. We all have needs And part of this temptation, if we had to strip it down to one basic idea, is kind of can be summarized by a 7-Eleven commercial that I heard the other day driving around. It was for a lottery that they were having And it was about this guy who was trying to be an aesthetic and he wasn't gonna go shopping at seven eleven for groceries and try to win fifty thousand dollars by rubbing something off of something And he kept on saying, uh, money, money's nothing, this and that is nothing, you know, this and that is, you know, that's not important to me And then he finds out it's fifty thousand dollars and then he says, Oh, well, after all, man does not live by bread alone. He needs something to wash it down with That's kind of what we're tempted to do. We live by bread, but we wash it down with the blessings of God. That's backwards, isn't it? We live by the Word of God. It's in Christ that we have full life. Apart from Christ, it's a it's a counterfeit. It's empty, it's hollow, it's fake. We've got the superficial needs met maybe, but we don't have our need met. We might have job security. If you don't know Christ, you might have a great family life. Satan wants your needs to be met. You might not have any that you can think of. You might be doing great financially. You might not have had car problems in a whole decade. You might have no problems with your neighbors or friends professionally, personally. But you've got a need because you have sin. And Christ came to be sinless so that he could take your place before the judgment throne of God For those of us who are believers, it is a challenge to not get caught up in our materialistic society, isn't it? I'll tell you the truth, I have been embarrassed all morning about these flip flops I'm wearing. This is just embarrassing. Because it's just not hip. You know, the kids from the retreat were saying they were gonna wear theirs to show some solidarity, but uh but Pete's got his on But it's just an embarrassing thing. And the doctor told me I had to wear white socks and I said I'd really rather wear black. And he said, Oh no, no, you gotta Just one way that I can see in my life, I am still so caught up in materialism that it becomes an overwhelming thing. I still fight this tendency to put bread before word. I still get caught up in this tendency to say, what is really important and meaningful in my life is that I have the that God supplies all my needs. Then I'll worry about what his word says. Then I'll worry about whether or not all of these things I'm doing are are right in the fine print. So I've got to meet my needs And I allow Satan, in his tempting of me, to bring my needs up. Notice that Satan brought this need to Christ's attention. We're not told that Christ was sitting there and thinking about how hungry he was. Satan's going to remind you of needs. He's going to bring them up in his tempting of you, in his role as your adversary, your enemy. Bring them to your mind Try to get you to dwell on them as signs of God's neglect, as ways that God's word just you know, that you are his son or daughter might not mean as much as you once thought it did And he's going to encourage you to try to meet that in ways that are alternative. And the Word of God encourages you and me to resist that. To cling to God, to cling to the word, to cling to Christ, and to remember above all else, that on God's Word we have life And because of his blessings for life that he gives us, we have bread as well. Christ did have angels attend him when his temptations were through, and we are assured the same. Let's pray Father God, we thank you so much for the way that you meet our needs so abundantly. Lord, the way that even in our prayer you uh You give us more than we can ask or imagine. More than we do ask and imagine, Lord. Lord, forgive us our lack of faith As we go through life, so worried about the day-to-day things. Lord, help us to focus on you, on our sonship, the fact that you love us, and the fact that you do in your goodness meet our needs for us. Lord, we just thank you for your word. We pray these things in the name of Christ Jesus who died for us that we might have life. Amen.