It's great to be here with you this morning. And I do give you greetings from my wife Lois. We have our two boys at home with us now. Andrew is the one you heard about, and then Stephen, who is uh 15. Our older girls are actually in Uganda right now, serving as teachers where they grew up And uh we're very proud of them and uh continue to pray for them and their as they launch out in their own ministries. Well, we've read this passage already, and uh One of the, as you've heard, my job is to train Africans, in particular African church planners in East Africa. And it's been my joy to really focus in on this book of Matthew for the last few months and see how Jesus taught his disciples. You know, he was always looking for times to get alone with his disciples. I recently preached from the Beatitudes in uh chapter five, and there you see Jesus wanting to get alone with his disciples, and at the end of chapter 7, you find out that all the crowds were there. He couldn't get away from the crowds most of the time. In this particular passage in Matthew 16, which many of us are familiar know as Peter's confession. Jesus is in his third year of ministry, his last year of ministry, and he's in this six-month period uh visiting Galilee, where he came from himself, uh the Galilee of the Gentiles, where he grew up. And while he's there, three different times he removes himself from the intense ministry around the Sea of Galilee, where it was very hot. and takes them to the plateaus or the uh uh uh the higher regions uh in in Caesarea Philippi to spend some time with his disciples. As we think about Jesus' ministry, what was the theme of his preaching? Remember when he followed in John the Baptist's footsteps? What was his theme? Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near, or the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And there's a theme throughout Jesus' ministry of turning. He's turning people away from their sins, turning people away from their idols, turning them to God. And there's another turning. We're told that when Jesus found out that John the Baptist had been imprisoned. He turned toward Galilee of of the Gentiles, where he was from, and decided to go back there and begin his ministry preaching. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And so there's this theme of turning and and at this particular junction of his ministry, uh it's a very significant uh turning point in his ministry. At this point, John the Baptist has been beheaded, been completely removed from the scene. And uh the Pharisees and Sadducees are hot on Jesus' trail. You really see that in the book of Matthew. There's this constant conflict and debate that Jesus has. with the religious leaders. And in the preceding scene, before chapter sixteen Jesus was uh leaving uh the uh lake area and headed for Caesarea Philippi, and and while they were in the boat He says to them, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Scribes, or the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And of course, uh the bright disciples that they were, uh they really uh it took them a little while actually took them a little while to pick up on things. They said, uh, d did somebody bring bread for lunch? Reminds me when the disciples found Jesus talking to the woman of Samaria and uh They said, uh Jesus, when are we going to have lunch? They had been in the town to get food. Here again in this preceding scene, and Jesus says, You're worried about bread Don't you remember I fed the 4,000, I fed the 5,000, and anyway, that's not what I'm talking about. The Loven of the Pharisees and the Scribes I think we'll see, was their misunderstanding of who Jesus was. In that context, that when Jesus gets them alone, he says to them Who do people say the Son of Man is? It's very important that we know who Jesus is. Maybe if if you ask the Common American, he'd say, Oh yes, uh we know Jesus is the Son of God. Because maybe they heard that or in in their Sunday school lesson, or maybe you would say that. And and maybe we say that sometimes and we don't really think about what it means. And so The faith that we have, the understanding we have of who Jesus is, is determining how we're living right now. Do you believe Jesus is just a man? Do you believe he was uh maybe a folk hero? Do you really believe he was God? What kind of impact does that have on your life? So we want to ask ourselves, there are several titles used for Jesus. In this passage, and we want to look at each one of them and ask ourselves what we understand about them and what do we believe about them Maybe we could look at this as sort of the millionaire show, you know? You're going to tell me now what's the right answer? Will the real Jesus please stand up? Was Jesus the Son of Man? Was he a prophet? Was he the Messiah? Was he the Son of the Living God? The phrase Son of Man was the title that Jesus used of himself most often. Jesus didn't go around telling everybody he was the Messiah. He didn't tell people he was the Son of God. Now to me, I would think, look, if you're the Son of God and the Messiah, tell people. That was not Jesus' method of teaching. He asked a lot of questions and he made you think. And throughout uh The Gospel of Matthew, and of course the other Gospels, you really see many times behind the scene the role of the Holy Spirit in revealing his truths. And we see that later in this passage. So Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. And what does the Son of Man mean? It means he's a man. Strictly speaking, it just means he's a human being. And we don't even find this phrase used very much previously in in uh Jewish literature. It was a unique phrase that Jesus used for himself, that everybody seemed to know. Seemed to think they understood what that meant. Then he was just a man. Working among Hindus in uh Kenya One of the things we're able to tell people is that Jesus Christ was a real historical person. He wasn't just a religious story. They have millions of gods and many of those gods some of them were actually people at one time and then they div divonized those people into gods and now they're just religious stories and they all look at them as religious stories. They don't think they were And when they hear the gospel, they often think this is just another religious story. We tell them, no, Jesus really lived. As a new Christian It really amazed me to hear that in the manuscripts we have from the New Testament, we have more evidence to prove the existence of Jesus than we do Julius Caesar. Everybody assumes accepts that Julius Caesar really lived and was a historical person. And we have the records, of course, of all the Jewish and Latin historians of that time to tell us Jesus really did Walk on this earth. But wait, what did Jesus say of the Son of Man? What did he attribute to the Son of Man? Listen to some of the things that he attributed to the Son of Man, and we'll see that he wasn't just a common man. He said that the Son of Man will forgive sins. The Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. The Son of Man sows the seed of the good news or the gospel. He said the Son of Man would be betrayed and suffer unjustly at the hands of sinners. And the Son of Man would give his life as a ransom for many. And the Son of Man would rise from the dead and one day return in glory and judgment to establish a new kingdom That's the Son of Man that he's talking about. And perhaps Jesus was even thinking of the reference to the Son of Man in Daniel, the book of Daniel 7. 13. And that son of man is nothing no one less than than someone who approaches the ancient of days and receives all authority and power. He receives all nations and peoples, languages, and every people group, and his dominion will have no end. But most of the crowds and people and even the disciples were slow to understand what he meant when he said he was the Son of Man. Well, is this the right answer? Is that who Jesus was? Jesus was a man, and it's important that we know that he was fully man, otherwise he cannot be our Savior. He could not take our place and represent us. when he went to the cross, but he's more than a man So Jesus says, who do people say the Son of Man is? And how do they reply? Well, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others one of the prophets, others say Jeremiah. Now it seemed pretty amazing to me that for them to believe that Jesus was one of these prophets, he would have had to resurrect it from the dead. That's pretty amazing, isn't it? They would believe that, but they couldn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah. Even to believe that he was one of these prophets come back from the dead would be pretty amazing Of course, they associated with John the Baptist because he also preached, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. And of course, John the Baptist Told his disciples to follow Jesus, and he said he was the forerunner. He was the one who came to prepare the way for Jesus. Maybe Jesus was Elijah come back. If you look at the book of Elijah, some of the same miracles that Elijah performed were performed by Jesus. So it it's It's uh no surprise that they would connect him to Elijah And Malachi four five, among other passages, predicts that in the last days Elijah will appear. It's interesting this to this day when the Jews celebrate Seder, there is an empty chair for Elijah. Which is showing their hope of the Messiah to come. Maybe he was Jeremiah, because Jeremiah preached much about repentance Is Jesus just a prophet, just one of the other prophets to come? Today it's very popular to say that all roads lead to Rome, and there are many different ways to God. Often when we preach to Hindus, they readily accept Jesus, um, but they would take him and put him right along the rest of their pantheon of gods. And say, yeah, we'll worship Jesus. If he'll bless us, if he'll bring us some good luck, we'll try that too. And I don't minimize that because I think it's an open door for us to get in there and tell and begin telling them the uniqueness of Jesus. I believed that myself before I came to Christ. And uh I can remember the fellow who witnessed to me, you heard a little bit in my background, my Jesus people days, I was riding my bicycle Next to a fellow on the way home from school, and I started preaching to him about ecology And uh he said, I think we need to clean up our own backyard before we clean up the world. I said, Oh, this guy wants to talk about uh something spiritual. And then he started to tell me that Jesus said he was the only, he was the way, truth, and life, and no man comes to the Father but through me from John 14. And I said, there's no way Jesus could have been so narrow-minded It is said in Africa that you can tell uh how deep the gospel has gone into someone's life by where they go when they're sick. And many of the Africans, even once they've bec been Christians for many years, they still go to witch doctors And ask them to help them with their problems, whether they be psychological or physical. Where is your God? Where do you go when you're hurting? Where do you turn? Psalm one fifteen says that all the gods of the nations are idols And those who worship them will be like them. Who do we worship? Was Jesus just a prophet? Jesus said of John the Baptist that he was more than a prophet. There was something very special, and we have to say that all the more about Jesus. The book of Hebrews tells us that in these last days He has spoken to us through the Son, whom He appointed heir of all things. Was Jesus Jesus a prophet? Yes. Was he a man? Yes. But more than that Then he turns and he says, after they say, well some say you were one of the prophets, he says, but who do you say that I am? And of course Peter, never slow to put his foot in his mouth, says, I'll speak up, I'll say something. We just got a new director at World Harvest Mission, Clyde Godwin. And uh He was telling us a story about when he first uh got to know Jack Miller. And he said that he and another pastor had decided that One particular lesson in our sonship training was terrible and should be removed. It's called a tongue assignment, where basically you're told to not gossip or slander or complain at all for a whole week. And at the end of that time, you then know that you really are a sinner. So they went uh they went to tell Jack that this shouldn't be in the sonship training and uh and his friend got up and said spoke and he says, I was so glad it was him, because Jack looked at him and said, You don't understand the gospel. He said, I was so glad he spoke first. And I just see Peter was like that, always willing to speak up quickly. But in this case he had it right, didn't he? And of course, uh probably the other disciples understood this well, and maybe they had not verbalized it. And really set it straight in their own minds and thinking. This is why Jesus asked them and told them it was so important. Well, Peter says, you are the Christ, you are the Messiah. As I said, Jesus didn't go around telling everyone directly that he was the Messiah, because the Jewish people of those times had their own concept of who the Messiah would be. He would be a political military leader who would lead them into freedom away from the Romans, the golden age would return to Israel, real estate prices would go up, and they would be living a good life again. Jesus said, I don't want to call myself Messiah. If that's what you think Messiah is. I hate to say this, but a lot of times I don't want to tell people I'm not a missionary. I don't want to tell them I'm a pastor. Because I know that my opportunity for sharing the gospel is minimalized at that point. Because they're only going to say certain things around me. I told somebody about the time that I hitchhiked from California and and God told me to keep my mouth shut and listen to people and then tell them the gospel Messiah means anointed one, and reminds us of Jesus' kingly title. Even when Jesus was offered the title Messiah at his trial, we see in Matthew 26, he referred to himself as the Son of Man. And yet, the book of Matthew tells us in many different ways that Jesus fulfilled all the prophecies. of the Messiah to come from the day of his birth until when he rose from the dead. But even the disciples had trouble understanding this And and isn't it interesting that just after Peter's wonderful confession Jesus starts to tell them , you know, now you said that I'm the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Let me explain what that means. I'm going to have to go and die. And I'm going to be Tortured, and I'm going to be ashamed. Peter said, uh no, no, no, Jesus. Now let's go over this again. You're the Messiah You're gonna lead us in the victory. Um none of this dying stuff, uh being defeated on the cross So even the disciples had did not understand what Messiah meant. But then Peter added that he was not only the Messiah, but the Son of the living God. As we said, Jesus did not refer to himself as the Son of God In the book of Matthew, he's referred, he's uh addressed as a son of God only twice by the disciples, and this is one of the times. And excuse me, it's not just the disciples. The only other time is the centurion, the Gentile Centurion, says he's the Son of God. The other times it's Satan and demons confess that he's the son of God. But Jesus acknowledges it here, doesn't he? Because he says, Blessed are you, Simon Peter, because My Father revealed this to you. And you know, we have to have the Holy Spirit reveal to us who Jesus really is. It's not something that we can do on our own. Jesus was and is the Son of the Living God, reminding us that he's not an idol. That particular area, Caesarea Philippi, had their own. I think they worshipped Pan, the god Pan. I don't know much about him, but There were many idols and and religions of that day, and we're reminded here that he's not a dead god, not an idol. The Hindus, when they worship their gods and they go into the temple, they have to ring a bell to wake the gods up. But the scriptures tell us that our God never sleeps When we believe in Jesus who is the Son of the Living God, we procure for ourselves the promise of eternal life. Because we worship the living God. We find forgiveness of sins, and we find power to change Well, what is the right answer here? More importantly, who do you say Jesus is? Was he only a man? Was he only a prophet? Or is he the one and only Messiah, Son of God, and Savior? Only the Holy Spirit can show you that. Pray earnestly that God would reveal that to you. C. S. Lewis said we really only have three choices about Jesus. Either he was a liar, in which case you can't call him a good prophet, he was a lunatic, in which case you can't tell me he was a great moral teacher, or he really was the Lord. And if he is, are you following him? Jesus is either a liar, a lunatic, or he is Lord And this is why we're changed. Why Christians are changing. Because they believe that Jesus is the Lord. And this is why we turn with Jesus to the Gentiles, to those outside of the kingdom of God, and we welcome them in because we believe that Jesus is. Who says he was. Let's pray that on that important day, when that when the Son of Man returns in glory, we'll be able to say with Peter, Jesus, you are the Christ. The Son of the Living God. Let's pray Father, we thank you for our brother Jesus, for our Lord Jesus. Thank you, Jesus, that You are and were the Son of Man, the one who went before us, on our behalf And died for our unbelief and for our sins, for our rebellion against your Father. Thank you, Jesus, that you indeed are a prophet. Who speaks to us on God's behalf, who reconciles us to God, who brings us back to God. But thank you most of all, Jesus, that you are the Messiah, you are the Christ, the anointed one. You are the one who saves us from our sin. You are the one who saves us from the corruption of this world. You are the one who saves us From the vi very fires of hell on Judgment Day. Jesus, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Help us to believe this Help us to live like we believe it. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.