Is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, this uh dynamic that we observe here with Mary and Martha Is uh present in each of our hearts. We we have the same temptation uh to seek to serve you but to have our our doing way out ahead of our being and soon we we end up looking a lot like like Martha. Would you show us a different path? Would you work in in my heart, Holy Spirit? In all of our hearts. That we might not be known as critiquers, but as lovers of people, people who sit at your feet and serve out of our being Help us to that end. We pray, Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to start with a quite long introduction because I want us to think carefully about the nature of critique. One of the things that's writ large over this passage is Martha's critical spirit towards her sister. And towards Jesus, a critical spirit that Jesus rebukes. And he commends to Martha that she replaced that with something With something else that we'll look at. Why is this important for us to consider carefully? As some of you, maybe most of you know, I'm the executive director of Flourish. We work with clients all across the country, across denominations. And as we work with those clients, we find that the most common thing that non-Christians say about Christians is that they are critical. And it serves as a barrier to us bringing the gospel to them. People with critical spirits not only destroy opportunities to share their faith. They tear up congregations. They just look at COVID. They break down relationships. They accomplish the opposite of what Christians are called to in a relationship. to one another. This is why we're going to give this some sustained focus. So let me start with a question. I want you to think about the most helpful critique someone has ever given you. The most helpful critique that someone has ever given you. Now, as you have that in your mind Why was it helpful? What was the nature of it that made it helpful? One of the many helpful critiques that I've received through the years came way back in college when I was young, excited, exuberant Okay, so I'm still all those things, except young Still excited and exuberant. And okay, I was also obnoxious. I came from New York. What do you expect? And this particular day, I had dominated the discussion period of a Sunday school class. And my kind and wise pastor took me aside and he gave me a very helpful critique Why was it helpful? Let me give you seven traits briefly, and we're going to come back to the opposites of these later when we think about Mary and Martha. What were the seven traits of the critique that my pastor gave me? The first is that it wasn't proud. It was loving. He wasn't coming across as superior. Remember from 1 Corinthians 13 that love isn't proud. They don't fit in the same space. In this way, my pastor's critique mirrored the critiques that you can read all through the Bible. Critiques that are whether they're offered through the prophets or Jesus Himself or the Apostles. They have this sense of loving even the prophets, their critique of the people of the Israelites, the people of God is through tears. Thinking about who Jesus critiqued is a very interesting topic to ponder. Jesus critiqued who he critiqued the proud religious people. Those who believed that they saw the world correctly and felt like everyone else should know that and conform to their views. Jesus, you'll notice, didn't critique the struggling, especially not those struggling with sin. He received them as they came to him. So it wasn't proud. It was not an attempt to seek dominance, which is what most critique actually is if you diagnose it and you pull it apart. Especially the bad ones that have happened to you. Somebody trying to beat one up on you. Uh what else? The critique from my pastor was Curious It started with a genuine question. It believed the best about me and why I did what I did. I might have been obnoxious, but I wasn't um I was earnest and unhelpful in being obnoxious. But it was earnest, which is why I started with a question. It was curious. It clearly had my good in mind My pastor was clearly for me as God is for us. Romans eight twenty-eight or thirty-one. One of those two. What else? It clearly had the good of others in mind. I, in that Sunday school class, had been experienced by others in a way that was unhelpful to them, but I didn't know it. And so my pastor kindly helped me to see that. Six. It it fit neatly. And if you want these, you can just ask me for my notes. I'm happy to you. It fit neatly Within the biblical category of encouragement or gospel exhortation. It fit there. And last, it didn't tear me down by shaming me. It certainly was truth and love, maybe the hardest thing that we're called to in the Bible. But it was grace and truth. It was both. That's why it was helpful. A good, appropriate critique that is genuinely spiritually helpful can happen. It's just rare, sadly. And that's why critique is so damaging most of the time. So on this day in Jesus' ministry, here's what we find in our text. We find an unhelpful critique, a patient savior, and someone who got life right. An unhelpful critiquer, a patient savior, and someone who got life right. But see that Make sure you've got to make sure you're seeing this vignette accurately. So we're going to first look closely at Jesus and the sisters. I'm going to kind of blaze through this pretty quick, 30,000 foot view, because I'm going to come back and click more tightly on some of the details as we go. So look at me at verse 38. So as they went on their way, so Jesus is out with his disciples, they enter a village, we find out by cross-reference that this is Bethany. This is where Mary and Martha live. So a woman named Martha welcomes Jesus into her home. She offers him hospitality. Martha's got there a sister And Mary, her sister, sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teachings. She took the posture of a disciple. In this time, this would have been surprising. Because teachers didn't take women as disciples , but Jesus did. He elevated the role of women, equal in dignity and honor, even if different in role and function. So what does Mary do? She sits at the Lord's feet, posture of humility, teach me, Lord, and listens. So you listen to his teaching. So that's Mary. Martha, but, strong adversive, verse 40, Martha was distracted, which instantly throws me back to every time in my growing up experience that my mother would have people in our home. It was so distracting for her she couldn't even really enjoy it. She was distracted with what? With much serving. Well, shouldn't we serve the Lord? Yeah. We should, but in a certain way that Jesus is trying to teach us here. She's distracted with my servings, Martha. And so what's Martha do? She does what I do. She went and flapped her gums. So she goes up to Jesus and she says, Lord, do you not care? Now, this is interesting, this little phrase here. If you go and search it up, uh at least in the ESV, right, um, there's only a couple of things that Jesus is accused of not caring about. He is known for not caring about the opinions of others. We know you don't care about men's opinions. The other place that you get this is in Mark 438. They're in the storm. And um they're in the boat and they're all panicking. Jesus is in the back on the cushion. Like, do you not care about us? We're gonna die here. And of course, what Martha's implying here is you don't care, which is a pretty strong accusation against Jesus. What is she accusing Jesus of not caring about? My sister has left me to serve alone. Martha's burdened, she's overwhelmed. And that leads to this critique, leads to this shaming, this uh she goes on to order Jesus around Wow, audacity. Misplaced, but audacity. Tell her then to help me. She should be helping me. Kurt Thompson, who's a Christian counselor in this area in Delaware, says where there's a should, there's a shame. Where there should, there's shame. And Martha is most definitely shaming Jesus, which is crazy talk, of course. And shaming your sister. But the Lord, notice the juxtaposition of the butts here. But the Lord answered her Kindly, gently, it's wonderfully warm. Martha. Martha. And this is how you should hear the Lord appealing to you, if like me, you're an unhelpful critiquer. Matthew, Matthew, you are anxious and troubled Anxious and troubled. In Luke's gospel, um this these ideas of being anxious and troubled, this pairing, this concept, right? Um talked about the seed that falls in the 814, seed that falls among the thorns and gets squeezed out. Right? In 12, 22 and following, Jesus talks about don't be anxious, like he does in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew. In 21, 34, watch yourselves. About this thing of being anxious and troubled. What's she makes yours and troubled about? Well, many things. This is interesting. This text has been a wonderful ways. It would take me hours to describe to you how beneficial it's been for me. to meditate on this text and to soak deeply in it over the years and even in preparing for the sermon. Um but one of the things that we see here is that there are many, many things that I am concerned about, and maybe that you're concerned about, that Jesus isn't. And it's a super helpful corrective to me to be forced to step back and go , do I care about this more than Jesus does? And the answer the vast, vast, vast majority of the time for me is, yep, I'm in this spot. Jesus goes on, but one thing just one One thing is necessary. That's a very fascinating word. How do you keep going on and serving? One thing's necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion. By sitting at the Lord's feet, listening to his teaching, she's chosen the good portion. We'll come back to that. That good portion will not be taken away from her. Though the Lord's physical presence may leave her at his death and resurrection and ascension. But by the Holy Spirit, she will always have Jesus. Okay. That's Jesus and the sisters. Um what's the second then go on and think carefully about the nature of unhelpful critique My introduction, I talked about critique that was helpful to me. Let's think carefully about the nature of unhelpful critique. We'll go to verse forty. We're going to focus on Martha, the unhelpful critiquer. I was pondering this this morning. Yes, I purposefully picked a different word because I want it to stick in your mind. I could have said critic, but I wanted to pick something different that might stick in your mind. The unhelpful critiquer. So what we see here with Martha is almost the exact opposite of what I experienced with my pastor back in college. So let me show you that of the opposite. Uh Martha's proud. I know how this situation should be, what's best, and this isn't it Many times, an unhelpful critiquer is not gently pointing out clear sin. But rather expressing that their preference, which proudly they think should be paramount, that preference, those preferences are they're not being satisfied. You're not giving me my preferences, so I'm gonna I'm gonna bite you. The heart of the Proud Critiquer is like this. The world is going to be off if I don't correct this so I'd better. The world is going to be off if I don't correct this. So I'd better. Martha Sproud. Martha was most certainly seeking dominance. Over her sister, over Jesus, even over Jesus' actions. Tell her The unhelpful critiqueer believes that they know how the world should be, and they feel it's their place. It's their place. To dominate those around them to conform to their view of things. You need to be put in your place, is the attitude of heart. Some of you are in software, and you know the difference between a feature and a bug. This is a bug of fallen human nature. Think for just a second how odd and ultimately damaging it is for one speck of limited, frail, fallen dust. That 's a human. A limited, frail, fallen piece of dust for one speck of it to assert themselves over against another speck. Of limited, frail, fallen dust. Martha was seeking dominance. She was proud. She was seeking dominance. She wasn't curious. Martha was not curious. She already knew. She wasn't asking questions. She was making declarations. She was scattering damaging words to those who needed to be put back in line. She wasn't curious. Martha was self-centered. The attitude was toward me. Martha, this is interesting. I think it's interesting. Martha's critique was a display of her heart. Of her sinful heart and what she wanted. It wasn't anything about building Mary up or exalting Jesus That's um pretty crushing to me. Yet if I look at my critiques of my wife, of my kids, of um clients, of employees, of contractors It much more displays my heart than it does anybody else's. Martha was self-centered. It wasn't anything about building Mary up or exalting Jesus. So it also wasn't other-centered. It wasn't purposefully directed to Mary's good or anyone else's for that matter. Again, it wasn't about exalting Jesus. If anything, she accuses Jesus of doing wrong. You're doing wrong, Jesus. It's absurd. Martha did not seek to do the gospel exhortation or encouragement. She wasn't pointing out clear sin kindly, gently, lovingly, patiently, respectfully. Speaking truth in love, exuding grace with her supposed truth. Here's what it was more like. You didn't do what I wanted. I'm not getting what I desired. I know what's wise. You're not giving it. You're not being what I need you to be for me. And so I'm going to let you know that by cutting you down. It wasn't gospel exhortation encouragement. And last, Martha's words tore down with shame. Where there's a human should, there's shame. Now maybe you're as cut by this analysis as I am. I was praying this morning that, Lord, I I'm probably the one who most needs this sermon in this room. But I do want you to ponder some, friends. I think if as a congregation you're honest with yourselves , It's possible that you're a pretty critical bunch. Even apart from the challenges of 2019 and 2020. You're a bunch of smart, accomplished people, which makes you wonderful and enjoyable to be around. But because we're sinners, a collection of people like that has a concomitant risk. It can easily lead to pride that gets expressed in critique, which can and has been damaging Occasionally to me, certainly to previous pastors, to the session, to the staff, and certainly to each other I yearn for Bob. I yearn for the staff, future staff, to not experience that. Friends, because this is our tendency to be unhelpful critiquers, this is why we so desperately need Jesus. It's why he's even on earth with Mary and Martha on this day. Think about Jesus He came for us to live perfectly, including critiquing only for the good of others. He dies, horribly critiqued for sin he hadn't done, because we were the ones who deserved that critique. You do realize, taking a line here from Pastor Alfred Poyer, that the greatest critique of you and me was spoken on the cross. That our pride is so great that the only possible solution to it was for the very Son of God to die in our place. But Jesus doesn't just do that. He rises triumphantly, he ascends victoriously, and he prays for you and me in the midst of our messy lives. As we can try to stop being unhelpful critiquers, he prays for us for that. Because it's what we need. Now remember that we've camped here because us being very different Christians in this regard means thinking about our interactions rather differently. Whether those interactions are with non-Christians or Christians. So how do you stop from being an unhelpful critiquer? Well, then third, we turn from critique toward Jesus. So we looked at Martha, but in some depth we thought about Jesus and why he's even there. And let's think about Mary Let's look at how Mary practiced her apprenticing to Jesus. I like that word apprentice. I've begun to use it in For the last several years, I think that um the word discipleship is muddy to us. We don't quite know what that means or what it feels like or how it's done. When we use the word apprentice, we have a much more clear concept of what it actually means for someone to become, to go from apprenticed to accomplished. That there's a lot to it. So how's Mary practicing her apprenticing to Jesus? So we see in verse 39 Mary sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. And I also want us to look at verse 42 and think about this word portion. One thing's necessary, verse 42. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. This word portion has been very, very helpful to me as I've meditated on this. Very helpful. This word portion is one in the scriptures of the water words like this, but this is one that's like a link on a webpage where you click on it and it takes you to other places. This is one of those that does that. Think about Psalm 16, 5. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places, indeed. I have a beautiful inheritance. This description here Is the psalmist speaking his satisfaction with the Lord and his provision? It's an expression of contentment. with the arrangement, which is the Yeswee Study Bibles Note, which is exceptional, you should use them. Content them with the arrangements of one's life, seeing them as providentially ordered. That I can sit as I have been seeking to do, to just sit and say, I have a very good portion. I have a very good portion. Because I do. In Christ, we've thought about this. In Christ, I already have all things. I have a good portion. Can you say that? I have a good portion So there's a contrast here, obviously, between Mary and Martha. The unhelpful critiquer has a sense of what portion would satisfy them. They have a sense of a portion that would satisfy. They're not getting it. The critique is an attempt to get the portion that they think will satisfy. Okay? Can you follow that? The unhelpful critiqueer has a sense of what portion would satisfy, but that portion recognizes rooted merely in a certain state in creation. And because we're made for the Lord, and He's our portion, no certain state of creation can satisfy And so it won't. And that's why repentance and faith are appropriate. If you find yourself, as I often do, a proud, unhelpful critiquer. That that I'm repenting, I'm turning from, I thought my happiness could be found in a certain state of creation. And I'm turning from that because that can never satisfy. It's an idol. And I'm turning from that, and I'm turning to Jesus and saying, You're my portion. I need you. I believe in you. I'm turning from trying to make my own way. And that's why repentance and new faith in Christ are appropriate. If you find yourself a proud, unhelpful critiquer. And that's no matter if this is like the first time you've ever thought of this. I know this is a brain dump, it's a brainful, typical math sermon, but if this is the first time that you've thought about that, it's a great day. To begin that practice of repenting, turning from your sin, thinking a portion on earth can satisfy you, and turning to Christ and saying, I need you. I need you living and dying for me, because I'm an unhelpful critiqueer. What happens when a believer stays in the state of being an unhelpful critiquer, of being the proud critic? I can tell you. I can testify what it's like. You experience a low degree of godliness with contentment. Which if you know your Bible a little bit, 1 Timothy 6. 6 tells us is great gain. Unhelpful critiquing and contentment do not exist in the same space. So, what's the opposite that's held out here for us? Years ago now, John Piper provocatively titled the book, God is the Gospel. As seeking to make the point that the great gain that we found in believing the gospel is not merely that our sins are forgiven, it is. But the result of that is that we get God again. We get the portion, the only portion that can truly satisfy us. We can only be satisfied and contented when we delight in the one for whom we were made. Bynalogy, critique, in critique, what what are we trying to do? We're trying to get some state of creation. And for me, the most helpful way to think about that is it's like We've just gone through Halloween, is that I I'm taking in all of this Halloween junk food. Trying to make my own portion. But it's junk. And it leaves me sick and with regret When I try and create my own portion, my own satisfaction with the world as Matt Bowling wants it to be, I can tell you where that goes. Anxious, troubled about many things. That was um this is unplanned, so hopefully this will go well. Always dangerous, but you gotta follow the spirit anyways. I was working with a brand new client this week. Pastor that I'm coaching, just begun coaching. It's burned out. It's very stressed. And we were talking about the nature of stress and the human experience of stress. And it's a common it's a common theme because I've had to coach myself quite a lot about this and you get that opportunity to coach others. And the the experience of human stress there's certainly like, you know, you're chased by a bear, right? And and there's that sense of danger. We live in a dangerous place and there's stress that's like that. There's you stress. There's a challenge out in front of you that you you have this good stress actually that pushes you towards it. Right? So not all stress is some stress is because of danger, some stress is actually good. It moves us towards things. The general experience of stress For humans, is that we desire a state to come about. We are unsure if we can make the state come about And so we get stuck in the middle, anxious and troubled. That we really, really, really, really, really Want a certain state of creation to come about. But we cannot assure it. And so we run up against the limits of being a creature. And we hate it. And we experience stress. Anxious. Troubled about many things. But there's a different path. The path that Martha's on Leads to anxiety, trouble, and certainly what Martha felt after this exchange, regret, for putting the focus on the wrong portion Again, I'll warn you just as Jesus does. Troubles, the cares of the world, focusing on them instead of Jesus, they choke out true, vital, fruit-bearing faith. And Jesus lifts up Mary here, apprentice Mary, to help us choose a better path. It's a simple path, but it is not a simplistic path. And in our culture, it's an exceedingly difficult path. Because it involves doing less and going slowly instead of speeding through life. Instead of living in the future, it's living in the moment. And it's very different. And the world presses us into its own mold. Instead of us being pressed into this mold that Jesus holds up for us. So what is how does Jesus lift up Mary? Well, Mary looks to Jesus. She looks to Jesus. She looks to Jesus' word. She looks to his person. She looks to his perspective on things. She looks to desire to express what Jesus does. For us, that's by indwelling Holy Spirit. Reordering. And for me, it's reordering priorities for my interactions. That they look really different than Martha Um sometimes, well, many times, I'm asked to consult with a church or with a session or a dispute between leaders or staff members. And my uh blunt, you're used to this about me, um, my blunt approach is simply to ask many times. Does Jesus care about this as much as you do? And if he does, show me in the Bible where he does. Now that's exceedingly blunt. And I didn't say to any of you individually. Just collectively as a group, but something that you should ponder carefully. Because for me, the vast majority of the time, the things that I am very munmed up about, Jesus is going, Matthew, Matthew. Why are you anxious and troubled about many things? One thing is necessary. Mary, she chose the good portion. And I'm choosing Halloween junk food all the time. So we see this interaction, it's a disruptive one, it's broken. What's the fruit? Um so I mentioned or I said in my prayer before we started. Um Being and doing. Being and doing. Are you always due out of your being? Martha, anxious and troubled, comes out critiquing. Why? Because her that's her doing. Because her being Though who she is with the Lord in the secret place, the quiet place of her heart, is messed up, and it manifests in her doing. And your doing always reveals your being. Jesus talks about this, right? Talks about the fruit of the trees, ground, right? It's everywhere. Out of the overflow of the heart, the Mouth speaks. Being doing. Must we do? Sure, we've just come off the parable of the Good Samaritan. Serving the Lord is exceedingly important. But it should not, it has to. Come from a place of sure, deep, profound being where I'm taking the portion that is the Lord And if I am, what 's held out by the power of the Spirit Is that we can do the things that we're called to. We can love one another. We can bear the fruit of the Spirit to each other. Can we name those? Think we can? Let's try it. Fruit of the Spirit. Ready? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, and self-control. Apologize. Should have turned it up from my Bible. Could you imagine a congregation of people that that's the way that they interacted with each other? That that's what they experienced from each other? Can you imagine how different our workplace conversations would be if our co-workers consistently experienced us that way. Our neighbors. If that's what they found us to be like. There would be, I submit to you, there would be a sense of wonder. And 1 Peter 315 talks about being ready to give reason for the hope. And um Piper in a different place points out that that assumes that people see something. And there's a reason that they can see that we have a different hope. And so they come to us and say, what is this? And we get to tell them what generals respect the gospel. And I, friends, it's true for me. So I'm going to assume that it might be true for you, that people are not seeing something highly contrastive. with us. They're not seeing this. What are we called to in our actions? Love one another. Bear the fruit of the Spirit towards each other. Build each other up. Romans 15. 2. Encourage one another. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. When we're seeking those things by the power of the Spirit, when we depend upon the Holy Spirit and we seek those things, that's That's when our doing will be different because our being is different. And then we'll be turning from critique towards Jesus. Let's pray together. Okay , Father, there's so much here and just a little tiny vignette. A little segment, Jesus, of the life that you walked on earth And yet there's a lot to meditate on here that would be valuable to me I'm assuming to many who are gathered here today or watching on the live stream or watching later, listening later. Teach us, Lord. Give us hearts like Mary's that choose the good portion. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.