It's again that time of year when our thoughts turn with greater focus to the circumstances surrounding the death of our Lord. We remember whenever we think of his death that it was for us. And so let's take a look at Matthew's account of that last Passover. Sometimes called the Last Supper, or the Lord's Supper, from Matthew chapter 26, verses 17 to 30. Matthew 26, 17 -30. This is God's word to us. Let's follow it with careful attention as I read it On the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover? He replied, Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, the teacher says my appointed time is near. I'm going to celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your house. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them and prepared the Passover. When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the twelve. And while they were eating, he said, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me. They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other , Surely not I, Lord. Jesus replied, The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. And then Judas, the one who would betray him, said, Surely not I, Rabbi. Jesus answered, Yes, it is you. While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks, and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, Take and eat. This is my body. Then he took the cup and gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, Drink from it all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Let's consider what God has for us from this. During their meal, which only Jesus knew to be the last one that they would have together before his death. Jesus suddenly says to them, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me. And then verses 21 to 25 unfold this ghastly discussion of a disciple Who had known and followed Jesus closely for three years and had known in the closest possible range His goodness, his love, his kindness, his power, his truthfulness, that one of those Is going to betray him out of pure cancerous greed. Never romanticize the betrayal of Judas. It was nothing but greed and the darkest of motives. And yet, it's easy to miss that out of this, in this discussion In the course of it, Jesus raises two issues, two very practical issues for each of us. Each of these involves attention. That's the first blank in your bulletin outline. Each of these involves attention, which we must understand. Each is a coin of our lives which has two sides to it. I believe that we're tempted to relieve the tension by ignoring one side of the coin. But I warn you, as Jesus Himself is warning you this morning through his word, that you ignore that tension to your own peril, just as Judas did. Now, what are the two great tensions we've got to hang on to? The first one is the tension between God's sovereignty and our responsibility. The tension between God's sovereignty and our responsibility. Look at Jesus' observation about the betrayal in verse 24. An observation, which is also, by the way, his last appeal to Judas's conscience. He says, the one who has dipped his hand in a bowl with me will betray me. Then verse 24 The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man It would be better for him if he had not been born. Do you see it there? There is no starker juxtaposition of God's sovereignty and human responsibility in all of Scripture than there is in that one verse. The Son of Man will go. Nothing can change that. He will go as it is written. The scripture cannot be broken When Isaiah and Zechariah prophesied this, it was so certain that it would happen that they put it in the past tense. It was as good as done. The Son of Man will go as it is written. Luke's parallel account of this, Luke chapter 22, says, the Son of Man will go as it has been decreed. Speaking of God's sovereign decree. God has spoken that this must happen and nothing can change it. Now you and I, when we make plans, may think that something is certain. But even the most certain things that you and I plan to do have all kinds of contingencies implied in them. That you and I take for granted, that we'll still be alive tomorrow to carry it out on all the rest of the things that we look to So much that James 4. 11 tells us, no matter what it is, you should either say or at least have in your mind, if God wills, we'll do this tomorrow. Go here and go there and do business and the rest of it. Not so with the sovereign God. He said from ages past, the Son of Man will go and will be betrayed, and nothing could alter that course in history. Whatever else could or could not happen in history, that could not be altered because God had spoken it. Nothing could change it. No contingencies Now, having said that, that shall assure and comfort you and me when we realize that God has said that the elect will persevere. That Jesus Christ did not die for the possibility of some people to come to him, but that he has called out an innumerable host And that he has said to you that what he has begun in your life he will complete. Nothing can change that You will have victory over sin in your life. Jesus Christ will bring you to heaven. When he comes again, his kingdom will triumph. All the things that God has said will take place, just as he said the Son of Man will be betrayed, and we look at history and everyone knows The story how Judas betrayed Jesus and they said, it was done just as the Scripture has said. So everything else is still yet to unfold. Is sure to occur. And you can take confidence and assurance in that, brothers and sisters. Isn't that comforting Isn't that good to know that God's word cannot be altered in what he says in your life? But you say, but on the other hand, that seems to let Judas off the hook, doesn't it? I mean he says the Son of Man will go just as it's written about him. Therefore, Judah seems to be a pawn. Judas seems to be someone who just happened to be the agent that was sovereignly picked, and he really didn't have any culpability. There's no real guilt or responsibility on Judas. He simply was the one picked to do the job. Poor Judas. Too bad that he happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Judas is the means. Of the Son of Man being betrayed. That is precisely what Jesus does not say. You notice what he says. He follows immediately upon the statement that the Son of Man must be betrayed. He will go as it's written, as it has been decreed. But he says Whoa! To that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. And in two ways, Jesus shows there that Judas is utterly responsible for what he has done. Or at this point, what he is about to do. First of all, that word woe is a prophetic warning. It's a danger signal. It's saying there's trouble ahead. Take heed. You can ignore this warning or you can follow this warning, but it's a warning. Jesus doesn't play word games. When he says woe to that man, he means woe. He is in fact warning Judas to stop. The second way that he shows that Judas is responsible is by the consequences of it. You notice what he says, verse 24. Look at that. Look at that. Isn't it amazing that Jesus, who is the Son of love and tenderness, could say these words. It would be better for that man if he had not been born. Since God is a God of justice, And since his judgment here is so severe that he's saying that it would have been better for that man if he had been never born. Then Jesus is saying that Judas is ultimately responsible for his actions. He bears the full guilt of a choice to do the evil. Now I can't explain that. I can't understand that. And you can't understand that, and I can't understand that But I'll tell you this, the Bible is absolutely unique in holding those two things in tension. It's neither the chance that says that there's no one in control, nor is it the d mechanistic determinism that says that there is a God who controls everything, but that your actions and choices are meaningless. In either case, whether chance is in control or mechanical determinism, our actions would be meaningless. Only the Bible says that God is so great that you and I can't expect to understand Him. But that both things are declared to us to be absolutely true. God is sovereign in your life and in the course of history. And you and I are responsible for our actions. So responsible that for Judas it would have been better if he had never been born than to choose the way that he went. Can you imagine something so terrible that it would have been better if he had never played as a child? Never enjoyed a spring day. Never enjoyed affection and friendship and Good food, drink, and all the pleasures that you and I find satisfying, at least for the moment. Jesus with sovereign insight, with infinite insight here, says it would have been better on the scale of preference. For him to have never existed, than to add to those temporal pleasures the eternal suffering that he will endure under the just judgment of God for his actions. That's a pretty sobering thought, isn't it? Now, how does that bear on you and me? I think it bears on us when we consider the state we're in in our culture. You see, we're in a position in our culture which has denied both sides of this tension We're in a culture that denies both that God is in sovereign control or that our actions are responsible. Interesting that critics of the Bible say that these two things don't make any sense. How can God be in sovereign control and yet Judas also be a free agent who could have chosen not to have betrayed Jesus? How can those two things be true? I can't explain it. But the interesting thing is that when people say, in order for Judas to have therefore been responsible, God can't really be sovereign. In order to have responsible people, you've got to take away the sovereignty of God. But what do you look at when you see our culture? We've taken away the sovereignty of God. The consequence is we've also taken away the responsibility of people. You see that on every hand, don't you? Alcoholism is considered to be a disease of which the alcoholic is simply a helpless victim, not responsible Stress makes me do violent actions. Child abusers are not responsible people doing evil. They're simply the helpless victims of stress. And a fellow who finally winds up in a high place in government, who beat a girl with a lead pipe, said it was stress that made me do it. I 've been under a lot of stress. I couldn't help myself. Where then there's that irresistible disease called pedophilia. That a Montgomery County priest said made him molest a number of youths. Couldn't help himself, simply a victim. And on the one hand and the other, we see right and left there is no guilt anymore. There are only victims. A few years ago, Betty Ford, when she went uh in for drug treatment, said that She had been hooked on drugs by her culture and her doctors. Wasn't her fault. And again and again you see this. The denial of responsibility. No agents, only victims. That's not to say that we're not victims. And that's not to say that we are not greatly influenced by situations in our background. But as soon as you trivialize people 's responsible actions, as soon as you take, as our culture would, a situation like Judas here, how would we look at Judas? Our culture would say it wasn't Judas's fault that he betrayed Jesus. Probably had a mother that never loved him. It was probably that oppressive culture that he lived in. I mean, imagine what it was like to live under that oppressive Roman regime. Is the society was an oppressive society. Wasn't really Judas's fault. And so all around us We see if you want to get out of the consequences of your behavior, just claim yourself a victim. And yet the Phoenix House, one of the most successful, I understand, drug rehabilitation centers Begins his therapy by letting every addict ramble on and on and on about everything else that made them do what they did. And then they say, it wasn't your mother It wasn't society, wasn't even the pusher that put that needle in your arm. You did. And now therapy starts from there. And until you and I learn that while God is sovereign and that's a comfort for us, in knowing that His promises and His purposes will be accomplished. That never for a moment mitigates our responsibility to believe and to obey what Jesus says to do. I remember as a young Christian somebody telling me, Alan, you are as spiritual as you want to be. You follow Jesus Christ to the extent you want to follow him. You know, that may sound like a tremendous burden, but it's very freeing, in fact. There is nothing this morning that is keeping you back from trusting and following Jesus any more than you want to. There's a book written by an OP pastor about his daughter, who rebelled as a teenager against him and his family. And she utterly rejected the gospel. Her story is written in this book, A Comeback Barber, by Jack Miller. Barbara ultimately did come to faith in Jesus Christ. And she says at the end of the book, reflecting on what brought her. Out of her rebellion and hopelessness and anxiety and despair to a confident, living, freeing faith in Jesus Christ, she says three things God did. One of those three things, she says, was that she had to give up her blame shifting and accept responsibility for her own life. She says she went at one point to a non-Christian self-improvement seminar that stressed that you are responsible for your actions and no one else is to blame for your life. And she said, up until the time of the self-improvement training, I firmly believed that others were to blame for who I was and the bad things that had happened to me. I never had trouble taking credit for the good things. My whole life had a different focus when I realized that I, not my parents, or my friends, or my lovers, was in charge of my own feelings and actions. I still had a lot of anxiety and depression in my life, but I no longer thought that others were to blame. With a sense of shock, I realized that it was not my parents and their straight-laced ideas that were to blame for my unhappy life. It was me. What about you this morning? Are you blaming God for your problems? Are you blaming your parents or circumstances or everything else? And saying all these things were written. And I really don't bear any responsibility. The only way for you to come to freedom in Jesus Christ is to accept the responsibility for how you respond to Jesus Christ. You're not responsible for what other people did to you, but you are responsible for how you respond and whether it's in obedience to Jesus Christ or not. And Jesus Christ calls you this morning to trust him and to follow him this week in the things that he speaks to you about by his spirit and his word. Are you going to excuse yourself and say, but I really can't? Jesus says in this verse, you can. He says, Judas could have chosen another course. He was not locked into what he did. And he bore the responsibility of that. And until you and I cease our blame shifting, We will live miserable lives of excuse making. And that leads us to the second tension that Jesus brings up here. It's the tension of the comfort of assurance and the need for self-examination. The tension of the comfort of assurance and the need for self-examination. The context of this discussion on betrayal is the Lord's Supper. The whole purpose of the Lord's Supper is assurance. It's where Jesus says, this is my body for you. This is the blood of the covenant which I have shed for you. The Bible encourages you and me in the strongest possible terms to know that we have eternal life. In 1 John 5, verses 12 and 13, John says, He who has the Son of God has life. He who does not have the Son does not have life. Simple as that. Pretty simple statement, isn't it? You have the Son, you have life. You don't have the Son, you don't have life. Then he goes on. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know That you have eternal life. And that's the blank there. God encourages you to know that you have eternal life. But modern evangelicalism has distorted this kind of assurance into what's called the fact-faith -feeling model of assurance How's that go? The Bible says, He who has the Son of God has life, and he who doesn't does not have life, or whosoever calls upon the name of the Lord be saved Now you're depending on your feelings to know whether you feel whether you're a Christian or not, but what you really need to do is simply look at the fact Do you have the Son of God? Well, you say, well, you know, I called upon the name of the Son of God. I I believe that Jesus died on the cross for my sins. I believe that fact And so it goes on. Well then, do you believe that God is faithful to his word? Well, I believe he's faithful. Then never doubt your salvation. That's your assurance. He's told you that he's faithful. Don't doubt it. The problem with that Is that when John says, These things have I written that you may know, he's not saying the fact that God is faithful The these things that John's referring to in 1 John 5. 13 are all the things of the first five chapters, the previous five chapters, where he talks about the mark of the Christian. The fact that you love your brother and sister in Christ, the fact that his commandments are not burdensome to you, but that you find delight in doing his will. That holiness is not to you a burden, but it is something that you seek after. And so John's saying it's It's as you look to see the evidence of his Spirit working in you that you gain a biblical assurance that you have in fact called upon the name of the Lord. And so, with that assurance of God's faithfulness, there needs to come a healthy ability and a healthy willingness To examine your own life. The problem with the fact-face feeling model of assurance is that Judas could have passed Judas would have said, Yes, I believe that Jesus is the Messiah. Well, then I just won't ask any more questions. I'll just trust that everything's okay with me in him. But Jesus raises a question here. He says, one of you is going to betray me. Now, can you imagine how the disciples felt when he asked that? Picture yourself in a room with eleven other Christians who are the most mature Christians that you know. Those that show the most evidence of a close walk with Jesus Christ. And you and those other eleven are in the room. And Jesus is there with you, and he says, one of you is false. One of you Is not really a believer. You're deceiving yourself, and you're going to betray me. What would be your thought? Would it be, hey, not me, might be one of these other jerks, but hey, no way it could be me. I've trusted John 3. 16. God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son, whoever believes in him shall not perish. I believe that verse, I've taken it. No problem with me, I'm going to heaven. One of you guys must be going to blow it. Or would you find that in your own heart you would say, I know my heart too well It's possible that I could be guilty of the grossest kind of religious self-deception My heart is an evil heart. I take responsibility for my actions. I don't blame shift. I don't say it's somebody else's problem. I couldn't help it and all the rest is I am willing to look honestly at myself. That kind of a disciple says as verse 22, Surely not I, Lord. Could it be me? Could I be kidding myself? And I want every one of you this morning, right now at this moment, to ask yourself. Lord, could it be me? Could I be kidding myself that all these years that I'm a Christian Could I be kidding myself that just because I've grown up in a Christian home, maybe you're a teenager? Younger, older , been hanging around Christians for a long time, haven't you? With the Christians you look like a Christian. You can sing the hymns with the Christians. You can hug the Christians and say, Praise the Lord, and talk about the Bible. But are you willing to search your heart at this moment and say , Surely, not I, Lord? Do you notice when they went around in this passage that after Jesus' warning in verse 25, Judas includes himself? Judas, the one who would betray him, Matthew says, says, surely not I, Rabbi. He knows how to cover up, doesn't he? He knows how to play the game. He knows who's going to betray. He knows his heart. But he's not willing to reveal himself. And maybe there are some of you here this morning that feel inside your heart right now a cold sweat breaking out. You say I've been wondering, and I'm not really sure that Jesus Christ is my Savior and my Lord. I'm not really sure that I have given myself to him. And everybody else thinks that I have. Listen. Judas was an elder in the church. I am not talking now, brothers and sisters, to those who are not members of Columbia Presbyterian Church. If you're a visitor, I am talking to you. But you who are members don't exclude yourself from this kind of self-examination. For this Revelation of betrayal was to the inner circle of his disciples, and one of them was false. I guarantee you. That in this room of this size, there are more than one of you, perhaps a dozen or two dozen of you that right now sit looking comfortable. But if you were to die today, we'd go straight to hell under the wrath of Almighty God. But Jesus Christ wants to deliver you from that. He wants to free you if you're willing to be honest with him at this moment. What happened to Judas? Jesus says , Judas says to him, Surely not I, Rabbi. And Jesus doesn't mince words. He doesn't play games. He doesn't say, think about it. Well, maybe. He looks right at him, right in the eye, and he says, yes, it is you And Judas had a moment of eternal consequence, the most difficult decision in his entire life. For a split second in his mind, there is the temptation, should I come clean? Should I reveal myself? Should I admit to these guys that that's what I've been intending to do? Should I admit that I'm a hypocrite? Should I admit all along that I've been pilfering from the purse that we've been keeping in common? That I'm a thief, that I'm greedy, that my heart is far from Jesus that I play a game looking like a believer when I'm with the crowd, but in my own heart I know I'm far from him. And for just a moment I can't imagine but that there must have been that prompting that said, give it all up. just come clean. But he stifled it. He pushed down that impulse And he would not admit it. You know what John says in his account, the parallel account of this? John 13 tells us that it was at that moment that Satan entered Judas and took control of him. It was at that moment that Judas became a hopelessly lost man. I believe there comes a time for you and for me when Jesus continues to woo us. And if you keep putting them off and putting them off, and you slide through this morning and you say, Well, I'm not going to face the state of my heart. I'm not going to look. It would be too painful for me to face the possibility that maybe I really am not a follower of Jesus Christ. And so I'll continue to pretend that I am, and I'll try harder to be a Christian. That's a hopeless situation. Utterly hopeless. Your only hope this morning is to come clean, to face yourself, to face the responsibility for your own actions. The fact that you have resisted Jesus Christ and can't blame anyone else for that. And to say, but Jesus, you offered to me hope. Jesus was offering to Judas. That he could rescue him even on the very brink of this destruction. And Jesus offers to help you. Proverbs 29:1 says that the man who being often rebuked resists and hardens his heart, so suddenly be cut off at one point, and that without remedy. That has not come to you yet. But I don't know if you have another week. And so I plead with you this morning that you will ask the questions that you see there at the end of the bulletin outline. Do you belong to Jesus Christ by faith? Do you? Do you know for sure Or are you saying, no, I have some doubt? I really wonder. And I'm glad you've brought it up. It's time for me to become honest and to face myself in my doubts. It's time for me to be able to give up the pretense because Jesus will accept and receive me if I come to Him now. Don't put it off. I remember one fellow early in my ministry who had made, I don't know, 10, 15 professions of faith in Christ. He had put up his hand at decision meetings, walked down the aisle, he'd done everything he could do One night he came and he said, I realize it's all been a pretense. Again and again and again I've tried to do it on my own. I've pretended I wanted to fit in, and I've acted like a Christian, but in my heart I've known that I'm not I want to receive Jesus. And we went outside. And I can still remember It was at night, it was in the summer, and I remember that fellow pounding on the ground again and again. God, please save me. And after about an hour of this, I was worn out And I said, what is it? What keeps you? He says, I've played with it so long that he says, I just can't do it. I don't know what his problem was. But I know there comes that increasing hardening when you play that you're a Christian. And you don't accept the responsibility for not trusting and following Jesus, and you pretend that you are But Jesus bids you this morning. He says, it's not too late. It's not too late. I'm still here and my promises still hold that I'm a savior from sin. I can forgive you, I can cleanse your life, I can free you from your bondage. Has his death substituted for your sin? If it hasn't, come to them this morning. Give to me a slip of paper that says I'd like to talk. Just put your name on it. I'll know what it means. We can get in touch with each other this week and be able to talk about it. Has he changed your life? Is there evidence in your life, things about your life that only the Holy Spirit can account for? Are you willing, with that assurance of his faithfulness, to honestly face yourself this morning? I believe that God's speaking to at least a couple of you. That there are some of you who are asking searching questions this morning. I'm available. So are any of the other elders of this congregation. Come, don't put it off. Let's pray. Lord, search our hearts, search us That we might be honest with you in this moment, that we would cleave to Jesus before it's too late. Hear us, Lord Give us the grace of honesty. Speak to us now. We thank you that you're available to us. That you still save. Don't let anyone here put it off, we pray. In Jesus' name