Last week we saw that relativism and the proliferation of cults are part of God's judgment on a church that looks like the world, a church devoid of compassion for people or devotion for God. Now in the last judgment, the fifth picture of judgment that Amos gives to us, we see that God's full wrath is inevitable on such a people. It 's inescapable. on such a people who are untransformed by the power of Jesus Christ. That judgment that Amos describes in chapter nine, which historically immediately took place in 721 BC, And any of the human Holocausts since that time are but a dim fortex of the judgment that will come in that last day of history, when the Lord Jesus shall come with a fiery breath of his mouth and the sword to slay his adversaries. adversaries. And so we come to look at this picture in God's Word. And we realize that as we look at this, that many today reject the notion of judgment. I guess we as a congregation are especially aware of that. Because of the events of recent months, that many even who claim to represent Jesus Christ reject any notion of a historic judgment in which God shall destroy the wicked and in which there is the necessity of being Transformed by his son in order to pass through safely that judgment. We're very aware of that. But I think it's sometimes more subtle and less obvious to us that many who accept the fact of a historical Historic judgment coming. Still, nevertheless, have two serious misconceptions about that judgment. That's what I want to deal with today. The two misconceptions I call the Santa Claus theory of judgment and the evangelical amnesty theory of judgment. Let's then take a look at Amos chapter nine, God's own word, and see how he deals with these two misconceptions. Let's then give our attention to God's Word itself. And then our consideration of it together afterwards. But let's listen now because this, without any comment, is God's own word to us. Amos chapter 9, the first 10 verses. I saw the Lord. Standing by the altar. And he said, Strike the tops of the pillars so that the thresholds shape. Cut off the heads of all the people. And those who are left I will kill with a sword. Not one. Will get away. None will escape. Though they dig down to the depths of the grave, from there my hand will take them. Though they climb up to the heavens, from there I will bring them down. Though they hide themselves on the top of Carmel, there I will hunt them down and seize them. Though they hide from me at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent to bite them. Though they are driven into exile by their enemies, there I will command the series. I will fix my eyes upon them for evil and not for good. The Lord. The Lord Almighty, He who touches the earth and it melts, and all who live in it mourn. The whole land rises like the And sinks like the river of Egypt. He who builds his lofty palace in the heavens and sets its foundations on the earth, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out over the face of the land, the Lord is his name. Are not you Israelites the same to me as the Kushites? declares the Lord. Did I not bring Israel up from Egypt, the Philistines from Caftor, and the Arameans from Kir? Surely the eyes of the sovereign Lord are upon the sinful kingdom, I will destroy it from the face of the earth. And yet I will not totally destroy the house of Jacob, declares the Lord. For I will give the command and I will shake the house of Israel among the nations as grave is shaken in the sin, but not a kernel will fall to the ground. All the sinners among my people will die by the sword. All those who say, disaster will not overtake or meet us. Now let's consider what it is that God's saying to us here. This is not a passage that I would choose to preach. I must say, you know, it's it's a lot easier to preach about grace and kindness and goodness or even certain commands and principles on how we ought to live than to preach an awesome and terrible passage like this. And I've struggled with my own zeal and entering in to what what it is that God is saying that He's like and what He'll do. But you and I must realize that we can never appreciate or understand anything of the riches of grace until we come face to face with the terrible reality. Of the depths of judgment. And so we consider these two misconceptions that are prevalent today about judgment. The first one, which I call the Santa Claus theory of judgment. Now, that theory goes. that God is something like Santa Claus in that he threatens, like Santa Claus, that when Christmas comes, there's only going to be joy for the good little boys and girls who have been good for the year previous. And so uh you hear poems like Just For Christmas, I'm as good as I can be, you know, and everybody sort of shapes up for a few weeks before Christmas because we know that Santa Claus says, but don't be called the stocking for those that are bad, but just for those that are good. But even while that may prompt us to a few extra good things that we'll do and being a little nicer to our brother or sister for that time, then we really know that there's probably going to be gifts under that tree. unless we you know bird down the house or do something really terrible, then they'll probably overlook a lot of that bad stuff and they'll say, But Christmas is too nice to spoil by really enforcing those threats and not having any gifts if you're bad And so we look at it at eternity, kind of like Christmas, you know. Surely God's going to soften up at the end. He's given us all these threats so that we'll sort of rip into line and we'll live a little better down here. But when the Day of Judgment comes, Surely he's not going to spoil eternity by really carrying through on this stuff. I mean, sure it's true that people like Hitler or Stalin are going to get theirs. But generally there's going to be a way out. I don't understand it, I'm not sure how it works, but surely People like my neighbor or the guys that I work with, who are decent people, are going to go through an eternal agony of hell. Surely God's not going to be like that. Surely there's going to be some playout. That's Santa Claus theory. judgment seen. The threats really aren't going to be carried out in the way that it sounds. And we hear preachers tell us about the universal love of God that's going to cover everything. We hear evangelical evangelists declaring From the Bible, that as bad as this uh, as wicked this is, and as severe as God's judgment is, nevertheless, if you just make a decision for Jesus Christ, if you'll just acknowledge that you're a sinner and receive him into your heart, And then everything will be okay, and you won't be under any threat of this judgment. And so people by the thousands give such an acknowledgement, and their lives are unchanged. And then we invent some other creature which we call a carnal Christian, one who's given a thought to God, but whose life is untransformed by the power of the Holy Spirit. And we said that this person's not going to withstand judgment, even though they're not a disciple in any real way of Jesus Christ. And we talk about a second step of further commitment to lordship or discipleship or baptism in the Holy Spirit or some other such thing, so that somehow we can minimize the threat of judgment. But it's to that kind of thing That Amos comes in chapter 9 to the people at Bethel. And you need to understand what was happening there. You see, God had said there is one way to worship me, and it's at Jerusalem at the temple. And then came Jerusalem. Jeroboam, and he rebelled against his brother Reobaam. And Jeroboam set up another dynasty. And in order to wound the people away from Jerusalem, he set up another religion. Look. Very similar to the worship of the Lord. But it was established at Bethel. And that religion basically said, God's not going to be as severe as he sounds like down there in Jerusalem. He's really a little more soft than that. He can get away with a little more. He says you've got to worship there at the temple, but really it's okay to worship here at Bethel. He says you've got to go through the priests and the Levites down there, but really we have our own system here, and that's okay. God really isn't as strict as he sounds like that those people down in Judah are talking about. And so Jeroboam in 1 Kings chapter 12 and verse 32 and 33 was standing at the altar in order to inaugurate this new religion that made people feel like they didn't have to really abide by God's word in any strict way. And that's the background you see to what Amos is saying in chapter 9, because look how it begins. 1 Kings 12, you read, Jeroboam standing at the altar, and he's saying, Everything's okay, folks. And now Lebus says, I saw the Lord standing. Standing by that altar, that same altar of Bethel. And the Lord is standing there, and what does he say? He says, Strake the tops of the pillars of this temple, so that the thresholds will shake. Does that remind you of something? Do you remember back in the book of Judges when Samson was captive to the Philistines? They took him into their temple, the temple of David. And do you remember that Samson with that remorse and bitterness of the end of his life, realizing how Stood down at the temple, and what did he do? He pushed the pillars of that temple so that the threshold shook and all the root came down upon the Philistines in judgment. Don't miss the picture. Amen. Jesus saying, folks, it's not going to be Philistines this time. It's going to be the people that call themselves by God's name. It's you people who so gribly say that you follow Jesus with untransformed lives and lips, who are we going to be the ones who are going to be under this temple And God says, this time, no one's going to escape. Call off the heads of all the people, and those who are left I will kill with a sword. No one's going to get away. No one will escape. Underline in that in your Bible. That's the point in the first six verses. of this chapter. That sums it up. None will escape. Then he elaborates that in verses 2 to 4 so that you really get the picture. He says, no, they dig down into the depths of a grave, but then my babe will take them. So they climb to the heavens, from there I'm going to bring them down. Though they hide themselves to the top of Koma, there I'll hunt them down and seize them. No matter how high they go, no matter how low they go, even if they were to hide themselves in the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent to bite them. Though they're driven into the exile into exile by their enemies, though they hide among the enemies of God's people, there will I command the sword to slay them. And I will fix my eyes upon them for evil. And not for good. Do you feel as your blood runs cold, the terrible statement that that is? God says to his people, I will fix my eyes for evil on them and not for good? This is the God of compassion and mercy. The God who has again and again heard the prayers of his people and they've turned away from him and he couldn't resist them. And he turned to them in mercy. And he says here, Sober. From now on I'm going to fix my eyes upon them for evil and not for good. Why is it? It's because of who we're dealing with. And so he describes himself in verses five and six. He's belonged. The Lord Almighty, who touches the earth and it melts, and all who live in it mourning, and the whole land rises like the Nile and then sinks like the river of Egypt. It's he who built his lofty palace, we see in the heavens, and sets its foundation. on the earth. He's the king. He's the one who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out over the face of the land. He decides floods. He decides the tide where they end and where they flow. He's the one. The Lord is his name, he says. So you and I picture ourselves standing before Holy Sovereign Majesty Himself. But you picture yourself standing before his great throne and you say, gee Lord, sorry, I I didn't notice it was that man. Yeah. Uh Lord, uh excuse me, I I I know I've bloated and uh you know, and I know I've fooled around with Jesus uh through my life and I I never really got serious about what his claims were. You know, well boy, you know, it seemed like so many of my friends were doing that too. It didn't seem to bother them. Lord, all this stuff that I'm doing that you said, well, whoa, everybody was doing it. Lord, don't you understand that? That doesn't that persuade you very well? Lord, uh it just didn't seem that bad. And all of our excuses will vanish, and we'll stand there naked as our sin is fully exposed, and the Santa Claus theory will go up in smoke. But we'll be then faced with the reality of Holy Sovereign Majesty and what he must, by his very nature, do to sin. Francis Schaefer has said it would be like we're standing there and as if all our life there had been a tape recorder that had been strapped to our neck. But every time You and I made a judgment, we said, this is the way something ought to be, or this is the way it ought not to be, or you shouldn't do this, or you shouldn't do that. If simply by the end of our lives we stood before God and God simply played back that tape to us all the judgments which we ourselves had made. is the standard by which to live. And then God opened the record to see how our own lives matched up with the record of our own judgments, whether taken from Scripture or from our conscience. Then God says that will be enough. to judge us. That will be sufficient to consign us to hell, because we have judged ourselves by our own lips. The second theory I call the evangelical amnesty. theory of judgment. And that's what famous describes in verses 7 to 10. This is the theory that as you see there stated on the bulletin says something like this: But I won't be judged because I accept the Bible truth that Christ died for our sins. I I I have no problem with that. I go along with that. I don't know about you, but I hear loads of people saying that kind of thing to me. Just this week I was talking to a woman, uh And I was trying to find out where she was spiritually. And so I uh asked a few things and uh there seemed to be some uh vagueness and lack of surety, and so I asked her, uh, if you were to die today, do you have assurance? Would you be sure that you would go to heaven to be with the Lord? And she said, Well, um well uh yeah, yeah, I think I would. I I I don't have um a question that I wouldn't be with the Lord. Uh uh one time, uh sometime back in my life I um um you know um uh pledge myself to Lord or, you know, what do you call it, born again or something, you know. I I you know, I accepted Jesus died for our sins. Uh um sure. Something about the lack of conviction, I guess, uh was communicating something to me. But beyond that, it was a statement that is so common today. There's nothing that I can tell you about in my life that's changed. But I accept the fact that Jesus died for our sins. Isn't that enough? There was a time when I considered that and I waited and I said, Well, you know, I want to make sure my bases are covered, and God says that Jesus died for sinners, and well, I you know, I don't have any problem with saying that. Sure, why not agree with that? You know, who knows? Maybe he did. I'll make sure that I've got the best chance possible when I come to the end of my life, you know. And so there is within the evangelical circles this idea that, especially if you're active in church, character, listen to Christian radio or watch Christian TV, you see yourself as somehow identified within the Christian circle. You're sort of identified with Jesus because of certain things you do or watch or see, certain things that you agree with. They don't necessarily change your value system, your priorities, your lifestyle, but there are things, facts that you agree with. You say, yeah, I believe those things happened. And so I'll go along with that. Understand it, that's precisely what Amos is speaking to in verses 7 to 10. And if you understand his argument, it's a rather astounding argument. I don't know of any other place in scripture that states it this clearly. What Amos is saying here, as he looks at Israel and And they have made that kind of assessment. Amos says, Are not you Israelites, you evangelicals who say you have no problem believing these things, aren't you the same to me as the Kushites? who have no knowledge of the gospel, they're just totally outside of the covenant. So aren't you the same as the Kushites declaring the world now? Notice what he says. Did I not bring Israel up from Egypt? And everybody says, Yeah, yeah, that's what we're talking about. Yeah, that's right, redemption. See, Jesus died for our sins. See, the Old Testament Exodus is the counterpart to the New Testament cross. You have to always understand that when you read the Old Testament. The cross at Calvary is the fulfillment of the Exodus. So when God in the Old Testament speaks of the Exodus, he's talking about redemption. That he accomplished in history, what Jesus did on the cross. They are saying to Israel, you guys believe that I did that, don't you? Oh yeah, we believe that. Think like Versailles says, hey, wait a minute. I also brought the Philistines up from Captor, too. I brought the Arameans. from care. It's a lot. Big deal. You see, I have my hand on all nations. I 'm working in all people. What happened in history doesn't affect you until it comes into your life. The fact that Jesus died on the cross 2,000 years ago does not in any way save you until that word comes into your life to transform you. And so he says to Israel, I look at your life, verse 9. Surely the eyes of the sovereign Lord or this kingdom, this simple kingdom, is I will destroy it from the face of the earth. Because all you guys are doing is you're saying, we're trusting in what God did back here in Egypt. He brought us out of Egypt, we're saved. We don't have to worry. God says, I look at your life now and it's untransformed and you've denied the covenant. And so I'll destroy you. And yet I will not totally destroy the house of Jacob. declares the Lord, for I will give the command, he says, and I will shake the house of Israel among all the nations, as grain is shaken in a sieve. Here it is again, you see. The cith, like the plug-line, is an instrument of discrimination. things out, the plug line, the vertical from the nonvertical, the sieve, the grain, from the cab. Or perhaps in this case talking about soil and stones, when you would take soil and you would shake it in a sieve, and the stones would stay in the sieve. The soil would drop through. He may be saying, rather than a kernel will not drop down, but a stone will not drop down, and all the soil will drop down that's pure, and the sieve will keep the stones. And he's saying, as you look in the person's life you can tell whether that work of Jesus Christ has transformed them or not, and whether or not they're safe from judgment. And he then gives us one clue in verse ten that's very instructive. He says, one very obvious way that you can tell. Is that all the sinners among my people will die by the sword. All those who say disaster will not overtake or meet us. The complacency, the presumption when you talk to a person about the gospel of Christ and they say, Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right. That. You see, rather than that concern that says, yeah, judgment is real. And my only hope is in Jesus. And I'll tell you, I'm that close to judgment. Because if I had to trust in anything in my own life, it would be absolutely. Absolutely hopeless. But Jesus has come. And Jesus has taken that judgment for me. And so even though I deserve it, the Lord Jesus has taken it in my place. And I never say, oh, I don't have to worry, judgment. not going to come on me. Oh, I don't have to worry, goodness not going to come on us. Because I look at what I deserve. And my heart rejoices that God has delivered me from that. See the difference? The difference between assurance and places between rest and presumption. And so you look at this today and you see how this attitude applies to us now. True salvation is not saying, oh I'm not going to be judged because I accept the Bible truth that Christ died for our sins. I don't have any problem with that. But as you see in the Bulletin outline, true salvation is, first of all, commitment to a person, not simply acquiescence to a True. Yeah, sure, we believe that God brought us up in Exodus. Yeah, I believe that Jesus died for sinners. You see, it's not the fact that Jesus died for sinners that saves you. It's Jesus who died for sinners that saves you. You and I, strictly speaking, are not saved by the atonement, but rather by the atoner. We come not to a statement about what Jesus did. We come to Jesus Himself for salvation. And nothing less. Jesus said, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I personally, because of what I have done, will give to your rest. You see the difference? In your evangelism, in your own trust, be careful that you never tell a person, believe that Jesus died for your sins and you'll be saved. It is not simply the acquiescence to that truth that saves you. But I call you to Jesus. Who died for sinners? And he offers himself to you, you this morning, through you to your friends and to your family, in all his glory, in all his compassion. And he says, Come to me, because I Transform you. Facts don't transform you. History lessons don't transform you. Jesus, who died for sinners and rose again, will transform you. Be careful that we don't ever separate the truths from the gospel from Jesus himself. Because it's Jesus who we need. It's Jesus that we've got to come to. It's to be able to come this morning and say, Lord, Jesus I worship you and I thank you and you have my life. That's what gives me joy, and that's what gives me the assurance that I will not face judgment. Secondly, you see, it's a personal appropriation of Christ's death for my sins that saves me, not a general recognition. Of what he did for sinners. See, that was the problem with that, though. They just generalized the whole thing. Verse 10. See, all those say, this answer's not going to take them eat us. It was never a personalization of it. It's all just used what God did in the Exodus for Israel, he did the Well, just sort of part of it swept along in it, but never a personal recognition of my sin. In fact, one of the biggest problems that you find today in witnessing to Jewish people is the lack of any personal Recognition of sin. Yeah, things are bad, and sure there's sin all around us. But I remember talking to one of the rabbis that I was sharing the gospel of Christ with, he said, You're off on the wrong track. I don't have any personal sense of sin. I see that the world's a mess, but I don't see a personal need for any salvation. And so that's so true of people today in general. We see this so much among people who are evangelicals. Yes, Jesus died for sinners. That sort of sweeps us all along. I believe that that's true. In a general sense, and somehow a recognition of that's going to get me in. Doesn't that silly? I mean when you state it. But isn't it amazing how many of your friends and my friends believe that? Without coming to realize that it's that personal recognition of my sin. And my offense against God and my transgression that I need to come and I need to turn from, I need to hate, and I need to labor for him, and I need to say, Jesus, you needed to die for the sins of Alan Harris. All we like sheep have gone astray. I, Alan Harris, and Gone astray. And you, Lord, lay on Jesus, the iniquity of Alan Harris. It was my place that Jesus took there on the cross. And it's when you come into that kind of a personal relationship with Jesus that you're transformed. as a person, not the general recognition. Careful. Then finally. Notice that it's a concerned repentance and not a careless presumption that is the sign of true salvation. Some people take John 3. 16 and they simply say, Yep, I believe that verse. And it's a grim kind of presumption, as I talked about before. When you read Matthew 7:21, many shall come to to me that day and say, Lord, Lord, didn't we do this and that and every other thing? And I'll say, I never knew you. Do you read that verse glibly and say, oh yeah, many, many, well, that's going to be people that are going to really be surprised that day, aren't they? Without ever searching your own heart and saying, Lord, could that be me? Lord, could it be that I've just been fooling around with you? Or do you look humbly and say, Lord, without your grace I really That could be a description of me. And I look in my life. And I and I ask, Lord, is there some evidence that you've transformed me? But we read this morning, the Ten Commandments, and you responded, and then we confessed our sin through the words of David in Psalm 40. Did you find, did you in your heart needed to hear that assurance of pardon from Isaiah 44? Or when you were reading it, when you're reading it saying, oh sure, no, I've read this many times before you Yeah, sure, there's sin, yeah, you know, and we confess it, yeah, and you know, he's gonna tell us that we're saved because Jesus did something. Without that personal recognition, that concern in your repentance that says, I really need to be assured. Because I I know my heart. I know what I deserve. And praise God, I need to be assured again and again. Jesus died for me. He's transformed my life by his grace. Let me get even more personal. You kids, you young people, do you sometimes think that you're going to go to heaven on the family group where you know you go to so many things and you know there's a there's an admission and the fathers and the mothers have to pay. And then every once in a while you'll see these family group breaks, you know, and you kids just get in for free. And I think there's some kids that I talk to who think of heaven like that. You know, it's a cosmic Disney world in which your parents have paid the admission. And because you belong to their family, you're going to go in the gates too. Well, have you ever come to realize that what Jesus says about those who are not changed by him applies to you? And did you personally need to understand your own need for what Jesus has done? Did you need to face the fact that they're worthy of judgment? And Jesus is a provision for you as you come to him. Just as your mom and dad have done, that you come to him personally, not because you know the facts of what they say at family devotions, but because you come to him as a person. Have you ever done that? Maybe kids who have never done that, I want to encourage you this morning that you don't any longer think that just because you're in a family that follows Jesus, that you're going to get into heaven on the family group rate. It's personal. It's for you, and you must respond to Jesus yourself. Then secondly, a word for any of you who find that you want to stay aloof from committed discipleship. Do you think that just because you have acknowledged certain truths of the evangelical faith that you're going to be able to go to heaven? You can see from what we've talked about so far. God says you're not. Going to heaven. You will not escape simply because you have acknowledged certain things, as Israel acknowledged the Exodus. But rather it's a question of whether you have ever personally given your life to Jesus Christ. Not accepting what he did as a historical fact, but giving to him your life that he might transform you and make the center of your life himself rather than yourself. Goals, your own career, your own values, your own idols. Has Jesus ever come to the center of your life and given you such a love for himself that you thirst to grow? in discipleship too? If you don't, you're not on some basic level of those who are going to make it in, but are on a different level from the real disciples. The Bible doesn't speak of any such distinction. Either you are a disciple, or you will face judgment. Again, if you have never settled that question, let me plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ, in all his compassion and love this morning, extend it to you personally. Give your life to him today. Then finally, if you look at these things and you say, praise God, while I realize what I deserve, I see what Jesus has done, and I'm assured that he's in my life. What about people that you know? This is the third week I've said this, so I hope it's getting through. What about people you know? People I'll ever see, people maybe no other Christian will understand the gospel clearly enough. And had enough of a concern to make clear the warning. Don't presume upon what you know about Jesus. The question is whether you know him personally. And the evidence of that is whether you've been transformed by him. Are there people That you know in your family, among your friends, who have said to you, Yes, I believe in Jesus. I believe that he died for sinners. And you've sort of smiled and said, Well, that's nice to know. And inside your heart there's been a little twinge where you've said, but I'm not really kidding. That doesn't sound like it was a person who really knows Jesus and but you want to not get into some embarrassing situation, you don't quite know how to handle it, and so the two of you play a little game. That person pretends that Just by knowing these things, things are okay. And you reinforce that, and I reinforce that when we don't confront and challenge them with that false thinking. Is there somebody this morning that you should ask the Lord to give you the courage and grace, to go to and to warn about the reality of judgment, the delusion of the Santa Claus theory and the evangelical amnesty theory of judgment, and to present with Jesus Christ in all its fullness. Let's pray. As we hear this rain coming upon us now we Are reminded again that you are the God who decides when it rains and when it stops. You decide how long we shall live. You decide all things about our lives. And you're so gracious. and so merciful to give us lives that are so full of joy. All things that we enjoy. Lord, we pray that you will awake us this morning to the reality of a day of joy. That's coming far more devastating than what came when Assyrius swept into Samaria in 721 BC. And the Lord that every every child here, everyone who can understand what I'm saying, Will not presume on the fact that their parents trust you and that they know how to answer questions about what Jesus did. That they personally will give to you their lives. That everyone who here who wants to think that they can live their own lives, set it about themselves, and come to church or be involved in Christian things to some extent to hold aloof from really getting involved in you, with you, and follow you all the way. Will be awakened to the terrible delusion of that. And see Jesus before them ready to transform them fully, to give a peace that they've never known, and to give a new life and a new heart. Lord Jesus, do that, we pray. We pray that you will help us to see those that you have called us by our concern for, to want to share with them the good news of the transformation of the Holy Spirit, the cause of the power of the Holy Spirit. of the gospel of Christ. And it might help people to see that it's you who say, and that all the things that they know and want to pretend will be okay and will get Oscar other Christians off their backs by just saying that they know about these things and they've accepted it will not work on us. That we won't badger them, but Lord, that you give us a compassion, a creative compassion that we might get into their lives to be able to raise these issues in a way that you're spirit will cause to make sense. We can't do it. All we can do is irritate them. And we might even raise some questions to make them think, but we can never really get into their hearts. And we ask you to do that, Lord. And we want to thank you as we finish this so much for that judgment, Lord Jesus, that you took for us. For the fact that these people would die by a sword, but you, Lord Jesus, died on a cross. And that you took our sin fully, the full, complete wrath of Holy Sovereign Majesty upon yourself, so that we would never have to face judgment. That there are free people who can sing because you have taken that judgment on our behalf. Lord, give us eyes to value that salvation this week. That you will put a song in our heart and a spring into our As we realize what you've done for us. Praise you, Jesus. Amen. Let's praise him then for the use of pin number 406. Hear the welcome voice. It's a hymn which reflects on the love of God in the context of that judgment which we deserve. Let's sing it thoughtfully and let's sing it with rejoicing. Hymn number four