Last week I began a series of messages for the month of April, having to do with our Vision 91 campaign. I believe that God is calling us at this point in our life to an absolutely impossible task. When He's calling us to step out in faith to provide a $1. 7 million facility, Ministry Facility Center over on our property on Route 108, so that there we can have a seven-day a week base of operations for ministry to all kinds of people in the name of Jesus in this very needy county and city. Ministries for kids, ministries for teenagers, ministries for families, ministries for older folks, ministries for singles, all kinds of ministries. That will be strategic to reaching people in the 90s. A community center that's friendly to the community and known as a place where there's help. It's a kingdom vision, and it can only be accomplished by God's power through us and through the money that we pledge in the next few weeks in this year 1991. And so we call it Vision 91. That's how we got it. But the question is for you and me, do you believe God's calling us to this? Is God calling you to be part of this? I believe it's going to require a hundred percent mobilization of all of God's people here. Now, if you're here and you don't know Jesus Christ, As your own personal Savior and Lord, we're not talking about you as being involved in this. This is for those who can give and worship and love and adoration and trust to our God And so for those of us who are thinking, Lord, what do you want me to do? How do I pick a number? How do I decide what step of faith? How much love to express I'm simply offering some thoughts from Scripture because it's a spiritual campaign. This is not a man-centered fundraising campaign. It is a step of faith for God's people. We must distinguish that sharply in our minds, lest we react to talk about money. But now as we look at this as something which is from God, we remember that 2 Corinthians 8. 5 tells us that we must first give ourselves to the Lord. And then we decide how much we want He wants for us to give. And so I'm offering some thoughts. In the first two weeks, I've been offering thoughts, last week and this week, from Matthew chapter 6. So if you have a Bible and you haven't turned to it yet, please turn to Matthew chapter 6. We've been looking at verses 19 to 24, Jesus' words, in which he focuses on three contrasts, three contrasts between A lack of kingdom vision, and what is in fact true kingdom vision concerning the things that we have. He started off, you remember, last week in verses 19 to 21, talking about two kinds of investments. Investing in treasure on earth and investing in treasure on heaven. Let's look at God's word and hear again what he says to us from Matthew chapter 6, verses 19 to 21. Yes, 19 to 21. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And remember, we saw something last week that I think is rather remarkable. When you stop to think of it, we know that we can store up treasure in heaven on earth. That's pretty obvious. You go out and invest and you get the treasures and there they are But this passage, Jesus is telling us that you and I right now can be storing up treasure in heaven by the investment of our hearts, our lives, our money, our time. in kingdom opportunities. And in doing that, Jesus is saying, we are in fact storing up eternal, incorruptible, never to decay or be stolen or to disappear treasure. That is in his kingdom, in heaven, where we'll be with him forever if we've trusted Jesus. And I mentioned that I think uh this opportunity for a ministry facility in Howard County Is an immediate example of an opportunity for us to be storing treasure in heaven. Then Jesus goes on in this passage to two other related contrasts. I don't know how many times you've looked at this passage and how obvious it is to you that these are related, that they all fit together But it's not to me very obvious on the first reading. So let's take a look at what he now says and see how it all fits together. Going on then, hearing God's word from verses 22 to 24, Jesus says The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. Now What is it that Jesus is saying here? How are these contrast related? You see in your bulletin outline, the blanks, there are then The second contrast, which is point one, is of course the two what? Two kinds of eyes Yeah, sound like you're debating it out there. Two eyes, the two kinds of eyes in verses twenty two and twenty-three First of all, A, there are the good eyes. And then B, come on, show yourself. There are the bad eyes. Now we got it together. Alright, now notice what Jesus is saying here about this. What is he saying? Let me try to paraphrase these two verses and you look at your Bible to see if you think I'm being faithful to Scripture. Because what I think Jesus is doing here is that he is using the example of our physical eyes to talk about spiritual vision, about seeing reality. And so I think Jesus is saying something like this. He's saying your body is lit and guided by the light that comes through your eye. And so if your eye's in good shape, then your body can see where it's going. Even if you don't have much light outside, you can see where you're going because your body is lit. That is, it's guided by the light, the vision that's coming through clear focused eyes. And so he's saying, in life, if you see clearly the values of life If you really understand what life's about, if you can see reality, then you'll see where you're going You'll be guided and you won't stumble. You'll see where you're going because you are able to focus on what is reality. But If your eyes are bad, the Greek word there means unsound. It can refer to diseased eyes or it can refer to a speck in the eye. If, in fact, there's something in your eye that's obstructing the vision, Jesus says, then you'll squint, you'll shut your eyes, there won't be any light in, your body will not know where to go. You'll stumble around because you can't see, because your eye is obstructed. And so I believe that what he's saying in this context is simply If, in fact, there's some speck, something that's obstructing your vision about reality, you're blinded by some treasure on earth. You see, that's what he's just been talking about, the verse before If you're blinded by something that gives you short-sighted values, so you really can't see what the values of life are about. Then Jesus says, you will in fact be in darkness. And then to emphasize that he's not just talking about skinning your shin on a stool, walking around the house, he says, and if you are in that kind of darkness, How great is the darkness. Because if in fact you are blinded by temporal values, so that the kingdom of God is to you no reality, the things of Jesus are unimportant to you, then he says. That darkness will be an eternal darkness of separation from God. So Jesus is trying to emphasize to us the matter of vision here. I believe an excellent example of this kind of thing was in the April 8th issue of Time magazine. I mean, Time magazine every once in a while agrees with scripture, you know. And this was a particularly notable article. It's a cover article on the simple life. And I would suggest that this article is right in line with Matthew 6. 22 and 23, because it's saying that there's an increasing number of people in our society that are waking up to more important values than the short-sighted materialistic goals of Yuppieism. There's more and more people, the article is saying, who want to return to a simpler kind of life, who want to return to a life where relationships are more important than things. Where you're able to take some time and to enjoy people and friends and family, and where you're not driven by materialism, trendy materialism. uh name label materialism. And so the article talks about values. That's what it's all about. Here's an example of a fellow, Peter Lynch. Perhaps you've heard of him. Built by Delavey Magellan into uh which is a mutual fund into a $13 billion business. And all of a sudden he woke up one morning and discovered he didn't know his seven-year-old daughter And so he quit. Now that wasn't, you know, a major sacrifice for Peter Lynch. I mean, to be without a salary, you know, the guy's worth fifty million dollars. The fact is, nevertheless, that he decided enough was enough. And he quit the whole thing. The article also shows that uh I'm right in stuff with the trends, you know, it was very encouraging to me. And that article says that BMWs have decreased in sales 28% over the last five years. Hondas have increased 30% over the last five years. So you get us that 's where the culture's going, you see. I didn't know I was right in on the trendsetters there with that, you know But you see, the whole article is talking about people's vision changing. They're saying life's been too short-sighted in America. Materialism is extremely short-sighted. And people are beginning to get a longer range view of reality and life. That's what Jesus is saying here. If your eyes are good, then you can see where you're going. But if your eyes are bad, you're lost in darkness. And so this is true not only for people in our culture, but it's true particularly for Christians. Because only Christians within our culture really can understand what reality is, can't we? We alone, of all people who believe the Bible is God's word, and that the scriptures tell us truth and give us a roadmap to reality, tell us that God has made us for Himself. And that we have in our disobedience incurred his wrath upon us because we've decided to center our lives about ourselves, but that God has sent his son, Jesus. And that Jesus has come that he would take our sin and take all the punishment and guilt, the wrath that you and I deserve upon himself, and then forgive us. Because he's put it away. He's transformed our lives. He's forgiven us of our greed and our selfishness. And he has taken us and given to us an inheritance of an eternal kingdom with himself forever. You see, that's vision. Jesus saying that is the good eye that he's talking about. Being able to see the kingdom. Being able to see what his kingdom is about. And being able to see from within that all the values of Jesus that are fulfilled in the Great Commission, making disciples for him in this time between the times of his first and second coming. Jesus is giving us that vision, and he's saying, live in the light of that vision. And so I would suggest to you that as we apply this to ourselves This means that when we have an opportunity that we can say, I have a certain amount of money that God has given to my disposal. And I'm to manage that. And there's a certain amount in these next three years that I'm going to manage, and I can have a different kind of vision. Everybody around me says, invest it, use it for whatever you can have now and enjoy in the next three years. But it takes a particular vision, doesn't it? To see over on Route 108, not something that's simply a status symbol convenience for a church that says, oh, isn't that nice? We've arrived. We've got a building. To be able to see it rather as a community resource, to see it as a place where people will feel comfortable to go When they have needs, kids and teenagers and families and singles and older folks and all kinds of ministries that can be dreamed and carried out with that simply as a resource. That takes vision It takes a good eye, as Jesus is talking about here, to see what he's about. And then he goes on to take from that the third contrast, and he builds into that and he says, now he says I want to tell you what it really comes down to. It comes down to who is your master. And so he says there in verse 24 , if you have really the correct vision, you'll understand the issue of authority. You'll see that no one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and he will love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and he will despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money or materialism. Now Let me start by noting that this is an either-or statement. By the way, in case you didn't catch that, that's the two masters there, the second major point, the two masters. And you see that this is an either-or statement. Very clear. It is not both end. You either serve God Or you serve money or materialism. He's saying you cannot serve both. It's impossible. Mutually exclusive. And yet you and I, myself very much included in this, try desperately to make it a both end, don't we? How do we do that Well, we start out with a very valid statement that says something like this that it's very possible for me to serve Jesus Christ and also and to enjoy the material blessings God has given to me in this life. You can't argue with that, can you? We're not ascetics. No, we're not. God has given us all things richly to enjoy, 1 Timothy tells us. Absolutely true statement. You and I can serve Jesus and enjoy the material blessings he's given to us. But then we take that statement one step further and we build on it to say, therefore, I'm going to set some goals about some particular material blessings I'd like to acquire in the next few years to enjoy. Nothing wrong with that, is there? No, nothing wrong with that. Then I take that to the next step and I say, therefore now I'm going to begin to plan for these things, and those things begin to become my preoccupation I become distracted by them. I daydream about them. Those things gradually in a subtle way that I don't even notice because it's not like one day all of a sudden it happens. It's a gradual thing. They become the center of my daydreaming and of my preoccupations. Then that leads to the last step. Which is that I begin to decide my priorities and the decisions of my life based on those temporal goals. And that's seen when you hear a person say something like, I can't do this, or I must do that, based simply on how it will affect my job or my income. And when that becomes the driving force for me, it is clear I have begun to serve money. And money is a ruthless master. Very subtle, isn't it? How we can as Christians move from saying that we serve Jesus to in fact claiming to serve Jesus as our master. While in fact finding that we are driven by priorities and decisions that are simply money-oriented The only alternative to that I would suggest is to set your heart upon Jesus and to cultivate that. To realize that Jesus has in fact died for your sin, that he has transformed you in me. He's given us a new life. You would not be who you are and where you are, and you would not be freed from the bondages that you've been freed from without Jesus. What difference has he made in your life? Think about that. And as you think about that, you then want to cultivate that. And so the next step is you want to get into the scripture. You want to find out from the Bible what He has done for you. And you you relish that. And then you want to find out what he wants to do through you. And you delight in seeing his plans for you. And those Goals and intentions and desires that he has for your life to walk with you day by day. And as you do that, you begin to invest yourself in him. You take little commands and you stand for them and you don't compromise. And you make that one little decision that you're going to trust God. You're going to give him the first fruits of your income, and you're going to not back off of a moral issue when it comes up in a conversation And you're not going to whip out when it's a matter of being identified with Jesus or not. And as you invest your heart and your identity in Jesus, you find that your heart and your treasure are inseparable. And as you do that, you begin to find the last step that your decisions and your priorities are determined by kingdom values more than by temporal values. Do you see how those two roads are an either-or? Each one starts at a point of who the master is. And for a Christian, we're all claiming Jesus is. But then there's that bearing of the ways, depending on what I decide to cultivate of the values in my life. Jesus is saying, no one can serve two masters. Can't be done. Either he will hate the one and love the other. The one becomes oppressive to him. It becomes something to tolerate. And the other is the where his heart really is. See, can't be divided. You can noise more easily serve Jesus in money than you could serve a mafia boss and the president of World Vision at one and the same time. James Denny, you see, the reason is because the ultimate values are in radical conflict. James Denny once said that before Christ, a person uses people and loves things. But after Christ, a person loves people and uses things. And that's basically an either-or. Now we all struggle with it. We're all consistent with it. We're inconsistent with what we say. And as I said before, I struggle with materialism. It's certainly not something that I've conquered. I don't want to give you that impression. I struggle with it daily and weekly in little decisions that I make. But Jesus says it's an either-or ultimate issue. Either he will be devoted to the one and he will despise the other, you cannot serve both God. And money or materialism. What is that? Money. The word in the old King James, you remember, was the word mammon. The word strictly speaking isn't money. It's it really is better materialism It's a preoccupation with wealth or things or temporal things. A preoccupation with wealth rather than spiritual values. By the way, that definition, a preoccupation with wealth rather than special spiritual values. Is not a theological definition. If you look up Webster's dictionary, that's the definition that it gives for materialism. And so what are its warning signals? Well, I find again that as I struggle with it, there are times that I am more aware than others that I in fact Will be slave to money, to materialism, unless the gospel and the Spirit of God frees me from that And I have to periodically come back to the Lord and say, Lord, help me to see reality. Give me a good eye so that I'll see who my master really is. And if I don't, I become more and more materialistic. Now what are the danger signals? Let me suggest to you four ways that I have found in my life that God begins to get a hold of my heart to show me that I am in trouble in my materialism. Four warning signals that I have seen. The first is when I begin to compare what I have with what others have. When I begin to look at what others have and I begin to envy it, I always know what spiritual condition I'm in when we go to Cape Cod for a vacation in the summer. Because when I see all those multi-million dollars spreads out on the beach, you know, if I can enjoy them and say those are beautiful, it's beautiful to be here and I'm at rest Things are okay. But as soon as I begin to think, why can't I have one of those? I mean, I w don't even have to be that big, you know. I'll just take that little one over there, you know? And I begin to envy I find that my values have shifted from Jesus. My attention has gotten off of him. And I've begun to look at myself. And my temporal values. The second way that I see a warning for this is when I lose appreciation for what I do have. And begin to focus on what I don't have. It's closely related. But you see it's a little different. It's just the It's the loss of appreciation. It's that loss of a thankful heart that says, Lord, thank you for our daily bread. Thank you for what you've given to us. Thank you for all that you've given to us in our home and our family and what we enjoy here now. You've taken care of all of our needs, and to be content , rather to think of what I don't have. It's another warning signal that I'm beginning to lose my vision. My master is shifting. The third Warning signal that I find is when I lose the joy of generous giving, when I lose the joy of generous and cheerful giving When I begin to think that giving is more robbing me of what I could have for myself rather than pleasing my Jesus. You ever notice the difference in that? You ever notice different times you give? The Bible says give hilariously. That's what the Greek word means. Give joyfully, cheerfully. Times do you notice that you're close to the Lord and He's done something in your life and you're so thankful that your sins are forgiven and He's given you a new life and you give with joy, and your eyes not on what you're giving It's on Jesus that you're giving it to. But then there's those other times when you're thinking, Boy, you know, if if I just had that money and might help out with the bills this month and there's that thing we're not going to be able to get and Maybe if I didn't give quite as much, we'd be able to make it better. That's temporal values. That's forgetting who your master is. Because the Jesus who calls you to have the vision that we've talked about is the Jesus who gives the promise in verse 33. Look at verse 33, what he's promised to do. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Whether it's a four hundred dollar lawnmower or Whether it's a car or whether it's a payment for something or all kinds of things, a job, a better job Jesus says, set your eyes on me and my kingdom and let me take care of your needs. What a thrilling thing. How we could testify if we had the time. I know many of you can testify on and on about how God has taken care of your needs when you've set your heart on Him. And when you do that, you have a joy of giving. And that's the indication. When you and I begin to lose that joy of cheerful giving, then we've begun to lose our trust of Jesus, and we've begun to set our eyes On the things of this immediate life for ourselves. Vision 91 is an opportunity For us to be able to give cheerfully. We should not come with those pledges in some begrudging way, saying, well, you know, maybe this is enough to not feel guilty Uh maybe this is enough to feel like I'm, you know, at least doing my part and I'm not letting people down. It's only between you and the Lord. Nobody else is gonna know But it should be done cheerfully. It should be done out of trust and love. The final thing that I notice Finest final danger signal is when I move from managing my money and things to becoming anxious and protective about them. When I move from managing my money and my things to becoming anxious and protective about them I think of a fella, Bob Luckton, in Atlanta, Georgia. Bob is in a church in the inner city Where one of the people in that congregation is Mrs. Smith. Mrs. Smith is 66 years old Mildly retarded, vastly overweight, and her body plumbing doesn't work real well. She smells of sweat and urine And Mrs. Smith has adopted Bob as her son. Every service she comes up to him, gives him a big bear hug, and tells him, How's he doing, you know, and how much she thinks of him and how she prays for him And she's hinted rather broadly that she'd like to come over to Bob's house and visit him. And she doesn't know it, but she's prompted a crisis of values in Bob's life. Because Bob had just gotten a brand new corduroy recliner. And Bob said, I know that if I have Mrs. Smith over, first thing she's going to do is head for that corduroy recliner. Now I don't want to embarrass her and cover it with plastic. But I know that if I have her over and she sits in it, it's never going to be the same again. And so all of a sudden Bob said, I had a wrestle With the whole question of what Jesus is talking about here. Where's my treasure? Where's my vision? Who do I serve? How have I gotten into the mentality that says that I'm to be a good steward of my material resources and therefore I must preserve, protect, and maintain them? And that that's become somehow to me a higher priority than loving somebody like Mrs. Smith. And oh how he agonized over that. Lord, why do you do this to me? Why do you put me in this situation? Why couldn't Mrs. Smith just go away and let me love the other people in the congregation? Why do I have to deal with Mrs. Smith? And he said all of a sudden it seemed as if the Lord was speaking very clearly, because this was an opportunity for Bob to learn kingdom values. So he finally gave in. He invited Mrs. Smith over for Sunday dinner. Just as he expected, the first thing she did was head right for his corduroy recliner and sat right down in it And just as he further expected, the corduroy recliner was never the same after that. In fact, that day she decided to join his Wednesday Bible study that met in his home. And he decided that in obedience to the Lord and out of a growing love and appreciation for Mrs. Smith, he'd invite her to join them. And she's come every Wednesday after that, and guess where she sits Right in that corduroy recliner. He says he's even begun to refer to it as her chair. But he says the most wonderful thing is that he's begun to thank God for Mrs. Smith. Because she's begun to show him the nature of his treasure. She's begun to give him a clearer vision. And she's begun to show him who his master really is. This is a very personal choice, isn't it? And I believe that for some of us this morning, we're confronting the same kind of thing. That God is speaking to some of us. He's speaking to us about our treasures and about our eyesight and about our master As we think about this, it may be that before we can go any further, in this whole matter of what we're going to do as part of our congregation for the ministries that lie ahead, the first thing we need to do is to renew our commitment to Jesus. us as our master. We need to have him clarify our vision and we need to help him, have him help us to see what it means to have enduring treasure. And so what I want to invite us to do is as we pray now, I want to tell you, at the end of this service, I want to give an opportunity. At the close of this service during the last hymn, if there's any of you who would like to just come on down and pray. I'd like to get out of your seat and come on down right here in front of the stage and for us to pray a renewed commitment to Jesus as our master. To ask God to clarify our vision and to help us to see what real treasure is. Now I invite you. I invite you to come down at that point. And we'll have some elders here that we're just going to pray with you during the break. Have a time of renewal, of personal commitment. And then see what God does in our lives. Sometimes the outward step of a renewed commitment can help us to seal what God is saying to our hearts right now Before that thought is taken away. Let's pray. Lord, as we think about this now, it's perhaps for some of us we're thinking it was nice to hear it But now you don't really expect me to act on it. And Lord, the whole point of this passage is we have choices to make. Choices. Lord, those choices we can't make on our own. For we are a greedy, selfish, and materialistic people. We confess that to you. Lord, thank you that you have come, that by your death you would forgive us of our selfishness and our greed, and you transform our hearts. Not to take anything away from us, but to give us infinitely more because you have opened our eyes to see what real treasure is. And yet, Lord, for some of us our eyes have gotten clouded again. We have forgotten that treasure. There's a speck in our eyes that's causing us to squint, and we're not seeing very well where we're going. We have forgotten who our master is. Speak to us now, and in these minutes ahead And Father, for some of us, you might call us to come down and to pray for you to renew in our hearts and in our lives that commitment to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.