I almost wish that Tom hadn't remembered to dismiss the shiver this morning because uh something I have to share of you I think they will really appreciate, but I'm gonna go ahead and share it with with all of you uh in my sermon this morning anyway, even even though they're absent, I think a lot of us are still children at heart. I hope we're still children at heart. We'll be able to appreciate it. This is the second message in our August series called Praying with Paul. Now I hope you don't think that that title is too silly. I'll forgive you if you do. But if you think that's a silly title, I guess I should tell you that I almost named this series, we are what we pray. And maybe if uh I uh thought that that perhaps that was a bit too much, so I tuned that back and and said praying with false keeping two P's there. But if I was now Harris , if I wasn't as corny as I am, I'd probably title this series something like Pauline Patterns of Prayer and get three Ps in there. Call it what you want, my Basic intention this month is for us to be able to draw out of Paul's prayers for other Christians principles that we can apply in our own lives right now and also apply to our prayer lives as we pray in inter and intercede for other people. So as we're looking at Paul's intercessory prayers, as they've been called, again this morning, let's think how we can all overcome the shallowness and staleness that can creep into our own own prayer lives. And let's draw some riches from Paul, from Paul this morning. I wanted to also mention that uh next week's text, uh, for some of you who have been asking to have the coming week's text announce. It didn't make your bulletin, but here it is if you'd like to prepare your heart for worship by meditating on the text in advance. Next week I'll be preaching from Ephesians three. Ephesians three verses fourteen through nineteen. probably one of the very um most packed of Paul's prayers. And we'll try to to unravel it a little next week. But now let's focus on Philippians chapter one. Philippians chapter one. I'll be reading verses three through eleven, but we'll be focusing this morning on verses nine through eleven in particular as Paul there moves into specific prayer for the believers in Philippi. Here then is God's word. I thank my God every time I remember you. In all my prayers for all of you, I always pray with joy. Because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this, that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. It is right for me to feel this way about all of you, since I have you in my heart. For whether I am in chains or defending and confirming the gospel, all of you share in God's grace with me. God can testify how I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. And this is my prayer that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of intelligence. sights, so that you may be able to discern what is best and may be pure and blameless until the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory of the and praise of God. Today I want us to look at two central or two key balances in the Christian life that Paul hits at here. When I was growing up I liked to play with my dad uh carpenter's leveler. Now I don't know what these things are technically called, but it's what you use to when you're a carpenter and you're working with wood to see if what you're working on is level. It's a rod and some of you are more familiar with it probably than I am, but it's a rod and it's got these little uh tubes in it, sometimes more than one, sometimes just one. And they have little bubbles in them. A little air bubble that will tell you if what you're setting that rod on is is level or not. And the bubble will go back and forth there in the little tube. And as I remember, I think I used to call these things bubble tunes or something silly like that. But um I like to play with those bubble tunes and watch them go back and forth as I would flip the bar in in different directions and see that little air bubble. go this way or go that way. Well I think here we have in this text two different bubble tubes, if you will, two different balances that we need to attend to in the Christian life. And it may not appear so In your English Bible. But if you looked at the original, you would notice two very specific sections to Paul's prayer. And each of those two sections has one of these balances in it, one of these bubble tunes in it, you might say. Paul prays for two balances in the Philippines' lives. And so you and I should pray also that other believers would have love balanced with wisdom and purity balanced with fruit. Love balanced with wisdom and purity balanced with fruit. Let's look then at the first part of the first one of these bubble tubes. Verses 9 through the first half of verse 10, Paul says, And this is my prayer that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of insight. so that we may be able to discern what is best. The first part of this balance you see is love. Now Paul never tires of stressing the need for love in Christians' lives. We've touched on it last week, we'll touch on it in the weeks to come. Both within the body of Christ and towards unbelievers, Paul is constantly praying that Christians would have Christ's love. Christ's love. where Paul in 1 Thessalonians 3 prays that the may the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else, just as ours done is for you. So Paul there First Thessalonians was praying for love to increase and overflow. And here Paul prayed that the Philippians would have love. Love that abounds. And abounds with something very specific. This love you see. is always to be coupled with and united with wisdom. Wisdom. Love is to abound more and more with or in knowledge and depth of insight that you may be able To discern what is best. You see, so Paul, he's talking about wisdom here, but is discernment of the Lord's will, knowledge of what is good, and discernment of what is. You see, Paul is talking about the kind of wisdom that you need to make those kinds of discriminations that are necessary in the Christian life. He's praying for that kind of wisdom. He's praying for that kind of of knowledge and discretion in daily living, that you may be able to discern what is best. Now it's important I think for us to remember that love, as important as love is, without wisdom is not enough. Love on its own, without wisdom, is not enough. You need them both. Now think about it. And here's where I wish I had the kick for the sake. A thing with me But love is represented by a warm winsome smile, something like this. I have to do it, but that's a warm winsome smile, okay? Okay. Now and also it seems to me that wisdom, wisdom is represented by wide open, all seeing eyes, like this. Okay? Now, you see some kind of thing. Christians, some Christians have lots of love, lots of love for other people, but they don't have wisdom. It's not bound and coupled and united with wisdom or knowledge. Such Christians would look like this. See, they have lots of love, lots of care for other people, but they're blind because they don't have wisdom. They're blind because they lack kind of wisdom. Paul's talking about here, you see. But love without wisdom is not enough. Now some Christian groups I know of and some groups of believers I know of care little or nothing about the mind. They don't care what goes on up here. They don't they don't have much of a concern about knowledge of facts and and so on. All they're concerned about is loving people as they are and where they're at. And that I say that's terrific. That kind of love is tremendous. But it needs to be coupled and united with wisdom. Or it will be blind, it will be insufficient. But on the other hand, you see, wisdom , wisdom without love is not enough. Wisdom on its own, without love, is is not enough either. Now think of it this way. Some Christians have raised sharp discernments. They can really discern what is good from what is better from what is best. They're really good at that. They have tremendous By God. But they don't have love for those other believers. They don't have love for those who are outside of the Lord. They don't have love. But they do have wisdom. And so such Christians would look something like this. You see, they've got wide open eyes. They have a lot of wisdom, a lot of knowledge. But they come across as cold and dry. Because they don't have love. Because they lack real love. So living on its own without love is not enough. Now some Christians this I know have have tremendous knowledge and depth of insight. They communicate very little love. If they have any, they sure don't communicate it to other believers. And so they come across as cold and dry and aloof. And it's so sad to me. It's so sad when I see this thing. But it's true. love and wisdom must go together and they must be balanced with in each other. They both must be there in balance. And so the Christians suppose to look something like this. Lots of wisdom, lots of love, in balance. Balance and coupled together. So love must be united with and balanced with wisdom. So in this matter, let's remind ourselves, my brothers and sisters. That love and wisdom. The love of God and the wisdom of God were perfectly united in the Lord Jesus Christ. The love of God and the wisdom of God were brought together in the perfect person of Jesus Christ. You see, Jesus Christ is love. Jesus Christ is the fullness of the demonstration of God's love. Christ is the earthly demonstration of God's love for his rebellious people. And as Paul says in Romans 5. 8, as I mentioned last week, God showed his love for us in this, while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. That's how much God loves us. only to us to die for us. So Christ is God's love. And Christ is God's wisdom. Christ himself is God's wisdom. Paul talks about it that way in 1 Corinthians 1 24. When he says that Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. The power of God and the wisdom of God are there in Jesus Christ. So God's love and God's wisdom are blocked. Together in the person of Jesus. Jesus demonstrates God's love and demonstrates God's great wisdom. And we must look to Him and remember Him. Now, how about you and I? Are you love and wisdom coupled in perfect unity? Or is there some imbalance there? Is the bubble to took them down one way more than the other? Is your love and your wisdom in perfect balance or is there or does your spiritual level really need some adjusting? Does it need to be brought up on one side or on the other? Is your love out of balance with your wisdom? I challenge you to pray for the believers this week. you do for yourself. But other believers would have love balanced with wisdom. Love united with and balanced with wisdom. And I think it's especially Christians who are involved in politics. and even our own Dave Steelman as he runs for Congress. There's a lot of of what you need in the singular gray areas and difficult decisions that face Christians involved in politics. And Dave's gonna be facing those things. He's facing them even now. Pray that David's love would be balanced with and coupled with great wisdom, great understanding, great discernment of what is good and what is better and what is best, so that he might choose the best and honor the Lord in that. I think also of the leaders in our church and the potential of future leaders in our church. They need great love coupled with and bound with wisdom. Why is that? Well, for a lot of reasons. I think of our elders in particular. Our elders have faced some very difficult, discipline decisions in the church recently, and I'm sure more are going to be coming on down the pike even this year. And it's very important if discipline is to be constructive as the body. If discipline is to be constructive and not destructive, it needs to be a combination of love and wisdom for the other person. So that that person is restored and reconciled and not driven further away from the Lord, but drawn to the Lord. And so love must be coupled with and bound with wisdom in these kinds of decisions. It's very difficult to do, folks. Very difficult. It's impossible outside of God's help. So we must pray for our elders as they make these kinds of decisions that they would have love balance with and coupled with wisdom. I think also of our deacons, some of our deacons have had some really tough cases recently. Really tough cases. And I wish I could share with you some of the details there, but let me just say that our details need to be streetwide. They need to be wide in the ways of the world, and yet have that balance with love. And compassion and mercy, a kind of love that can only come from God and through Jesus Christ. But pray for Craig and pray for Jerry, as they are current deacons, and pray for others to be raised up and added to the people. to their number to carry on the work that's so important there. In caring for people with God's love and wisdom in combination as they make some difficult decisions with deacons. Deacons are called to be our stewards, stewards of some of the funds that God has entrusted to us as a church. But they need great love and they need great reasons balanced and coupled together as they make those kind of decisions. Not only should you pray for others and to have love balanced with wisdom. But also, also, the second section of God of Paul's prayer, you should pray also for purity balanced with fruits. Purity balanced with fruits. Purity, first of all. Paul prays that the Philippines would be pure and blameless until the day of Christ. Pure and blameless until the day of Christ. Paul is concerned that the Philippians be inwardly holy, be inwardly cleansed before God, so that they be pure and blameless before Him. Again, it's rarely things o'clock in our English. translations, but this is really the beginning of the second half of Paul's prayer, the second bubble tube, if you will, the second balance that Paul's talking about here. And the adjective that's translated in the New International Version, pure, might also be translated as sincere. Or perhaps genuine, pure, sincere, or genuine. The kind of genuineness that can only come from the heart. And the adjective that the NIV translates as blameless could also be translated. without offense. Without offense. So Paul is praying that these believers would be inwardly pure, genuine, sincere, without offense before God, before the Holy God. have that kind of holiness. Seems clear that the concept that Paul's getting at is righteousness and holiness of life before God. And you see our righteousness comes only through faith in Jesus Christ. So it must be the righteousness from from God that is ours. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, that in Christ we become the righteousness of God. Isn't that amazing? In Christ we who are unrighteous become the very righteous of God as Christ's righteousness is imputed or transferred to our accounts. So we are righteous and made pure and blameless in Christ before God. Yes, as We are to grow in righteousness, as Paul says, until the day of Christ. As we are to grow in that kind of purity and blamelessness, there must be a bound, and that purity must be coupled with fruit. Purity must be bound. and coupled with fruit. Fruit or outward action. You see, Paul desires the Philippians to be filled with the fruit of righteousness, as he prays here. Filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. Glory and praise of God. Now, fruit of righteousness here, I believe, are the deeds that come from righteousness. The deeds that come from righteousness. Paul later in verse 22 refers to his fruit. labor again putting labor, outward action, and fruit together. It's fruitful labor in verse twenty two. And again in Colossians, Paul says in Colossians one ten, He equates dare and fruit with Doing every good work. So bearing fruit means doing every good work, all kinds of outward actions, all kinds of good deeds, all kinds of noble actions. That's what Paul wants to be united with believers, a purity. Interestingly, Paul said that not only does our righteousness come from Jesus Christ, but also the fruit of righteousness comes from Jesus Christ. You see, Jesus does it all. It is all of him. Not only is our purity and our blamelessness before God from Jesus, but so are our good deeds. Isn't that interesting? Our fruit, as well as our fruit of righteousness, as well as the righteousness itself comes from Jesus Christ. And again, it's critical to remember that purity without deeds is not enough. Purity, inward holiness without deeds is not enough. As Jesus has been telling us, faith without works is dead. Faith without works is not the real thing. It's not real faith. It's not real saving faith. Purity without fruit of that purity is no good. It just doesn't cut it. As Jesus says in Matthew 12, 33, by fruit is a tree recognized. By fruit is a tree recognized. How do you know it's a pear tree? It it has pears hanging on it. How do you know it's an apple tree? Well it's going to have apples hanging on it. On it sometime of the year. By fruit, a tree is recognized. So the fruit must be there, and purity alone, without the fruit, is not enough. Now think about it this way. Imagine this means that there's such a thing Of a golden retriever who's a pure red golden retriever that doesn't know how to set the stick. A retriever that doesn't know how to retrieve. Now, Linda and I like golden retrievers, and that's one of the reasons I started with the But follow this through with me. If he has a pure bred golden retriever who has a perfect pedigree, but he can't touch the stick, he can't retrieve anything, he's absolutely worthless on a hunt. He's gonna go for anything. He can't retrieve uh anything of of value. And so his own value, if you were to go to a dog show with that kind of dog, the value of that golden retriever is gonna be greatly diminished. I mean the bottom's just gonna fall right out of his of his uh of his value at that dog show. Because he can't do what he's supposed to do. He might have perfect pedigree, he might have a perfect family long. He has pure bread gold retriever, but if he can't retreat, no matter how good a pedigree, its value is going to be drastic. reduced. And some Christians, I'm afraid, are like that golden retriever. They profess reflected in Christ alone, occasionally in the Lord. And they profess to have been cleansed and been made pure by Jesus Christ. But they're all taught and no go. They're all words and no action. They claim to be pure in Christ, but they don't have any spirits to show for. No fruit to make their profession a credible profession. No changed lifestyle, it changed anything. You see, they're no better than a retriever who can't retrieve. They're no better. than a pure-good retriever that can't retrieve. Christians are meant to act like Christians, you see. Purity without deeds is not enough. But then again, deeds without purity is not enough. The deeds alone, without the purity, is not enough either. Think about that. Our outward actions, our trying to please God by our own good deeds, is worthless if we don't have a cleansed heart. running around doing good things, without a cleanest heart, without being made inwardly pure by Jesus Christ , our faith is worthless. Our religion, as James would say, is worthless. As Idea tells us, all our righteous deeds are like filthy rags without a pure heart. All the good deeds we can possibly do, all the most noble things, the most admirable things we could do for other people, or what have you, is ruthless. It's like so many filthy rags. without a pure heart before God. Imagine with me a real mutt that retrieves really well. A hundred and fifty feathers that used to be. call it um a dog that's a combination of so many breeds nobody can ever figure it out. Just he's just a mut, but he knows how to fetch a stick real well. He knows how to fetch a stick real well. Now I can think of one dog like this around here. And it belongs to John and Marie Isaac and her name is Gert. Now Gert is a real much, she's a real time fifty seven. But boy, she knows how to retrieve a stick really well. I mean she loves it. She does it well. She's terrific. And don't get me wrong, those guys I love Gert and she's terrific. And when she knows how to touch a stick terrific. But Gert would never make it in a dog show. She'd never make it. The tail's too long, I mean she's got just too many different things in her background. She's just a nice. She's never made any real job show among serious judges. But she judges a stick real well. You see, she's got deeds without purity, you might say. She has anything but a pure pedigree. But she She knows how to get the stick. She knows how to retrieve that stick. Now of course the analogy breaks down here a little bit, you know, if you think about it, because none of us have a pure pedigree before God. None of us have a pure family line either. We're made pure by an outside source that Jesus Christ acts in our life. We're made blameless. We're made to have a pure pedigree, you might say, by Christ's outward action on our behalf. But you get the picture, I hope. Fruit without purity is not enough for serious judges any more than the fact that Bert can retrieve sticks really well would help a win a dog show. Feed without purity is not enough. Some Christians and afraid of like this though. They're busy with a lot of different things. They're busy doing an awful lot of good deeds, maybe administrating a committee, or caring for the poor, caring for the sick for those in real crisis situations, active in all kinds of of social uh actions that are really good, really positive, really important, very fruitful, you might say. They're good deeds. But they don't balance that with maintaining a pure heart, a constantly brainless walk before God. They're so busy in so many things that they don't have time, they think, to maintain an inwardly tender heart. heart before God, to cleanse their motives daily, to make sure that they are inwardly pure before the Lord. You see, purity and deepening to go together, just like a golden tree. is meant to retrieve. Purity is meant to be balanced with fruit or balanced with seeds. In all that lets remember, of course, again that purity of God And the fruit of God are both shown in one person, one person alone, and that's Jesus Christ. Jesus is purity. Jesus is purity. He's the only one who never sinned. He's the only one who led a perfectly righteous life before God. He's the only blameless one. He's the only pure one. The only sinless one. And what's more, not only is Jesus purity, but Jesus is also the very fruit of God. Jesus is purity and the the purity and the fruit of God. Because as Prophet 's Christ Is the fruit is the branch that bears perfect fruit. Rather, Isaiah. Isaiah prophesies of a branch that will spring up that bears perfect fruit in Isaiah 11, 1. And Jesus fulfills that prophecy. Fulfills that prophecy. He is the very fruit of God. Why? Because he accomplished all that God designed, all that God intended to do to redeem his people. Jesus has done it. Jesus' actions and his death and resurrection. and ascension. With a perfect, fruitful labor, all that God needed for our redemption, all that we needed to be holy before the Lord was soon in Him. He's the culmination, He's the fruit of all God intended to do throughout all the ages is to redeem his people. Jesus is the fruit of God. So purity and fruit are united, united and balanced in Jesus Christ. Because Jesus is the very purity of the very fruit of God. How about you and I? Does your life show forth purity coupled with fruit and balanced with fruit? Or is there a tilt one way or the other? Is there a tilt towards one direction or the other in your life? Is your blamelessness in Christ combined with and united with and balanced? with the leaves. Or are you more talk than girl? Is the balance proper or are you not sided on one side or the other? Think about that. And pray for other believers this week, that other Christians will be able to find that balance and have that unity of purity and fruit in their lives. I think especially of some new Christians that some of you probably have heard about, some people who've made recently professions of faith in Jesus Christ, uh partly through our evangelism training industry here at CPC. But as new believers, we need to find this balance. of purity and fruits. I'm concerned frankly with some of them, some of them who have claimed to have trusted Christ, but I don't see any fruit of that profession. I don't see any actions to back up what they say has happened in their lives. I don't see any change, anything, any outward deeds that that look to me like fruit. And so I'm concerned about that and I would ask you to pray for those new Christians, people who've made professions of faith in the last few weeks over the Sunday. It's been exciting to be a part of that. But I'm concerned that there that these believers find balance there. Purity coupled with fruit and balanced with fruit in their lives. You could pray also for their inward purity as far as that goes. is that they would find what it means to draw fruit from God's Word. That they would be able to maintain a pure and blameless walk before God by learning how to read His Word, by learning how to study, by learning how to pray, by learning how to confess. Your sin and find cleansing in Jesus Christ. So pray to these new believers that they have purity bounds with fruits. On the other hand, there are a lot of very busy people in our church. as Alan has mentioned a few weeks ago. And I I still sense it. And there are a lot of people in our church that are really busy with a lot of different things. And we need to pray for our brothers and sisters here. That they would guard their hearts, that they would guard the purity of their hearts, that they would maintain tender hearts before the Lord. That they are given so many outward activities in so many different directions. My goodness, right and left. Pray that they their fruit, all this activity, all these many good things that people are involved with in our church would not keep them from maintaining a pure and blameless walk before the Lord and a pure and blameless heart before him in Jesus Christ. So pray there are other Christians in our body, even if they're so busy and church related and ministry activities of various sorts, would have purity balanced with fruit in their lives. Purity coupled with and balanced with fruit. Phrased by the Christians as Paul does, that they would have love coupled with wisdom and purity balanced with fruit. So perhaps you're visiting us with us today in you realize that you have not come to the place where you've trusted in Jesus Christ alone. Perhaps you're here today and you've never trusted in in Christ. And you're really trusting in your own good works. You're trusting that your own good deeds and doing enough of them and doing enough quality good deeds will somehow make you acceptable before God. But remember that good deeds alone are never enough. Good deeds, no matter how many good deeds you can do, no matter how good they are, they'll never enough. They'll never earn your salvation. They'll never obtain for you eternal life with God. Because you need to be purified, you need to ge have Jesus Christ come and purify your life and make you blameless before God. All your good deeds, however admirable, is not enough to make you blameless before God. You need to have Jesus do that for you. And so you'll never be fruitful and productive in your labor until you have that done in your life. So never you'll never bear the kind of fruit that Paul's talking about here. Except by Jesus Christ and as He acts in your life through the Holy Spirit. To make you pure and then to push you out in fruitful labor , fruitful deeds, and fruitful activities. So I would urge you to seriously consider the pure one Look to Jesus Christ, the blameless one. Ask him to make you pure. Ask him to make you blameless before God. Because only in him can you please God. And I'd love to talk with any of you who have questions about these things. After the service, perhaps we can make an appointment to sit down and talk more about these things. But don't put it off. Purity must be coupled with fruit. Good deeds are never enough. Such balances of love and wisdom and purity and deeds are necessary to bring maturity, to bring completeness, to bring balanced wholeness in our Christian lives. And so we need to pray for these things. And let's press on toward such balances as we call on the power of Jesus Christ to fill us and to make us more whole, to make us more complete, to make us more mature as we find these balances in our lives. Let's break again. Hold on. Grow us. into the image of Jesus Christ. He indeed is the only pure one. And mature us into completeness in Him until His day comes that our purity in Him would rebound. with fruits. And that our love, the love that He's given us and only He can give us, will be balanced and coupled with wisdom and discernment. Father, I pray especially for our deacons, for our elders and those whom you will raise up to join them in the upcoming months and the upcoming years. And I pray, Lord, that you would grant them your infinite love. And your great wisdom in balance, in complete balance, as they seek to make difficult decisions, as they leave this church before you. Father, you give them wisdom, balance with law. And Lord, I pray also for those who have come to profess faith in Jesus Christ for the first time in the last couple of years. Father, I thank you for that profession, for those professions we've seen. I pray, Lord, that you'd make them credible by adding to that purity fruit. I pray that you'd help them find maturity and grow. more and more in the image of Christ and being bound with fruit in their lives. I pray also, Lord, for the many busy people in our congregation. Those who are active in so many good deeds, O Father, guard them from hardness of heart, guard them from impurities that would seek to drive them down. Lord, we know that the world we live in is anything but pure, anything but soft towards you. And I pray, Father, that you would help those who are active in so many good deeds in our congregation to maintain a tender heart towards you. A heart that is continually purified by you and blamelessly for you. As they're active in so many good things. Work on us what is pleasing to you, Lord Jesus, for you we worship. You get to work. You are our Jesus. And it's in your name that we pray. Amen.