I quote to you from a fellow Jeff Jacoby. Did you hear about the religious fundamentalist who wanted to teach physics at Cambridge University? This would-be instructor wasn't simply a Christian. He was so preoccupied with biblical prophecy that he wrote a book entitled Observations on the Prophecies of Daniel and the Apocalypse of St. John. Based on his reading of Daniel, in fact, he forecasts the date of the apocalypse no earlier than 2060. He also calculated the year that the world was created. When Genesis 1-1 says in the beginning, he determined it means 3988 BC. Not many modern universities are prepared to employ a science professor who espouses not merely intelligent design, but out-and-out divine creation. This applicant's writings on astronomy, for example, include these thoughts on the solar system. This most beautiful system of sun, planets, and comets Could only proceed from the counsel and dominion of an intelligent and powerful being. He governs all things and knows all things that are or can be done. Hire somebody with such views to teach physics? At a Baptist junior college deep in the Bible Belt maybe, but the faculty would erupt if you tried it just about anywhere else Many of them would echo Oxford's Richard Dawkins, the prominent evolutionary biologist who writes in The God Delusion that he is, quote, hostile to fundamentalist religion because it actively debauches the scientific enterprise. It subverts science and saps the intellect. Equally blunt is Sam Harris, PhD candidate in neuroscience and other uns another unsparing foe of religion. The conflict between religion and science is inherent and very nearly zero sum. He's written, the success of science often comes at the expense of religious dogma The maintenance of religious dogma always comes at the expense of science. Less elegant but more influential the national science education standards issued by the National Academy of Sciences in nineteen ninety five Five classified religion with myths, mystical inspiration, and superstition, all of them quite incompatible with scientific study. Michael Deaney, biologist at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, made headlines in 2003 over his policy of denying letters of recommendation for any graduate student who could not truthfully and forthrightly affirm the scientific answer to the question of mankind's origin Science and religion, he said in an interview at the time, should not overlap. But such considerations didn't keep Cambridge from hiring the theology and Bible drenched individual described above. Indeed, it named him to the prestigious Lucasian Chair of Mathematics in 1668. A good thing too, since Isaac Newton, notwithstanding his religious fervor and intense interest in biblical interpretation went on to become the most renowned scientist of his age and arguably the most influential in history Daniel was a bit like Isaac Newton. A brilliant believer But an extremely unlikely person to be the second in power of the Babylonian Empire an empire that had actually conquered and destroyed his homeland. The Book of Daniel is written in a time when the message of the God of the Bible, specifically the God of Daniel, seemed extremely implausible. And that's where we live, isn't it? We live in a day where the biblical faith seems not impossible to people. You can't disprove it. It simply seems implausible. Who can imagine anyone With credibility, being able to come with the one truth that explains where mankind came from, the nature of God, the mess that we're in, how we get out of it, or how to get to heaven It's simply implausible. And so I hope this holiday season that you'll be able to feel the seismic shift of the message of Daniel in such a culture. That just when God seems nowhere to be seen, he's ready to make himself known in the most unexpected ways. Like in a dream to a heathen king, in fact the very king that had destroyed his city and his temple of worship. And so in the passage that you heard Rick read, shortly after Daniel and his friends had been brought by force to Babylon. and made part of the Babylonian Association of Magi, that is, fellows whose job was to interpret dreams and signs like auspicious times to go to war or things like that. Nebuchadnezzar had a very disturbing dream. In fact, he was so disturbed by this dream that he wants to make sure That the interpretation that is given to this dream is supernaturally correct. So he calls in all the magi, all the dream interpreters, and he says I want you to interpret this dream. And to make sure that you can do it, I want you to also tell me the dream that I had. And they look at them, their jaws drop, and they say, no, no, no, King, that's not how it works. See, the way it works is you tell us the dream, and we tell you the interpretation. To which Nebuchadnezzar gets a bit irritated, and as Rick read, he says back to them, This is what I have firmly decided. If you do not tell me what my dream was and interpret it, I will have you cut into pieces and your houses turned into piles of rubble. That's the bad news. The good news, but if you tell me the dream and explain it, you will receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. So tell me the dream and interpret it for me. No third alternative. They are patient with him as with a little boy. And they say, let's go over it one more time. Here's how it works. You tell us the dream. We tell you the interpretation. At this point, Nebuchadnezzar about loses it Gives them the threat one more time. To which they respond, King, there is nobody on earth that could do that. Only the gods can do that, and they don't live around here. So Nebuchadnezzar decides that it's time to execute what he proposed. So he sends Ariok the leader of his guard, the temple guards, around to execute all the Babylonian magi They get to Daniel and his three friends, and just as they're about to haul him off, Daniel says, Hey, wait a minute. If you're going to execute us, could you at least tell us why we're about to be executed? He says, well, didn't you hear? The kings asked for all the dream interpreters to tell them what dream he had so that then they can interpret it supernaturally. And Daniel says, okay, tell you what, give us 24 hours. We'll see what our God does. And Daniel at that point calls a prayer meeting. Let me tell you, that was one prayer meeting where the attention and concentration never varied, people never flagged, it was focused. God, you give us that dream, or we are history. We are dead in 24 hours. And God, supernaturally, reveals the dream to Daniel. Daniel responds in that hymn of praise that you heard Rick read. He thanks God, declares that he is the one who changes times and seasons, raises up kings, deposes other kings. I thank and praise you, O God, my fathers, for you have given me wisdom and power. You have made known to me what we asked of you. You have made known to us the dream of the king. Praise God. Thank you. Now it's interesting that when Ariak comes back and Daniel tells him this and Ariak goes to the king, that he doesn't say to the king, I found a guy who says he can do this. In verse 25, Ariok goes to Nebuchadnezzar and he says, I found a man who can do this. Also interesting to me to note that when Daniel comes to the king He doesn't just plead for the life of himself and his three friends. You know, he could have thought Hey, all these occult practicing magi pagans around here, go ahead. You can execute them. Just save us because we're the ones that are able to interpret the dream and I specifically But no, those are his friends, and so he pleads for the lives of all these pagan astrologers. He asks for mercy for them. Finally, it's interesting to note that Daniel does not take any credit for being able to interpret the dream. Psalm 50, verse 15, God says, In the day of trouble you shall call upon me, and I will deliver you, and you shall honor me. It's very easy, isn't it, when you and I are in a hopeless situation, we cry out to God, He delivers us, to be able to say afterwards, got out of that one. And we forget that when we were in the hopeless situation, our eyes were desperately upon the Lord But Daniel says straight out to Nebuchadnezzar, as I do this, I want you to know it's not me. There is a God in heaven who reveals such mysteries. He gets all the credit. And then he proceeds to tell Nebuchadnezzar his dream. He says, You saw an enormous, dazzling statue. This statue was awesome in its sight. The NIV study bible has depicted it kind of like that. It gives you some idea what a royal person would have looked like at that time You notice that he says then that this statue had four or five parts to it. Had a head of gold Chest and arms of silver, belly and thighs of bronze, and then legs of iron and feet that are a mixture of iron and clay. Notice that these are descending value. It's kind of like the Olympics. You got the gold, the silver, the bronze. Nobody gets the iron. But you know, there it is. Then he says, as you looked upon this statue, there was cut out a rock. And that rock smashed the feet of the statue. And it pulverized the statue. The statue disintegrated. It was reduced to gold, silver, bronze, iron, dust. And then a wind came and blew it all away, and it was gone. And the rock grew into a large mountain that filled the entire earth. A picture while he's telling this, Nebuchadnezzar is nodding. Yep, that's it, yeah, that's it. You got it. Yep. He's calculating. What are the odds that this guy could guess that? Pretty much nil Easterners, even till today, Iraq and Iran, put a lot of stock into dreams as being significant. So Nebuchadnezzar is very anxious at this point. He says, okay, okay, you got it. I leave it. Yeah, okay. Now, what's it mean? Tell me what it means. And Daniel describes the meaning of this dream. Now, you notice here, there's a little chart. Next week we're going to look at chapter 7. He describes the these same four sections for animals in that case. Chapter eight, there's a little bit of description, but over here Notice what Daniel is saying and help you to see it. Daniel says that these this statue refers to four kingdoms Now you, king, are the head of gold. That's Babylonia. After you is going to come a second kingdom, the Medo-Persian kingdom, established in 539 by Cyrus Then after that is going to come another inferior kingdom, the Macedonian Greek kingdom established in 330 BC by Alexander the Great. And then finally in 63 BC there will come the fourth kingdom, a very strong kingdom, the Iron Kingdom, the Roman Empire. And that will be partly brittle, partly strong. And it is in the time of that kingdom that there will be a rock cut out. And that rock will become the last, final, eternal kingdom of God. Now, what I want to do is to observe four things about this rock because remember this is a series. Of our annual Christmas series on messianic prophecies. So, what does this tell us about Jesus? Four observations about the rock. First of all This rock is supernatural in its origin. In verse 34, while you were watching, a rock was cut out, but not by human hands. It struck the statue on its feet of iron and clay and smashed them. So this is a rock that is not cut out by any human hands. seeing any human connections. That is, when Jesus was born in Bethlehem, he was a Jew from Nazareth. He did not come from the Roman Empire. He didn't come from the Babylonian or the Medo-Persian or the Greek Empire. This was something he was a person who came from outside of royalty and and these um So verse forty four Tells you in the time of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom. It will never be destroyed, nor will it be left to another people. It will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but it will itself endure forever. It's the God of heaven who sets up this kingdom. This God who seems so weak, so absent from the scene now. He's now revealing to you in this dream that he is the one who is going to establish this kingdom. It is supernatural in its origin. Secondly, notice that it's supernatural in its destruction and domination. In verses 34 and 35, supernatural in its destruction and domination. While you were watching, a rock was cut out, but not with human hands. By human hands, it struck the statue on its feet of iron and clay and smashed them Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken to pieces at the same time and became like chaff on a threshing floor in the summer. The wind swept them away without leaving a trace, but the rock that struck the statue became a huge mountain and filled the whole earth It's sort of begging for some Hollywood special effects. But just imagine in your imagination, now here's this huge statue. This rock appears cut out somewhere and it smashes the feet of that statue You watch as the statue crumbles, and as it crumbles, it is literally pulverized. It's reduced to powder, gold, silver, bronze, dust. And then as it lies there in a heap, you hear a wind begin to rise. And that wind takes that pile and it begins to blow it away. And you see this dust swirling away till there is absolutely nothing left. The only thing that there is is the rock. And that rock grows and grews and grews and becomes a mountain. And that mountain eventually fills the entire earth. That's the picture. And Daniel is saying, that is the fifth kingdom, that's the rock. That's what I'm describing. You see, the rock cannot coexist with the other kingdoms. Look at verse 44. In the time of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor will it be left to another people. It will crush all those kingdoms. and bring them to an end, but it will itself endure forever. This is showing that these kingdoms are in mortal combat There is only one who can rule the world and demand the allegiance of all peoples. If you go to Istanbul , You can see there what was once the largest, most magnificent church in all of the world, the Hagia Sophia. But if you go there now, it's a museum. When it was conquered by the Muslims in, I think, 1453, they turned it into a mosque. Now it's simply a museum. And you see all this opulence, but it's all crumbling. In fact, the dome is held up by scaffolding It's all the past. Go down a couple hundred yards across this garden to the Blue Mosque, one of the most opulent mosques in all the world. You have to take off your shoes to enter in respect for Allah. You go into the blue mosque, everything is kept up, it's all maintained. There's people actively worshiping Allah with their heads to the floor. And the message is quite clear. Christianity is a dead thing of the past. Islam is of the present and the future. Jesus and Allah can't both be ruling. It's one or the other. The rock must displace every other kingdom. This is a conflict of kingdoms in mortal combat. But it's going to happen over a period of time. Look back in verse 35, when he says that the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken to pieces at the same time. They became like calf on the threshing floor in the summer. The wind swept away without leaving a trace, but the rock that struck the statue became it grew and became a huge mountain over a period of time that filled the whole earth. When we were in Hawaii a few years ago, I was really intrigued with Munakia. It's the largest mountain there, the highest mountain. It's uh a little under fourteen thousand feet, about thirteen thousand eight hundred feet. And uh some people um, like to get to the top of it. I decided we'd try to do what you know, it's kinda went once in a lifetime thing, to drive from sea level up to the as close to the top as you could get of this huge mountain fourteen thousand feet when it was pitch dark. Because some of the world's finest observatories are at the top of that. mountain. Not that you can go in them, but at least you can see the heavens in a way that you rarely see it in any other place. We started out, sea level, and one arm way up, you you literally drive through the clouds to get to the top. And I'll tell you, you want a lonely experience? Try driving on a dirt road with no lights, no people for miles around in a dense fog up the top of a mountain. A little creepy. But you get up there and you finally see all the heavens break before you, and then you realize 14 ,000 feet, but that's not Monakia. Lunacy is actually a extinct volcano that starts at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. The mountain is mostly submerged, mostly invisible. The mountain is actually well over thirty-three thousand feet tall. It's so massive that it is gradually sinking because it is depressing the floor of the earth. Jesus grows in this mountain. Monakea is just one little point on one little island in the Pacific. But this rock continues to grow and grow, and the mountain covers the earth It displaces everything else that there is. And that, brothers and sisters in Christ, is great news. Because this mountain is the mountain of Messiah, who rules in peace and joy. This mountain is the mountain where lions play with lambs, where you never need locks or antidepressants. Because this mountain restores everything the way it should be, and Jesus rules with no contest. And everyone bows before him. This is the rock that Daniel is describing. Notice also That this rock thirdly is supernatural in its endurance. It's supernatural in its endurance. Verse 44. At the time of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor will it be left to another people. It will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but it itself will endure forever. It will never be destroyed. Unlike Camelot, it will not last for just one brief shining moment. But forever. There's only five world kingdoms, Daniel says. Very interesting. Who would have known? But he said there's only going to be five. You, Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, Rome, Messiah. That's it. When Messiah's kingdom is established, nothing will ever supersede it. This kingdom Is in is unconquerable. This kingdom will never deteriorate. It will never decl decay. It will be ruled forever. But what exactly is the rock that he's talking about? Daniel doesn't say. It's going to become a lot clearer in chapter 7 that the rock is a person. But even here, when you compare what he says with Scripture, it is clear, fourth observation, that the rock is personal in character. The rock is personal in character. You see, the rock is used many times in Scripture. Moses describes in Deuteronomy 32 that our God is a rock. David in Psalm 18 says, I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock. My fortress and my deliverer, my God is my rock, in whom I take refuge. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. He is the rock. In Isaiah chapter 2, Isaiah says, In the last days, the mountain, here it is again. This rock that has become the mountain, the mountain of the Lord's temple, will be established as chief among the mountains. It will be raised above the hills, and all nations will stream into it. It is a mountain of refuge. This is the picture of the statue displaced by the rock. Fast Forward 1933. The Chicago International Exposition Ironically, in the very nadir of the Depression with 25% of America out of work, the motto of the exposition was Century of Progress. In the center of the foyer of the Hall of Science, in the Hall of Science, you had a statement Science finds, industry adapts, man conforms. And in the center of that foyer was a statue. Actually, it was three statues. The main statue was a shiny aluminum robot. And beside the robot were two humanoid aluminum statues, looking very modern but very cold and passionless. This kind of Adam and Eve sort of figure were being urged along, pushed perhaps by this robot. It was said that you would look at this and it would remind you of the expulsion from the Garden of Adam and Eve. But this figure, these Adam and Eve being urged along, were being urged along by science. This was progress, you see. Science is the Savior. Science is going to bring us all the things that we could ever long for. Meanwhile, in the midst of a Great Depression But science has not delivered on its promise. The statue has let us down. You come to the New Testament and you find that this mountain that Isaiah describes is a carpenter who teaches on a mount. And what does he say? Matthew chapter 7. We'll get to it soon. Verse 24. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine , and puts them into practice as like a wise man who built his house on the rock. The rain came down, the streams rose, the winds blew, and beat against that house, yet it didn't fall, because it had its foundation. on the rock. And Jesus makes it quite clear, he is the rock. Jesus comes not as a robot to push and urge along for us to save ourselves through progress. He comes for broken sinners. And he takes your sin and my sin. And he dies for that sin. And the very foundation of his kingdom is grace and salvation. So when Paul speaks of this church which he has established, As the very center of his kingdom, he says in Ephesians 2, that this church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself. As the chief cornerstone. He's the rock. He's the rock for you to build your life on. Is your life built on the rock or is it built on the sand? Two houses. They both look the same. The one on the rock? The storm comes, it stands. The one on the sand, the storm comes, trials of life, crisis , is destroyed. Jesus is the rock who calls you this morning to say, Come to me. Come. Because even when it may seem that I'm nowhere around I'm here. I'm the sufficient savior. Christianity through its history has mostly looked weak Mostly looked as if it didn't have very much power. Let me close with a description that was given recently by the head of Prison Fellowship Robert Early. And he was quoting from a book that was written in 2006, published by Oxford Press. And it's here somewhere. He says every week during the fall, approximately 70,000 people attend NFL games in cities like Detroit and Houston. They pay hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars for the privilege, and if all goes well, they come home with some happy memories. Every week throughout the year in China Approximately 70,000 people do something very different. They too pay a price, but it's not measured in money. And what they come away with not only changes their lives, but promises to change a nation, a continent, and even the world. According to the Center for the Study of Global Christianity, 10,000 Chinese become Christians every day. That's 70,000 a week. At the time of the communist takeover in 1949, there were 4 million Christians in China. Today they're in an estimated 111 million. Which makes China the third largest Christian country in the world, behind the United States and Brazil. By 2050, the Center estimates that the number of Christians will have doubled The explosive growth of Christianity in China is only part of a larger story. Take the people called the Nagas. Little more than a century ago, these people living in the area where India and Burma meet were headhunters. Today An estimated 90% of the population attends church on Sunday, and Christian leaders there have set the goal of sending 10,000 missionaries to the rest of the world. The Asia Times columnist Spengler recently wrote That China may soon occupy the role that the United States has occupied for the past 200 years. The natural ground mass, the natural ground for mass evangelization He adds that if this occurs, the world will change beyond our capacity to recognize it. He peresees Chinese Christians like their Korean counterparts, turning their attention outward. Only with a Christian population fifteen times the size of Korea's and a Chinese diaspora all over the world, the impact will be far greater. Spengler uses the word earthquake to describe it. According to John Allen of the National Catholic Report, the most audacious Chinese Christians dream of taking the gospel along the historic Silk Road into Muslim lands. As David Aikman has written, they believe it is their task to complete the mission of preaching the gospel in every land. That's China, not the United States. To that end, Chinese Christians are already secretly training missionaries for deployment in Muslim countries This is what Spengler means by an earthquake. As he puts it, the greatest danger to Islam comes from Chinese Christians looking westward toward Jerusalem. What's remarkable is this vision is taking shape even as Chinese Christians undergo persecution. Then again. Christianity's initial explosion took place under even worse conditions, so it probably shouldn't surprise us that there are more Chinese worshiping in house churches than belong to the Communist Party According to Spengler, the fearless Chinese evangelist may do more to transform their nation and the world than all the armies and diplomats combined, that would be an earthquake worth experiencing. Brothers and sisters, the rock has grown into a mountain The mountain is growing. It is displacing the other kingdoms. No matter what you and I see in the United States where we feel marginalized, where we feel that God is sometimes So far from the mainstream of events. When you come to a Christmas season where it seems like everything is totally secularized, There's no acknowledgement that it's a celebration of an incarnation. The rock continues to grow. The rock continues to Invade hearts and lives. He continues to conquer among nations. Jesus Christ is king. He will rule. And when he comes back, brothers and sisters, the rock, the mountain will fill the earth And his rule will have every knee before him, bowing and confessing, Jesus Christ is Lord. Where are you in relationship to the rock in your life? Where are you in relationship to his agenda of worldwide conquest? In investing your life to participate in that. What will it mean for you to serve him this week without shame and embarrassment Because we are celebrating the incarnation of the one who is about to rule the world. Are you with him? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, open our eyes to see the rock. The rock who was proclaimed by a prisoner of war to a king 2600 years ago, who then said, Daniel's God is the God, and all nations will bow before you. Give us, Lord, hearts that thirst for the victory, faith that sees the inevitability of it, and a will that seeks to bow before you and to say, Here am I, Lord. Lord, I want to be part of that conquest. Lord, I want to be, in whatever tiny way it is, be faithful to you. Because I believe that you are the rock, the faithful one, who is my refuge and the refuge of all who will come and look to you. Lord Jesus, open our eyes to see and to worship, to love you, to serve you. Amen.