Well, if March was the month for world mission, then April is our month to consider home mission. And in particular The vision of our Church, Columbia Presbyterian, to reach Howard County for Jesus Christ and to become serious about this in a new way by realizing that we need to obtain a facility as a base of operation for ministry After over 12 years as a congregation and growing to over 400, we have finally decided we can no longer do without a facility In order to be able to establish ministries to effectively reach this area for Jesus Christ This facility, which will be a $1. 7 million facility, is not even a facility that has a regular sanctuary in it. It's primarily a ministry facility And so as each of us think and pray during these next weeks about our part in what we call the Vision 91 campaign to establish sufficient funds for that facility. I want to offer to you some thoughts from Scripture to guide your thinking and your praying as you ask God what He would have you to do. I want to begin by spending two weeks on Matthew chapter 6, verses 19 to 24. Consider Jesus' words to us there. So if you don't have it already, if you have a Bible, please turn to Matthew chapter 6. And let's remember as we look at this portion of Scripture, this is God's word. These are the words of our Savior as he speaks to us. Let's hear his word. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. I don't know about you, but my initial reaction when I read a passage like that is to immediately think that Jesus is trying to spoil my fun. To look at God as some sort of narrow-eyed ascetic who doesn't know how to enjoy himself on earth. My translation of that in my own mind would be something like this: kind of a Harris paraphrase of verses 19 to 21. Don't spend money on any of the things that you really will enjoy that are more than just the basic necessities. And if they're more than the absolute basic necessities Be sure that you have a good rationale for your Christian brothers and sisters as to why that was good stewardship. After all Mercedes-Benz lasts longer than other cars. Or the boat will enable me to spend more time with my family. Because Jesus would have me to drive a five-year-old Hugo and make sure that I keep going in the thing until it absolutely dies and keep my furniture until the coils poke through and stab me in the rear before I think of getting thing anything else. Because he wants me to spend all my money for missions because he doesn't care about anything here on this earth, because he doesn't feel like me and he doesn't enjoy things like I do Now be honest, aren't we tempted to translate something like that when we read these words? Jesus somehow doesn't know how much we enjoy things. And he's trying to take away our fun by making us feel guilty for anything we'd spend money on, except missions and except something to do with the church. But I've got news for you. The more I have looked at the Gospels and come to know Jesus, the more I have come to see him as more of a hedonist than an ascetic. We have misconstrued, I believe, this passage. What Jesus is talking about here is investments, not a matter of enjoyment versus lack of enjoyment. What Jesus is doing here is he is saying, I love you so much that I don't want you making poor, short-sighted investments. Rather, I've got some inside information on some really good investments that will multiply your enjoyment far more than the things that you're right now investing your time and your money in. And I don't want to keep that information from you. I love you too much to let you go on with short-sighted investments. It 's like suppose that you heard somewhere in this unlikely scenario that sometime in the undisclosed future, the United States was going to convert all of its currency from dollars to German marks. And that when they did that, dollars would be absolutely worthless. Now what would you do with that information? Well, with any sense, you and I would go out and we'd convert all the dollars that we could into marks. And we would keep only enough dollars available for the things we need in the short run So that we would be able to get by for now and have as much accumulated in marks because of the value that they would have later on. And you see, the issue then is not one of enjoyment versus lack of enjoyment. It's a matter of superior investments versus inferior investments. Now with that in mind, take a look again at what Jesus says in verses 19 and 20. He says, do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal. But rather store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. So the first thing that Jesus is doing here, as you look at your bulletin outline, is pointing up the bad investment. That's the first blank, the bad investment, which is treasures on what? Earth. Very good. Don't even need to fill it in for you. That's what he says, right? There verse 19. Very simple. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. Now, first of all, I want you to notice in each case that he's talking about, these two investments, he gives a command and then he gives a reason. First of all, you notice in verse 19 the command, do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. I call that to your attention because I think it's worth our noticing that that is a command from the Lord of glory. Therefore, it is not a suggestion that you and I are at liberty to obey or to take as we see fit. According to our own desires. It's a command from the Lord. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. In fact, you could put your name in there As I realize I need to put my name in there. Alan, you do not store up for yourselves treasured on earth. You see that there's a tendency for me to try to take this and put it in the realm of a general principle. Rather than a specific command to me. Alan, you, don't store up for yourself treasures on earth I need to see that then Jesus in his kindness, he doesn't have to add anything to that. He has the authority to tell me, don't store up treasures on heaven. End of the matter. Obey my authority. But in his kindness, typically, he goes on to give us a reason. And so he goes on in verse 19, you see there to say, Where moth and rust destroy And where thieves break in and steal. So the two reasons that he's giving are basically because things here deteriorate, they decay, and they vanish. They're taken away. My uh daughter has a friend who just uh got a $300 leather coat. Another friend borrowed it And it was stolen. She didn't even have it one week. Gone. And Jesus talks here about moths eating clothes. And those days clothes were a major part of your wealth. And they were susceptible to moths. Today we would think more in terms of cars rusting, things breaking and having to be discarded. Francis Schaeffer, one of the most prominent writers, philosophers, theologians, Christian thinkers of the 20th century, who with his wife Edith co-founded the Brie Fellowship Ministries Certainly among, I would say, the top ten works of the Holy Spirit in this century was a man of very simple lifestyle. And he said, reflecting back on why that was true, that one of the most significant effects on him was that as a youngster in Philadelphia He would go for hikes in the countryside. This was back in the twenties. He would go for hikes in the countryside. on the weekends, and in order to get there to save himself a couple of miles, he would tramp through the Philadelphia City dump. And he says he never forgot the impression of walking through that dump Saturday after Saturday the refuse, the stench, the fire. And as he walked through he realized that he was walking through almost everything that people had invested their lives and their money to prize and possess. And there it all was, in a stinking trash heap. And it determined at that time But those things weren't really worth all that much in the values of life. Most of what you and I have will not be passed on to our children It will be discarded, it'll be used up, it'll decay, it'll be taken. So Jesus is saying to you, stop and think about that. The things that you're investing in that are treasures on this earth are not going to last. They are so temporary. And yet Jesus is going on to say, but I've got good news for you. They say you can't take it with you. Jesus says you can. He says, there's a way that you can take it with you. And then he goes on in verse 20 to tell us how. But he says, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. And here he's referring now to the contrary, the other side of it, secondly the good investment. Treasures in what? Heaven. Great. Two for two. Good record. The good investment treasures in heaven. Store for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. Again, notice there's a simple command there It's not just pious advice. Store up Alan and Bill and Jim, Pamela, and Andrew, and store up treasures in heaven. And again, with the command, he gives us a reason. Notice, first of all, that the fact that he commands us to do it means that it can be done. Have you ever thought about that? Have you ever thought about the fact that it is possible to store up treasures in heaven? Jesus wouldn't have said that if there was no possible way of doing it. If there was no way that what you and I invest our time and our money in in this life having a direct effect On what in fact we accumulate in treasure in heaven, this verse would not make sense And yet to say that is to say, wait a minute, that sounds like works, or that sounds like there's something that we do here that earns us something there. He's not talking about earning anything. He's simply saying that there is something that we can do here. That in fact has an effect by the investment we make here on what we have when we get to heaven. Now He then gives us, of course, the reason again. He says that that in heaven, all that you have is not going to destroy, be destroyed. It's not going to decay It's going to last forever and ever. No deterioration, no decay. You imagine Saying to a friend, you know, I've been wearing this coat for ten million years now. Kind of getting tired of it. How about you trade? You know, wear yours, you wear mine. Sure, why not? I've been driving this thing now for about fifty million years and You know, I just get a little tired. I'd like a change. Mine's fine, you're fine. But just for the change. Can you imagine? We're going to have things that will last for eternity, but there will not be any boredom. Somehow. In the wonder of the creation, that new creation that God has designed for us, there is going to be limitless variety of imagination and change Without any decay. I can't conceive of that. God doesn't give us much description of it because we couldn't conceive of it if we did, if He did He speaks of fruit trees bearing all kinds of fruits and springs of fresh water and cities without pollution and gems and gold for the streets and all the rest of that to just give us some idea Of the fact that our imaginations can conceive of the riches and the loveliness of it, but he can't really describe it in a way that you and I relate to very much, can he? But he is saying to us That when we invest our money and time, all wrapped up in things that are simply restricted to this life, we're very short-sighted. But rather, there is a way that we can invest our time and our money in the things to come for eternity that will in fact multiply our enjoyment of our investment infinitely. And Jesus, like Mikey, is saying, don't just think about it, just do it. You and I have a tendency, don't we, to say, yes, when I have more money. When I get some more time, then I can think about giving more or investing more for ministry or for ministry projects or missions or whatever it is But Jesus is saying, that day will never come. It's the attitude of your heart right now. Do it right now. Things that in this life at one point were so valuable, what are they worth now? Think of those Pac-Man videos I mean, you know, you couldn't get them and so valuable. What are they worth now? You know, the same of garage sales. I remember a woman that spent two hundred dollars for a cabbage patch doll one Christmas, you know, her daughter had to have this cabbage patch doll and I've wondered where is that paddy cabbage pads doll now? It's been put into the goodwill, you know, or where is it? All the things that are so valuable that we've got to have at one point Now, they're worth nothing. They go out. Jesus is saying that life is sort of like a monopoly game. You spend a couple of hours and you're at a fever pitch to acquire boardwalk and a park place and a few other places and you build all your houses and hotels on it and You're so wrapped up in acquiring all the things that you can there and getting more money and driving your opponents out of business and into bankruptcy and all the rest of that And all of that is consuming you, and then after a couple of hours, the game's over, you fold up the board, and you go away. And all of a sudden, that currency, which was so important to you for that time, is now utterly worthless. Because you return to the real world of real currency. And those who are the losers in the game are the happiest ones because Maybe they were distracted during the game thinking about some of the things in the real world and so they weren't playing so very well. And they lost the game and they're glad the game's over because now they return to the real world of hard currency. But those who were so consumed in it maybe are a little disappointed. Because after all that desire and the tooth and nail scratching and biting and clawing for every bit of property and going around the board one more time to acquire more, what's it worth? It's gone. And nobody will remember it a couple of days after. Death is a thief. Five minutes after you and I have died our most treasured possessions Are all taken from us. And only what was invested for Jesus Christ is going to last at that point. Only what was invested of our time and of our money in kingdom concerns will follow us at that point. Do you see what Jesus is saying? Do you see that's for you and for me? Don't store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust are going to destroy them, and thieves will break through and they'll steal and they'll vanish. Not only thieves to take them, but SL accounts going out of business and stock markets crashing and all the other ways that we are robbed. I remember seeing some years ago A man who had a California cliff home, million-dollar California cliff home that was literally on a California cliff. And then there were days and days of torrential rains. And the cliffs turned into mudslides. And his house literally went right down the hill into oblivion. It was not insured because of the place where it was Gone. Utterly gone. Do you see how Jesus in his love for you and for me That love which caused him to come and to take upon himself our sin, to die for us, to give up his life So that from that kind of a love, Jesus says to you, listen, I love you. And I want to protect you from poor investments. I want for you to invest your life and your money in things that last. Things that will be with you forever. And I would suggest that that means such things as investing our time in ministry concerns, giving our money to things that involve missions. that involved giving to the poor. Scripture doesn't make any distinction between giving to missions and giving to the poor. Or giving to things like a ministry facility in order to accomplish ministry. I believe that what we're involved here in Vision 91 fits right within the scope of what Jesus is talking about here. The sacrificial giving that involves saying I have a longer-range view of investment Than simply what I can acquire and enjoy right now. Not because it's wrong to enjoy it, but simply because the bigger issue of the longer range investment for enjoyment is to place that in ministry. And so then he finishes with a principle in verse 21. And the principle simply is this. He says, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Where your treasure is , Your heart will be also. The third point, then the principle that heart and treasure are inseparable Heart and treasure are inseparable. Now you see in that diagram some way of my trying to illustrate what I think Jesus is getting at here. He's saying that if you begin to capture this and give of your time and of your money to Great Commission concerns, I put it that way because it involves all kinds of things. having to do with ministry and the kingdom. It's not just giving to the church or giving to uh people who are on the mission field or any of that kind of thing. It has to do with that whole scope of what is extending Jesus' kingdom in that sense of the great commission, bringing people to a saving relationship to Christ And he's saying, when I give to those things to bring people into the kingdom to accomplish the fulfillment of the Great Commission , missions, the poor, facilities Then I find that my emotional investment follows that. I care about that more because I've invested in it Because I care more about that, I find that that leads me to have a greater love for Jesus and a greater longing for heaven. He has become more real to me. His concerns are more real to me because I've got an emotional investment in those concerns. Now the motive for giving is always grace. It's not the law, it's not guilt. It is the grace of Jesus that motivates us to give. It's a worshipful act to give. That's why throughout this campaign you're not being strong-armed, you're not being pressured, nobody's looking into your checkbook to see what your pledge will be or the rest of that. It's between you and Jesus Christ. And the motivation primarily basically is in the fact that Jesus has died for you. And if he has given his life for you, then in response To that priceless gift of salvation in Christ, you respond by saying, Lord Jesus, this is a way I can say thank you to you. This is a way that I can respond in gratitude for what you've given me. And Jesus is saying, and with that, you're not the loser. With that, in fact, you are gaining infinitely and for eternity. But you see, as you do that, that becomes more real to you. Your love for him increases by that investment. Your longing for heaven and for his return increases. Why? Well, because that's when you're going to cash in, as it were, on the investments. That's when all that you have placed in your heart In Jesus, you're going to see and you're going to say, I'm living here, but I'm living here more and more as a stranger. That's where home is. And so you're longing for his return, and heaven becomes a greater reality to you. See, I believe that in our generation, that we as Christians have lost a lot of credibility because the world sees us saying that we live For heaven. But they don't see the reality of that. It's like a man who is working at his job and he tells the people that he's working with, you know what I'm really living for is this retirement home that I'm building on the shore I mean what I'm in now, man, that's that's I don't really care about that. I'm not investing much in that. What I'm really investing in is that place down on the shore. Boy, that That is paradise down there. And I can't wait to get out of here to get down there and be able to enjoy those years. And so one day You're in the vicinity of where that home is. And you decide, this guy's talking about this thing. It really must be quite a mansion. I've got to check this thing out. And so you drive over and you look at it. And you can't believe what your eyes see. It's a dump. It's not even half finished. The materials that are being used are shoddy and left over and scrap. There's no care of the grounds, and it shows utter neglect. And you go back thinking to yourself, this guy doesn't really mean what he's saying. He says that he's really thinking and placing all his affections on this, but what he really is living for is where he is now. He's kidding himself. He doesn't really believe that he's going to retire here. Isn't that that way with you and me? We talk to people about what Jesus can offer, and they say, yeah? How come you're all centered on this world just the same way I am? And you and I lose credibility if we don't really invest in what we say that we believe is eternal. And so I offer this as simply one thought for you and for me as we consider our place and our participation in the opportunity that's before us. To establish a facility for ministry. It's not a facility to please ourselves. It's not a facility so you and I can say Boy, that's really great. Won't have to do setup anymore. Can own this, get a little plaque there, you know, say this pew was given by her. None of that kind of stuff. It's a facility for ministry. We'll still be setting up here. Hate to tell you. But it's a facility for ministry. It's an offering to Jesus Christ from you and to me to say we want to see the gospel extended to more people in Howard County through ministries that cannot now be done without that. So you look on the back and you see through that what is the focus of your investment in mind? Where do we orient? Is your heart more oriented toward earth, toward heaven? Your investments more toward earth and toward heaven? Put yourself on the line, literally and figuratively. Think about where you are, and then ask the Lord, Lord, what would you have me to do? How can I show my love for you? How can I show in response to all that you've done for me that I believe what you say? That I believe that you, Lord Jesus, have died for my sin, have forgiven me, and have given to me an inheritance that will never fade or perish or spoil. And that you have given me a way of investing in that inheritance. You have given me a way to increase my heart's attachment. To the inheritance that you have for me. That I can do that in a very specific way even now. In these next days, in these next weeks, to build my faith To increase that faith that what you've said here is really true. Do you believe that Jesus, who loved you enough To sacrifice his own life for you, and then to rise again, had your best interests at heart when he said, Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break through and steal, but rather I want you to store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust will never destroy, and bees will never break through or steal. Because where your treasure is, that's where your heart is. Where's your heart this morning? Let's pray Lord our God, when we hear this we're uncomfortable. And even though we want to believe you, Lord, I know if I were sitting there, I'd probably still be tempted to think, what's this guy getting out of it? Why is he talking about money? As preachers are always talking about money We tend to be skeptical and cynical. Satan wants to rob us. He hates the salvation that we have in Jesus. He hates what you have given to us. Now he wants to destroy and blind us from seeing that. Lord, give us eyes to see You, Lord Jesus, were not a narrow-eyed ascetic who wanted to rob us of joy when you gave us these commands, but that's given to us out of your great love for us. And that you have given to us here a means for us being able to multiply our enjoyment by investing our hearts in you and in your kingdom. Where our hearts are, our treasure follows. And where our treasure is, our hearts follow. So we pray, Lord, that you would make that a reality to us. May we grow in faith and grow in love for you. Lord, we pray if there's someone here this morning that doesn't even know you, for whom this is so foreign that they can't even think of an investment in heaven. That you will show them what you offer to them of eternal life. Oh, Lord our God, give us eyes to see eternal realities Hear us as we respond to you in the quietness of our hearts in this moment. Hear us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen