This morning we begin a brief series prior to our missions month. The theme for our missions month will be The World at Our Door. And before we get there, I wanted to take the opportunity in this new year to go to what is perhaps the shot heard around the theological world. That is the book of Galatians. And over these next four weeks, we're going to be particularly looking at this letter to the Galatian churches through the lens of brilliant grace. And so this morning you'll see in the screens before you 'll see Galatians chapter 1, verses 1 through 6. And this is Paul's, we believe, one of his earliest letters And this morning, in many ways, will simply be an introduction to what we will cover at greater length as we go through the book, looking at this book through the lens of brilliant grace. Galatians chapter 1, verses 1 through 6, Paul's opening. Paul, an apostle, sent not from men nor by man, but by Jesus Christ. And God the Father, who raised him from the dead and all the brothers with me, to the churches in Galatia Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for our sins to rescue us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you by the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. This is God's Word. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, by the power of your Holy Spirit, at work together with this written word. May it jump off the page as a mighty gift May you unpack for us the great truths of brilliant grace that you have given to us. We pray that you would show us Jesus And the ultimate rescue. We ask, Father, that it would be not just a recognition of a biblical truth. But that it would become the fuel of our lives. Help us, we pray. By your mercy, help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. It was a very good thing. A theological shot that would later be realized as one that would be heard around the world. And tonight, if you decide you would like are able to come and to celebrate the Lord's Supper with us this evening. As a part of the reflection tonight, I will be reading the actual introduction of Luther's commentary on this particular book of Galatians. For Luther, and as you will hear tonight, for quite a few others, it would be the in-depth study of this book That would radically renew and rediscover that which was always there. The beauty of the grace of God in Jesus Christ. And when it was rediscovered by God's Spirit, professing Christians who had walked with the Lord Yet who struggled in trying to please this God, or even trying to use the Word of God to shape and to manipulate people, to even scare them into the kingdom, to scare them into obedience. These folks rediscovered the great truths of the doctrines of grace, and it transformed their lives. It transformed their ministries. It would be the spark that would begin the reformation in earnest In October 31, 1517, scarcely anyone could have imagined when Luther nailed the ninety-five theses on the door at Wittenberg, what would have come of it. And then as he continued to plunge within the depths of God's Word and to study this book of Galatians as well as Romans, and he would later, some 17 years later actually write the first edition to the commentary on Galatians, scarcely could he have understood how much it would radically change his life and his ministry. And then that would change Calvin's life. That would change Knox's life. That would change the great forebearers in Europe who would then bring the gospel of Jesus Christ to this country, which would affect Edwards, which would affect uh people like B. B. Warfield, people like um Going blank because there's so many in my head. People like our least contemporary folks, everyone from John Piper to Tim Keller to Mark Driscoll. So many scores of others that we hear about and read about either from Amazon or on the internet. From the Gospel Coalition down to so many different pastors' blogs over and over and over again as pastors and followers of Jesus Christ. Come into contact with the gospel of grace in the book of Galatians. It changes things. Now I must tell you that this gospel given to us in this letter to the Galatian churches. Is not an easy book in that it is in some ways quite strident in its tone. Some would call it polemical. He does not hesitate, which is why I included verse six. Though it does, though verse six is not included in his opening, it's the first thing he jumps to. I am astonished. Blown away, can't believe, how could you turn to another gospel He goes on to use words like, you foolish Galatians, later on in the letter. He is not afraid to confront wrong doctrine. And yet, in confronting wrong belief, which leads to wrong living, he presents again The right doctrine that will lead to renewed living. Yes, this letter is written to recent converts But as I said earlier, it radically transforms anyone, even those who've been following Christ for some time. Who by God's Spirit lays before this word and prays, How am I not living by the grace of God? It will change you And the big idea that I want to get across this morning is that God's grace is not for sale. It cannot, we cannot buy it with money or a good life. So let's look together at this opening, the mere introduction to this letter. You'll notice in verses one through five, he lays out for us In verses 1 and 2, the reason for his writing and why he was being sent. Now, what I want to say to you in a week, we will be covering in a little bit more depth these verses because I believe I think they're more easily understood as we look at Paul's defense of his ministry. Because what he teaches here throws him into a defense of his very ministry. But what he is saying is he's been sent by God. Through the work of Jesus Christ and through the miraculous appearing personally of Jesus Christ to Paul himself to preach and to write these words to these churches. These churches were planted by Paul and Barnabas on the first missionary journey, and they largely focused on ministry within the synagogues. And so there were converts who were once Jewish, now have become Jewish converts. But now that he's left these church plants, there have been other teachers who've come in. And we're saying, yes, now you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, but you, to be a full Christian, to be completely right with God, you must also follow the rules of the Mosaic Law. And so that causes Paul, once he hears of it, to write to them again. And here he sets before us in verses 3 through 5. The very gospel itself, the responder, the operation, and the danger. I want you to first see the responder. Verse 3. He says, Grace and peace to you from God our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. And when he says these very words, one of the things that Paul is saying, this is one of the first places, in fact, where the name the Lord Jesus Christ is actually used is the full name in the Pauline letters. And what he says to them is, Grace and peace to you from our God and the Lord Jesus Christ who gave. Now those simply tell us in very quick succession who is the first responder. The first responder to the reality of sin is not man Because we have the biblical story of creation and fall in just three chapters at the opening of Genesis. We see that actually man's first response to the reality of sin is to hide from God. Man 's first response to the problem of sin is not to seek peace with God, it's to hide from his gaze. But in looking at sin, God does not deny it, God does not hide it, God comes. And Paul says here that it is grace God 's unmerited favor. We do not deserve God's gracious, loving response, but he comes. God the Father. And then it says, and of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You see, God in responding to the plight of human beings sends his son, if you will, as I've noted here, for the sake of memory, as a first responder. What does a first responder do? A first responder goes to the scene of an accident. Now at the scene of an accident, as I witnessed just the other day on my day off, I had the opportunity to uh ride my bike and in so doing I uh came up on an accident literally just seconds after it happened. There are a group of three teenage girls who were bawling and parents had just literally had begun to gather. And I asked what had happened, and I could see that her Volkswagen bug had veered off the road at the sunset Because the sun was so strong as she was making a left turn, she tried to veer out of the way of a car entering the roadway, and she turned sharply to the left and went straight into a tree. And then all of a sudden you see all the traffic that was beginning to clog up. School buses were coming at a fast pace. But here came the firetruck. blazing in all of its noise and all of its lights. I didn't stick around because he certainly didn't need another adult. But when the fire truck got there, I know for sure that the first thing they did was not give this young girl a pamphlet on safe driving. They did not give her a pair of sunglasses. They did not tell her to slow down. They didn't even ask her what happened. They simply looked at the reality of an accident and that there were those who could be injured, and they looked at the injuries. You see, Jesus in responding to our need doesn't sit up in heaven and go, Well, what happened? And then he comes and he looks at the situation. He comes to earth as we celebrated the incarnation, grows up to become a man, and then wrote a pamphlet of ethical philosophy and says Your greatest problem is your sin. Read this. If you read this philosophical treatise on why you have an ethical and moral dilemma , If you follow this, it'll all be good. Jesus doesn't come also as a mere model and says, Watch how I obey God. Now, if you can deal with your moral and sinful dilemma, just follow in my footsteps. That'll take care of the problem. Jesus is not like a firefighter who comes into the midst of a burning house and gives them the instructions, drop Stop, drop, and roll, whatever that thing is. He doesn't say that. No, he jumps into action He doesn't give us a garden hose at the scene of a fire and say, here, you put it out. Have you seen a fire hose on a fire truck? Have you held these things? How ridiculous would it be for a firefighter to come up to your burning home and tell you to come out to the fire truck and say, Hold this You see, I I'll never forget one of the oldest senators in South Carolina growing up was Ernest Hollings. He was from Charleston. He had a beach house just off of Mount Pleasant. One night, I don't remember the cause of the fire, but his beautiful multimillion dollar house was up in flames. He ran out of the house in his pajamas. to get his garden hose. And he turned it on full blast and began to try to spray his house But the wind off of the ocean was taking the flames and making them worse. And yet he was looking at a situation and doing the best that he could, but his problem was greater than he had the solution for. Jesus comes as the first responder to deal with what is an operation that only God can do. And let me say, only the God man can do. Notice verse four. You'll see the operation. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ who gave himself for our sins, and then this beautiful word to rescue us from the present evil age. What a beautiful word translated as deliverance or to deliver, but I love the word rescue. It just It just seems much more like a movie. You know, it's it's easier to grasp onto than to deliver. Rescue. Jesus comes to rescue us. From our sin. Let me be clear. Not from the sin of other people. He came to rescue you from your sin. And it is this word, watch it with me, who gave himself. And here you go, if you're a literature major like me, you'll love this word for For. Now the word for translated there could mean a couple of different things. Jesus came to die for people, to you know, to just to to die as a martyr. But that's one way in which the word for could be translated. But that's not how it's translated here. The word English really doesn't have it all there. The word here is he died in our place. On our behalf. That's where Luther, as he began to search in the Greek and read Galatians and study it, he began to see the twin great truths, substitutionary atonement and justification by faith. Substitute. Now here, I recognize there be many here this morning who know that word, substitutionary atonement, that phrase. And that may be so pregnant with meaning for you, but there may be many of you here who do not know it, and I am not talking down to you. Because we don't use the word substitutionary very much And we certainly don't use atonement very much. But when it says who died for us and for our sins, he is saying that Jesus Christ Came as God took on a human nature, the perfect God man, to die on a cross as a man. As God, therefore not guilty of sin, having lived what we call a perfectly righteous life. Righteous meaning He fulfilled all that is required to be in relationship with a holy God. That is one facet of righteousness. That Jesus Christ came to earth and lived a life and lived it under the law before his heavenly father and obeyed every one of the mosaic stipulations. He didn't look at it and go, well, of course I know those. He lived it. He lived it every day of his life. We call that the active obedience of Jesus Christ. And we need the active obedience of Jesus Christ, not just the passive obedience of Christ To believe and to trust that Jesus died for you is to also subsume within that that he also lived for you. On your behalf, in your place, obeying God and living righteously And then to die on a tree as our substitute, though perfect in every way, took on our sin. Every way that we are not righteous, and even in the imperfect nature of even our best righteous acts, he died in our place. For us, substitution, as an atonement for sin, as Tim has already spoken of and we have sung of this morning As our sacrifice. Then not only does he die for us He rescues us to rescue. It isn't just what Jesus did in the past, past grace. It is also present grace, justification by faith. Now, there's another word we don't use very much Justification means to be made righteous. Back to, in other words, if to live before God is to live a righteous life, to live to him in all that it means to live in fulfillment of a relationship with a holy God. Therefore it is to be holy. Jesus did that, and he also continues to represent us as our mediator and we live in the midst of our perfect life, trusting in what? That we are only made righteous, declared righteous by the righteous one, Jesus Christ. And we do so by trust, by faith. The operation was to rescue humanity because we could not rescue ourselves. We are before the burning edifice of our lives, our sin before a holy God, and we simply have a trickle of water, and it evaporates before it ever hits the flames. And yet, Jesus Christ, as one writer says, as the true hero, the truest of heroes, the greatest of heroes, comes not as an example. But in our place. Not with a philosophy manual, but with his life. Not to just do something in the past. But is living now in the present and will come again in the future. The grace of God in the rescue, in the operation of the work of salvation is God 's grace at work. This is called brilliant grace. And then you take your life In all that it is, with no hidden corners, no closed-off rooms of areas of sin that you don't want anyone to see, and you hold up your life By faith, trusting in Christ, and God looks at your sin and your life through the brilliance of the diamond of Jesus and His grace. And what he sees is yes, your sin, but he sees the grace of God, which is greater than all your sin. Luther. It would lead him, and you will hear tonight if you come the introduction to this to this commentary on Galatians. He says these words. In speaking on this great doctrine of the justification by faith, he says, I mean the doctrine that we are redeemed from sin. From death and the devil, and made partakers of eternal life, not by ourselves And certainly not by our works, which are less than ourselves, but by the help of another, the only begotten Son of God, Jesus Christ. That is the ultimate rescue. But there is such a great danger. There has been a danger before everyone who has read the words of Paul or who heard them preached. They are twin dangers, two sides of the same coin. One is to hear the words that Paul preaches here, who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from this present evil age according to who to the will of God the Father. They hear those words And there are often two responses. One response is to believe, well then if it is all of grace, then God is indifferent to my sin. It doesn't matter how I live. And there have been those who've read Paul, who heard Paul, who thought he was saying that somehow then if grace is present, then then I can sin as I want. But that is not what Paul is saying. Paul will continue on in the book of Galatians to show that when one comes into a relationship with this gracious God being rescued, it will lead to a life of holiness. That God does care how you live. You just can't do it on your own strength. And it will not merit you anything. It is all by His grace from beginning to end. So the one response to the doctrines of grace is not, then it doesn't matter how I live because that's not grace, that's cheap grace. God's grace is effective. It will change you. It has changed me And change so many people in this room. And it will change the way we live. And it begins to change as we begin to leave the great hallways of doctrine where we use big words, a substitutionary atonement, and justification by faith. And let's all curl up around the clock at 1130 on a Tuesday morning and say, okay, I said I believe justification by faith and substitutionary atonement. But here's the question. Am I living at eleven thirty on a Tuesday morning? Am I living trusting in the present grace of Jesus Christ? Do I seek to please my Heavenly Father because I've been given the grace to do so? That now it's not that I have to obey, it's that I get to obey because I love him, because he first loved me. Do you see the difference? The one is a grace-fueled obedience. The other is a cheap grace. In fact, in some ways, believing in an indifferent God, responding to the doctrines of grace, believing that God is indifferent to the way that we live, in many ways is just another form of seeking to please yourself. It's ultimately self-focused and not Christ-centered. It sounds gracious, but it's really about you. But Jesus came, he died, he rescued you, not to leave you in your sin, but to make you his child. To make you more into his image by his grace. But the other response, which is the primary response that Paul was combating in the church, churches in Galatia, is this. That somehow we can negotiate with God. That somehow, so long, yes, okay, I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, what he has done for me, but I still need to live by these things to be accepted by God, to be received by Him, is to treat God as a negotiating God. So in s instead of seeing like an indifferent God that that really the ultimate is just pleasing self, believe believing in a negotiating God Is to believe in a God that recognizes self ability You see, this was brought to my mind as I was continued to read very good writer Miroslav Wolff, as he was reflecting on this doctrine. And what really brought it home for him was the film Amadeus. And in the fictional film Amadeus is this one particular character, Salieri. Who at a very young age kneeled before a crucifix and prayed and asked God, If you will give me great musical gifts And make me a great musician, then I will serve you and give you my life. Volf concludes. He says, Why did God give the commandments to people already delivered from slavery? To get their obedience so as to be able to reward them with good things in return. The commandments themselves are in a sense rewards, given not for God's sake, but for the sake of Of people's well-being. They are not arbitrary rules. They trace the way of life as distinct from the way of death And Amadeus Salieri ended up as a very bitter old man, angry at God, angry at the world, angry at himself because God did not give him those great musical gifts. He gave it to this young upstart, Amadeus Mozart. And he hated Mozart. The entire course of his life rested on the deal he thought he had made with God, that God proved to be, as he put it, wicked, giving him thirty-two years of meaningless fame, only to thrust him into permanent oblivion. In fact, however, no deal had ever been made between them, Wolf concludes. Salieri had made a proposition to God as he was kneeling under the cross. But God never took it up up never took him up on it. Why? Because the God hanging on the cross for the salvation of the world is not a negotiating God. On the cross God is not setting up the terms of a contract that humans need to fulfill in order to get what they want. , Neither is God saying on the cross, I died for you. Now you've got to do what I tell you Instead, we see that it is God who hangs on the cross, who gives himself for our life, for our sin. And says, coming to me is of grace. Following me is fueled by grace. And when I return, I will receive you in grace. You will never be able to strike up a contract with God because you have nothing that God needs He has everything we need, but not the thing we think we want. But he tells us the truth. We cannot be restored to him. We cannot walk with him. We cannot be in eternity with him without him rescuing us. Not just in the past, but every single moment of every single day That is the ultimate rescue. By God's grace, for his glory. And may I end with that sentence from Luther I mean the doctrine that we are redeemed from sin, death, and the devil, and made partakers of eternal life, not by ourselves. But by the help of another, the only begotten Son of God, Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Come, Heavenly Father, by your brilliant grace, and rescue us from our indifference and our petty negotiations. Lord, I pray that you would write large these great doctrines of our rescue. That we would live day by day trusting in the substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ. And our beautiful justification by faith. And that that would actually change how we live life on Monday all the way through Sunday. Lord, we pray, make these truths, make this brilliant grace not just some dusty shelf of doctrine. But the daily fuel by which we live. By your power, for your glory, by your will, in Jesus' name. Amen.