It is good to be with you as we uh this evening want to spend our time of preparation for the Lord's Supper and the evening homily to talk about. Worship. In or around nineteen seventy, the Mars company, the candy bar people, and they're in lots of other things now. but they were into candy bars then. They had developed a candy bar. One was Almond Joy, the other was Mounds. And they came up with both of these, and this is sometimes you feel like a nut, sometimes you don't. So if you liked nuts, you could have the almond joy. You don't. then you could have the mounds bar. But what was going to be the the tagline for the mounds bar? So they ran a contest. And a man came up with the tagline. They paid him $10 for that tagline. They still use it to this day That tagline for Mounds Bar is indescribably delicious. Just simple. And yet it gives word to something that when you take it into your mouth and you roll it around and you think What amazing chocolate. Now that I've got all of your salary glands going. Let me say that This is getting at what we ought to experience when we come to worship. That the Lord is good. He is indescribably good that it ignites our appetite for him, that he draws us to himself and prepares a feast. That not only should ignite our biblically based informed imagination that the God of all the universe broke into time and space to make his love known to us. in the body and blood of his son, but then raise him from the dead, but it also should ignite our desire for him Notice just two Psalms. First is Psalm 95. Rather, first the Psalm I want to read is Psalm 33. Listen to what Psalm 34, rather, Psalm 34, 8 says. Taste and see. Taste and see. Taste and see that the Lord is good Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Taste and see. How many of us think about worship as being tasting and seeing that the Lord is good? Psalm 95, perhaps very familiar to you. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come. Before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song. For the Lord is the great God, the great King above all gods. In his hand are the depths of the earth. And the mountain peaks belong to him. The sea is his. He made it. And his hands formed the dry ground. Come, let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture, the flock under His care. Such beautiful poetry that calls us to worship. So let us pray for a brief moment, and then we will spend some time reflecting on worship as a church. Father, we thank you for this, your word We thank you that you call us, not just our minds, but you call our eyes, our hearts, our mouths, our bodies. Our taste, our ears, to see, to know that you are God, worthy of worship And we give thanks to you. Now, Lord, renew us in this work of worship that you may strengthen us That you may give us the sense of purpose that every human being is to have, and that is, we were created for worship, but to worship you. Lord, fill our hearts with the glory of Christ. That we might taste and see that the Lord is good. In Jesus' name. Amen. John Calvin wrote of worship when he said, It is with true and zealous godliness to contemplate, fear, and worship His Majesty. to participate in his blessings, to seek his help at all times, to recognize and by praises to celebrate the greatness of his works As the only goal of all the activities of this life. The worship of God as the goal of all the activities of life. Another famous church leader, Archbishop William Temple, said, worship is the quickening of the conscience by the holiness of God. the feeding of the mind by the truth of God, the purging of the imagination by the beauty of God, the opening of the heart to the love of God, the devotion of the will to the purpose. of God. And then the Westminster Shorter Catechism. Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We are called to worship The challenge for us is oftentimes, particularly in the Western world, is that we have reduced worship to music. Everything that happens in worship is worship, not just the music. And then when we've reduced oftentimes worship to music, we often have reduced worship to being this. If we were to go around the room tonight and to ask you what worship is, most of the time, most of us, myself included, would describe worship. In largely expressive terms, that worship is our expressing from the bottom up, expressing who God is, what he has done How he is worthy of praise. And we will have captured a portion of what worship is But worship is not, first and foremost, our expression of praise to God. First and foremost is this: worship is that God is. It is God who calls us to worship. So the very first words in worship are not our own. It's God. The one who builds and tells us what worship is to be, who describes what is to be worshiped, who gives the fuel of what worship and then the goal of worship, it is all God from beginning, middle to the end. Worship begins not with our expression, but the reality that God is here. God is the one who has created all things from nothing. And he upholds it by the word of his power. And so without God calling us to worship, would we know what to worship? Left to our own devices, the scriptures tell us that the heart is deceitful above all things. Who can understand it? Only the Lord. And it is the Lord who responds. And says, I have called you. And what is so beautiful is he tells us, one of the first things he tells us is, do not fear. Do you know why? For I am with you. He calls us to rest in peace, not because we need to find it, because he knows we need it first. And so he invites us. And so what I want to talk about tonight briefly is just some reflection on what is biblical worship. A brief foundation, something about music. And a little bit about reformed worship and where we go from here. So, what is biblical worship? Succinctly, I'm drawing from Dr. Mark Dalby, one of my professors at Covenant Seminary. Biblical worship is worship in spirit and truth. John 4, 21-24 Which means according to the Word of God and with a heart full of love for God. Biblical worship is offered through the Lord Jesus Christ as the only mediator. The only mediator who stands in the congregation and declares God's name to his people and sings God 's praises with his people. Hebrews chapter 2, 11 to 12 and Psalm 22. Let me remind you. Let me repeat that again. We, nor me, nor anyone leading in worship or playing an instrument, none of us are mediators. There is one mediator, Jesus Christ. And because God has called us, the scriptures tell us that where his people are, there he is also. I mean, we know by the New Testament. testimony that indeed Jesus is present when his people are gathered for worship in such a specific way that his Holy Spirit is in the hearts of every person who is gathered there. And so who is the one that is expressing praise to God the Father? The very first one is not us. It's the Holy Spirit. It's Jesus Christ through the presence of His Spirit expressing praise and honor and glory to God the Father through Jesus Christ, and that is what animates our worship. Biblical worship has always been first and foremost not what we do, but what who God is and what he has done. We include praises, diverse songs of the nations, all generations, all socioeconomic classes. Biblical worship is always to be Christ-centered, gospel -centered, as people from every tribe, tongue, and language and nation sing praise to the Lamb. Who was slain? Revelation chapter five, verse nine. Biblical worship. begins with what the Lord has done. But upon what foundation? Where do we get our ideas for worship Many would believe that we can go online or go to the latest magazines. Where do we go for ideas? Do we go back in history alone? No? The very first place we go, and the only foundation for our worship is the word itself. The biblical worship is always word -centered, that is, in all elements, whether it be praise , Prayer, whether it be the Word of God, whether it be the sacraments, baptism and the Lord's Supper, all of these things are always word-centered, word -based. Biblical worship makes use of the gifts of God, and they are legion, they are many, and we each need one another's gifts. We learn that in 1 Corinthians. But that is done so under the oversight of the word that tells us that the worship is done with the wise oversight and leadership of qualified and trained elders. And it is these elders who I have to give a testimony, a defense, if you will, an explanation for the responsibility and the charge placed in their hands, Hebrews chapter 13. These biblical principles, that the God is the one who defines what worship is because of who he is and what he has done, it is based on the word. All that we do is to be infused with, guided by. And led by the Word of God, leading us to praise God under the oversight of biblically trained elders, but ultimately and absolutely we are under authority. This word is what guides us into what is appropriate in worship, what we ought not to do in worship. And at any place where our worship isn't in line with the Word of God or is contradicting the Word of God, then we ought to bring it into reforming our worship to be consistent with this word here. Because this is not here where we can change whatever we like, but rather it is here. We are ones under authority. And that fits with the fact that it is God who speaks first in worship I have called you my own. And he governs it by his word. So that's just a brief word on what biblical worship is. Its foundation is the word of God. But what about music? It's interesting that we, the Church of Jesus Christ, not this particular church, but we the Church of Jesus Christ get so wrapped around the axle when it comes to worship. Still to this day, people argue about what instruments should be allowed or not allowed, and all those things, and those have a right place, and we're certainly not going there tonight. But let me just say, from the Word of God, what we learn. We learn this in the Chronicles. There were 4,000 Levites, by David's direction, who were appointed as full-time musicians. to assist in worship that included wind instruments, stringed instruments, percussive instruments. 4,000. Now that would be crazy. Right? They were all given to one job. That job was to play And to formulate tunes that psalms would be sung to. And they were to create these things so that when the people would come to worship at the temple, it was full. of music. But never for the sake of music. It was always music in service to something else. And that was in service to the God who is, who is worthy of our worship. So we have a few instruments And we're going to be expanding that, Lord willing, as God brings those talents to us, as we increase the strengthening of the body, encouraging you to express your gifts in worship. Who knows? We've already seen banjos lately, right? What about tambourines? What about just voice? The first musical instrument is the human voice. And let me encourage you, Church of Columbia Presbyterian Church, that having had the opportunity to visit with folks who are new to us, who are Just learning who we are and wanting to find out more. One of the things I hear repeated over and over again, what they find so encouraging, that is distinct from perhaps what they've experienced in other places. They hear you singing. There is something deeply biblical, deeply embedded within who we are as created beings that we can sing. It doesn't matter the quality of your singing. but that we are able to cry out in praise. And I want to say to you, come and be prepared to sing. Because if we don't, the rocks will. I never want to be outsung by rocks and trees. Ever And I want to thank you for your singing this morning that moved me into deeper communion as I heard the body of Christ singing. singing. It moved me into deeper communion and appreciation for who Christ is because I heard the beauty of the people of God expressing worship through praise. Never worship for its own sake, never music for its own sake, but in the service of making him more beautiful and believable. Kevin Twitt, Corey Twitt's brother, taught me That Jesus ought to always be more beautiful and believable as a result of our worship. You helped me do that this morning So music will always be a key component, but it is never just what worship is. It is a part of what we do. I also want to talk about what is reformed worship. Meaning what is worship within the reformed tradition? We are a Presbyterian church, which doesn't tell you a whole lot. You actually invest that word with more than what it actually is. Being Presbyterian just tells you how we're governed. It doesn't tell you what our liturgy is. It doesn't tell you how we worship. But we trace our theological tradition back to John Calvin's Geneva. Which then influenced John Knox in Scotland, which then came to the United States. But we trace our biblical tradition and theology and worship even all the way back to Calvin's Geneva. And one of the things that was developed during the Reformation and that would lead into the Westminster Confession of Faith is what we call the Reformed Regulative Principle of Worship. Regulative meaning what regulates the worship of God's people when they gather. Reformed worship, that is, churches that worship in the Reformed tradition. To always understand that worship is defined by what God has instituted Himself. and so limited by his revealed will that he may not be worshipped in any other way, not prescribed by, in Holy Scripture. Meaning, we are bound by this book by what is appropriate in worship and what is not. That is what regulates our worship Now something needs to be said about that. Because if you go back and you read through the New Testament, you will scarcely find a single worship service. I think there's likely only reference to just a couple. At all of what it meant to worship as the new people of Christ. So largely our understanding of worship is regulated by what we find in the Old Testament. But there's great diversity there. There's different kinds of songs and spiritual songs. There's different kinds of music. There's different kinds where there's no music at all. But there are things which are commonplace that were expected and were practiced. And this is what became known as the liturgy that Calvin drew up in Geneva. And one of the things that may surprise you, that if we were to invite John Calvin to be part of a, if you will, just for the sake of argument, a worship committee And he were to take our liturgy and look at it. If you were to compare what we did this morning with what they did and what he put in place in Geneva, His worship service would feel like most to you to most of you would feel very Catholic. Let me just give you a taste of what he included within that liturgy. They always began with a call to worship, a scriptural sentence drawn from the Psalms, generally Psalm 124. 8. They would immediately move into a confession of sins. And it would have been a corporate confession of sin. The reason why it is corporate, it is because we as reformed people are covenantal, meaning sin is never just individualistic. It always has impact on the broader community. And we all are responsible for one another. So when we confess Sin corporately. We're not saying that something it may feel unusual to you, but we are expressing our covenantal understanding of who we are as a people, the community of God's people. We confess our sin together as a people. And then there's a time of silent confession. And then there was a prayer for pardon. Then there was metrical psalms. Then they gave an absolution, where your sins were pronounced as absolved, covered, removed because of the work of Christ. They then sang, they sang the commandments. It was called the metrical dialogue. Or decalogue, rather. So they sang in song the moral law, the Ten Commandments. Then they would have a prayer for illumination. And then they would have a lectionary reading. And there would generally be readings from the Old Testament, the prophets, the Psalms, the Gospel, and one of the epistles. All of this would be readings in every worship service. And then he would preach. And then after he preached, every Sunday morning, they celebrated the Lord's Supper. They would have a prayer. They would have intercessions for those in need in the body. They would then pray the Lord's Prayer together. The elements would be prepared. They would sing the Apostles' Creed. And then there would be the words of institution, which we use and you'll hear in just a few moments. There would be an exhortation, a fencing of the table. And then there would be a prayer of consecration, and then it would be served. But then during the serving of the communion, they would sing a psalm. And then there would be a post-communion prayer, one more psalm, and then every service would be ended with the blessing from Aaron from Numbers chapter 6 known as the Aaronic Blessing. This was every Sunday. And so one of the things that we must recognize is this. That while this is what John Calvin did in Geneva, he believed we should all be unified in our understanding of liturgy, which I'll explain that in just a moment, but he never called for a unified liturgy. Meaning that every church or Presbyterian church should have the exact and do the exact same thing. However, there were common elements as a part of the liturgy. Now, the word liturgy, some of you have heard me use this word. Some of you have asked me. Kind of Catholic, right? It's not. The word liturgy goes way, way back. And one of the things that liturgy was used for and commonly meant was that if you were a member of Greek society or Roman society, you had public duties, public liturgies that you had to perform because you were a member of that society. Now, over time, those duties became known as habits. And those habits became used in the church to call for a common liturgy, a regular order. commonly done in public, that is our duty of joy to give praise and honor to God. It became known as liturgical service. Now it's been used in many different places. There are churches of high liturgy. But let me tell you, don't associate the word liturgy with a high liturgy, meaning where you celebrate the Lord's Supper every week or where the pastor wears robes, which is what Calvin did. Or where there was a collar, that would also have been used. All of these things might be associated with high worship, but I want to tell you that every single church I've ever been to, and I've had multiple opportunities to go to what we would call maybe low churches and high churches. Some with bulletins that had every single word that was going to be said in the bulletin. And I would walk into churches on a regular basis. I'd worshiped in them where there was no bulletin at all. And it gave the impression that you didn't know what was going to happen. But if you stay around for two or three weeks, you learn every single church has a liturgy. Why? We are creatures of habit. We do things whether we realize it or not in an order. But here's the challenge. The challenge for us, we live in a day where innovation Is seen as a higher priority. But when we live by innovation, we make things inherently unpredictable And one of the things we know about us as human beings when we're honest and when we listen to neuroscientists, the best way we know how to learn is through habit and ritual. I mean ritual in the best sense of the word. Talk to any child. The best way they learn is routine and ritual. We as adults are the same way. Every day you and I participate in a liturgy. Think about your day, think about your week. I'll bet you how you wake up every morning, how you go to bed every night, how you get into your car, all of your habits, those are all liturgies, whether you realize it or not. The mall has a liturgy. It has an order of worship. It's called a directory of stores. It has music. It has smells. It has things visually, things for you to participate in. It has food, taste, and see. So there are liturgies all around us. But when we come here, we need to be careful that we recognize or not long for innovation, because innovation can sometimes lead to unpredictability, and when there's unpredictability, there really isn't a sense of refuge. The scriptures give us a foundation, a basis upon which to build a worship service. It may look different in this church versus going to Chaplegate or to Living Hope or to City of Hope or Good Hope, Presbyterian churches, just to name a few. It might look different But we all have the basis of Scripture. And one of the things we're doing as a session of Columbia Presbyterian Church is asking the question. What are ways in which we can enrich our worship? What are ways that we need to look at our order, our liturgy, and finding how we can strengthen it? Make sure it's in line with what the scriptures tell us. Make sure that it calls us to the regular pattern and discipline of worship. And so in the fall, you may see more and more of corporate confessions of sin. You're going to hear regular assurances of pardon or assurances of grace. There'll be times of silent confession. We have very little silence in our services. You may see other kinds of instruments. You're going to see other kinds of prayers, not just pastoral prayers, not just the worship leader, but prayers of the people. We want to strengthen our worship, not because it is impoverished, but we want to ask the question: how can we more fully express what God is calling us to as a congregation? But also to go back to our rich tradition of the Reformed tradition and say, why were these elements regularly a part of what the church did? And does it matter at all that we are a church within the Reformed tradition? We believe it does. And there should be a distinction. Of why we worship the way we do. We'll never have a unified worship, but we ought to be in unity with what we do and worship. But there is one thing that has struck me as I've been reading about this, thinking about it, praying about it, talking about it with the elders, is this reality. That worship begins and ends and is sustained. Not by what we do, but by what he has done. That He is spoken. And He calls us to worship. He gives us His Holy Spirit As I was standing here this afternoon, this earlier today, and we were worshiping together. I was about to leap out of my shoes. If I could dance, I wanted to dance because I so sensed that the Holy Spirit was moving in my heart. To see how beautiful and how believable Jesus is, and how hearing you saying, I need you, Lord. It made my my heart leap for joy. And I realized it wasn't the style of music. It wasn't that you were singing. It's that the Spirit of the living God was expressing the beauty of Christ in our midst. And I was undone. Every time we gather, are you expecting the Lord to move? Do you know that he says to each of us Taste and see that the Lord is good. And that those who walk in him find refuge in him. Let's continue in our worship. Let's pray together and prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Heavenly Father, I thank you for worship. And Lord, we could spend a year of Sundays on this one subject, and we could never measure out the true nature of how beautiful and glorious worship is. Lord, expand. Expand our experience of worship, not because of what we bring, but because of what you are and who you are, and that Christ is mediating on our behalf And that you call us to bow down. You call us to raise our hands. You call us to cry out. Lord, help us to do that in richer ways. That you may be glorified. And you have created us to worship Now fill us by your Spirit to do just that. In Jesus' name. Amen.