In 1987, I was turning 17 years old. I was spending the summer in one of my early jobs, and that was working for a local car wash. The owner of the car wash was also a used car salesman, if you will. He would refinish a few cars and have them sitting out by the road. One of those was a 1986 red Nissan Sentra five speed that had my name written all over it. In South Carolina, scary enough, you could get your learner's permit at 14. You could have your driver's license at 16. So I had been driving my parents' Toyota wagon. With the fake wood side paneling. I love wagons. I've returned to them today, but It just wasn't my speed. It didn't fit the vibe. So but I didn't think much about it. And on my 17th birthday I got home and Went into our kitchen and I'd only been a Christian a year. I'd been caught lying. And so I didn't know if I would be trusted again. But we'd worked to re -evaluate the trust, and it was my birthday. So I didn't know what was going to happen. So my parents said, could you go and get something from the garage? So I did. I opened up the door to the garage, and there that Nissan center sat. In complete disbelief. I was like, really? You know? And sure enough, I had no clue how to drive a five-speed So my dad took me out to my old elementary school and gave me a two-hour learning lesson of how to drive a five-speed. They then summarily packed their bags and left for the weekend. They gave me a new car and they left for the weekend. Oh boy. So we sat down and, you know, we had to talk about insurance and all this stuff. It was amazing that uh God would enable me to have this car. It was shiny and red. It was really cool. Put a sticker on it that weekend. Put my favorite music into it, YouTube. It was great. They were gone and I learned how to drive that car on my own. Almost throughout the clutch, but manage. But imagine for just a moment that on my birthday My parents called me into the kitchen and they said, Randy, we want you to see this sheet of paper. And the sheet of paper is from State Farm. And at the top of that State Farm paper it says car insurance. And they would read through that whole insurance policy, what was covered, liability, collision, all that stuff. And they said, Isn't this great? Your name is now on our car insurance. Like, yeah. And then they would hand me a key to a car, open up the car door to the garage. And there would sit a car rusted out with four flat tires and completely could not run. Imagine! If what they gave me was great auto insurance with a car that could not run. Do you know that for many Christians, that's precisely how we live the Christian life? That God has given us this great insurance plan. That Jesus Christ died for me. His blood was poured out on Calvary. That I have received forgiveness, a great insurance plan And yet, oftentimes many Christians fail to see that on the other side of that is not just an insurance plan, but a car that can actually run. That God intends for us to have more than just justification declared as righteous before God through Jesus Christ. He intends for us to have more than just forgiveness. He actually intends for us to have new life. He wants us to have both. Do you know that you have been given both forgiveness and new life, justification and sanctification? This is a part of the vital aspect of being renewed in the gospel. That union with Christ is new life. Let's look at Romans chapter 6, verses 1 to 11. What shall we say then? Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? By no means. We died to sin. How can we live in it any longer? Or don't you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead, through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life. If we have been united with him like this in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin. Because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. Now, if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again. Death no longer has mastery over him. The death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin, but alive to God. In Christ Jesus. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Now, Lord, we ask that you would open our eyes and enable our hearts, our whole lives, to receive the full blessing of the gospel that is the power of God. Literally, it is the dynamite of the Lord Jesus. That he changes everything. Lord, help us to receive this gift, not just justification , but sanctification Not just forgiveness, but new life. That we might walk in it. But Lord, unless you bring us this power We have only one half of the gospel, and therefore we don't have the full gospel, and are walking in foolishness and blindness. Help us, Lord, then, to see Christ and our union with Him. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus has come He has come to give us new life. But oftentimes, perhaps, Christians, we as Christians, maybe If you don't even know Christ, I would scarcely say you too struggle with an impoverished imagination towards God. A confusion about our own circumstance that oftentimes is the result of gross misinformation. We stop oftentimes at Good Friday. But scarcely do we understand what it means to live in the resurrection. Union and new life. We've been talking about these doctrines of gospel renewal. We began by looking at justification We also looked at adoption of what it means to be called children of the living God. But now inseparably connected to the work of justification and adoption being made God's children through Jesus Christ is also this next gift And that is sanctification. Though that word does not appear here in this text, it is represented by the phrase new life. And so, I want for you, I want for me, I want for the gospel of Jesus Christ to be received in its full orbed beauty in the greatness of the imagination of the scriptures, that God has done through Jesus Christ far more than we could ever ask or imagine. That he gives us forgiveness a new life. We can have both. So let's look at it together In this passage, we'll look at verses 1 to 11, and we'll begin by looking at verses 3 through 5, and 1 through 5 actually, and that is full union. And then 6 through 11, the implications of union. And it's all intricately connected, but for the sake of organization, there you go. Full union and the implications of union. First, this full union. Why does Paul discuss these issues? It is because Paul has been talking about that justification being made right before God can never be merited, but only received as a gift. Through the work of another, the Lord Jesus Christ, who through his body and his blood served as a perfect sacrifice. for sin and reunites us to God through His work and therefore we are received as children. And this has absolutely nothing to do with our effort. We cannot merit it. We cannot work for it. And so the question arose, then are you saying, Paul Shall we go on sinning that God's grace may increase if we are received by God through grace? through the work of Jesus Christ and not of our own. Does that mean if grace, if s grace abounds where sin abounds? In fact it tells us that grace superabounds where sin abounds. Are you suggesting then that we should go on sinning? Of course, Paul begins this chapter with the question, no. Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? By no means. And then he says, we died to sin. How can we live in it any longer? And then he begins to explain what does this new life look like? And he begins with this beautiful picture of full union Verses 3 through 5, he tells us, as he says there. He says, Or don't you know that we who were baptized, and the Greek word there, baptizo, into Christ, we were baptized into his death. First, this idea of feudal union is we are united to Christ in death. And the word there is as he used as translated as baptism, means baptizo, literally to be drowned into, to be sunk under, but he never mentions the word water. But the implication is drawn about in the idea that being united to Christ in his death literally means to be sunk into the waters that bring cleansing, that in Jesus' death and giving of his body and his blood, our sins are washed away. Completely and utterly. Separated from us as far as the East is from the West. And he says, we are baptized into G in Christ Jesus. We are baptized into his death. We are therefore, the implications he says here are being drawn into this union with the death of Christ as we were buried with him through baptism into his death in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may have new life. So the challenge here is that for many times the cross, the gospel, is often seen in what we call the four-chapter gospel, but many Christians stop short of the four chapters. They begin with, yes, I believe I'm created by God, that because I am a sinner, I fell from the original created order that God had ordained, I fell. And Christ came on the cross and I was redeemed. And we stop there. I'm a sinner and I was redeemed, meaning forgiveness. And that's where we stop. And there's so much misinformation out there that oftentimes it's believed, either nakedly or at least quietly or subconsciously, that Jesus gets us about 70% along the way. The rest of it is done under our own power. That first 70%, got it. My sins are cleansed. I have a ticket to heaven. But the way I get from here to there is under my own steam, under my own strength So Paul says here clearly, we are clearly justified. We are clearly united with Christ in his death and his burial, meaning it is finished. The price for sin is done. The wrath of God has been poured out. Christ has received it. Done. But then he says, this was done, this was done in order that. He tells us, in order that we might he might be raised from the dead Through the glory of the Father, we too may have new life. That's the second half of the full union. United to Him in His death, united with Him in His resurrection. United with him in his resurrection. And that means that just as surely as the one who raised Christ from the dead is also the one that raises us. to new life. Not under our own strength But by the same Spirit that raised Christ from the dead, it's also the very one that raises us That being in full union with Christ, it is the Spirit that enables us to see the work of Him who has died for us, and is the same Spirit that also raises us To a new identity, a new reality, a new understanding, a new approach to life. Not under our own scene. It is all gift, death and resurrection, forgiveness and sanctification. It is empowered by God at the beginning. It is empowered by God all the way through and is empowered by God when Christ comes again. And we, those who believe in Christ, will be raised in new glory. All of it, 100% of the way through, is a gift. Why is it then that so many Christians live as though we stop at Good Friday? Partly because we don't know how to walk in new life. We don't understand the implications of it. We're confused by it. There's so much misinformation about it. Which is why we need to talk about the implications of union. As Paul has begun to unpack these things in this passage, he goes on to then unpack them again and understand the implications. And here is the reality. I want to say this. You cannot be a Christian if all we understand is that Christ died to give me forgiveness. We cannot separate sanctification, new life, from justification. To separate them is to make it not Christianity. And my concern is that oftentimes we treat the words of Paul much like we do iTunes software agreements. We go to the app store. Okay, maybe if you're an Android user. You go to the Android App Store We look for a free app. I don't have to pay for it. Look at all the implications. Look at all the things it can enable me to do. I don't have to pay for it. I download it, and before we do, there's this long thing. It's just a thing now. It's just a blah blah blah blah blah. It's just words, right? And what do we all do? Scroll, agree Yet we scarcely understand what it is we just agreed to. This happened to me recently. I downloaded an app. It was a really cool emoji app. Way beyond the basic emojis. It's like it was custom. You could custom design your face and like really cool size. It's cool. So I quickly went to the app store, free. So boom, downloaded it, put in my password, all good. User agreement. Agree. And then I designed it. It was really cool. And then I went to hit send and this little window popped up and it said, hey, guess what? To use all of this means I get to look at every one of your texts if I so choose. And we can share that with all of our product designers. Huh? Delete, delete, delete, delete, delete, you know. I immediately went to my phone, I removed it, and it but it was a it was a good wake-up. It was like it was really cool until I realized, wait a second, what? And so that's precisely the issue, right? We all want to sign up for the cross. But do we understand the implications of the resurrection? Do we understand what it means to actually invite Jesus inside the house? To agree to the fact that Jesus and his Holy Spirit has come in and to use the great image of C. S. Lewis when he says, when we've invited Jesus in, and this is a complete paraphrase. that we want Jesus to simply change the paint, maybe the carpet, maybe some new cabinets, but we're not ready for him to level the house and start all over again. But that's the implications of the resurrection. And so Paul uses two ways of understanding the implications of this union. First, it is this. It is the old self, verse 6, and then the body of sin. The old self. In verse 6, Paul says, For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin. This idea of the old self being crucified. What is this old self? This old self, that which Jesus took upon himself. Is our old identity, our old selves, our old egos, our own self-understanding in terms of our relationship with who we are with God And who we were apart from God. What has been crucified is the way in which we used to live, the way we understood ourselves, the way we led our lives. That is now Done. It is finished. We've been given a new name. We've been made children through adoption as his children, made son and daughters of the king. Not just to receive the inheritance, but to be given new names. That old self, Paul says, was crucified with him. What does this mean then? It means we no longer live in the way we used to. It means that we no longer tolerate the old sinful patterns. It means we no longer seek to progress in those old sinful patterns. You see, so oftentimes this old self being crucified Means this. Oftentimes people believe this means that we no longer want to sin. No? We still want to sin. Some people believe it means we're no longer guilty of sin. No. We can still be guilty of sin Even though our old selves have been crucified with Christ. Others believe that having the old self crucified with Christ means that we ought not to sin. You better not. That's not what's being said here either. It's often believed, too, that if I'm just, I just, I'm slowly moving away from those old sinful patterns. That's not what's meant here either. Another way this often understood is that if I can just take my own stand and I'm going to renounce sin, that the old self-being Christian, I'm just going to do it, that's not what it means either. Paul is very clear here. He says, for we know that our old self was crucified. Past tense, once and done, over However, it doesn't mean we no longer want to sin. It doesn't mean we no longer are tempted to sin It doesn't mean that we aren't any longer guilty and are in need of repentance and forgiveness. All of those are still present. And no amount of renouncing is going to rid ourselves of that Because that would just be man-centered. And we wouldn't need Jesus. But what he says here is: not only is the old self crucified, he says this, so that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin, because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. So the body of sin that is done away with, he's not talking about that the physical body is bad. What he is saying is that sin is expressed through our bodies. our minds, our hearts, our desires, our actual physical body. Sin expresses itself that way. And oftentimes it we can fall prey to its temptations and its dictates. But the old self was crucified. We've now been made new, but we still have the presence of sin. The old self was done away with so that the body of sin might be dealt with. The body of sin is still here. The temptations are still here. The old dictates can sometimes creep up on us. Our desires overwhelm us. When we don't get what we want, we get angry and we try to pursue them. We do whatever we can. It's still present. And when Paul says that, the implications of union is that the old self is crucified, but the body of sin is still here, but being done away with. What does this mean then that we are freed from sin? What does it mean? One image is this. If we think about the country of Afghanistan for a moment. When our military moved in to remove the ruling, reigning government, the Taliban. To move them out of power. And now a new government has been put in its place. They are no longer being led or reigned over by the Taliban. They have a new government, a new leader. But what has the Taliban done? The Taliban has simply become a guerrilla warfare unit They're still present in the country. They're still causing all kinds of problems. The same is the case With the Christian. That those who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ have received a new reigning King, the Lord Jesus Christ. The price for sin is finished. Forgiveness is there. We have a new ruler And yet there's still guerrilla warfare going on. There's still present the desire, the old dictates, the old patterns. But if the old South has been crucified, then we are no longer under sin 's reigning power. It's no longer over us. We're under grace. Sin is no longer your king. Your desires that waged war and led you astray, it's no longer the one who calls the shots And if we believe that somehow sin has been dethroned and its power, which is death, has been removed, and yet return it to the throne room, we have misunderstood what has happened in justification and new life. In the cross and the resurrection. It's still waging war, but it's not the king. We're under a new king: the king of glory, the king of grace. And he says, we are no longer slaves to sin. And he says, verse 8, now if we died with Christ, we believe that we also live with him. For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again. Death no longer has mastery over him. If you are a professing Christian trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, That means death is no longer your master. We have been freed from it. The law simply points us to Christ. We know we are guilty, but it leads us to Christ. But then we can say, how then do we live? Through the glorious resurrection of the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. I am no longer a slave to sin, but I belong to Him. Now what does that mean? In the same way, he says, verse 11, in the same way, count yourselves dead to sin, but alive to God in Jesus Christ. I tried to work through this and understand. Then what is it? Am I to do or you to do? To move beyond just understanding Jesus' work as an insurance policy, but having a car that doesn't run. How do we have justification and sanctification? If it's all of grace And I have a new king, and the presence of sin is still around, and I still feel its temptations. How do I keep myself from giving myself over to it again? How do I keep from tolerating it, growing in it, nursing it? And I was grateful for Dallas Willard, great writer. Who wrote in a book about his growing up in rural Missouri? I want you to hear this story, and I want to tie it together. Dallas Willard writes this, he says, as a child, I lived in an area of southern Missouri. where electricity was available only in the form of lightning. But in my high school year of In my senior year of high school, the Rural Electrification Administration extended its lines into the area where we lived. And electrical power became available to households and farms. When those lines came by our farm, a very different way of living presented itself. Our relationships to fundamental aspects of life, daylight and dark, hot and cold, clean and dirty, work and leisure, preparing food and preserving it. could then be vastly changed for the better. But we still had to believe in the electricity and its arrangements. understanding them, and taking the practical steps involved in relying on it. You may think the comparison rather crude, and in some aspects it is, but it will help us to understand Jesus' basic message about Being in relationship with him, if we pause to reflect on those farmers who, in effect, heard the message, repent for electricity is at hand. Repent, turn from your kerosene lamps and lanterns, their ice boxes and cellars, their scubbards and rug beaters, their woman-powered sewing machines, their radios with dry cell batteries. The power that could make their lives far better was right near them, where they were, making relatively simple arrangements. They could utilize And yet he says, strangely, a number did not accept it. A number did not want to tap into it. And they simply wanted to not be changed and live as if electricity never existed. It's an amazing passage in the New Testament. There are many, but this is one. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness, old self, the reigning of sin. and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And then in Titus, Paul writes, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness, worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us. from the lawlessness to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. What that is telling us is that Jesus means to take us from the domain of darkness. through the work of the cross and bring us into the kingdom of his marvelous son through the gloriousness of the resurrection. How then do we live? Are you ready for it? It's really remarkable. Really cutting edge. Here you go. We as a church believe that the scriptures have told us there are three ways. Three ways that we tap into the grace, the power, the light of the living God to grow in Christ. To become increasingly those who reflect the glory of the resurrected Jesus. Even though sin still remains, it still will tempt us to its dictates, we can claim You are no longer my master. How do we remain in that? Three ways. You ready? The word of God Prayer and the sacraments. It's not retreats. Those are great. It's not a list of innumerable sermons, though those can be really good too. You can put plenty of books on your shelves. They are legion. But there are three means by which God and His Holy Spirit feed the people of God to enable them to grow in grace. To remember that their old selves have been crucified by the blood of Jesus Christ, but they have been raised to new life, to walk in it three ways. The Spirit walking us through this word. Christian, are you walking in the Word? Are you listening to it? I've used it before. Let me encourage you again: if you are not reading the word, do not be surprised by the strange coldness that seeps into your heart between you and the Lord. Because he has already spoken to you. And I'm not talking about slavishly to a quiet time. I'm saying just start with reading a psalm a day. Just begin reading it. Praying, Lord, just Lord, in his prayer, Lord, have mercy on me For the dictates of my old self come in and lead me away for what you have spoken. But I want to hear you speak to my soul again. Lord, speak, for your servant is listening. Prayer, it's just talking to God as I am talking to you. Just talk to Him And the Spirit will pray even when you don't know how to pray. And the third is the sacraments. We come tonight. We have the Lord's Supper tonight. And maybe you're busy on Sunday night, but come. We celebrate the Lord's Supper tonight, and then two Sundays or the third Sunday of the month, not two Sundays, third Sunday of the month. Do you know that the Holy Spirit working in you takes the Word of God and takes the elements of the Lord's Supper and He feeds you grace? Not grace just for forgiveness, but grace for new life. Friends. Union and new life. Is more than insurance on a car that can't run. It is salvation that leads to new life. It is you Let's pray. Lord Jesus, come. Feed your people by the means that you have given, your word. Prayer and the sacraments. Lord, we confess that we want oftentimes just half of Jesus. We want the half that we get forgiveness, but not the one who comes in to remake our whole lives, that teaches us to say no to ungodliness. But Lord, we have been buried with him in baptism into his death, and we have been raised with him in his resurrection. and that union means new life. Lord, I pray for any who can hear my voice, who call upon you, but whose lives are impoverished. Because they have forgotten this or they have rejected it. Lord, I ask you, draw them, draw them to see the gloriousness of your grace. That means to make us new, new. Help us, we pray. We need you. In Jesus' name. Amen.