I uh feel a particular need this morning for us to begin with prayer in a uh challenging and difficult message. Let's uh look to the Lord for a moment. Lord, we uh we need your spirit to open your word to us. Lord, you know how inadequate I feel to open up the treasures of this portion of your word and all that's involved in it. Lord, um I pray that you would help us to see Jesus in all his perfections, to see our need of him To see, Lord Jesus, how all-sufficient you are for those deepest needs. Now, Lord, teach us, meet us through your word, we pray Give us teachable and open hearts, searching hearts. For Jesus' sake, Amen. By the way, did you say about kids to children's church and prayer team? You didn't. I thought I thought I heard the patter of little feet as I was praying and I just thought maybe that was what it was about. So if any of you kids are in children's church and haven't left, then here's your chance or anybody to join the prayer team in the back room One of the most significant Christian thinkers of the twentieth century, Carl Henry, recently wrote these words, quote. We live in the most devastating cultural upheaval since the fall of the Roman Empire. He goes on to talk about Oswald Spengler's book, The Decline of the West. T. M. Moore wrote these words in the October edition of Consensus, quote, The American vision is up for grabs. The past generation has witnessed the unraveling of most of the myths, manners, and mores that Americans heretofore have cherished. Founding fathers have been trashed, beloved legends, devote, and trusted institutions redefined by a generation that has come to care more about the present moment than either the past or the future. A dark side of the American myth has surfaced in the form of persistent racism, political corruption, and growing apathy. And skepticism about the nobility of the American experiment is on the rise all around. Much of the serious talk about America today is not very kind, not very optimistic, and even a little scary. We are a people adrift. The American ship of state has sailed into a fog, and no one seems to be able to see the North Star anymore. He then goes on to talk about how there are a number of people, whoever, however, who would want to lead us out of the fog. And he talks about the secularists who seek to do this by either pointing to the past or to the future. Toward the past, you have someone like Gertrude Himmelfarb, her book The Demoralizing of Society, in which she says that the solution is to return to the virtues and moral codes of 19th-century England And that's where we'll find our direction. Arthur Schlesinger, in his book, The Disuniting of America, also says if we recapture the notion of rights and liberties of the nineteenth century, then we will be able to regain our moorings and move ahead. On the other hand, he says there's those who look to the future Without any regard for the past, such as Richard Rorty in his book Achieving Our Country, in which he says this quote America 's purpose is the making of a new sort of individual possible, one who will take nothing as authoritative save free consensus between as diverse a variety of citizens as can possibly be produced. The idea that we can gain our sense of direction by simply seeking to incorporate the great diversity and find some shared values that will help us to move on Which means basically the m the lowest common denominator of what anybody holds with anyone else. On the international scene, it's even scarier You think of what's happened recently in Russia with the assassination of one of the great champions of political and religious freedom there, Galina Starovvotava With apologies to those of you who speak Russian, who was uh assassinated a couple of weeks ago. No one expects those who did the killing to be found or come to justice, assumed that it was a contract job. A country on the verge of collapse. Where you look at the situation with Iraq Again, America has backed down, buying more time for Saddam Hussein An editorial in the Washington Post this last Sunday from a a Londoner says that um in England Margaret Thatcher wonders how in the world Clinton could have done what he did. And he speculates that there is in America currently a sense of impotence, a sense of uh vacuum of moral leadership. The sense that we now try to lead by the polls rather than by what we believe is right. America has lost its confidence because America has lost its sense of integrity. And that's not just theoretical. This is not just for things for people to write books and articles about. Whether there is an Iraq attack Uh, that could mean anthrax in DC or New York or nuclear weapons in the not too distant future or some computer invasion that will disable us Many people are now saying that they see in the future almost certain chaos of one kind or another in the next few years, cheerful thought. Um somebody was just telling me this week, not a Christian, was telling me they were watching a a film a um program on the Discovery Channel of a number of uh prominent psychologists who uh said that as they look at human nature, the more we understand about it, the more pessimistic we become about our about our future. Well, if you take all this in, and uh you know, you feel what did I come here for this morning? you begin to realize why Isaiah 42 is relevant. It's very easy to read Isaiah 42 if you don't make the connection to see, well, alright, that's nice. But so what? But when we look at our national and international scene today, then all of a sudden the song of the servant Remember, that's the first of four songs of the servant. We're looking at this first song of the servant in anticipation of Christmas, the coming of Messiah. in order to prepare ourselves to look forward to Jesus coming and to realize its significance. And as we do that, we remember again that this was not written by Isaiah in a similarly uh situation of dread, expecting chaos, uh the Iraqis called at that time Babylonians to attack and to destroy their society But this is rather the word of God who sings this song. And you remember he describes himself as the God of creation and the God of the covenant, verse 5 He says, This is what God the Lord says, he who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and all that comes out of it, who gives breath to its people and life to those who walk on it. And then he describes himself in verses eight and nine as the God of the covenant. I am Yahweh, that is my name. That's his covenant name I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. See, the former things have taken place, and new things I declare. Before they spring into being, I announce them to you. We talked about how he supernaturally, specifically calls out what is going to happen in the next 200 years, even naming One who has not yet appeared on the scene won't appear for another 150 years or so to show that this is God who is speaking. We saw the last time we looked at this, the unique relationship of God, the Creator, the covenant God, with this servant. whom he is sending. Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. Now I would like to look at with you the task, the unique task that This God assigns to the servant. That task is given to us at the end of verse 1 and then verses 3 and 4. And I submit to you that all the rest of this song is either about Who it is that's assigning the task, or how that task will be accomplished, or the relationship between the singer and the servant. But the task itself, what Messiah will do, is summed up very succinctly at the end of verse 1 and then verses 3 and 4. Take a look in your Bibles to see there. He says at the end of verse 1. I will put my spirit on him, and he will bring justice to the nations. Verse 3. The end of verse 3. In faithfulness he will bring forth justice. He will not falter or be discouraged till he establishes justice on earth. In his law the islands will put their hope. Now you see it's pretty obvious there's one word that's prominent there. You saw it three times, right? The word justice. He's going to bring justice on earth, among the nations. That's nice, but it probably doesn't make your pulse race, particularly like it would among people who are either oppressed or persecuted. You read those verses, and you're in a church that's being persecuted by the government Or among people who are being oppressed by those in power, those verses would mean more to you and to me. But we generally identify more with the power structures. So when we read those verses, it's nice to know that that's going to happen. But what does it really mean? Why is it so important for us? Well, I believe that that word justice doesn't really get at it at its real root. The King James, if any of you are old King James readers back in the past or may even have one before you, you'll see that translates that word judgment. I used to always read that and w you know, I grew up, I became a Christian, I still use the King James Bible and I'd read that. God's gonna execute his judgment He's going to send the science to bring judgment to the nation. He's gonna condemn everything. He's gonna wipe it all out, you know. But some great news about that Uh but that word doesn't really get at it either. In fact what I've done on your bulletin outline you see it's not that's not a um misprint there Uh what I decided to do is just leave the word in the Hebrew just to help us to see that we don't have any English word that translates this word Mafia 's task, the servant's task, as you see there, is to establish his Mishpat on earth He's going to establish his Mishpat. Now, when Isaiah said that, if you understand what that means, man, you stand up and you say, Hallelujah! But that's probably not what you're ready to do yet. Maybe by the end of the sermon. I don't know We'll see. But I want you to understand that we really don't have a word that can translate that. What in the world is Mishpat? Well, it's a complicated word. In fact, I must tell you, I planned to preach this a year ago. And I worked at it and I worked at it and I struggled with it and I said, nah. So I put up an outline and I filed it away. I thought I'll do it today And I pulled it out this week and looked at it and I thought, nah. This this message has been harder to prepare than any other three that I've done in the last year I tell you that because if you think it's hard to listen to, it was harder to preach. Alright? This one's going to take some effort. I recognize that. Kids, don't give up. Hang in there. It's a difficult concept, but I hope you'll see by the end it's worth the effort. What is it that the servant is going to do? He's going to establish his Mishpath. What does that mean? The root of that word means to judge. And from that basic root, it comes to mean to govern or to rule. When you judge, you administrate, you you uh administrate justice. It so it has the idea of rule. So the first point one there is that it is to rule. Now Even that doesn't get totally at it because also in the root of that word is the idea of that which is straight. Like a plumb line or a straight edge or a ruler, it's something which is a standard by which everything else is measured. And so it has the idea of justice, God's right standard. Now let me save you a few hours of agonizing work This word is used hundreds of times in the Old Testament. And boil it all down to the conclusion that I came to after looking, not at all the hundreds of them, but after a few dozen, you begin to get the idea and some of the others begin to stand out. I believe that what the word basically means is to govern or to rule according to God's standard of absolute justice. That's the idea. Messiah is going to bring his rule of absolute justice to the nations. It's his rule that he's going to establish. It's not just impersonal justice. And it's at this point that we need to appreciate something that may not be obvious to us, and that is that we as Americans have a very unique perspective about law. Very different from the ancients or the Hebrews. You see, our country, when it was established, the Constitution was written with Puritan theology in mind. It w it had a skeptical, pessimistic view of human nature. And therefore, we have three branches of government. We have the executive, the judicial, and the legislative, so that if any of them becomes corrupt and seeks to be dictatorial, it will be offset by the other two in the balance of power. So that when we say, as Christians, Christians are being persecuted in other parts of the world. We need to make a law so that Congress and our executive, chief executive, the president, will impose sanctions on those that are persecuting Christians. That'll solve the problem, you see. So we, you know, we scramble and we, you know, lobby and everybody and they make a law. And then a bunch of Christians meet with President Clinton and he says, by the way, guys, If you pass that law, I'm telling you right now, I'm not going to enforce it. I am not going to be constrained by that thing. And we all go, horrors! How could he say that? That's his job What we pay him to do is to execute the laws, you see. He's under the law. You see, a Hebrew would have said, Of course. Makes perfect sense. He's the law. You see, for a Hebrew, you are ruled by the ruler, not by the laws You stand or fall by the ruler. Proverbs says, He that executes Mishpat brings joy and stability to his nation. Now you say, that's terrible. You're at the mercy of this. But you see, imagine, just for a moment, imagine. That instead of having some huge, unwieldy government of all the different departments and the branches and all these competing power structures You boiled all government down to just one person. And that person Embodied the judicial, the legislative, and the executive branches of government in that one person, and that one person was accountable to no one but himself And you'd say you have there the recipe for absolute disaster, dictatorial powers in the extreme. But you see what Isaiah is saying is, now suppose that person were perfect. Suppose that person's whole desire Was to use those powers to shepherd his people in love and mercy and justice. So that what he did, his every thought 100% lined up with God's character, God's view of justice and right and good. And his whole intention was to establish that as the rule in his whole kingdom. Let's suppose further that this person is incorruptible. They will never be betra they will never be uh tempted, they will never be bribed to compromise in any possible way This person, furthermore, is invincible. This person's government will never be overthrown. This person's government is that which will endure forever according to that standard. Too much boom, huh? Let me get going here and maybe, you know. Thank you. You see, that's what Isaiah is talking about Now, I've given you the verses for you to check out when you're on Deuteronomy 25 and 1 Kings 3. These all use that word Mishpat. 1 Kings 3 is very interesting. It talks about how Solomon desired a discerning heart so that he might, and the verb's actually Shapat. It's the same root. So that he might Shapat, that is, he might rule in this way over God's people. And God says, because you haven't sought just riches and stuff for yourself, but have sought a heart to Shabbat to to rule as I would rule my people, then I'm going to give you this other stuff also Isaiah then picks up that idea you have in Isaiah 9, remember the one who's given the child that is born, he will rule the nations in a kingdom that will last forever. And you remember how uh Isaiah describes that, that the government will be on his shoulders, he will be called the wonderful counselor He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with Mishpat and righteousness. From that time forever. It's a perfect rule, a perfect kingdom, you see. Isaiah 11, the words used three times in what John read to you, about he will not judge He will not Shapat, he will not do that rule with his eyes or with his own knowledge, but with Mishpat, with God 's Unique, absolute, wise standard of justice and perfection, he will rule the nations This is the idea, you see. And so when you come to Isaiah 42, God is saying here, in all this chaos, in this world of corruption, in this world of disappointment There is coming a servant who is going to bring his perfect rule of justice and mercy to the nations. This one is going to, in faithfulness, bring forth this rule, perfect rule of justice and mercy. He will never falter or be discouraged until he establishes This Mishpat, this perfect rule of justice and mercy on the earth. And to the very ends of the earth, the islands, that means the ends of the earth, the far extremes, will put their hope in his law or in his teaching. That's the idea. Now, the good news is of course that what he's saying is there's not going to be any more Clinton administrations. There's not going to be any more terrorism There's not going to be any more corruption, but there's only going to be this one kingdom with no rivals of justice and peace forever. And this one perfect shepherd ruler is going to rule it. The bad news is he's going to judge all sin. Therefore, where does that leave you and me? I mean our immediate response is that's great. All the bad guys will be out. They're gonna be destroyed. Oh yeah? So why do you think that you and I are right up there with our arm around this one who is the ruler saying, You and me, Lord, and all those other guys, that's it, let them have it You see, what Isaiah is saying is all evil is going to be destroyed. Therefore, how do you and I find a place in that kingdom? The interesting thing is this is not a threat in this song, but rather hope. See this? Verse 4. He will not falter or be discouraged till he establishes this Mishkat on earth in his teaching, his law. The ends of the earth, the islands, will put their hope. It talks in verse 6 about light. It talks in verse 7 about being rescued. That brings us to the second idea. Now, this idea, I must confess to you, I have not read in any book. I haven't seen this in a commentary, haven't seen it in a book or in a word study of the of this thing. Uh it is my idea, but it comes from what I believe is an amazing detail. It's one of those things that when you find in Scripture, all of a sudden you realize This book is supernatural. Nobody could have ever thought this up and put the pieces of this jigsaw puzzle together. An amazing detail in the Old Testament I believe the second notion of this word is the idea of rescue. Or as John said earlier when is leading, The first idea is that of justice. The second is the idea of justification. Now how do you see that? If you look back in Exodus chapter 28, and if you have your Bibles, that's worth turning to because this Is uh is difficult to grasp and yet it's worth the effort. If you look back in Exodus chapter 28, it's a picture of the priestly garments It's a picture among which of the garments, the distinctive garments of the priest was the breast piece or the breastplate. And that breast piece or breastplate was covered his room. And it had at least two things on it. Uh one was that it was covered with precious stones, jewels, precious jewels, twelve of them. Each one stood for a name of the tribe, a particular tribe of Israel, so he had the twelve tribes represented there And then there was a pouch in this thing, uh, and that pouch was part of it. Now What is that thing called, this breast piece that the priest wears? In Exodus 28, verse 15 , Moses says, by God's inspiration, fashion a breast piece. If you have an NIV, what's it say? A breast piece for making decisions. Now, the words there for making decisions, that's the word Mishpat. They didn't know how to translate it. Literally, it's fashion a breast piece of Mishpat. The work of a skilled craftsman. All right. Now what's that about? Well, I mean, look over verse 29. Whenever Aaron enters the holy place, he will bear the names of the sons of Israel over his heart. Those are the twelve stones, you see. He's literally bearing their names over his heart on the breast piece, again, NIV is breastpiece of decision, but literally it's over his heart on the breast piece of Mishpat. As a continuing memorial before the Lord. There's two things that are going on here, two ideas. The first is the idea of the Urim and the Thummum. That's what's in the pouch on the breast piece. Now I know this is seeming like a Hebrew class to you, but bear with me. Orim and thummim are probably stones. The word Uram is from the Hebrew to curse. Thummim is from the Hebrew word to make perfect. They were stones, perhaps colored one color on one side, another color on the other side, could have been different stones of different colors, but however they did it, he would take those stones out And he would roll them like dice, he would throw them down to answer a question, Lord, should we do this? Should we go to war against these people? Do you want us to raise taxes this year? You know, or you know, whatever it is. Lord, what do you want us to do? Governmental decisions. God ruled through what the priest would say. So he would throw down the urum and the thumbum, and it was you know kind of best out of three or best out of five, something like that, you know. He would count them in whichever color, whatever it would say. Did it come up thumb thumbum, yes, or urum? No Now, that's why it says then in verse 30, also put the Uram and the Thummim in the breast piece, so that they may be over Aaron's heart whenever he enters the presence of the Lord, for God to rule his people. Thus , here's the other idea, thus, Aaron will always bear, now again, see, the means of making decisions The word is actually fish pot. Aaron will always bear the judgment. For the Israelites over his heart before the Lord. He's going to bear God's justice, his judgment, his Nishpath before the altar as he offers the sacrifice. Now I believe that it has a lot more to do than just the idea of making decisions. Because Isaiah picks up that idea in Isaiah 30, verse 18, God says, I rise to show you compassion, for I am the God of Mishpah. We translate it the God of justice, but you see it's a deeper concept. It's more than that. But he's picturing himself as the priest who stands before the altar. And he says, I come bearing you on my heart. So then you come to Isaiah chapter 61. In Isaiah 61, well Before you look at that, Isaiah chapter 53, in Isaiah 53, the fourth song of the servant. You know, the first three talk about the servant as the ruler. He's coming to establish his rule. But when you come to that fourth song, you don't have anything about rule, do you? In the fourth song of Isaiah chapter 53, the servant is now pictured as a suffering servant He's pictured as the one who comes as the priest to offer himself as the sacrifice for God's people to bear their sins. So then when you come to Isaiah 61, you read that this God, verse 10 Isaiah says, I delight greatly in the Lord, my soul rejoices in my God, for he has clothed me now with garments of salvation, and arrayed me in a robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom adorns his head like a priest, the priestly garment, and a bride adorns herself with her jewels. You see this this connection to the breast piece. For as the soil makes the sprout to come up, and as a garden causes seeds to grow, so the sovereign Lord will make righteousness and praise to spring up before all the nations. You see, that's the fulfillment of the servant who's going to come to establish his Mishpat, his rule of mercy and justice before the nation. Now when Jesus comes, Matthew quotes from Isaiah 42 in Matthew chapter 12. And you see I put on your bulletin outline there. Well, the two in parallel with boldface to show you the words that are different, because what Matthew does is he doesn't quote it exactly. He changes a little bit in order to interpret it for you He's not going to just bring Mishpath to the nations. He's going to proclaim it. That is, the word that's used proclaimed there is the root for the word evangelism. He's going to evangelize the nations. In other words, he's going to bring his Mishpath through the gospel. Until he establishes his Mishpat on earth, Matthew says, till he leads Mishpat, his justice, his rule, to victory. He's going to Jesus is going to accomplish this kingdom. He's going to bring it now through his death and his resurrection. In his law and his teaching, Isaiah says, the islands, the ends of the earth are going to put their hope. Matthew says, in his name, that is the fullness of his character, the nations are going to put their hope. Now just look on the outline. You see, in his death and his resurrection, Jesus establishes a kingdom of Mishpath here. His rule His perfect rule. Here, right now, he's beginning to do that, you see, through the preaching of the gospel, through people that are turning from sin in their own chaos Uh in your life, in my life, turning from that to Jesus. He begins to rule us in his peace. It goes forth then in the fulfillment of the Great Commission Notice that what Yahweh does in Isaiah 51 is exactly what the servant does in Isaiah 42. Jesus is Yahweh. He is the Lord. He is the one who is God. And you see this all brought to conclusion in Revelation chapter 7. Now we don't have time to read that, but I urge you to read that thing this afternoon in the light of what I've said, so that you might see in Revelation 7 what you have here is that final picture of all the nations And the servants, Mishpat, the one who is the lamb slain, has established this now throughout the nations. He has come again. The nations are now assembled before his throne to do what? To serve him, it says. But as we serve him, what's he doing? He is acting as shepherd to serve us You read in verse 17, the Lamb is at the center of the throne, and he will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. You see, this is the picture of what Isaiah is talking about. His rule is established throughout the nations. His people changed by those for whom he has borne the judgment in their place have now been transformed made righteous, brought into that kingdom, so that you and I stand there to serve him, to rest in his peace and his security, the one who is invincible, whose kingdom will never be overthrown. In justice and peace forever and ever. Amen. But I hope. Are you going to be there? Is he ruling in your life right now as the one who has come to bring peace? Let's pray. Pray. Oh Lord our God, Lord, what a savior. Jesus, how perfect you are. Who could have ever thought of the combination of these complex ideas put together in the one person who would not only bring his rule and judgment of justice to the nations, but who would bear that judgment? pictured and bearing us upon his breast, enduring the judgment of the wrath that we deserve so that we can come into that kingdom. Wearing the very righteousness of Jesus, the robe of righteousness that his as the high priest. And we're there to be with you forever and ever. The embodiment of the perfect government ruling both among us and in us. What a hope! This Lord outstrips any disappointment, anything that we bear here in this life. Lord, may none of us here in this room miss that hope and that salvation. Draw us to love you and to trust you with all of our lives here and now. In Jesus' name. Amen.