Morning in our uh study of the Old Testament prophecies of the coming of Messiah. Going through this year, Isaiah chapter forty-two, verses one to nine. Obviously, we just read that And so that is again refreshed in your mind. It's the first of the Psalms of the Servant, which I mentioned again last week are major faith builders for us because they so precisely picture the person and the work. of the Lord Jesus Christ over seven hundred years before he came upon the scene. That would be like somebody writing about something that's going to happen at this time back in thirteen hundred A. D. And yet what he fulfilled was so radically different from any contemporary expectations, which impresses on us again the supernaturalness of these songs and prophecies. Last week we looked at the first of the messages of this. I wanted to look first at the nature of the singer of these songs. The one who sings this first song to Messiah in Isaiah chapter 42 is described in verses 5 and then 8 and 9. You remember that we looked last week at the fact that uh God uses the two most basic names that describe him uh in speaking about who it is that is giving this song, who is singing it to Messiah. First of all, he uses that name Elohim, which means creator, the strong, faithful creator in verse 5. This is what Elohim, the Creator, the Lord says, uh, who created the heavens and stretched them out. If you want to particularly vivid picture of the spectacular wonder of that. Get up about three o'clock in the morning on Tuesday morning and watch the Leonid uh meteor shower. Uh all kinds of expectations. Uh of an expect of a spectacular demonstration of what just what are just a few chunks of things that come flying through space and what God has stretched out Uh so uh find some dark place, don't need binoculars, don't need anything. Uh but what a time to see the awesomeness of our God who stretched forth the heavens. Think of that verse if you're one of those who will bother to get up at three o'clock in the morning if it's not cloudy to see that. Uh he also then described himself, you notice in verse eight as his covenant name. Verse five is his Creator name. Verse eight is his covenant name, Yahweh's sovereign God of the covenant. And in that he uh speaks of the fact that he will not uh share his glory, he guards it, he uniquely is to be worshipped and honored in your life and in mine. He speaks prophetically, we saw that. To show that he is God, the end of verse 9, before things spring into being, I announce them to you. Let me remind you also that I intend to try to fulfill my promise. Middle hour of this morning. For anybody who's interested, I'll be going over in the library the unity of Isaiah. Very important that we understand why it is that Isaiah is only one book written in the seventh century, uh actually the around seven hundred um BC And that it is not two books, it is not one book, first Isaiah, that was written around seven hundred uh BC, and then another one that was written in the five hundreds uh by someone who is a contemporary in the Babylonian exile of Cyrus. Uh in Christians may have their faith disturbed by people who claim to be able to prove that the This latter part, Isaiah 40 to 66, was not written 150 or so years before Cyrus. So we'll be going over that material for anybody who's interested over in the library. Again, it's a major faith builder when you realize how absolutely supernatural this is that God not only describes the deliverer of Israel from the exile, he names him Did he really do that 150 or so years before? What's the evidence for that? And that he is able to do that because he acts sovereignly In chapter 46, remember verse 11, picking up on this idea of 42, verse 9. God said, From the east I summon a bird of prey, that is Cyrus, from a far-off land, a man to fulfill my purpose. What I have said, that will I bring about What I have planned, that will I do. And whether it is the cross or the greatest atrocity in the history of human uh uh nastiness, uh evil, wickedness, uh the greatest raging against God, or whether it is the greatest confusion and pain in your own life The fact is that the Bible teaches God is in control of every incident. As he says in Ephesians 1:11, in him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will. That's what he's saying in Isaiah chapter 42. Nothing is by chance. That's why God is able to speak the future. He not only sees it, he is in control of it. That's very important since there's a lot of writing and confusion going on today in that matter. Books like When Bad Things Happen to Good People They basically posit that uh when bad things happen, that uh God didn't do that. You can't blame that on God. He doesn't cause bad things to happen He's just there to comfort you when they do happen. Well that's nice. It lets God off the hook in our being our struggling with the problems that Job struggled with about why did God do this. It sort of eliminates that problem, but it does it at a terrific cost because what it says is that ultimately the universe is really ruled by chance It's more like saying we're hurtling down a mountain in a bus and we realize that nobody is at the wheel. But that's okay because God's there among the passengers to comfort us on the way down, you see. Now, that's the picture that a lot of contemporary thinking gives to us. But the Bible is absolutely clear. You may wrestle with why it is The tragedies h uh occur to people who seem to be certainly better than others For whom things seem to go relatively easy. But the fact is that the Bible teaches God is sovereignly in control in that. I have set forth my purpose, God says. Whatever happens, Ephesians 1 11 He is in control of that. And so this is the song of the sovereign singer to the suffering servant We need to picture that always as we read this, to understand that God introduces this first song by saying, this is not some inspired poem of Isaiah. Writing in the midst of a world that doesn't make sense, in which there's suffering, and he's putting forth someone who's going to give hope. This is the sovereign God who has created the heavens The one who has created you and me, the one who does not share his glory with another, who says, Because I am uniquely God, I can speak forth in specific detail that which will happen hundreds of years from now, and I do it because I will accomplish it sovereignly. That's a great comfort in your life and in mine, isn't it? We're secure in the Father's hand who is sovereign. What I want to look at now, particularly this morning, as we look into this uniqueness of the servant, that there is in fact none like him. is to first of all look at the uniqueness of the relationship between the father and the son, between the singer and the servant. Notice, first of all, this relationship, and it is spoken of in the first half of verse 1. That's all we're going to look at this morning. Isaiah 42, verse 1, the first part, here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom I delight. That relationship is described in four ways, you see, in those two lines. First of all, here is my servant. Second, whom I uphold. Thirdly, my chosen one. Fourth, in whom I delight. You notice that he calls him his servant, my servant. That's key, of course, to all four of these songs, but let's be absolutely clear, the term servant was not uniquely applied to Messiah. In fact, many of God's servants in the Old Testament were so designated, even in Isaiah. In uh Isaiah chapter 37, by the way, that's ver uh verse 35, not 25. I just mistyped it Verse 35, for those of you who use this for meditations, will look it up and wonder why David's not there. In verse 35, God calls David his servant He calls the prophets his servants in chapter 44, verse 26. He calls Isaiah his servant in chapter 20 and verse 3. But this servant is unique. And that becomes more apparent as we move through this song and through the rest of the songs. You remember last year I gave you that little triangle. The bottom section of those three sections in the triangle, remember, was National Israel, his servant. All Israel is designated a servant. Then in the middle section, there's a subset of that, which is spiritual Israel, those who are genuinely in a relationship to him, not simply ethnically Jews, Hebrews. But those who are in covenant with him, spiritualism , calls them his servant. And then at the top, uniquely, here is my servant. That's an individual. And it becomes clear in this song and others that this is not referring to Israel as a people. It's referring to an individual. Here is my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. This one is his chosen for second designation, whom I uh whom I have chosen. Excuse me. That's the third. Whom I uphold, the second designation. My this is my servant whom I uphold. The Hebrew word there for uphold is a word which means to grasp, to hold fast, to sustain. It's the idea that you had there in verse 6, where he elaborates on it. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness. I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you and I will make you to be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles. I will take hold of your hand. You kids No under understand a little what that's like when mom or dad take you across a busy street, what do they do? They grab your hand, you know. Uh they they want to make sure that you're safe, that you'll get across that street with them. You won't be wandering out somewhere in the traffic or if they're in a mall or in some busy store. They take your hand Not anybody takes your hand, you know? And you ever get a kid and he takes your hand and finds out you weren't his parent, all of a sudden there's this look of horror, you know Wrong hand, wrong parent, you know. There's a special relationship. You see, there's a it's a privilege to hold our kids' hand. There's a trust relationship that is in that And God is saying here to Messiah, I'm going to hold your hand. Perhaps some of you parents realize this with our own parents as they get older and they become more feeble. Perhaps someone in the hospital. And what is it that you do when you visit that person to give them comfort? You take their hand, you grasp hold of them. It's that physical contact that demonstrates the bonding, the intimacy, the caring. And that's what God is saying here. Here is my servant. I grasp him. I take him by the hand. We have a unique relationship. Then he goes on the third designation, he is my chosen one. Now, again, this word, my chosen one. Obviously means he's set apart. He's different from others. I've chosen him. I've set him apart for the tasks that I've called him to do. But It doesn't simply mean that. The term chosen one is a term which refers to a unique relationship. In Matthew 3, verse 17, at Jesus' baptism, when he came up out of the water, you remember that God said to him, This is my son whom I love. That term, whom I love, is a Greek word that is one of the translations of this Hebrew word. This is the one whom is who is my chosen, who is in a unique relationship to me And the connection between chosen and beloved isn't really hard for us to grasp, is it? I mean, you guys uh who have married a wife, you chose her. You wives that married a husband, you chose him. Why? Because that person was precious to you. They were beloved. I could introduce Kathy. Here's Kathy, my wife. I could also say, here is Kathy, my chosen one, you see. the one that I've chosen to spend my life with. There is that sense of specialness set apart in a person's heart that is implied, that's connoted in this word. Here's my servant whom I uphold, the one on whom I've set my heart, my son whom I love , with whom there is a unique relationship. didn't just pick this person for a pickup game in basketball, chose him, but it has much more the idea of a special place in a person's heart Fourthly, the designation is in whom my soul delights. In whom my soul or in whom I in whom my soul delights. Now here's where it starts to get exciting. Because you see there's something very, very interesting about this. If you look back in chapter 41 You'll notice that in verses 9 and 10, God uses the same three first terms that I've just gone over to describe his relationship with you and me. Take a look in chapter 41, verse 9. God says, I took you from the end, this is now referring to Israel as his people, those who are in a saving relationship with him. I took you from the ends of the earth, from his farthest corners I called you. I said, You are my servant. That's to his people. I have chosen you, same word, and have not rejected you. Do not fear, for I am with you. Do my Be dismayed, for I will strengthen you, I will help you, and there is the third one, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. But you notice that after that word, uh after that statement, I have chosen you, he does not say And in you I delight. What does he say? I have not rejected you. Now, why would he say that? Not rejected implies there's a reason to reject And you see, Isaiah is very clear. Israel is going into captivity. They're going to be cast out of the land. They're going to be utterly cast off from the covenant privilege that they had been given as an inheritance by God because of their sin But God's word of comfort to them is, but I have not rejected you. You see how that's different from when he describes the servant, and he says, In you I delight. The history of the Old Testament is full of people that God had called as his servants who disappointed him. Abraham was his servant, but Abraham lied about his wife to Pharaoh and disappointed God. David was his servant. But all you have to think about is David's relationship with Bathsheba. And all of a sudden you realize what a crushing disappointment David was as God's anointed. Or you think of Solomon and all the promise that he showed, and how in his excessive uh greed for sex and women and being turned to other idols Solomon was an utter disappointment. But there is one servant coming, God's saying here, who will not disappoint. for whom there will be no possibility of rejection. There is coming one for whom he says not simply, This is my son whom I love, but he goes on to say, With him I am well pleased. My soul delights in him. He has never disappointed me. He is the perfect servant. He has done everything that my heart could desire. This servant's heart beats with God's heart. He loves the things that God loves. He is utterly and implicitly obedient to the Father. He is described as the one in whom his soul delights. That relationship is unique. But then when you come over to the Gospels and you look in Matthew, And you see this Jesus, for whom it was said even after his ministry had occurred for a couple of years at the Mount of Transfiguration, once again, this is my son. whom I love. This is the one with whom I am well pleased. Hear him. That same Jesus says in Matthew chapter eleven, verse twenty-seven. All things have been committed to me by my Father, the one who sang that song. No one knows the Son except the Father. There's a unique relationship. And no one knows the Father except the Son. A unique relationship. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on, and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him That night before he was betrayed, you remember Jesus prayed, the high priestly prayer, Father And he describes that unique relationship he's had with the Father. But then he goes on to describe his people. And he talks about how they will share with you and me in our relationship. In John chapter 17 and verse 21, 22 through there. Jesus was rejected by the Father. Went to the cross to be cursed. As the one in whom his soul delighted, he took upon him all the reasons for rejection So that you and I would be included in that relationship. Jesus in your place and in my place, receiving the rejection. so that you and I could be included in what was to that point a unique relationship. Look at how that is spelled out. Let's go back through the four designations again. First of all, notice that we are his servants in Jesus Christ in chapter 41, again in verse 8. He says, but you owe Israel my servant. Now that's referring to God's people. Then notice, this is 41. 8 now, Jacob, whom I have chosen. Now why does he call Israel Jacob? Because everybody knows when you think of Jacob, you think of the sneaky can Ivor. You think of a guy who had no reason to be accepted and brought into the covenant. Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. Why? Nothing in Jacob to love. Jacob was a guy who'd betray if it suited his own ends without thinking twice about it But God says, it is you who are my servant in this covenant. And so he says in Romans in chapter six. Verse 22 about you and me, and I put in verses 17 and 18 to think about, but also add to that verse 22, where he says, But now you You and I, you've been set free from sin, and you have become servants to God. The benefit that you reap leads to holiness, and the result is life eternal. You've been brought into this relationship. You're not a profitable servant. I'm not a profitable, faithful servant. But God looks at you and me and He says, You're my servant. I love you. You are brought into that relationship through Jesus Christ of being the servant of God to serve Him and to adore Him. He goes on and he describes this further. He says Just as I upheld him, I uphold you. Again, remember verse 10 of chapter 41. Do not fear, he says, for I am with you. Now this is referring to all his people. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you, and I will help you, and I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. What a precious verse in times when you're feeling abandoned and discouraged. That just as this one said to his own son, the Messiah, in those things that he would go through, being obedient as a servant, even to the cross. Even to that point where Jesus was utterly abandoned by the Father, to that point the Father says, I uphold you. I I will not let you go. He strengthened him even in the garden, as he was of necessity about to undergo the abandonment of that relationship But you and I will never be so abandoned. He says, I will uphold you. I will never let you go And so Jesus, when he rose from the dead just as he was going back into heaven, what did he say to his disciples? Go make disciples Teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, to the very end of the age. Or as he says in Hebrews chapter 13, God has said, Never will I leave you, never will I forsake you. So he says, be content with what you have. For that's the promise you have. So that we say with confidence, the Lord is my helper, and I will never be afraid. What can man do to me? What can your boss do to you? What can your husband do to you? Your wife, your kids, anyone, the person who is in that position of your life to most break your heart, what can they do? The Lord will never leave you. He will uphold you with his righteous right hand. He will not let you go. And that's his promise to you, because you're included in that relationship with Messiah the servant He goes on beyond that. He says, thirdly, we are his chosen ones. We're his chosen ones. Look, in chapter 41 in verse 8, he says, But you, O Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen. He set his heart on us. He set his heart on Jacob, and he set his heart on you and me. As he says in Ephesians, can't get away from Ephesians somewhere. As he says in Ephesians in chapter 1. In verse 4, for he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and his will. No constraint upon him It's what he wanted to do, to choose you to be his own. To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one whom he loves. Do you see the connection? Jesus is his chosen. He says, here's my beloved. But then he looks at you and me and we have been chosen in him. We are gathered in Jesus. And his embrace is not just about his son. His embrace is about you and about me. And he draws us to himself. up onto his lap and to his bosom with that same embrace because you have been chosen in the one he loves. You cannot be ever separate from him And so this is the promise of Isaiah 42 in the covenant. But then we come to that last statement. You see it on the on the back there, he delights in you? Now here's the mystery. I just made a point of saying that there's a distinction Whereas in chapter 42, he says, the my chosen one in whom my soul delights about Messiah for you and for me, he said in 418 9, excuse me , that I have not rejected you. That's great news. He hasn't rejected you. And can you think of any reason why he might reject you? Can you think of any reason why he would not reject you? You see, it is fantastic news that he has not rejected us. But if you like me, as I read that, I thought, but there's there's still that longing in my heart. It sure would have been nice if he could have said he delighted in me. I mean, I know I don't deserve that. And I know that to get that He has not rejected me is to get far more than I ever deserve. Thank you, Lord. But it would have been nice if you could have said that you delight in me. Turn to Isaiah chapter 62. In Isaiah chapter 62, you're talking about Israel in its deepest, darkest moments. Israel is utterly rejected. Israel is in captivity, the land has been laid waste, the land is in darkness and devastation. And God talks about a day that's going to come when they'll rebuild the ancient ruins and they'll restore the places long devastated. This is verse 4. They will renew the ruined cities that have been devastated for generations. Aliens will shepherd your flocks, and foreigners will work your fields and vineyards. You will be called priests of the Lord, and you will be named ministers of his. Excuse me, that's in chapter chapter 61. And then in chapter 62 He says in verse four, No longer will they call you deserted, or name your land desolate. But you will be called Hepzebah. You know what Hepzebah means? It means my delight is in her. And your land will be called Beulah. And Beulah is a name that means Mary. It used to be hopefully given to daughters. For the Lord will take delight in you, and your land will be married. Your land will not be forsaken. It will be taken up again. God is saying to his people, he is saying to you , my delight is in you. I don't know what that does to your heart, but as I look at that I say, Lord, too much. Too much. I don't deserve it. But then you may say, and here's the last question, what then is the difference? You said this relationship with Messiah was unique. Now it sounds like you're saying it's no different from the rest of us. Oh no. Look at the bottom of your outline. All four designations Again, chapter 42, verse 1. My servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom my soul delights, all four designations Are intrinsic to Jesus. That means they belong to him by nature. They are his as part of his incarnate nature of the Son of God. He is the perfect beloved servant who was obedient to death, who delighted the Father from all eternity. But every designation is a gift to you and to me. It is not ours by right or inherently or intrinsically. It is a gift to you and to me. Or again, all four designations he deserves. He is the servant who's perfect. He is that beloved chosen one who is set apart and unique, the unique Son of God. He is the one In whom the Father's soul delights uniquely. He is the one whom he upholds in that most intimate of relationships. He deserves those things as the Son, but to you and to me, they are given by grace. Servants by grace, chosen by grace, upheld by grace, delighted in by grace I don't know how many of you saw the movie Saving Private Ryan, but to me, it brings to a conclusion what I want to say this morning. In that movie, I I 'm glad I can say this illustration now, so most of you have seen it, so I don't spoil it for you. But you may remember those of you who saw that movie, that there's one point in which the captain Says to the fellow he's talking to, reflecting on war and what he's been through, he says, I've lost 94 men under my command. 94 men have died serving with me What justifies such a loss? And then he says, Because through their loss I have saved perhaps ten times as many And maybe one of those will find a cure for a fatal disease, and that will make it all worth it. Now, don't miss what Spielberg is saying. It is in contrast to that that you have eight men going to save one. How in the world do you justify that? That's what the whole movie's about. Eight go to save one, seven lose their lives, including the captain, for one man. And it's clear if you're watching the movie, the first scene and the last scene, for 50 years, he lives with the question: how does my life justify such a sacrifice? How can I justify such a relationship that men would give their lives for me? Am I worth it? And the movie simply ends with it. Was I worth it? God sent his son, the unique servant, whom he delighted in and upheld, and chose as his beloved, who sacrificed himself for you, and you will never justify it in living good enough. It is by grace because He loves you. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, none of us, none of us could ever look at these relationships and say, I I can try to live up to that. I can try to be that servant who is going to satisfy you and fulfill what you've desired. Lord, we're miserable wretches. All we can do is, Lord, offer to you our lives as thank offerings in gratitude for the fact that you have loved us. And sent your own beloved Son, your chosen from eternity, in whom your soul delighted, and whom you cursed, so that we would be brought into that relationship. And we are at rest in Him to simply receive of your mercy and grace and to offer our lives As thank offerings of love and devotion to you simply because we love you. Lord, hear our hearts, receive us And our thanksgiving in Jesus. Amen.