Ephesians 4 chapter 1 uh As a prisoner for the Lord, man, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble. And gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one. One hope when you recall. One word. One faith. One baptism. One God and Father of all. He is over all and through all and in all. Let's pray. God, as we consider this morning the unity of your church, we pray that your Spirit, who is that unity, would speak to our hearts from your word, and that we might be a church victorious, that glorifies. you by our union. Oh, we pray this Lord. Please come and work in us this morning. And may Jesus be lifted up and glorified. We pray in his name. Amen. In the Acts series, one of the messages was how we proclaim the Lord our lives. And you may remember that one of the subpoints there in the different way that we proclaim to Jesus to the world Jesus Christ, one of the subpoints of that message was by our unity. John seventeen, twenty one and twenty-three. Jesus said in effect that he gives the world the right to judge whether he came from the Father by whether we, his body, are unified or not. We call that the final apologetic. And you wonder why am I preaching on unity? I we talked about other things that day. Now we're going to focus in on that one part of that term of unity. Does that mean our church has a problem with unity? Uh as I mentioned before when I when we mentioned unity in the Acts series with I think this is the most unified church I've been in, uh, in many ways, not just because of so many votes uh that are uh unanimous, but the spirit certainly we are a very unified church, but it's so So potentially dangerous. You see all the time churches with that divide, little things become devices of the church. People that so uh get along with each other and division comes. There are hundreds of denominations because of many for not biblical reasons, but just because of not taking that immunity. So I don't think we necessarily have a problem. But I think that this is preventive medicine because it always potentially is a problem not to have immunity. And once in a while you So I was gonna preach on something else, but a week and a half ago So as I began uh thinking about this and some things, I really felt compelled to change the sermon. And to preach from Ephesians four passage has meant a lot to me, lady, as we look at what it means to have unity in the church. So let's take it with text. Ephesians four verse one Paul says I therefore, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, entreat you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. He begs, he entreats, he urges us to do what? To walk or live in the NIV, worthy of the calling. What calling is he talking about? So if we go back to chapters 1 through 3 of Ephesians, we see that Paul's message is a message of doctrine. A lot of people say we don't like to talk about doctrine. I just like to talk about about the world. Well Paul talked about doctrine. In chapters one through three he talks about doctrine. And it's the doctrine of the calling of God that he focuses on for three chapters. And what are some of the things he says about that calling? What about in Ephesians 2 What does he say about that calling? Tell me that knows that verse? No looking. What about that? What kind of calling is it? A gracious calling. Not something that we know we deserve, but because of what's Jesus Christ did says it's a gracious calling. In chapter one, what did he tell us about that calling in Ephesians? What kind of gracious calling is it? It's a sovereign gracious calling. Not that we have earned it or not that we even brought ourselves to Christ, but he chose us. in Christ before the foundation of the world. So we see God's sovereign grace. And who is it for? Is it only for uh their Jewish brethren? I thought of Rockeferson and and Mike Norman and others we had Moe chapters two and chapters three. Is this sovereign Gracious calling of God is for all people. The wall is broken down. And then at the end of chapter 3, when Paul thinks about the greatness of this calling, what Jesus has done for us in securing our salvation, he breaks into doxology at the end of chapter 3. And praises the Lord, which is fitting for any Christian when we think of this great calling that he has called us to. But Paul, as he usually does, after he preaches doctrine and after he breaks into doxology, the second half, as you can see, From your diagram on the front of the page, oh we'll like this sermon. We have a lot of diagrams and everything. The first half of that diagram, you can put chapters 1 through 3, the calling, sovereign calling, gracious calling to all peoples. But then we have the therefore in Ephesians 4. 1. or in the new NIV then. And when you see a barefoor, you need to know what the bare for the connector between the first half of the book and the second half of the book. And now Paul breaks in the practical implications of that polling. this be true in the first three chapters. We are to walk out in a manner worthy of that calling that he talks about in the first three chapters. It's important. We have to do it. And he gives specifics, the rest of Ephesians We might say the specifics of what it means to walk worthy of that common. What's one of the specifics in chapter five? We heard our preach on it last night, for those that were worthy. Marriage, the specifics of walking worthy and marriage. Chapter six, what are some of the things he talks about? First one? Children obey your parents. Everybody hear that? The first verse every parent teaches their child. Children obey your parents in the Lord. That is a specific of walking worthy of the calling talked about in Ephesians 1 through 3. Talks about a four-year and four-year relationships, about the honor of God and what are they to do there. So the rest of Ephesians fleshes out the specifics of walking worthy. But this morning we want to look at the first specific. It wasn't marriage as important as that is. It was unity. And we see Paul say that. One of the priority in the sense because he said that it's the first thing that he mentioned. or called are called into what? Into the church of Jesus Christ. It's interesting, the word for called is the root word for church. Ecclesia, called, coleto. It's the same root word. So those who are called out of the world They're not just called to be autonomous individual people, they're called into the church. And once we're in the church, as part of Christ's body, what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to be united together. Talked to a lady uh up in the office at the office here the other day. Uh Wesley who is uh she says, Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. She says she's called. So what church do you go to? She says, Oh I I just I'm a member of all of them, you know. She was told she she says she's called, but she hasn't become a part of any church. She says she goes sometime. those other times, different churches. She's a part of all that. Well that's not what we see the biblical picture. Those who are called are called into the called one, the assembly of those who were called. And we see Paul very explicitly in verse 3 Not only by example of him using the whole most of chapter four about the unity of the body, he says there is specifically in first grade, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Be diligent. NIV, make everything. Effort. I like the English Bible also. Spare no effort as it says on the outside. It's a strong word. It's very, very, very important to God. Remember John 17, 23. World can even judge. whether Christ came from the Father, by whether we have that kind of unity, the supreme. But you say, but what if things are not going my way in the church, or in the small group I'm in, or high-air girls or boys' brigade, or in this relationship or that relationship? Paul says, in light of your calling, spare no effort. Be diligent to preserve that dignity. We can peril relationship with me, our marriage. There's something that we disagree about. We continue to disagree about it. We disagreed about it this past week. Sure you're wondering what that is. I like that it's not earth shaking, but it could be marriage shaking. Look at the little things people get divorced over. So we were talking about it. We spent a couple hours talking through this thing. We didn't come to agreement. But in the end, what can we agree on? The unity of our marriage and that that comes first. In that way, in the body of Christ. sticky things are even minor political doctrines, they are secondary to the unity of the body of Christ. That is important. It's on the heart of God. He says be jolted. Now you know Al and I, we are very different. We are miles apart in our differences. Those of you that know us know how different we are. And we get about all the time, but we're like this because of our common purpose, our goals, serve Christ together. It's a good diversity. And God wants that. in our church. So the the the heat once those even when the personalities are different. You may think of somebody right now, who is within the church, so maybe outside the church, who really great something. You know when they speak up, it's kinda like when the the cross moves across the chalkboard you know and it's straight and the and you just get pensions on it and you you think about that person and you say, then have unity with them and the Bible says yes. Learn to see them as a person that you are supposed to have unity with. Look at what Jesus said about love. It's real similar. He said, Do you love those that are lovable? You do well. Even the hypocrites do the same. You have unity with those that are easy to have unity with, you do well. Even the hypocrites do the same. The people on the court right with they Can't get along with each other. Sit down and get along great with each other. Can't get along with anybody else. That's not the kind of unity we're talking about. We're talking about unity even when it's hard. That's the unity the Bible tells us to have. The person that you feel is wrong to you maybe. It's not just a great on you, maybe they fall new, spared real effort to have unity with that person. Maybe they even sinned against you. The Bible says have unity with me. Yet we must be doing. Because we are one. And I think the you know Paul, he really brings his home in verses four through six. Read it really here. There is one daughter and one spirit. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. He gives the seven ones in there, number of completion of perfection. And over and over again he hammers them, we are one. And as it says on the top of the back of your biblical outline. This goes to add as we are. We the Church of Jesus Christ are one. It's a priority because we need to be what we are, as Alan often said. Regarding sanctification, it's the same thing with our unity. We need to be what we are, which is only one Lord. There's only one. based on that isn't all of those things while trying to drive on the point. This is a priority. There are a few of any things that come to third in our relationships with each other. But how do we get there? You may say, okay, okay, okay. We have to be united. Start beating me with the scripture. I believe it. But how are we going to get there with that person who grapes on me with this new program the church is starting that I just I just don't like it or this or that or the other. How are we supposed to act to get there? But we see the priority in God's life of this unity. And so there's another little diagram now, like that. Unity of the Spirit. Yep. The first part of that diagram, the top part. That's the goal of verse three. And then we go back to verse two, the things that point to that goal, humility, gentleness, patience, a forbearing spirit, the things, specific things that we can do to hold up the unity of the spirits in the bond of peace. Now those things certainly apply to all the other specifics in Ephesians of walking worthy. But especially I just see how the more I study it, how these things really affect unity. Okay, point two. How to get there. pattern for achieving this unity you see on your outline. First lowliness, humility, humbleness. The call to use this word was really radical to the Greeks. Because we see that the Greek this word it is only used in bad connotations in other Greek literature. Lowliness. It's not looked upon as something good, lowliness or humble or humility. They didn't like it. It's the same today. Think of some of the phenomenon that Bobby Burke Burke is story and saying, oh, it was humble. He doesn't think anybody did by that, he's talking about something bad. He wasn't talking about George money in the bases either, for those of you that heard him. It is comfort. Or or how about when someone talks about lowliness? You know, are we having hit it before having a lowly mere intern? That's why we're using the biblical terminology in the right way. Lowliness in Christ is a trait. It's a good friends, something that he desires us to be. The TV, what is it? Does it lift up humility and loneliness? The ads, the program? No. It lifts up putting yourself first. Putting yourself in front. Me first. He adds by Star Lady ad one more time. I don't know what I'll do with it. But even, you know, under the underneath the ad. But if you come to Star Lady, you know, you'll be better. Better looking. Better shape than the other people because uh pride and humility so much of it is competition being better than the other person and that's where the conflict comes. It's not being the best that we can be. Being the best we can do with God's strength. But when there's that competitiveness. Not being lowly, not being humble. George, I cannot use any marine illustrations for this point. There is no humility in the Marine Corps, no longer, even one of the bumper stickers said. It's hard to be humble when you're one of the finest. You know, I guess I did use a marine. illustrator. Contrast for both and and I really wonder like even now I'm I will use Marine Illustrator. I really wonder if the unity in a group like the Marine College football team is not And I was thinking about this last night because if they are together it's only for that common purpose that was in it, this competition between each other, seeing two company commanders just try to joke on the other to be the best. You know, there's different What we're talking about in the church. Sure we have a common goal and purpose, and that helps us, but we're talking about a much, much deeper unity, loneliness, humility. In Christ is a virtue. Philippians two, verse three is Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. But with humility of mind, let each one of you, CPC members and friends, let each one of you regard one another as more important than himself. What if that is that you did? What if everybody did? What if 51% of the people in the Church of Jesus Christ did that? And deferred to the other 49 % in loneliness and humility. It could not help but having effect. And what of us all did? There can't help but be unity. You have to have hard to be disunited with someone that does that. That puts others higher than himself, that regards one another as more important than himself. Hard to do it in. I have a hard time with it. marriage and the little little tensions in marriage really are a good reflection and illustration of of things in the church thoughts. But as we you know, as we disagree about something hard to get in. And we just said some tiny little fellow But you'll want to get your way in lowly, humble way, is to give in. And then not to keep track of giving in. That's bad. Now I give in and say, Well, you know, this is the third time I've given in anyway. That helped too much either. But to give in. But also to be right. Oh, you know, I d I was we studying Ephesians four, Paul and I were together recently and and we talked about that as a how you know, it could be a little thing we disagree about. But then the big argument comes when we try to say, See, I was right, you know, oh, I don't know. It's incredible how we want to be right. And that's tied up in pride also, the opposite of being humble, of being lowly, wanting to be right. Secondly, we see not just humility, but we see um gentleness and meekness. It's not Everyone when we look at gentleness and meekness, why does that help to hold up um unity? Uh there's one I think that's particularly good because it's final just at one. What does Proverbs 151 say? What kind of answer turns away round? Soft answer, a gentle answer, my translation says. What is you know, our actions can break up our unity here. Our attitude can break up our unity here, but what more than anything else? Spreads the cancer of disunity among believers? It is powerful. And that cancer spread is one thing if you have an attitude or a problem with someone else, so when you start talking about it and gossiping about it, it's really, really disrupts the unity of the body. Oh, how insidious it is. As it spreads to other people. The damage that has done to the Church of Jesus Christ. And I think that's why Paul in this chapter, Ephesians four talking about unity, he mentions our speech over Matthew 18 is the most important version for the church in terms of unity. Where it talks about what we're supposed to do when we have a problem with the brother is to go to him to speak the truth in love. So we can't really have we don't have time to flesh that out. Verse 25 also Uh therefore laying aside self with speak truth, each one of you with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. We are one. We're together. A church down in Atlanta I know of, they believe this is so important. But when new members come, they have to sign a covenant to only speak well about others in the church. And to follow that Matthew 18. And they have little rules that if someone starts to you know about someone else, they say they have three little questions. Yeah, I forget what they are, but you asked them. Well, do you think this is uh helpful what we're talking about here? And the second question, have you gone to confident about this? And the third question, remember the covenant that we also had when we joined the church? Ephesians uh four twenty nine I think is Maybe that would be a good idea to have everybody in the church memorize that verse. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as it's good for edification, according to the need of the moment, that it may give grace to those who hear. Lord, we need wholesome words. When you disagree , whole spirit of how we discuss it, of how we talk to one another, let no unwholesome words come out of your mouth. Be careful. It's bad when you aren't united with a brother. It's worse when you said it to others. Let's be careful about this. Help each other not to do it. Found a great quoting talking about this, speaking about gossip. He says, Isn't it incredible with what thoughtless unconcern we sin in this respect time and again? Why are we all so guilty? Prayer gossip, other sorts of things. Those who do not know Suffer from this disease are rare indeed. Then have the truth. Those who do not markedly suffer from this disease are rare indeed. We delight in a certain poison sweetness experienced in fairing out and disclosing. the evils of others. And let us not think it's an adequate excuse if in many instances we're telling the truth, if we're not lies. It's still immediately further, he says, Now if we turn our eyes to the law giver, to God He must in his own right rule our ears and hearts no less than our tongue. Listening to such screens also. We shall surely see that eagerness to hear distractions and becoming readiness to make unfavorable judgments are like to do not just the telling of it, but the listening to it. Therefore, if there is any true fear and love of God in us, let us take care, as far as is possible, an expedient, and his love requires not to yield our tongue. or our ears or for evil speaking or to caustic word and not forget our minds without cause the slightest suspicion. But as fair interpreters of the words and deeds of all, let us sincerely keep their honors Safe in our judgment, our ears, and our tongues. Or have Jan type it up in the next newsletter because it really is powerful. Well, may God help us to do that in our church and to be careful about those things. The next point, the next Patience and forbearing. They're closely related, like gentleness and humility are closely related. To suffer long, the word there for patience. So someone sins against you. How are you supposed to respond? The sufferer small. To be patient with everyone, even if they do something bad against you. Illustration of Stephen standing there, they're studying. He says, Lord, Copy the words and leave upon those Father. Forgive them for they don't know not what they do almost. Wrong suffering. Can you suffer wrong with that one who has wronged you? Without one who really you think they haven't done you right? Maybe it's a little thing, maybe it's a big thing. For the sake of the unity of the body of Christ, can you suffer long? It's impossible, isn't it? That's why we need the Holy Spirit. He's the only one that can do that. He give us the power to suffer long in the face of that sort of thing. Not only long suffering, but closely related as forbearing. Or I think most of the translations translate that way a forbearing spirit. Think of long suffering as when someone sins against you and you suffer wrong. But think of floor bearing maybe is when others have weaknesses, things that aren't really necessarily sins and they just great against you. Kinda like the person you know with a talk sweet it just bothers us. Something about then it might maybe I'm like that with you or Al or someone else. And it says to forebear to do tolerance. We have such a diverse church and it's growing in diversity. It's only going to get more diverse as we grow. And we've got to be a power of people. differences, with people's weaknesses, with our different views on different things. When we're not powered, our unity begins to crack. Then it leads to bitterness. And then that unity is shattered. You have to be careful. Turn to the Holy Spirit who can give stress. You know a friend up at a church somewhere here and now went to seminary with him. I just can't believe what's going on there. between the wife of my friend and the wife of the senior pastor. Just this seems just unfathomable to me that Christians and Christian leaders could just have so much animosity towards each other. Then not follow him. So the way that God couldn't hear it differently. We need to be forbearing. See, there's somebody like that we use, I guess. But we need to forbear. And for the sake of the unity of the body, to be careful with it. Paul concludes here the practical pattern when he says, in a gospel in love, the end of verse 2, with all humility, with gentleness and patience, showing forbearance to one another. And love. And aren't all of these things love? Adapte is the word there? Isn't it something that covers all of them really? They're just more specific? And who is our supreme example of this adapte? Well, concludes the structural pattern, but is it Jesus the one. That he can kind of see over on your outline of the right star. You can go down each one of us and see that Faith is our perfect pattern and example of what each one of these are. He became worthy for us by becoming obedient. even to the point of death, the Philippians 2 says. He was God, yet he emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant. And being found in the appearance of a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Why did he do that? For Avai. He humbled himself for us. He became lowly for us that we might have eternal life. Can't we be lowly and humble for the Master when we think of what he did for us? humility that we take on, can it compare to what he did for us? Yeah, I wonder if someday in heaven we'll be there and we'll see clearly, we'll see much more than we see now. Just what it meant for Christ, the eternal Son of God. become man. We we only have a bunch of it now. We try to talk about it and it's like stuttering as we try to explain it. How could God become man? And someday we'll have a better picture of that in heaven. And then what about when we also look back and see our petty little times of not being willing to be the lower. This is be a little lower. And we think what the Lord Jesus Christ did so that he could come and save us. Lowliness Jesus is our example. You know, maybe this sermon seems unrealistic. Maybe someone here hasn't really embraced Christ that did that. And it does seem unrealistic. You don't have his power. You don't have his model. Accept him. Believe in him. The one who did that for us, who became the Lordy One, so that we might have eternal life. He is the one who calls, and he is the one that we can turn to for that salvation. And what about patience? Isn't Jesus our supreme example of that also? Patience, longs. Suffering. Stephen followed his example. It wasn't Jesus that says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He is the one that says that to us, Father, forgive them, who they know not what they do. And what about forbearing and others' weaknesses? You it's not it's a cross. should be enough to cause us to love him and to do these things out of gratitude because the unity of the church is so important to Jesus Christ. It's so important to him. But right now, as you and I are so weak And our weaknesses, does he forbear with us now? Yes, but first John two one says, We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And when you sin and our sin is just sit here and we see we just don't have any idea how much we sin, how weak we really are. But he's there, said Father, I paid for that. He forbears with us in our weakness. Here, friends, if he can forbear with us, we're all our stumbling and fumbling and still give us grace. How much more should we try, the best we can, with the help of His Spirit, to make it a priority, to endeavor, to spare no effort to be united together here in this church and with other Christians? And to set an example. for that to the world as we look. Doesn't this really go with our sermon and series the last three weeks? It's kind of a fleshing out on one specifics of that love. As he has loved us, so we are to love each other in the particular expression is in our unity. So brethren, I therefore the prisoner of the Lord entreat you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling of Ephesians one through three, with which you have been called. With all humility And gentleness and patience, showing forbearance to each other in love , being diligent, sparing no effort, to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the body of peace. May God help us to do that. Let's put our hearts together. Some learning now and responding to the Lord and I think that he's been speaking to us about here. Let's think practically about that one who's made great on us. We wronged us. Well we think that is any area that we could apply this except this one area and bring that to the Lord. Well the of those ways that we take ourselves below. We uh take enough enough, we justify taking issue out of something by saying it's the purpose of a little thing. When we want so much to be right and vindicated, we want things our way. We 're a strong minded people who are often used to give things our way in other contexts. It's so difficult for us to put ourselves below. Particularly people who who may not think uh know as much as us and may not be as mature in the faith as us. And we have all kinds of reasons why we should prevail. Lord, humble us to see Jesus. To you, Lord Jesus, and your great humility for us. to see how very much the beauty of our body moves to you, how it agrees you, if there would come anything that would divide us. How we want to thank you for The fact that for over seven years now we have enjoyed unity. We have enjoyed the fact that we have been run by these two de varied times of minor attacks, right? upon that but you've been faithful in every case to bring about healing, to bring about the protection of your body. Although we don't want to presume upon that. We know that we depend upon you, your supernatural grace, for us as sinners, to affirm our unity as we seek to affirm our calling together. And so we pray, Lord, that you will show us your power to heal us and heal us. that work. And if you are opening to us the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, from the words which have spoken to us quietly by your spirit from what Dan is saying. Thank you for that in Jesus' name.