In your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 4, as we continue to look at God's plan for his church, after instructing us in verses 1 to 6 to maintain the experiential unity that we have in God's saving grace. Paul then moved on in verses 7-16 to the diversity that is in the body. in God's serving grace and its purpose for building the body so that we would become more like Jesus Specifically, verse 13 had told us that we would do this, build up the body, until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, full experiential knowledge that's speaking of. and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. You sum that up by saying it's a matter of convictions, affections, and character. Know your Bible. attaining to the full the uh unity of the faith, uh that is uh the convictions that we develop, then the full experiential knowledge of Jesus our affections for him and then that we would reflect him as Lord, the character issue, uh that we would all grow up To become like him, attaining to the whole measure of his fullness. Verse 14 then introduced a contrast We saw that Paul then reflects back in contrast to this, we will, we not other people, but we will no longer be infants. tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching, and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming We saw last week as we began that verse that the picture there is of little children, three to five-year-olds in a dinghy that's being tossed up and down by the waves, blown back and forth by the winds out on the sea. They have no real control. Uh three things that were character characteristic of them and uh you know you parents hope didn't abuse the characteristics that I gave of children to preach these to your kids. I Heard one father very assiduously catechizing his children on last week's message, asked his kids , What are you? Ignorant, naive, changeable. That's it, you got it. You know, of course I lost a friend in that family, but you know But uh those are the characteristics of little kids that we were talking about, that Paul says. We tend to think that we know more than we do I think I have the gospel down, I understand the Bible basically, and therefore we're vulnerable because we really don't know as much as we think we do. We're naive, we are easily led By someone who's very persuasive, uses the media of persuasion here. Let me see that a little bit. And uh are are able to manipulate us because we don't know Uh what is in fact are not able to judge what they're saying by a measure of truth. We're naive, we're independent, we think we know, but we don't. And that we're changeable. We're uh always looking for shortcuts to discipline. We want to be entertained. We think that uh Christianity in itself is not interesting enough. We've got to spice it up a little bit. And so we're always looking for something to do that. And uh again, uh Don't misunderstand what I was saying. I always have to clarify, you know. Uh I was not slamming Christian radio. I think it's a tremendous thing. All I was trying to say about that last week was that um if when it becomes a substitute for our own personal study, reflection, meditation, repentance, and meeting with Jesus Christ one-to-one, but coming through someone else who then feeds us and tells us what to believe, then it becomes counterproductive. Christian radio, talk shows, music, that's great, but you hear four or five sermons, you can't apply them all. and it becomes spiritually counterproductive. That's all I was trying to say on it. Now that's the characteristic that Paul gives to us. I think that's what he has in mind when he says we will no be no longer be infants, little children. The word is. Tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there. And at that point we come to the second group that is in view in this verse. I said last week there were two groups. that we're in verse 14. The second group, the first group are the immature, unstable children is what's in the blanks there. unstable children. The second group are the insincere, the unscrupulous teachers. Unscrupulous teachers. You can just copy them off your title there if you missed hearing it. These are in contrast to those in verse 15 who speak the truth in love, but we're blown back and forth here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming This is what took me so long in meditating on this thing, why it took me five weeks, because there is something here that ought to jar you when you read that verse. It's not how we think. We tend to think that people who differ have differing opinions and understanding, no matter how radical those are. are kind of just uh they're probably sincerely following after the truth as they understand it. Maybe they've been misled or they've had bad teaching or whatever, people uh that are going away from the faith, you know, they really think they're doing right. Particularly when they're seeking to influence others. They're doing the best they can. We just don't happen to think that they're right. That is not how the New Testament presents false teachers. What ought to jar you here is that it does not say look out for the teaching, you know, make sure you're just following the truth, but it talks about the people It says that they are cunning and crafty in their deceitful scheming. In fact, that word scheming is the same word that's used in chapter six, if you look there, where Paul is talking about the devil. He says in verse 10, finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. And that word schemes is the same word that's used here in chapter 4, verse 14. The craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. So these are people who do not have primarily an intellectual problem. They rather have a moral and spiritual problem. These people are seeking to lead believers astray, and they are doing it with a certain amount of conscious forethought. Now that's where it gets tough because then you have to say, who is it that's doing that in our day? Who is it that we would dare to use this kind of language for? We do not want to judge And there's a certain healthiness in not being eager to judge people. The scripture says we should not be judgmental But we need to recapture the notion, the biblical notion, that heresy, that is false teaching, is reprehensible. It is not just a mistake. Now, I'm not saying that we need to write off everybody that we disagree with. What I'm saying is that when we're dealing with the basics of the gospel, the things that are crystal clear in Scripture That those who deny those things, who twist them, who distort them, who add to them or subtract from them, are guilty and must be held accountable. When I was on Intervarsity staff I found that whenever I would go to a private college that had one of those uh religion teachers, and they were often chaplains also , These would be the biggest enemies on campus because these were people who would always be making it their point to uh undermine the Bible and anybody's faith in Scripture and talk about the myths and how we know better and this and this And I was amazed at how many times these chaplains came from evangelical backgrounds. They had grown up in Christian homes. Um Marilyn Manson, who uh of course is not a very wholesome influence in the rock culture right now, grew up in a Christian home. I mentioned that last week, the leader of Heaven's Gate, Applewhite, was the son of a gospel preaching pastor. So often these are people who know the truth, they turn from it. Karl Marx had Christian background. I mean, so many examples you can think of, those who become the greatest enemies are those who knew the gospel and chose to turn from it. Now the Bible is saying, therefore, that we need to beware of these people because we are not dealing with people who sincerely are simply with us trying to understand the Bible at its base value and come to grips with it. Let me just take a couple minutes with you to look first of all in this point A there, the New Testament warnings There are so many I could read for the rest of the service, the New Testament warnings against false teachers. But just because of brevity of time, let me give you just a few examples. Paul writing to the Ephesians, these same people, mentioned last week in Acts chapter 20, when he's leaving them, verse 29. I know that after I leave, savage wolves, that's not a very uh laudatory uh term, you know, not very uh uh um what's the word? Anyway, not very complimentary. I know that after I leave savage wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock. Even from your own number, people who know the gospel. Men will arise and distort the truth in order to draw away disciples after them. So be on your guard. Remember that for three years I never stopped warning each of you, night and day, with tears, the need for warning. Do you remember the words of our Lord Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount used as the epitome of the expression of love. In that sermon, Jesus said in chapter 5, verse 15, watch out for false prophets. They come to you in sheep's clothing. They always look sincere, like they're really seeking to do the right thing. But inwardly they are ferocious wolves. By their fruit you will recognize them. Paul Tillich, a man who preached love, a man who spoke about the meaning of life, and everyone thought that this is a man who speaks in deep terms and That's an understanding of Christianity. Uh when after he died and his biography was written, turns out the guy was a porno addict. There are these fruits that are demonstrated in people's lives who deny Scripture, who deny the gospel By their fruit you will recognize them. What kind of fruit in their lives? What kind of fruit is produced in their ministry? Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Likewise every good tree. bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit. Bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus by their fruit you will recognize them. Madeline Mary O'Hare and her organization, the Atheists from of America. um in recent years has fallen apart from scandal, taking money, she's disappeared. These people who seek to present that they are seeking with the best of their ability to present truth. We're just seeking to understand Don't have any agenda, just won't understand what is reality. Paul says that is not the case. These people are cunning, they are deceitful, they're scheming. Matthew chapter 24, Jesus says in that Olivet discourse, talking about what's happening during this age between his first and second coming, he says. False Christs, false messiahs, false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect, if that were possible. See, I've told you ahead of time. People often say if they do some miraculous, spectacular thing, that must be from God. Jesus says, don't be deceived by that. Those who are not from God are not Who are doing miracles not from the Holy Spirit is very possible in order to deceive even the believers, those who are the children. Or you take 2 Corinthians. Chapter 11, 2 Corinthians 11, verse 3, Paul says, I'm afraid that just as Eve was deceived by the serpent's cunning. your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. For if someone comes to you and preaches a Jesus other than the Jesus we preached Or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received, or a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it easily enough. Then down to verse 13 For such men are false prophets, deceitful workmen, masquerading as apostles of Christ. No wonder. For Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light If you looked at Satan and he were to come here to stand at this pulpit, he could put on a pretty good show and he would look like he is uh very kind, very he's full of integrity and sincerity. It's a masquerade, Paul says. It's not surprising that if his servants masquerade as servants of righteousness, their end will be what their actions deserve. And you and I know how our de hearts are so deceptive, don't we? Why do we think that someone else, because they say that they're sincere, that we should take at face value, that they're really as sincere as they appear We all have in some subtle ways agendas. And Paul says that those who deny the gospel, who lead people astray, have an agenda to draw disciples away after themselves. Think of the language that he uses in Galatians chapter 1, where he says in verse 6, I'm astonished that you're so quickly deserting the one who called you by the grace of Christ. and are turning to a different gospel. Now these people had received their evangelism from Paul, so you talk about, well, you know, they probably weren't well taught. How much better teaching could you get, but he says, you now are going after a different gospel? What's that say about us? Which is really no gospel at all. Evidently, some people are throwing you into confusion and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel other than the one we preach to you, let him be eternally condemned. As we already have said, so now I say it again if anyone is preaching to you a gospel other than that which you accepted, let him be eternally condemned. For Colossians chapter 2, verse 8 puts it very succinctly. See to it that no one takes you captive through hollow and deceptive philosophy. which depends on human tradition and the basic principles of this world rather than on Christ. Do you realize that every second epistle of the New Testament, Second Corinthians, 2 Thessalonians, 2 Timothy, 2 Peter, 2 John. Every second epistle in the New Testament is written primarily to address the problem of false teaching, those who are influencing the Christ to lead it astray. Or you take Jude, who writes concerning those who were seeking to lead those who were Bible-taught believers astray. Jude puts it this way. He describes these men as blemishes at your love feast, eating with you without the slightest qualm. They're part of the body. And you accept them. They take the Lord's supper with you. They eat with you. They fellowship with you. But they're shepherds who will feed only themselves. They are clouds without rain, blown along by the wind, autumn trees without fruit. and wild waves uprooted twice dead. They are here is a kind of an illusion, the same ideas you have in Ephesians 4, they are wild waves of the sea. Foaming up their shame, wandering stars for whom blackest darkness has been reserved forever Paul says, be on your guard. You get the point? I don't need to read anymore. The New Testament is full. Of such warnings. These people are not sincere. These people are cunning. They are deceptive. They'll do anything to gather disciples for themselves And in the process, lure you and me in the subtlest ways away from Jesus Christ as the center of our lives. Now, at this point, you would ask, who does this refer to? And although I have no interest in seeking to um Defame the people or institutions or followings, I think it is necessary that we at least in general categories with some specifics necessary for illustration to show who is as an example being referred to in our own day by such statements. So what I did was I picked I uh created six categories. I I read a lot of when I was going through this, uh particularly in contemporary thing, I'd be reading through the news with a particular sense of sensitivity to these kinds of things going on. And I just I got sheets and sheets and in fact I had two hours of material. If we wanted to, you know, hang around till three o'clock this afternoon, I could give you quote after quote after quote from articles, books, magazines of all kinds of material I assembled in thinking about this. But in order to present it in just a few minutes, so John 's pulse rate's beginning to go up over here, I have just distilled it into six categories, a few comments on each. What are the examples today? Well, first of all, there are the classic cults, of course. There are still the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Mormons, the Christian science folks that are around. Although I say with great joy That most Seventh-day Adventists have rediscovered the gospel, and many Seventh-day Adventist churches are as gospel preaching as other evangelical churches. Worldwide Church of the Air, led by Herbert W. Armstrong, founded by him and more recently his followers, has specifically renounced its cultic tendencies and has recaptured Scripture in its inerrancy and the full gospel of justification by faith There are examples of what God is doing in that, but there are still the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Mormons, the Christian science. And if you look at the leaders of any of these cults, You will see the insincerity, the ways that they specifically twisted Scripture out of context to make a preconceived point that they wanted to establish in order to lead disciples after themselves. There are a number of books in our own library that will help you to see the specifics on this or if you want other things. A new one that has been put in there, Why We Left the Cults, is a good book to give you some uh recent some contemporary uh things on this. But note more on that because that's obvious. Second category are the contemporary cults Not just the the classic ones we're familiar with, but of course in recent years there's been Jonestown, 1978. There of course were the branch Davidians, the Unification Church, commonly called the Moonies or the Church of Scientology, a number of these I mentioned last week. Over 5,000 of these cults exist in the United States today. An article in Time magazine a few months ago during the Heaven's Gate um debacle that was um being in was in the news all around. wrote, uh one of the authors of that article is a Christian, and so was writing with particular insight, said that the common contemporary cults tend to mix Christian terminology with some mysticism, occultism some Eastern religion, a little bit from X-Files , and some New Age jargon is thrown in to make it sound heavy and profound. He then writes in the article, we have seen the beast of the apocalypse. It's Bambi in a tunic. In other words, uh again, the idea that don't look when you're looking for the false prophets for somebody who's scary and somebody who is obviously uh seductive It's the person who you would least susp suspect by their character. They just they seem as they get started l later on often their true character is more obvious. But they tend to mix ancient symbols, God words of Christianity, with modern felt needs in order to attract people These people have certain things in common. And what is that? Well, just four things that you tend to notice are in common, I believe, of contemporary cults and cultic leaders. Number one is that they claim to have a new insight, some new truth to understand scripture, which is always particularly appealing if you do not know much about scripture and think it's a very mysterious book, very hard to understand. So you have a guy like Michael Drosnan who writes the Bible code and says, you know, I got a computer, it's got enough power, you can figure it all out and make your prophecies uh all in advance. So but this is the kind of thing you see that I've got some key that's a mystery to unlock the Bible and its meaning. I uniquely have that. You won't get that From the Presbyterians or the Baptists or those folks. You gotta come to me for it. The second thing is that they demand a loyalty to themselves. A loyalty which then leads to control, usually isolation, even from family, and severe punishment, shame, if you think about leaving their following The third thing is that they encourage veneration and power, even adulation and worship. Mary Baker Eddy specifically did this, and many others today who are leading these cults will do that. You notice that Acts 20 verse 30 said that these men draw away disciples after themselves. That's the contrast. Rather than disciples of Christ, you become a disciple of the person. That's significant. Then finally the fourth thing is that they redefine God and man. The tendency is always to humanize God and to deify man. You have God in you, or as Kenneth Copeland says, I am God, like you are God, Benny Hinn and others. speak the same kind of language. The tendency is to humanize God, to deify man, and therefore always at the bottom line to rob God of his rightful place and glory. and to exalt man to give him credit and power that he does not have or deserve. So new truth, loyalty, uh The uh adulation or the worship and then the redefining of God and man. But there are other kinds of false teaching that we see. Superstitious Christianity. For example, the veneration of Mary and certain things that you do, and if your focus is on her, Mary will give you blessings, or if you go to certain places, perhaps you will be healed, or there are certain things that you can do. The issues that were before Martin Luther and the indulgences of his day, those same basic issues of superstitious control of God. I can do something that will ensure his blessing. My life can be in a separate category. I can live morally and ethically like I want, but if I do these certain things, pay this money, go this place, venerate this person, whatever Then that will ensure God's blessings, pure superstition mixed with Bible language. Have even in our own area, the Mother of God community. I don't know how many of you are familiar with that, it was in Rockville Written up in the Washington Post a few months back, just at the time I was doing this study, moved into cultic tendencies of control and isolation, started out as people who out of the Catholic charismatic movement had simply wanted to live more radically a Christi Christian community, but led into cultic and controlled tendencies. I have the article on that if anyone wants to see it, just right here in our own area It's pretty much fallen apart at this point. Or the fourth uh area is that of classic liberalism. Certainly this is included in the false, cunning, crafty teachers, because it's secular humanism in Christian dress. A classic book of this century, by I think it was written about in the 1920s by James Gresham Machin was called Christianity and Liberalism. powerful book. Machin's thesis was simply that liberalism is not Christianity. In fact, it is a totally different religion. His appeal was, if you are going to practice liberalism, uh using the Bible the way liberals do, without any final authority and the rest of this, That's your right, but at least have the integrity to not call it Christianity. That's what's deceptive. That's what's crafty. That's what's scheming. either uh flowing in the with the grants and the money that is paid to the Christian Church and mainline denominations in order to finance your operation or to move in subtle ways from it using God words with different meaning, this is what is seductive. This is a terrible thing. I I hate that when I see it because I was subject to that in my own early Christianity, the denial of the authority of the Bible in the name of Christianity That's what Paul's talking about. So many churches that say, well, we don't believe that stuff anymore. We've got a modern, updated kind of Christianity. This is what Paul's talking about here in verse 14. Or you have, since mainline classic liberalism is kind of in its death throes even uh even with uh things like the Jesus Seminar and a number of contemporary writers. really basically are speaking uh classic liberalism. Fred Beakner is a fellow who is quite popular and is a very effective writer. Uh but he'll write things like uh the kingdom of God is within you and he'll use that to make exactly the same point that Abraham Maslow makes about self-fulfillment and self-realization and these kinds of things, and he says basically that's what the New Testament is about. Or the guy that wrote I couldn't think of his name, uh, you know, everything I really needed to know I learned in kindergarten. You know, same basic thing. It's classic liberalism, God words with redefinitions in order to lead people from Scripture and from Christ Or you take uh the what I call the updating of this, New Age liberalism. Uh you have uh the uh worshiping of goddesses, the eco-feminist movement, again, Christian terms devoid of Christian meaning, meaning a person like Mary Daly, who was a nun. uh in the Catholic Church, uh became more and more liberal in her beliefs, and began to lead more and more seminars and now self-proclaimed eco-feminist lesbian witch. Still doing seminars for people in Christian contexts. Using God words, Christian words. It's the same kind of thing, only new liberalism is a combination of new age and the old liberal teachings. You read those things in articles. Be careful. When you read the terms, you see these are Christian terms. Oh, you know, you're so glad to see something in any secular periodical that has Christian language in it. You know, you say, oh that's just terrific, you know. Without realizing there's no Christian content to it. Beware of those who are cunning and crafty. Or finally, the man-centered evangelicalism This is even more subtle. These are people who are sometimes brothers and sisters, but in subtle ways have been affected by the shifts. You take for an example of this. Took uh brought this little thing along where is that now? Uh here, a little quote here. Just uh got this yesterday. This is from uh Chesapeake um Sem Chesapeake Theological Seminary here, an old article by Bob Lynn. I thought this quote was so good, I'd just read it to you. Bob Lynn, who I respect very highly, says he's talking about some uh Christian junk uh stuff Uh talks about t-shirts, it's you know like one's got a can on and says, This blood's for you. Uh you know, he's talking about all this kind of stuff that's going around today. And he says the point that concerns me here is the trivialization of the Christian faith that leads to the loss of a functioning sense of transcendence. That's a heavy sense. Let me read that again. The point here that concerns me is the trivialization of the Christian faith that leads to the loss of a functioning sense of transcendence. The evangelical church is being co-opted by various forms of popular culture, from market-driven consumer culture to every trend in pop psychology that comes down the pike. We decry the rationalizing of theological liberalism that leads to the denial of the basic tenets of Christian orthodoxy. But trivialization is almost as certain a route to the gospel denial as rationalization. It just takes a little longer, perhaps. Increasing numbers of evangelicals believe that men and women are basically good, and often the doctrine of sin is recast in terms of a therapeutic model. There is a significant softening around the edges of the historic Orthodox position that Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation. And he goes on. Do you see this? Do you see the effect that this is having in us? Well, we could go on and on. I even have other quotes, but let me just bring this to a conclusion now because I don't want to just end with the problems but the solution. Third point, God's way to maturity. Four points. First of all, know your Bible. Verses 13 and 15 make this clear that you and I are to grow up in the unity of the faith, understanding more and more What the Bible teaches, speaking the truth in love. Know your Bible, the truth. Let me ask you, are you deeper in your theology than you were six months or a year ago? Worry about the same. Or have certain things gotten a little vaguer. The point is not where are you now? You may be just inside the kingdom. You might have become a Christian this week. The question is not where are you now? The question is are you moving? Are you getting deeper? Because if you're not, you'll get shallower. You never plateau. And if you are not growing in your depth of your understanding of Scripture, You are at risk. You are vulnerable to other influences. So what I did was we got a great library over there, tremendous stuff. And so I just grabbed a handful of books. Books on, you know, theology, Bible teaching, that kind of stuff. And I put them out there back where Nancy Ye sit, and she's right next to him. It's on that back table there by the storage room They have the cards in them. Please, if you take a book, sign it out. I'll take the cards back for you. Just stick the cards right there by my briefcase. I'll put them back. Leave a couple for the second service too, please. We run out. I'll go over and grab some more Just take one and say, I'm going to read one this summer in order to just grow a little bit in my understanding of what the Bible teaches and stimulate me in that way. Secondly Know your Savior, the gospel. Talked about this also last week. This is not just a matter of head knowledge. It's a matter of knowing your heart. Your inability to live according to God's standard, your radical self-centeredness Your need, as my need for Christ's record on our behalf, that what Jesus did for us is absolutely necessary, centered in the cross. His finished work, his literal physical resurrection from the dead. To know as you know your heart more thoroughly, you know your need of Christ and His record of righteousness. more profoundly. He becomes more precious to you day by day and week by week. As the cross grows in your vision, you are protected from the false, insincere, unscrupulous teachers. Because Jesus remains the center of your life. If that ever becomes foggy If you ever find that the gospel is to you something that's superfluous, that's just a little bit boring, be careful. Guard your heart We grow up into him, Paul says in verse in verse 15. We come to a deeper experiential knowledge of him, he says in verse 13. That's the cure. Third point, know your brothers and sisters the body. To be able to serve and grow with them, as he says in verses twelve and thirteen. to uh every part joined together, serving, building itself up in love, as he says in verse 16. That includes you. Your protection is to be part of the body, not independent, not off on your own. Whereas you begin to develop self- strange ideas or you're under unhealthy influences. There's no one, as John said, to get into your face and to speak the truth to you in love. Be close to the body. Finally, the last thing is to reflect your Lord the goal. To reflect your Lord the goal of this whole thing, that you would grow up into Him. Verse 13 says attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, growing up into Him who is the head, that is Christ. In contrast To being tossed back and forth by the waves blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Jesus Christ is the harbor for your little dinghy, brothers and sisters. Come to him. Rest in him. Have you found that the cross has become just a little out of focus Or just a little off-center of the vision in your life. And this morning I invite you to come back to Jesus Christ as that safe harbor and that center. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we need to be rooted and grounded in you. Lord, you know the purpose of this is not to To just down and criticize other people. Lord, we could criticize ourselves, and you know how far, far from perfect I am, and at times the shameful levels of my own insincerity But all Lord, we thank you that the righteousness of Christ is the center of our focus together, and we can rest in that. Lord, we pray that you would protect us, that as a body we would grow up into Him who is the head, that we would be delivered from the false teachers. Who would seek to in just subtle ways reshape and shift our focus from the Lord Jesus? Bring us back to you, Lord Jesus, as the center of our focus now and this week. In Jesus Name, Amen