Well indeed it is good to be back. Why why the big space here in the front? Are you guys avoiding me or something? All jammed in the back there, and there's big space here up in the front, you know Dick and I don't know. Try and tell you something over there. Anyway, um it's good. I've I've missed ya. Uh three weeks ago Kathy and I were worshiping in a basilica. Uh big, huge building. The liturgy was from around a thousand A. D. Um very different kind of experience than two weeks ago We were worshiping in an extremely contemporary evangelical church and uh the preacher was a woman. And uh one thing that both these services had in common, of all things that were different. They were both between an hour and a half and two hours long. Getting a little nervous? Ah, it's good to be back to CPC. I'm not going to be resuming the Song of Solomon this morning, you know. I don't resume that study until October the 5th, Lord willing. Because you remember that this next month we're going to be having a big celebration of our 25th anniversary. Twenty-five years ago, this summer, Kathy and I came here and planted this congregation as the daughter work of Covenant in Burdonsville. A few of you are still here, and uh we're going to be celebrating that time, messages on the past, the present, the future. Uh, so I thought it'd be kind of silly to do two weeks of Song of Solomon and kinda cut it and go back and back and forth. So you're gonna get Two extras for August, two messages that I had actually wanted to preach some time ago and didn't get the opportunity to do so. And I believe that they do fit and are appropriate at this time. So um let me start with a question How do you feel about uh going back to school this week? You believe here, you don't feel like it's still mid-August and you're going back to school this next week Are you ready? Ready to go back? Ready to go back to work? Ready to go back into the fall schedule? Ready to go back into the full schedule of ministries, you know, staffing the nursery and Sunday school, middle hour and all these different things. Um, where do you find yourself grumbling a little bit about all the duties and the responsibilities that lie ahead of you? You find yourself thinking that, well, you know, it just doesn't seem fair all I have to do, and I'm weary already just thinking about it Um I was reminded on our vacation that we um we make so much in our day about the importance of positive self-esteem and biblical sonship that often we can forget that we are called to be servants And so I would like to share with you a parable that the Lord gave about that. It's certainly not one of his most popular parables. It's not one of the ones most preached on, not referred to. In fact, I think it's If we are honest, we'd have to say that uh in some ways this parable is a little bit embarrassing and troubling. I also think it's very misunderstood. So I would like to take us back to Luke chapter 17 that you've heard. And I want to read it again, only I want to start in verse 1 Because I think it's important that we get the context of this parable in order to make sense of it. So Luke chapter 17, let me begin at verse 1. Jesus said to his disciples, things that cause people to sin are bound to come, but woe to that person through whom they come. It would be better for him to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around his neck than for him to cause one of these little ones to sin So watch yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him. If he sins against you seven times in a day and seven times comes back to you and says, I repent, forgive him. The apostle said to the Lord , Increase our faith. He replied, If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it will obey you. Suppose one of you had a servant ploughing or looking after the sheep. Would he say to the servant when he comes in from the field, Come along now and sit down to eat? Would he not rather say, Prepare my supper, get yourself ready and wait on me while I eat and drink? After that you may eat and drink. Would he thank the servant because he did what he was told to do So you also, when you have done everything you were told to do, should say, we are unworthy servants. We have only done our duty. That is a little bit troubling. Yeah, you think uh it doesn't sound very gracious. Uh it doesn't sound the way we picture the Lord in some ways Now again, see the connection of this parable with the context. If you were to sum up verses 1 to 3, perhaps the simplest would be to say, give no offense. Then he goes on to verses the end of verse three and verse four, but you could sum up by saying, take no offense And when the disciples see these hard sayings, their response is very appropriate, which is they see it's a faith issue. Increase our faith in this, Lord. We can't do this And then Jesus responds with this amazing statement in verse 6. If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say that this mulberry tree be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it will obey you. It's not a matter of how hard it is. It's the power of the one to do it. What authority that is. I mean I don't know how many mulberry trees you've transplanted into the sea, but you know, I haven't seen that done much. You know, I've seen God do some amazing things in answers to prayer in my life, but um you know that you see something like that happen Then the tendency is going to be to think, who? What authority? I believe that when we come to our anniversary celebration next month And we look at all the wonderful things God has done through the twenty-five years of our existence, there's going to be a subtle tendency, a temptation, to say You know, we there must be something special about CPC, something special about us that God has favored us. We are so radically self-centered. God-centered thinking is so strange, so foreign to us, you see. We think that when something good happens, there must be something we've done to deserve it. If we are able to exercise spiritual authority, something Something of that must reside in us. And that's why Jesus gives this reality check of this parable. to reorient us toward God-centered thinking. Now, I think that the parable as he told it to those disciples would have made them smile You know, none of you were grinning or chuckling when I was reading it, but it's probably because we're not, you know, immersed in the institution of slavery The idea of a master serving a slave would have made them smile and the ludicrousness of it. So Jesus points out two contrasts In order to help us to see what the relationship of a servant to a master shows us about our relationship to God. And then he draws a conclusion in verse 10 that's even more troubling. You know, so you, when you've done everything you were told to do, should say, We're unver worthy servants. We've only done our duty. You even wonder if it's really sincere. It sounds like a false humility. What's he saying? Well again, looking back at verse 7 and 8, the first point there. You know, picture it now. It's a long, hot summer day You've been plowing out in the fields and no shade. You come in the end of the day, put in a good hard, long day, you're tired, you're thirsty, you're hungry Jesus says, now, you expect the master to say, you've had a long, hard day here. How about, I'll tell you why, you just sit down and I'll get dinner for you. Here, have a nice, tall, cool one, you know, and just relax because you deserve it. You know, you can imagine the disciples kind of smiling, Yeah, right, I've never seen a master do that. You know, a servant expects to serve. A servant doesn't have hours. A servant doesn't say, Hey, I've put in till five o'clock and I'm tired and uh you know, get your own dinner. Uh what do you think I Your servant? You know, well, yeah. The servant doesn't serve. I mean, um the master doesn't serve the servant, the servant serves the master, and there's no limit There's no time that just says that's the end because the master bought the servant. He owns the servant. The servant in those days was kind of like a vacuum cleaner, a dishwasher. They were referred to as tools You had to feed them, but you know, they were like tools. Now Jesus isn't making any comment on the institution of slavery in this. He's he's not saying anything about that. All he's doing is using that illustration to make a point. So there's nothing nothing relevant about how he uses that toward whether he approves or not. The servant is simply to serve, and the only appropriate response of the servant to the master at any point with any command is Yes, master. The master doesn't reverse the roles. So George and Norma Walgrove nearly a year ago, last September, determined that the Lord had called them to serve him by volunteering some time with a school up in Vermont And just before they were about to leave, you remember George was in a very serious accident. Could have died. And it was clear that the master said, You're not going to serve me in Vermont, you're going to serve me, George, in a hospital. And Norma, you're going to serve me by taking care of George. The master has the prerogative of determining when and how we serve. We make the plans, but he is the one who determines And George and Norma were a great example to me of people flexible enough to say, if this is how you want us to serve, then okay. The souls. After a lot of work, you know, looking forward to a vacation time in Maine and up there and camping in Maine, Dave has chest pains and he's rushed to the hospital Their camping trip is shut cut short, all their plans disrupted? Do they say, Hey Lord Verse six, you know, name it and claim it. That's what it says, you know. Say to that mulberry tree, get up, be cast into the sea. That's what Christianity's about Somebody who is a mighty prayer warrior is able to say, Lord, take this obstacle, remove it out of my life, make life easier. Jesus says, that's not what it's about. The authority is the authority of a servant who's always at the bidding of the master. And so Jesus gives this parable right in connection with that. So that you and I can learn that lesson when you and I grumble about what's coming up. When you got your plans, and God's going to change them. And you've got your duties coming up And sometimes you may say, It's too much, Lord. I need to get a break. I need to just stop. And sometimes we need to change our schedule. Sometimes we've added more on than the Lord's given us. But then there's other times where we're just like a squeaky hinge on a door. A door that is said, I'm tired of being open and shut, and so every time you open it, it goes and goes And some of you kids, maybe you're like squeaky doors, aren't you? Mom and dad say, here's something to do, and you say, ew. You squeak and complain. The Lord calls us to learn to be servants by first serving at home. Learning to do what we're told to do. So much of our complaining is cut right to the heart here, isn't it? We have forgotten that we're servants. I think I should be served. I have my rights too, you know. Jesus as a servant doesn't say to the master, Enough. You get me there. The master says, I'm first. You serve me. Your life orients around me, not mine around you. Gets even worse. It goes on. Look at verse 9. The servant thanks the master. The master doesn't thank the servant. Would he thank the servant because he did what he was told to do? You can imagine him smiling. Yeah, right. Can you imagine, you know, the servant, I mean the master comes up and says, I am so glad to have you as my servant. Thank you so much for ploughing my field. and getting my dinner and making my bell. What would I do without you? Thank you so much. You see the word thank you Remember, we saw in the Greek many times in the past? The word thanks comes from the root words, grace Because the idea is, thanks, conveys, I am getting better or more than I deserve. That's why I say thank you. It's more than I deserve. So, Jesus says, is the master saying he's getting more than he deserves when the servant serves him? No. You know, God called me 25 years ago to pastor Columbia Presbyterian Church, and I've been pastoring here for 25 years. You know what? In 25 years, I've never heard the Lord say to me, Alan , I am so fortunate to have you pasturing these sheep for me. What would I have ever done without you here? I am just so lucky to have you. Thank you, Alan, for doing this for me. This uh vacation, I was uh beginning to get a little stressed because as I was thinking and praying about going back, I was thinking going back to the 25th anniversary, and you know, I there's this need to re-energize. you folks as a congregation. Congregations after twenty five years tend to, you know, get complacent and ingrown and kinda like, you know, things are okay, let's not rock the boat and you know, and I I need to come to re energize with a renewed vision And charisma, and I was feeling all this pressure of what I gotta do, and you know, Lord, I don't have it. Until one morning the Lord just kind of hit me with, you're right you don't have it Go back there in weakness and point them to me. Without me, you're nothing You see, we begin to think we're something. And that somehow the Lord ought to be grateful that we're on his team. That he's got CPC around here Does the master say thank you? I'm so glad and fortunate to have you. And so Jesus is showing us what our hearts are like. We're so radically self-centered. I think it gets even worse than that. He goes on to the third point. Uh the most troublesome one where uh, you know, so you also, when you have done everything you were told to do, should say, We are Unworthy servants, we've only done our duty? Hmm. What does that mean? How how do you square that with the gospel Well, I think the key is to understand that the the word unworthy there does not mean worthless. It's not saying we are worthless servants The word unworthy would be better translated, perhaps unprofitable. Maybe some of your Bibles translate unprofitable. Anybody have a Bible that says unprofitable? Yeah, some do. Uh it literally is unprofitable. In other words, um the idea is that It's it's like, you know, if you look at your investments for the last five years in the stock market. Um Maybe you've lost some money. Yeah, anybody gain money? You've lost some money. Let's suppose you invested $1,000 and now it's worth $800. Does that mean that that investment's worthless? No. No, it's still worth $800. Was it profitable? No. You put in $1,000, you're getting out $800 at this point. So it's unprofitable. In other words, what you have on your return is less than the investment you made. And that's what Jesus is saying. He could go on from this verse to say, because I as the master have purchased you. I have bought you with the price of the blood of my body to redeem you out of bondage from Satan in his kingdom. Now, what is the price? What is the worth of the blood of the eternal Son of God? What price, what value can you place on that? And that's what it cost you and me to be purchased as his servants. How much can you do until God is able to say to you, Boy, you are a real bargain, you know? I mean, I put this much into getting you, but boy, what I've gotten back out. Man. You see? Yeah, you begin to get the idea now. You know, Lord, no matter what I do, I'm unprofitable. I am never exceeding. I am never coming near to the value of the investment you made to get me. That word unprofitable is used only one other time I can find in the New Testament. And I believe it's very significant. It's in Matthew chapter 25. Take a look if you have your Bibles. Helps you to understand, I think, what Jesus is saying here. In Matthew chapter 25, Jesus is telling the parable of the talents Once again, you have a master and servants, three servants in this case. Do you remember the master distributes his talents? That's uh amounts of money, it's a large amount of money And uh he distributes it first to the first servant, five talents, second servant, two talents, third servant, one talent Do you remember the first servant went and invested the five talents, and he made five more talents? So he was a profitable servant. The second servant takes his two talents, invests them, gets two more talents, so he was a profitable servant. The third servant looked at the master as a hard man. You're never going to please this guy. You better play it safe. And so he buries his talent. And when the master comes back, he hasn't gained anything. And the final words of that parable in Matthew 25, 30, are after he takes that one talent and says, give it to the other who has invested it in gain. He says in verse 30, Matthew 25, throw that worthless servant, the word there is unprofitable. It's the same word as in Luke 17, 10. Throw that unprofitable servant. He did not make a profit Throw that unprofitable servant outside into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Maybe there's some of you here this morning that hold yourselves back from giving your life to Jesus Christ unreservedly because you view him as a hard master. You view that if you give your life to God through Christ, He's gonna chew you up and spit you out. He's gonna take away all the joy, all the things that were fun in your life. He's gonna make life hard for you. That's what the servant thought. And if that's what you've thought, if that's what you're thinking this morning You haven't understood the great heart, the kindness, the mercy of the Master Who comes in the flesh and takes aside his garments and washes the feet of his disciples? Who pays with the blood of his own life for their sins as a substitute so that God doesn't have to judge your sin. Because he's judged in the person of Jesus Christ, and he can shower his love upon you. That he can give you the fullness of a life freed from the bondage of Satan and sin. And all those things in your life that you're not able to overcome. All those things that rob you from being able to live with a clear conscience and fullness and joy. And he intends that for you. He wants you to know real life, life of freedom and peace and joy. But you have to give yourself to Him as a servant. To come to Him unreservedly and say, Lord, I take my hands off. I'm yours. Take my life. Take the life that you've paid with the blood of your own son. Take me. Have you ever done that? Why wouldn't you For you see, Jesus takes this parable that we look at as hard. You and I say, no matter what you've done this fall You know, you put yourself in the nursery and you serve in this ministry and you help your neighbors and when you want to just sit down and watch a TV program, you think of that person that's Been having it hard, and so you go make another meal and take it over to them. Or when you just want to sit down and read a magazine You think of that person that you ought to call on the phone and ask how they're doing and spend a little time with. And after you've done all of that, you just say, Well, we're just unworthy servants. We're just unprofitable. We'll never exceed the investment. And in that same parable of the talents, Jesus portrays himself as the Master, who comes in that last day when the servants are met. And he says, Well done. Good, faithful servant. I've put you over a few things and you've been faithful in them. Now I'm going to put you over a vast amount. Come, share in your master's happiness. Come, share in the paradise that I've prepared. Come and share the fullness of life with me in that new heavens and that new earth that I've prepared. Come and know joys you've never tasted joy and life like you've never known life. Because I've come to serve you and to give you that life. Do you ever dream of that day? Do you ever think of that day? That day, and imagine Jesus' face, imagine his eyes When he greets you, good and faithful servant. Well done. Imagine him. I mean, doesn't that make all the difference in what you're doing? You know, Paul wrote in Philippians chapter 1, Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, he goes on to say I thought I was called to preach and to defend the gospel, but in fact here I am in chains in a prison. But he says, that's okay. You know, I'm a servant. And I thought he was gonna have me out on the streets preaching, but if he wants me in prison, that's okay, because you know Palace Guards seeing that I'm content here. They see that that joy doesn't rest on circumstances. They see that a servant can serve one anywhere and anyhow. And so as they see that they're being drawn to Christ, and you know what? The gospel's penetrating through the palace. I could have never designed that, but God's doing that because He's the Master. He knows what He's doing. Can you rest in that? Can you rest in the fact that he knows what he is doing in your life, even when he takes your plans and they're all thwarted and your expectations are turned upside down on their heads and everything that you think is what he wants you to do may get changed. Because your eye is on the face of the master in that day when you're going to come and he's going to say, Well done. Well done, good and faithful servant. You've been faithful in those few things I gave you. Now, come on. Come on. Share your master's happiness. Share his joy. Share everything that I have I urge you that this week, every day you get up, think of that day. Imagine that meeting with Jesus. Remind yourself that you're a servant. And offer your day to Him to see what He will do with it. Let's pray. Lord, what a difference this makes. What a difference in perspective. We are so radically self-centered. And Lord Jesus, you're simply giving us a reality check here to see that life is, whether we like it or not, is essentially God-centered. And Lord, when we get on board with that, that really frees us up. Takes off the pressure, takes off all the heat of what we feel we must produce. So we come to you this morning right now, and we want to come and confess, Lord. We have been complaining and grumbling because we have forgotten that we're servants. We want to bring some of those specific ways that we have forgotten that to you right now and confess them and lay them before you. Lord Jesus, we want to thank you that you have invested yourself to purchase us. From that evil kingdom of the one who holds us in bondage. That you have purchased our freedom, you have made us your servants. Not to use us up to spit us out, but that you might come as the Master to serve us and to give to us true life. But that as we remember we are servants to serve you, Lord, we come. We offer ourselves to you anew. We offer ourselves to you, remembering we are always unprofitable. We will never come near the investment. That you've made in us. But we want to serve you. We want to serve you this fall. We want to serve you in all you've called us to do. Because we are so grateful for the investment you have made in us, that we belong to you, and therefore we are safe. Hear us, as we offer ourselves to you anew as servants who belong to you. And Lord, if there's any of us here who are resisting that, they're saying, not me. I'm not going to give my life I can run it better. I want to serve myself. Lord, to pray that you would show that person the utter foolishness of such thinking. That they are in bondage as they think they are free. And that you Are so willing to take their life to grant to them now a freedom they have not known That in being your servants we find our joy. Lord, break down that resistance. Open their eyes To see the evil of the one who whispers, keep yourself. Don't give yourself away to Jesus. Lord, show us reality. Thank you for this parable that helps us to see that reality. May we look for that day together when you, Lord Jesus, with that look upon your face that we can barely begin to imagine, look at us with love and affection and delight. And say to us, Well done, good and faithful servant, come and share your master's happiness What will that day be? Ah, in Jesus' name and all God's people said, Amen.