I thought uh last week I was breaking Presbyterian traditions and uh as Tom said with doing away with a uh the hymnals and uh substituting a guitar for the piano and he's continued that this week, even adding a balloon. And I'm continuing that now by doing away with the usual sermon outline. details in the bulletin. You'll find there instead a uh a fairly blank sheet of paper. Uh hopefully that will give you more room for your own uh freelance note taking this morning as we look at a particular proverb. that has struck me in recent weeks. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter twenty-five. Proverbs chapter twenty-five, verse twenty-eight. God's word to us is this like a city whose walls are broken down is a man who lacks self-control. I was struck yesterday in a conversation on the long drive home from Roanoke, Virginia uh with uh Al Harris and Al Bjorkus and Elmer Dortzbach and Linda Carner. I was struck with uh the conversation that came up and we were talking about how many times in history A man with tremendous potential has seen his entire future collapse Over one incident that brings to public life a previously hidden pattern of bad habits. Think of a man like Gary Hart, for instance. Here's the guy who held extraordinary promise. as a presidential candidate. In fact, political observers were telling us that he had the potential to finally bring some unity and direction to a floundering Democratic Party. And yet his habitual promiscuity, culminating in his adulterous liaison with a woman Donna Rice, led to the total collapse Of his presidential aspirations. His entire political future crumbled, if you will, almost overnight. What was Gary Hart's problem? He had everything going for him. What happened? Well, Gary had a problem that afflicts many, many other people, even in you and I sometimes. He had a problem that Proverbs 25-28 very vividly describes for us, and that the New Testament provides the answer to. The problem of a lack of self-control The problem, a lack of self-control, and Proverbs paints the picture for us in urban terms here. Like a city whose walls are broken down is a man who lacks self-control. More woodenly, the Hebrew would go something like this: like a city broken down without a wall, is a man to whom there is not control of his spirit. It's an interesting phrase, this phrase control of spirit or restraint of spirit. And as far as I know, it's uh the only occurrence of that phrase in the Old Testament, though the idea is elsewhere in the Old Testament and certainly developed in the New Testament But the first part of this verse describes for us what this man without self-control is like, or without control of his spirit. And it says he's like a city with walls broken down. Now to me that image conveys at least two very important ideas. A city without walls or with walls broken down is both defenseless and disgraced. A city without walls is defenseless. Now we're not used to thinking of cities with walls these days. It's not part of our urban uh topography. And so the image doesn't quite carry the power that it did for those that uh the Proverbist uh was addressing in his day. Baltimore doesn't have any walls around it that I know. It's got a beltway, if you want to call that a wall, but uh Not quite the same thing. You see, in Old Testament times a city without a good strong wall was in pretty bad shape. It had a very severe problem. Broken down walls spelled disaster for a city in the ancient Near East. For Joshua, the crumbling of Jericho's walls meant certain victory for the Israelites by God's grace. And you see, broken down walls meant that a city had no protection. Absolutely no defense against evil. A city with crumbled walls was completely vulnerable. So any power that might come to attack it, any power could overtake it very easily. And you see the the flip side of the analogy here is that self-control acts like a wall. Self-control Provides protection from evil, a hedge, if you will, against sin. And so that the man without self-control is really a person Who is totally defenseless, utterly vulnerable against any evil force, against any power that would attack him I had a rather tragic and extreme example of this come home to me a few weeks ago. A neighbor in our apartment complex here in Colombia committed suicide after a violent drug and drinking binge Neighbors say that all week long he had been drinking and sniffing cocaine and fighting with his wife. And this pattern of self-indulgence Left this man worn out and his wife really terrified. And one night, in a fit of rage, he came home looking for his wife. And not finding her there, he proceeded to a neighbor's house where he thought that she was hiding. And not finding her there He went out on the front porch of that home and took a shotgun to himself. All that in a nice town like Columbia But you see, this man's continual lack of self-control had left him completely vulnerable to that one last aggravation. He was completely without protection, so that one final frustration of not being able to find his wife right when he wanted to. drove him over the edge, drove him to a violent death. His lack of self-control left him utterly defenseless against evil and eventually led to his destruction. Like a city whose walls are broken down, utterly defenseless, is a man who lacks self-control. Then also this image of a city with crumbled walls conveys a second idea to us A city with broken down or crumbled walls is not only defenseless, but also, secondly, disgraced. Disgraced. Again, we're not used to thinking in these terms today because our urban centers are not physically walled in these days. But in Old Testament times A city without a wall was a very sad situation. A city without a wall was in a state of dishonor. And a loss of dignity. Nehemiah reveals this in his letter, the very first chapter of Nehemiah. Nehemiah is dismayed when he hears a report about Jerusalem and how the walls of Jerusalem have crumbled and fallen into complete disrepair. And Nehemiah reports in his letter, they said to me, Those who survived the exile are back in the province and are in great trouble and disgrace The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire. And Nehemiah goes on there in the fourth verse of that first chapter to say that when he heard these things he wept. And he fasted and prayed and cried out to the God of heaven. It was a serious and grievous disgrace to have the city of God with walls broken down. And again, we see in this analogy from Proverbs that self-control acts like a wall, in that it provides honor and dignity and beauty, even. And so then we see that a person without self-control is a person disgraced, utterly shamed, even debased. I was reminded of this recently when someone called to my attention a recent news article about the woman whose pregnancy and a desire for an abortion. led to the infamous Roe v. Wade decision of nineteen seventy-three, which has in turn led to the slaughter of some twenty million unborn children in our country. You see, this woman has now recanted her story that she was gang raped She's now withdrawn that and she says now that, quote, I found out I was pregnant through what I thought was love And now we're told that uh that rape was never really an issue in the Supreme Court case that decided that a woman has a constitutional right to abortion no matter what the reason. And yet it seems to me at least to be a matter of public shame that this woman now must confess to the world that it was her own self indulgence in premarital sex and not rape. That led to a pregnancy. A pregnancy that was the foundation of Roe vs. Wade, and therefore resulted in the needless death of millions of children in the past almost 15 years. And you see her dishonor in coming forward with this is in um compounded by the fact that she publicly lied about it. Not only did she engage in premarital sex, but she lied about that to cover it up. You see in this instance a lack of self-control both sexually and with the tongue Has led to tremendous public dishonor and disgrace for this woman. Like a city whose walls are broken down, defenseless And disgraced is a man who lacks self-control. And in your life now, where are you struggling for self-control? What area of your life are you prone to bad habits that tend to drag you down, that tend to leave you defenseless and disgraced? vulnerable to any evil and feeling miserable about yourself? Where does a lack of self-control tend to show up in your life Perhaps you're struggling against substance abuse with alcohol or some other drug, as an increasing number of people are in our culture today. Or perhaps You're struggling with a lack of discipline and self-control and regular exercise, as again, many people uh struggle with in our society, and I even struggle with from time to time. Or maybe your lack of self-control tends to show up in the area of excessive eating. Or perhaps it shows up in the area of pornography. And your sexual fantasies grow out of control. Or perhaps it's excessive T V watching I had a person this past week mention to me a real struggle with temptation to indulge in soap operas in the afternoon. Or perhaps you're tempted to lose your self-control in controlling your tongue, as James has instructed us in the past months. And perhaps this comes out in the form of gossip. And it seems like words, especially criticism about others, just automatically slip off your lips sometimes, and they're out of your mouth before you know it. Or perhaps that lack of tongue control comes out in the form of lying, almost a compulsive habit of telling untruths or half-truths. Perhaps your lack of self-control comes out in the area of spending money. Maybe you can't control your charge cards. And the temptation that is fostered by our culture that bombards us with advertisements leaves you vulnerable to buying things you really don't need Or maybe your lack of self-control shows up in your pursuit of career expansion. And you tend to throw yourself headlong into pursuing the American dream. Pursuing success in the eyes of your peers, especially if you tend to s to set your own hours in your job, as many people do today in this area Perhaps it's a lust for power that tempts you to lose your self-control. Or maybe it's the area of your temper. I've wrestled some with this in the past few weeks. I used to think of myself as a guy with um an above average level of patience. And then uh my daughter came along and Lauren's now four months old and She likes to play sometimes at rather odd hours of the night even. And um that can get to me in ways I never thought I could could, and I shock myself sometimes with my lack of patience and my short temper with her Especially when she wants to play at uh eleven or twelve at night and I'd rather sleep. Or perhaps you're tempted with a lack of self control in your devotional life. And it's really hard for you to get up every morning in a consistent way to meet with the Lord. I've had more than one person tell me in the past few weeks that this has been a real area of struggle for them Or maybe there's some area of your life that you really feel is just too personal to even share with another person, and yet there's a real lack of self-control there. And it's left you with walls broken down so that you're defenseless and feeling disgraced. But wherever it is in your life that this problem of self-control tends to hit you, let me point you to the answer this morning. The answer you see is in Jesus Christ and His power available to sinners You see, Proverbs 25-28 describes for us in a vivid way the person who lacks self-control But what's the cure to the problem? What's the answer to this problem of a lack of self-control? Well, fortunately, we're not left in the dark about that because the New Testament describes that answer very clearly for us and shows us Our hope in Jesus Christ. You see, Jesus Christ is the only one who had perfect self-control. I'm continually struck when I read the accounts of Christ's abuse, the abuse that he suffered before his crucifixion, and the fact that he never lashed back at his tormentors. You could flip to a chapter like Matthew 27 and see there the abuse that Jesus suffered at the hands of his tormentors. I'll read for you Matthew twenty seven, verses twenty seven through thirty-one. Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. They stripped him and put on a scarlet robe, and then they wove a crown of thorns and set it on his head. They put a staff in his right hand and knelt in front of him and mocked him. Hail, King of the Jews, they said. They spit on him, and they took salt. Pardon me, they took the staff and struck him on the head again and again. After they had mocked him, they took off the robe and put on his own clothes, and they led him away to crucify him. This is the king of the universe they're doing this to. The one who made all the heavens, ordered all the starry hosts and all the planets in their vast array and their perfect design. This infinitely powerful creator of the universe never retaliated as abusers. I'm always struck when I see that. What self-control Jesus had What self-control not to have vaporized in an instant those soldiers who tormented him, who tortured him. And you see, if you're a Christian this morning, you ought to be encouraged that Jesus underwent that kind of abuse and died for your lack of self-control. Jesus died for all the times that you had blown it. He never retaliated against those who heaped abuse on him because he loved you. Because he didn't want to lose you. Because he knew that he had to go to the cross to pay the penalty for your sin. That is the Jesus whose perfect work Paid the penalty for all the times you've lost your self-control. He took the penalty you deserved on himself, and then he rose again. To prove that he'd broken the power of sin in your life. To prove that sin's dominion over you is finished. You see, Jesus is the end of your struggle. He's the end of your struggle for self-control. As believers, our promise in Christ is that we have his Spirit's power available to us. Remember how Galatians 5 describes the Spirit and the fruit of the Spirit there. The Spirit brings the fruit of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and Self -control. The fruit of the Spirit is self-control. And self-control is a fruit in our lives of the Spirit because self-control is really spirit's control. For us who are believers in Christ. And so when you lack self-control, you ought to cry out to God for the gracious spirit that He's promised to you in Christ. That he would grow more of that fruit of self-control in your life. Because self-control is ultimately not found in yourself, but it's found in the Spirit of Jesus Christ available to you. You see, we should expect some of the fruit of self-control in our lives as Christians. We should all expect expect some level of that. And yet when we're tempted and we face bad habits that tend to drive us down, it's proper to ask for more of that fruit and to call on our Savior Jesus. For his power in self-control in a new way. You see, that spirit that's available to you in Christ is the same spirit That raised Jesus from the dead, as Paul describes in Ephesians 1. The same power that raised Christ from the dead is available to us as we lay hold of Christ, as we cleave to Him and embrace Him and cling to Him. That power is ours. And as Paul describes in Titus II, that spirit teaches us It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. Think of a man like Peter, who was a quite an impetuous fellow tended to lose his temper an awful lot. And yet when he became uh one of Christ's disciples, Christ changed him in such a dramatic way. That he's able to say with full integrity in his letter that he urges other Christians to be self-controlled. He mentions that no less than three times in his first letter. And he does so with integrity because he had been changed by the Spirit of Christ into a man who had real self-control by the Spirit's power. Unless you think there's no hope for you, remember Peter and how dramatically Christ changed him. Perhaps you're here this morning and you've never come to the place where you've embraced Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord in a personal way. You see, you need to realize that you will never gain self-control on your own. You should expect to blow it. You should expect to not be able to control yourself. Because there's really power only in Jesus Christ. You see, without Christ's Spirit, we are all defenseless before the Holy God. We're all defenseless against evil, ultimately, and we're all disgraced. It's only by Christ's Spirit that those walls are rebuilt in our lives. That we have defense against evil, that we have true dignity in him, true honor. I'd encourage you this morning to look to the cross because hope is found only there. You see, you're not a lemon, you're just a sinner. And the good news is that Christ offers his power to change sinners. I'd urge you this morning, if you've never embraced Jesus in a personal way, to come to him, cling to him. And perhaps you're here this morning and you have made a decision to trust Christ as your Savior and Lord. And yet you find yourself saying over and over to yourself, Lord, I just can't seem to change. There's this one habit That I just feel powerless against. I just can't seem to control this one area of my life. Well, I want to encourage you this morning. Encourage you to look to the cross in a new way To repent of your self-reliance. You can't muster up self-control in and of yourself. It's only by Jesus' Spirit available to you that you can have self-control, because self-control is really spirit control. By Christ's Spirit. You can't do it on your own. You were never expected to. And so as Tozer says, you need to stop tinkering with your own soul. And look away to the perfect one. Look to the cross. And Jesus, your Redeemer there, who provides your power, your power for self-control. Only Christ, the perfect one, can give you control for new obedience. And a man who lacks self-control is indeed like a city whose walls are broken down, defenseless, disgraced. Christ can rebuild those walls. He wants to do that for you this morning. In whatever area of your life you need that. You'll never achieve self-control by looking to yourself Only by looking away to Christ's power, available to you. You see what happened to Gary Hart and so many other people Need not happen to you as you call on Christ's power, his power for self-control. Let's pray together. Lord so often we've we've blown it. Even in the past week, Lord, you know our hearts and our lives so intimately. You know all those dark corners of our lives where bad habits tend to lodge and grow. You know how we've given in to sin this week And how we've lacked self-control, our tempers have been short. Other worldly passions, as Paul describes them, have taken control of us. And Lord, we want to confess those things to you now and lay them before you. And we do so now silently before you. But Lord Jesus, we thank you and praise you that you died for the lack of self-control that sinners have. We thank you for your promise of redemption, freedom from the penalty of our sin, freedom from its power over us. And we thank you that as we confess our sins to you, you are faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We thank you too that you've promised your spirit, the spirit that raised you from the dead, and is available to us. Lord, help us. Encourage us. Show us our need to rely on your power this week. And Lord, fill us with that power. Grow in us our self-control. Self-control that is really control of your spirit in our lives. Lord Jesus, we long for that. We know we can't do it on our own, but we know that you are sufficient in us. So we ask that you would work greater godliness in us, greater self-control this week. Lord, show us one area of victory this week. Show us your power. For your greater glory in our lives, we pray. Amen.