It is good to be back. It's nice to have a break, and it's nice to be back. We're gonna be excuse me. Uh we're going to hope to have enough voice to get through the sermon today, is what we're going to do. We're going to be in Hebrews chapter 10 this morning. I was telling my wife this week that uh it was more than twenty years ago. The last time I preached this passage, um, which is um interesting and fun for me at least. And the context was quite different, I was quite different, and um it's fun to be back in What is my favorite book of the Bible, actually? Hebrews was written to people like me, people from with a Jewish background who had come to faith in Christ. And they were tempted to go back to Jewish things because they were very familiar. They were very earthy. You could feel them, you could touch them. And so it was tempting to go back. And um the author of the book of Hebrews, we don't know who it is, not self-identified. Um in heaven, uh either we'll know or we won't care anymore who the author was. One of those two for sure And um so Hebrews is interesting for us because I think that although we are not tempted to go back, most of us, to Jewish rites and rituals, we're tempted to go back into something that's easier. Something that is more culturally appealing, something that doesn't stand out as much as being a Christian in our culture. But we are just as tempted to go back and to shrink back as these people were, perhaps for different reasons And so there's a great urgency to the book of Hebrews. Hebrews, I think it's argued, is just a sermon in written form I can remember very memorably taking this class in seminary many years ago and having to write a paper on a text that I'll refer to later. And um and sitting on a plane going somewhere and reading the entire book of Hebrews in one sitting, which I highly commend. Yes, it's some concentration and some effort. But I highly commend it because it's a single sermon. It's meant to be read in one sitting. So we're going to be in Hebrews this morning. We're going to be thinking about Christian community. And so let me read this text and then pray and we'll jump in. So Hebrews chapter 10 and verses 19 through 25. Let's hear God's word. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, By the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider How to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, you give us this text to remind us of our danger. To remind us of Jesus, who is faithful. And to call us into a very distinctive kind of community. One that's very different than most of us have ever experienced. One that's different than perhaps some of us want. And yet you're the one who calls us to it. You command it of us. So help us gratefully respond because you're worth it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A client who got fired from his job Recommended a book to me a couple of years ago. As he was trying to process being fired, maybe you've had that experience. He uh came across this book called Extreme Ownership If you're a leadership book junkie, um it's incredibly worth the read. I'm rereading it right now. And uh is written by two Navy SEAL officers who served together in Ramadi, Iraq in 2006. I didn't know a lot about SEALs. I lived in San Diego. My wife grew up there, so I knew the training center was there. And I had a friend who tried to be a SEAL at one point, did not make it. But I didn't know a lot until I read this book. uh about seals. Um seals are a rather pot particular community. Uh they band together Because to fail for them to be in close community with each other is to be subject to extreme danger, perhaps even death on the battlefield. Uh they're the SEALs are dead serious about community because the stakes are so high. Is that the way that you think about Christian community? It's the way this text does. Perhaps you already know that we humans are made for community. We are made in the image of God, and God, as you likely know, is one God in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So God is in community in Himself. And thus we in his image are made for community. And we tend towards it. Even introverts tend towards community. They may just express it a different way. Have you considered that being part of an audience, a particular audience of something, is a form of community? And the community that you pick to be a part of tells you a lot about what you think life is about. This text is about community, a particular kind of community, gathered for particular reasons. I wanted to preach on this so that you would know why the session has asked Jeff Gropp to lead a significant retool and re-emphasis of our community group's ministry. What's the point of a community group? Community groups help us stick with Jesus. That's the if you were going to just take a one -word slogan and put it over the book of Hebrews. That's the Matt slogan for the book of Hebrews. Stick with Jesus. That's what community groups do. They help us stick with Jesus The Jesus who gives us the confidence to enter the holy presence of God. That's where this text starts. And so let's start there and we'll work our way towards why we need community to stick with Jesus and to fulfill what Jesus calls us to in a response to the grace that we have received. So the first point is do you have confidence to enter God's presence? Do you have confidence to enter God's presence? Let's look at verses 19 through 21. Therefore, brothers, remember, ladies, that this is an honoring family title. It's directed to you as well, because you want Jesus as your elder brother. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence. And I asked the question here, do you? Do you have confidence to enter God 's presence? The author goes on, he says, since we have confidence, well how is it that you could have that kind of confidence that you as a um imperfect, broken, sinful person could walk into the presence of the Holy God, who's peerless and perfect, doesn't even think to sin. How how could you how could you have confidence in that? Confidence to enter the holy places. This is a look back, of course, this reference to the tabernacle, to the temple, to the the holy of holies, the place that no one could go except The priest, the the high priest by sacrifice, and that only once a year, the holy place that is heaven, the holy place that is God's very presence. How could we have confidence? To enter the holy places. It's by the blood of Jesus. I was working on this text Earlier in the week I flew to a client um in the South on flew out on Monday, flew back on Tuesday, crazy trip. Um and I was working on this text on the plane. And I was pushed back to a memory of a lady that I had the privilege of pastoring in West Seattle when we lived there. uh unfortunately had been um m molested by her father. And um in about midway through her life she had been a postal worker, she had delivered mail and about midway through she life as she tried to wrestle with that, um, she broke. She uh struggled with mental health until the end of her life. Severe mental health difficulties we had to um go and be with her until the police could come and remove her from her apartment because she become violent. She um was precious and difficult. But her only plea, the thing that she held on to, was the blood of Jesus. Because she knew it was her only hope. That's how you can have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus By the new and living way, verse twenty goes on. By the new and living way Uh that's interesting. There's so much here that we can't dig into, but I'll just make a couple of comments as we go through things that are that are fun and interesting. Um course the way before was a dead way. The high priest, the one day he got to go in while he was going on, he went in by the blood of dead sacrifices. But here we go in by the new and living way of the resurrected Christ. That's how we go in. Because he opened for us that way. For us. Us. He opened that way. Through the curtain. A reference, of course, to that big, heavy curtain that separated the Holy of Holies off that nobody could go through except the high priest once a year and by the blood of sacrifices. He's that new curtain through his flesh. He's opened the way for us into the holy presence of God. That's why, by the way, that's why the Lord's Supper is flesh and blood. You have it right here. By the blood of Jesus, we can enter. We enter through the curtain that's flesh. And so we we celebrate. We celebrate tonight. The Lord's Supper , so we celebrate Jesus' flesh and blood, that he's made a new way for us to come into the presence of God. Who is this Jesus? Verse 21 goes on, says, since uh we. Now I'm going to uh Just remind you as you go through this text, if you've got a Bible and you doesn't feel offensive to do a highlight or underline or whatever, um, or box or whatever you do. Um If you box off as you go through the book of Hebrews all of the plural pronouns, the we 's the uses, the ours , we very individualistic. Apologize. Um we very individualistic Americans like to think about Christianity as something that really benefits me as an individual. And of course it does. But it says an individual in community. Hebrews imagines that we are in this together, in a vital and important way. We have confidence. He's opened it for us, since we have a great high priest. Jesus, of course, Hebrews belaborers, you can go back earlier than this and find out that Jesus is the final high priest over the house of God. This priest, we're told in this is one of my favorite verses in the Bible. Might be my favorite verse, but Hebrews 1. 3 says about Jesus. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. I'd just like you to ponder that for a second. That once there was nothing except God by the Son and Holy Spirit in communion, and you remember the way that the universe came into existence, God He spoke just words. And the entire universe that we can't even figure out how big it is. It's massive. If you've never gone to YouTube and watched one of those videos that helps you get perspective on where Earth is and how small it is in the entire universe, you absolutely should. Because it's staggering. And yet the immensity of God is such that the thing that's so immense that we can't even define it He can bring it into existence just with words. Which then it makes sense if he brought into existence with words And Jesus was the agent of creation, right? He's the one through whom everything was made, John 1 tells us. And of course, then it's Jesus. He upholds the universe. By the word of his power, that makes perfect sense. That you, as you are as a person Colossians talks about this too, Colossians 1. That you you cohere, you hold together, you're upheld because Jesus' words uphold you at everything. It's something to be grateful for every day. He upholds the universe by the word of his power. Now, i i if you were that great and incredible, why in the world Would you um would you stoop? Why would you come down? Why wouldn't you just leave us in our mess? It's an interesting question. It ought to fascinate you. But Jesus does come down for us and for our salvation. That's what the creed says. Verse 13 goes on. It's fascinating. You take the entire life of Jesus and everything that he did and put it in one phrase after making purification for sins. That's the entire life of Jesus, entire ministry, everything Gabriel dead, after making purification for sins. That's what Jesus does. He opens that new living way for us. He sat down. You're working on Saturday, you're doing your artwork. When do you sit down? When it's done. You know the priests never sat down They never sat down. Their work was ongoing. Year after year. Hebrews belabors this. They never sat down because the work was never done. Jesus sits down because the work's done. This is why he's the great high priest over the house of God. And he sits down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Why? Because the work was done. And what does he do when he sits down? He keeps praying for you and for me. That's what he still does. His work is ongoing We have this great high priest over the house of God, and as we come in his name, relying upon him, we come saying, My only hope is the blood of Jesus, his living and dying, rising in my place. Then and only then can you have confidence to enter into the holy places? Do you have that confidence? And if you don't have confidence to come to God's holy presence, why? Most of us don't have confidence because we're looking at us. Going, mmm, boy, if you knew what Matt Bowling thought and said and did, mm-mm But the point here is not what Matt Bowen says Thoughton did. Thankfully, although Matt Bowen needs to repent for all those things. No, it's Jesus. If we come in relying upon Jesus saying, You're my only hope, I'm turning from all of those things that I put my hopes in. That's what sin is, right? You put your hope in something, and then it fails you. Might be pleasurable for a time. It's a couple chapters over in Hebrews. But it fails you. It doesn't ultimately satisfy you. And repentance in faith is simply me saying. Okay, and some of those are things that I try to put my hope in. And I'm coming to you, Jesus. You're my only hope. That's how you can have confidence to enter the holy presence of God. Well, if you have that confidence to enter God's presence, then you ought to draw near to God. And we ought to do it together because you can and need to. Look at me, verse 22. Let, again, plural pronoun, let us draw near. Why would we draw near to God? If you go back in Hebrews, Gary quoted this earlier, um chapter four and verse thirteen, chapter four and verse sixteen says Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Why do we draw near? We need to draw near to get mercy and grace. Draw near, verse 22 says, Let us draw near with a true heart. You don't have to have any pretense. You don't have to have performed well. What God most appreciates is if you come only knowing your need. That's the only thing. Know your need. So you can come with a true heart, but in full assurance of faith. How can you have that full assurance of faith? Look at Jesus, not at yourself. What do we get as we come relying on Jesus? Verse 22 goes on, he says, with our hearts sprinkled clean. Right, the picture from the Old Testament was that the altar had to be sprinkled. Moses sprinkles the people with blood. It's all being sprinkled clean. We symbolize that in in baptism, right? Sprinkled clean from what? Ugh, plaguing evil conscience. That's what we get sprinkled clean from. Uh years ago, um I first ran into reading um Tim Keller and he adapted um something from Jack Miller and it goes like this. I'm so bad Jesus had to die for me. But I'm so loved. He was glad to die for me. I'm so bad Jesus had to die for me, but I'm so loved. He was glad to die for me. That's when we get that, we can see that our hearts are sprinkled clean from an evil conscience through Jesus and what he's done. That our hearts, our bodies, verse 22, been washed with pure water, that we're cleansed, we're as holy as Jesus as we come in his name as we draw near How often this verse, chapter 4 and verse 16, says, Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. What is your time of need? Maybe some of you know the old hymn. Remember the old hymn taught us what your time of need was? Every Every hour. What if you had your whatever your time management system is? If your clock dings for you on the hour. And you stopped and you took the first five minutes of every hour. Knowing your need And ask God to help you repent of what you needed to from the previous hour and equip you for the hour that's ahead. How often is your need? What urgency is our need Kind of urgency is there to it? The Bible portrays living as a believer as being part of a community that's been drafted into a spiritual battle. With a crafty mortal enemy, Satan, who has had at least thousands of years to hone his craft. There's a reason it's getting harder to live as a Bible-believing Christian in America. Satan is rather interested. In dissuading people from trusting the one true God who made everything and us. If social pressure can keep Christians from speaking the gospel, Satan's like, thumbs up, cool, purpose accomplished. He's happy. We, how often do we need to draw near? What's the urgency? We need to draw near frequently, often. So that we're reacquainted with our privileges as brothers with Jesus, that we learn anew our new identity in Him. so that we do feel free to speak the gospel despite what we fear might happen. Next month when I'm back, We'll do an evangelism conference the 8th through the 10th, whatever that that long weekend is. And then the Sunday, I'll preach a sermon and we'll think about how do we get free to speak the gospel despite what we fear might happen. But we draw near, we draw near urgently because we're in a spiritual battle. And we do it together because we need each other. And as we draw near, we just demonstrate that we're then third, holding fast to Jesus because he's worth it. Look at me with me at verse 23. Let us hold fast the confession. Let us Um hold fast. Um recently last week um some of you know I live near my family in Court d'Alene um on the uh Lake there. And we had a family party, pretty common occurrence for our family on Sunday evenings, as many of us can gather, we do. And we had a family party last week. My niece is in town. And um so we got together for everybody to be able to see her and spend time with her. And my brother-in-law, whose house the party was held in, um had up on the TV um old videos. uh old family videos, which is a big tradition in Millaris family. And uh in the family video, the his oldest daughter and a friend of hers were on a tube behind a boat. Um this is a thing we typically do on the lake. I don't know if you've done this before, but basically you take a fast boat, you put a long, strong rope on it, you put a tube that's made for kids to ride on, it's got handles, and you do your very best. to get the kids off the tube. That is the the design uh of the um the one who's running the boat. Remove kids from tube. And so you see, uh I can hear my my oldest niece who's now like 31, she's bringing it with her second kid, um, I can hear her um delighted scream. As she's holding onto the tomb onto the tube for dear life, trying not to get flipped off. That's hold fast Let us hold fast. To what verse twenty three says The confession of our hope. This is stick with Jesus. Without wavering How can we do that? To hold fast without wavering. Well, it goes on for he who promised his faithful. So Jesus brings to pass the completion of our faith, but he does it as we well we stick with him. We rely on him. We plead with the Holy Spirit to enable us to hold fast our confession without wavering, trusting that he who promised is faithful. Um I I think well there's a lot of things I could say here, but um Continuing to consider Jesus. I've um recently in the last couple of weeks, um it's a rereading period for me for whatever reason, but I am reading one new book, but um do you guys know the Milton Vincent's little book, Gospel Frumer for Christians? Do you know that little book? Has church used that before? Uh maybe we'll grab a stock or something. Anyways, this thing's wonderful. And I recently went back to it, and I think that one of the things that Milton Vincent has convinced me of in this little book is that I need to much more. Not look at myself, not look at my circumstances, not look at what's going on, but I just need to look at Jesus. For he who promised is faithful. Jesus, who came down to earth out of love and because we had no hope otherwise, has been faithful on our behalf. Beyond the promises that he's already made and fulfilled, there are more promises yet ahead for us. Secured by his perfect life, death, resurrection, ascension, and his present intercession. He you promised his faithful. And so we're commanded, hold fast to our confession of hope, hold fast to Jesus. And as we do that, we have a mandate as a community, is our fourth and last point. That mandate It 's to urgently encourage one another daily unto love and good works. To urgently encourage one another daily unto love and good works. Six weeks without preaching, I'll put a hammer on your voice. Um verse twenty-four. And let That's right. Us, this group, this particular type of community, let us consider Consider. What do you do when you consider something? This takes uh let me just give you some words to uh evoke what it means uh as I consider something. It takes prayer, it takes thought, it takes time, it takes intentionality, it takes commitment, it takes trust, it takes community. It's not let you consider. It's let us consider To consider together, like we actually need each other, to consider this well. Let us consider, consider what? How to stir up one another to what Because you can stir up one another. It happened here. You can stir up one another. To all kinds of things. But this calls us to stir up one another to what? To two things. Love and good works. Love and good works. Why these two? You highlight all the things that you that ought to be the response of Christians in community to Christ and what He's done for us and uh a response to the grace that is found in the gospel of Jesus. Why these two? Love and good works. Well, love, I think, um makes a whole lot of sense. Remember in the Gospels that um They're they've got all these little regulations and things and everything in Jesus is like here. Let me make it easy for you. Those ten commandments, let's just take them to two. Right? Just let's just make it two. You ready? Your response to God and the grace of the gospel is just two things: love and love your neighbor as yourself. Our response to being loved by God is to love. So love makes sense. Right? And love um Love I I think ought to be regarded as the mark of Christian maturity. How do you know a mature Christian? They love. They get it. They get that they've been loved. They say they love very freely. They've been given grace, they give grace very freely. They love And good works. Good works. Right remember Ephesians two ten It's our response to this wonderful grace. We are as workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, even recreated in Christ Jesus. What for Good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. And so my daily way of thinking about my life, where I live, work, and play, As I'm praying as I go through my day and I'm like, Lord, what is the good work that you have before me today? What are those good works you've prepared before me? Who is there for me to love today, to be patient with today, to bear the fruit of the Spirit towards? Who is there today for me to speak the gospel to? That I anticipate that God has laid out opportunity after opportunity after opportunity after opportunity for good works, because He's prepared them beforehand. It's providentially bringing me in the path of people to love and bless. This is our reaction to grace, right? Love and good works. And so we consider how to do that together in a certain kind of community. Go on to verse 25. So there's a way that this can happen, there's a way that it won't happen. Here's what it the way it won't happen. Not neglecting to meet together So if it's a let us consider, that ain't gonna happen if you don't meet together in a particular kind of community. Not neglecting to meet together. Why is this a danger to neglect to meet together? To not be in a regular community. Well, if you know yourself and you're honest with yourself , we're all in danger of falling away, of not sticking with Jesus. And the proof of that is just to think about the people who used to be here who no longer profess faith. I'm sure all of you know someone. This is a true and real danger. And Satan is delighted. When he entices and tempts someone away for other things, for other hopes, than Jesus. And you and I should not be so proud to think that we are not in danger. Because we are. I know ministers that have fallen away. The guy who preached my installation service in West Seattle fell away from the faith. A guy I went to seminary with. It's a great danger, friends. We have a mortal enemy. Not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some. People who don't know their great need for community , they neglect meeting together. They neglect this kind of vital community that can keep them trusting in Jesus. You can go on further down in this passage, starting at verse 26 and see the great danger that all of us are in and why we need this kind of community. Now there's a, and Dan mentioned this, I think, that there's for us living in America at this time, particularly in this area, right, there's this great danger that says There's a model out there that says, here's the good life, here's the American dream that we assume first, and then we tack on our Christianity to it. It's nice to have Christianity and the American dream. It's great actually. You get the benefits of both. But what this community is calling us to is vastly more important. than what the American dream tells us is important for our careers, for our kids, for what the good life is I'd like you to consider for just a second your busyness. You do realize that you chose all of those things. And that you can re choose all of them. You do know that, right You chose every single one. Well, you can't kill any kids, and you shouldn't get divorced unjustly. Sorry, should have made the caveats first. But all of those choices that you've made, that job that you picked, that house that you bought, the activities that you chose In the church that I pastored in Seattle, we came to try and capture this idea with a phrase. And the phrase was, repentance oftentimes means re-choosing. You can rechoose. And you probably should. Because if you can't participate in this kind of community that you're commanded to, there's a problem. It was a problem for these believers. Some were in the habit of neglecting to meet together. Because if you don't meet together, you can't go on, as the verse does, and encourage one another. If you're not together, you can't encourage one another. It's impossible. Some people say, well, you know, this is what Sunday's for. We get the encouragement from the preaching and from the service and the people that we run into, whatever. Do you know it's very, very difficult to do the one another commands on Sunday? They're meant to be done in community. Earlier on in Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 13, we're told here by God, but exhort one another every day. Every day. That I'm in a kind of community where I exhort and I'm exhorted. Exhort one another every day, as long as it's called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. That somebody gets to you, you're willing to do what James says and confess your sins to one another. And somebody gets to you and says, brother or sister, that that sin will kill you. You know that, right? You're being deceived that that can make you finally happy. Satan is a deceiver which is, and he deceives us by making us think that sin can make us happy. If he can convince you that sin is better than Jesus, he wins The one and others, 24 of them in the New Testament, if you want to study them, Brother Proudhome can give you his excellent study on them Twenty-four of them that we're called to. They can be done. They can only be done in community. The close kind of community where you trust somebody to tell you, hey, that's a foolish choice. I wouldn't do that. I don't think that's going to help you follow Jesus Encouraging one another daily. That's the prime role in community. And to do it all the more. Why? What's the urgency? Because the day is drawing near. You do know that one day all will be different. That one day you'll wake up, if you're trusting in Jesus, in the new heavens and new earth, and all pain and sorrow, sighing, flee away And all is different and all is restored. All is as as it was supposed to be. And that day is coming. And so there's an urgency that actually is supposed to be growing. Um as you think about that day, I think I've encouraged you before to not lie when you when you uh say the creed that you look to the life of the world to come. And I do encourage you not to lie. In the life of the world to come, in the new heavens and new earth, there are very few things that you can't do. Most of us don't know this, so I'll tell you. Um you can't sin. Everyone around you will be very happy about that. It does not appear that you can have new marriages and children. So this is your shot to do that. And those of you even who experience the inability to have children, it's a great opportunity to have lots of spiritual children to adopt. The best thing that Christians many times can do is to adopt those who are unlovable because that's what we are. That's it. Oh, wait. One more thing. You can't do in the new heavens and new earth. You can't help anybody else get there once you're there. That is a privilege that is reserved for now. This urgency is not just for our survival in the faith. We are called into a life that is lived for the sake of others. Others who are currently blinded by Satan, I would remind you Second Corinthians four four, which is speaking about those who don't currently believe the gospel. Here's what God says through Paul. In their case, the God of the world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. who is the image of God. We are combatants in a cosmic spiritual battle playing out where you live, work, and play. That's hard. It's why we need each other. When you regularly participate in a community group, here's what you're saying. In light of what we've been called into as ambassadors of Christ to live my life for the sake of others coming to Christ in the midst of spiritual battle. I know I need you. And I'm here for you. That's what you're saying. That battle, when you read the New Testament, there's a lot of edge. There's a lot of urgency in the New Testament. It's because of that battle That's why it's so important, friends, that you urgently encourage one another daily unto love and good works. Won't you? Let's pray together. Father, there's um there's a lot here. There's a lot to ponder and consider is repenting I need to do So forgive us where we have not desired this, where we've chosen other things instead. And work in us, Holy Spirit, that we would love to be a part of this kind of community. Give us the courage to re choose. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.