There is no children's worship today. So children, you are welcome to stay and be with us. Parents, you please know that you're welcome to stay. But there are amenities available to you if you'd like in the lobby. We have quiet rooms as well in the back. if those are necessary for you. Please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. This morning we'll be looking at chapter 24, verses 36 through 43. The last time Christmas fell on a Sunday was 2016. The next time will be 2033. There's nothing special about that , just some fun calendar trivia. It's uh what it is though, each day, each week that we come together on Sundays, it we are mindful that it's the Lord's day, and so we worship him with gladness of heart. You may recall that we are in Advent series and celebrating Christmas. And this year we've been emphasizing the incarnation. The very understanding as best we can from what Scripture tells us how we understand the beautiful mystery of our faith that Jesus is both fully God and fully man. He's flesh and bone, to use the phrase of our theme. We first looked at John chapter 1 and how Jesus is the glorious word. Our friend and mission partner Dan Iverson then preached from Isaiah 9, looking at how Jesus is the great light shining in the deep darkness. We look from Hebrews 2, how Jesus is the faithful priest, and Hebrews 1, how Jesus is involved in creation. Last night, if you were here, we did a brief meditation on Luke chapter 2, recounting a story of how Jesus is the long-expected King. And this morning we fast forward to the story of his resurrection and how Jesus is the victorious King. So here now Luke's gospel from Luke chapter 24, verses 36 through 43. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace to you. But they were startled and frightened, and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself Touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything there to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, bless our time of worship this morning that we would hear from your word. To be encouraged in our heart to live by faith as we follow you, the incarnated, resurrected Lord. It is in your name we pray. Amen. It is a wonderful time of year. Christians in various places and throughout various times remember holidays very differently. especially Christmas. Some traditions put great emphasis upon the church calendar, while others make no mention mention of it at all. Just for one historical example that I find humorous, although probably not humorous at the time, it was in the context of a lot of religious and political upheaval. As well as in the context of questionable activities for Christmas cheer, English Parliament decreed fasting instead of merriment. And in 1659 , here in the colonies, the Massachusetts Bay Colony made celebrating Christmas a criminal offense and punishable by a five-shilling fine. They made Christmas criminal Now there's context for that, of course, and we can explore that from a historical point of view and debate it and criticize it or whatnot. And so however we might celebrate Christmas, it's important to draw our eyes to the Word and to see the full implications of what it means for Jesus to be incarnated. For some Christians, it truly might be a Christ-honoring, glorified celebration of twelve days of Christmas. For others, you might be resolved in your conscience to make no special day of it at all. Now we can look at the calendar and certainly recognize how they are man-made traditions that are a part of that. But there are opportunities for deep spiritual formation by marking time according to the rich layers of Scripture and looking to the story of Jesus' life. All of Jesus' life captures the totality of his salvation. Now we tend to isolate the incarnation upon his birth alone. Of course, his birth is important to our faith because we are believing and trusting that it is he that is Emmanuel, God with us And we believe that God became flesh and dwelled among us. It's important that he is born of Mary, born under the law. He, as we looked at last night, is announced as Savior, Christ the Lord, but title of Savior without action of saving is meaningless. And so our enfleshed Savior lived a sinless life. Our enfleshed Savior died a physical death. Our Savior rose physically to life, and our Savior will physically return. So as we think about the incarnation on this day, we are looking at Luke chapter 24. And so what about his life between resurrection and return? We see, as it's already been unfolded in our service this morning, but we see Jesus rules and reigns at the right hand of the Father. It is most fitting that the Son would first descend in humility, first by his birth and life, and second in his crucifixion and death. But now, in his resurrection and his ascension, he has exalted to glory at the highest place of honor and given the name above every name. In his resurrection, Jesus defeats death. And though temporary, death no longer has its lasting grip upon us. If Jesus did not get up out of his tomb, and if Jesus could not have eaten this bit of broiled fish, he would not be victorious, and he would not be the Christ. He would just be another man who maybe lived a good life and and who maybe said some wise things. But Paul reminds us in 1 Corinthians 15 that if that were the case, then we would still be dead in our sins. But thanks be to God that Jesus is alive with flesh and bone. And so in this life, Jesus is vindicated. He is vindicated as the true prophet, the high priest, and the victorious king. And we share with him in his death and his resurrection, abiding with him, and forever in union with him. This is the mystery and the power of his incarnation that we share in. As prophet, Jesus speaks the whole will of God in all things for our edification and for our salvation. As priest, once and for all, he offers himself a sacrifice for giving sins. Reconciling his people and interceding for us in prayer. As King, he governs as the head of his church. He orders all things for his own glory and for our good. And we can rest securely in his saving grace and trust in his sovereign will. As we await His second advent, his second return. We also recognize that he has empowered his church. He has given his Holy Spirit sent to sanctify his disciples in all truth, baptizing us in the covenant promises, setting us apart to participate in his kingdom. For us to be ambassadors in his mission and all the while he is strengthening us in our trials and temptations. And so as we come to this day and are just mindful of Christmas, it is important for us to be mindful of why it's necessary for Jesus to be flesh and bone. The phrase itself, flesh and bone, is an expression that communicates intimacy and relationship. We might use it very casually in our language, just talking about our family. We use it also like it's being used here in verse 39 to distinguish the physical body from abstract ideas, ghostly apparitions, and just cold machines. He's living, he's breathing, he's flesh and bone. In Genesis, we learn of our vocation to steward and care for God's creation. And we learn of our of what it means to be creature. Made in the image of God, male and female, we learn of our fellowship with Him and the responsibility we have to one another. And we see in this in the poetic song of Adam in Genesis chapter 2, verse 23, when he sings about Eve, this is at last bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. There is commonality and recognition of sharing the same nature. In 2 Samuel chapter 5, we learn Upon David finally becoming king over both kingdoms, over both Judah to the south and Israel to the north. Where all the tribes are coming together at Hebron and declaring to David, Behold, we are your bones and flesh We resonate with Job's groans as he contemplates his condition when he recognizes the frailty of his flesh, when he says that God clothes us with skin and flesh. and knits us together with bones and sinews. Job in other places, as well as other psalmists, speak of flesh and bones wasting away as part of physical decay and Spiritual despair. In Hebrews chapter 2, verse 14, a similar phrase is used to talk about flesh and blood. We learn how Jesus is sharing in our same nature. By flesh and blood. It's the same concept that is being highlighted here. And it's necessary for Jesus to be flesh and bone, so that he might be the only mediator between us and God. For we acknowledge that no animal can completely satisfy the debts of our sins, and no human can perfectly fulfill the law of God. And so praise be to God that Jesus, being truly human and perfectly righteous, can atone for our sin, and who being truly God and abundantly gracious bestows this great salvation. Just a couple verses to call our attention this morning in worship. John 3, verse 16, For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 1 Peter 3, verse 18, for Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but being made alive in the Spirit. 1 John 4 verse 2, by this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And so, brothers and sisters, the incarnation is necessary for all of the saving work of Jesus and the consummation of the great promise of God that we see in Revelation chapter 21. Verse 3, behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. The incarnated, resurrected, ascended Jesus declares later on in verse 21, Behold, I am making all things new. It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. And so as we have this brief meditation on Christmas together, we are Rightly celebrating something profound and beautiful in the Christmas story. And we might have various traditions in our home. Perhaps you enjoy the Christmas classics. Perhaps some of you enjoy or prefer Hallmark movies. Perhaps we have family and friends around our tables, but realize some may not. Perhaps we have our health and maybe our wealth, but remember that some may not. Perhaps we have reason to rejoice and be glad. But know that some may not. And so, whatever our traditions and whatever our needs this morning, we are called by God to meditate upon the incarnation of our Lord. If he is not flesh and bone, then we are left with only an Americanized version of Christmas. Which is mostly a blend of deconstructed European traditions and feel-good sentiment empowered by economized commercial markets. If Jesus is not flesh and bone, this version of Christmas has no lasting comfort and is not true salvation. But, brothers and sisters, in Jesus' incarnation, we see this profound reality that Joseph and Mary, who saw his newborn hands and feet, We see in Jesus' resurrection his disciples seeing his glorified hands and feet. As a baby, Jesus needing the mother Needing his mother's milk. And here, as a victorious king, we see Jesus enjoying food with his friends. Jesus is flesh and bone, fully God and fully man. He is the Savior that brings comfort and joy. In one of his poems, T. S. Eliot writes this in one of the stanzas. The accumulated memories of annual emotion may be concentrated into a great joy, which shall be also a great fear, as on the occasion when fear came upon every soul Because the beginning shall remind us of the end and the first coming of the second coming. This Christmas, may you behold the incarnation of our Lord Jesus. He goes on to say, just in the next paragraph, I invite you to read it and to meditate on it today, even. But he goes on to say how everything written about him in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms must be fulfilled. And they are in him. And for us, we are to take heart that Jesus has the victory. And we can rest in his flesh and bone for our salvation. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we rejoice in this simple message with eternal consequence. We give you thanks and praise that indeed you are of the flesh. You dignify that which you have created in us. And you have purified that which has been lost and decayed because of our fall into sin. The rebellion that we have In the first Adam, we share in the victory and the celebration and the participation and the communion with you in the second Adam. All of these great truths of our faith, would you bring them to bear in our mind and our heart? And may we walk in the newness of life as we share in your death and resurrection. We celebrate Christmas, O Lord, because it is right. It is a joy to bring light into darkness. Hope in the midst of exile and despair and all of these things make no difference if it doesn't come to an end. And we await that end, O Lord, and we ask that you would come. Would you come soon? But even as we wait with hope, we celebrate our salvation in Christ. Through his incarnation, we have been saved. Because he is flesh and bone. Flesh and bone to save. flesh and bone, that through him we have peace with you. And we praise you in the name of Christ. Amen. Please