Psalm sixty-two, which we have just sung. Psalm sixty-two. My soul finds rest in God alone. My salvation comes from Him. He alone is my rock and my salvation. He is my fortress. I will never be shaken. Alone will you assault a man? Would all of you throw him down? This leaning wall, this tottering fence If they intend to topple him from his lofty place, they take delight in lies. With their mouths they bless, but in their hearts they curse. Find rest, O my soul, in God alone. My hope comes from Him. He alone is my rock and my salvation. He is my fortress. I will not be shaken. My salvation and my honor depend on God. He is my mighty rock, my refuge. Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your hearts to Him, for God is our refuge. Lowborn men are but a breath, the highborn are but a lie. If laid on the balance they are nothing. Together they are only a breath Do not trust in extortion or take pride in stolen goods. Though your riches increase, do not set your heart on them. One thing God has spoken, two things have I heard, that you, O God, are strong, and that you, O Lord, are loving. Sure, you will reward each person according to what he has done. So far, we got sport. Imagine with me that you are walking along the coast of Maine. You are walking on a very large ledge. On one hand you have the lovely pine trees, and on the other side you see the foamy waves. And as you're walking along that rock, one thing more than anything else becomes very, very plain to you. And that is that what you're walking on is a picture of extreme solidity. That is a rock. That would take pounds and pounds of dynamite to dislodge. And a little bit further on down the coast, you see a sandy beach. You see sand that is moved back and forth by the waves as they roll in. And something comes to mind. The picture that Jesus gives us as he is wrapping up the Sermon on the Mount, he's saying the wise man puts his trust In a rock. And he's like the man who puts his trust in my words and in me. The foolish man, on the other hand, is the one who puts his faith and his trust. builds his house on sand. And that's the picture we have for us this morning in this psalm. But there is a complication. And the complication is that it never looks quite the same way Jesus says it is. The rock of Jesus and his words don't look like a rock. In fact, they're invisible. And what he calls sand really appears to be much more stable than what he says it is The first thing we're going to consider this morning is the sand that David refers to. He refers to three different things. Trusting in our own strength, trusting in our family, and trusting in riches. All of those things are visible, and it seems plausible that they would be the kinds of things that we would want to put our trust in. But David has learned how to look past the apparent power to real power He has learned to look past the appearance, the appearance of stability, to real stability in God. He has learned to look past the temporary. And that's why he can begin this psalm in such a confident tone in verses 1 and 2. My soul finds rest in God alone. My salvation comes from him. He alone is my rock and my salvation. He is my fortress. I will never be shaken. See, he has seen past what we normally count on. Those who look with the eyes of flesh. Would trust in their own strength as we have in verses three and four. Those men would see David in his apparent weakness They would see him appearing to be like a wall that was taller, and seemingly only a puff of breath would be all that would be required to send that wall crashing to the ground. Those men see David in his weakness. And they want to be the ones to push him over. You've seen a child playing with the Tower of Lots. And with the blocks are just about ready to totter, they seem to take great delight in smashing them and sending them to the ground It's the same kind of attitude we have here in these men. But they also are envious as they see David in his lofty position. And because he's in that position, they want to do him in. They want to do it in by deception. They deceive with their mouths, they bless, but in their hearts they curse. Isn't it ironic, though, that they are the ones that are deceived and not David? Because they don't see. The rock. They don't see the refuge on which David is always resting. David does not go along with the world's vision. See the trust in his own strength. No, he doesn't retaliate. You see the second place that David does not trust in the famine either, in verse 9, noborn men are but a breath. The highborn are but a lie. It makes no difference at all today whether you're rich born or whether you're poor born, whether you're in a highest state or a lowest state. It's like a breath If you wait it on a scale, the scale doesn't even go down, it goes up. Because there's nothing there at all. You're a breath. That's the same word that is used in Ecclesiastes where it says, all is vanity. Vanity of vanity. All is vanity. is vanity. It's but a breath. See the things that people would often trust in. Things like might and things like famine. David has has no trust in himself. And neither does he trust in riches, as we see in verse 10. Do not trust in extortion or take pride in stolen goods, though your riches increase. Do not set your heart on them. Now this is a little bit closer to home, isn't it? Something we can relate to perhaps just a little bit better It's something easy to do, isn't it, to trust in our riches. After all, we live in an affluent society. We all need material things to live. We're material beings. God has made us to enjoy the things that He has made for us. But the problem is when we begin to be like the man in Psalm 39 in verse 6. Man is a mere phantom as he goes to and fro. He bustles about, but only in vain. He heaps up wealth, not knowing who will get it. The problem is when we we tend to think and act like that man And like that man, we are fascinated with wealth, aren't we? The New English Bible renders verse 10, this part of verse 10. Though wealth breeds wealth, don't set your heart on it. Today we do have a fascination with wealth, our wealth, breeding wealth We have a fascination with what the prime lending rate is doing. A fascination with the the rates and the terms of the various money market funds. We spend a lot of time thinking about those things. We are fascinated with the ups and downs of this economy, and sometimes we seem to think that the economy is like a restless monster Going back and forth and up and down, seemingly entirely out of control. The Republicans can't do a thing about it. The Democrats can't do a thing about it. It seems out of control And we forget, don't we, that it isn't out of control, that God Himself is in control, and that should alleviate our anxiety, shouldn't it? The trust in riches is also something that is very subtle. After all, Paul exhorts us to care for our family, and if we don't care for our family, we're worse than an incident. Worse than an unbeliever, but how subtle it is. Our covetousness we call ambition. Our forty we call prudence. Our breed we call industry. See how subtle is the lie of Satan Notice also that our view of enough is something that is changing in a state of flux. We don't have the same view of what we need as we did years ago. And and even if you uh adjust that for the rate of inflation, our demands or what we need is going up and up and up. It seems that uh some of us resemble the man in uh the Sermon on the Mount that Jesus is saying is spending more time concerned on amassing those material things than on preparing our hearts and the hearts of our family and friends for the kingdom, for heaven. Seems like the assurance that something uh nice is waiting for us when when the real life is over. is about all we're thinking about. Just something nice out there when the real life, what we're doing here and now, is over with. But I'll tell you. Well And riches. Decay, don't they? Don't they spoil? Kids, are any of the toys that you opened up just yesterday broken already? Are any of those nice sweaters that you ladies bought already stained with cranberry sauce? Things spoil. Things decay, don't they? What intrigues me though is that even as Christians, we see the advertising schemes of Madison Avenue And we would be induced to pursue the things that we see advertised on TV. And we're made to feel that we just can't do without those things Those things that weren't even invented ten years ago. We were doing fine without cordless telephones ten years ago, or without those computer games Those things Madison Avenue would tell us that we just can't do without. And I'm not saying that those things are bad in and of themselves, but what the problem is. Is that it begins to churn up our anxiety. Do we need those things? Do we we just have to have them, don't we? Produces an anxiety. Do we have enough? The irony is that as we try to accumulate more things, we just get more and more anxious. But ask you to think about three inner attitudes that you should have in mind. in in uh trying to combat this kind of attitude. What we have, we have received As a gift. What we have we have received as a gift. And what we have will be cared for by God. And what we have is to be available to other people. If we keep those things in mind, I think we will pick up the spirit of what Martin Luther said many, many years ago. If our goods are available to if our goods are not available to the community, they are stolen goods That's the kind of attitude we're to we're to have. And I'm not calling you to a form of legalism here, a new legalism Rather, I am asking you to look at the life of David, to see how he, a king in Israel, with all kinds of wealth at his disposal. Could still say that I'm not ensnared by those things. See, I would ask you to catch David's David's vision, the vision of faith He has the ability to look past the apparent to the real. See, David waits in silence before God. as I think the better rendition of verses one and verses five is to go. He waits in silence before God. He has the remarkable ability to ignore the clamor and the distraction of things around him. He can silence the din of society, even at the same time, while people were plowing up the ladder in order to usurp his position. He could overlook that. His eyes were on God. Sure. He felt the drive of power. He felt the longing to possess more and more lands and more and more people. He felt that. He felt that desire. He also felt the the uh the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, those three things that are mentioned in John's epistle that we sometimes think we have a corner of. He felt those things. And at the same time, he was able to trust the unseen. He was able to listen to that still, small voice of God Can we do that even today? Can we do that with the din of society always echoing in our ears? And I think there's something we can learn from the mystics, something that they can teach us. They were very conscious to be quiet before God. To listen to him. If there's one thing we have in this society, it is over -stimulation. So many things bombarding our senses day after day after day. You know, I had a temptation to buy one of those uh stereo headphones that you can place over your head and you attach the receiver to your belt. And even when you're out jogging, you get to hear music I say I was tempted to do that until it began to dawn on me that there is one time, just about one time, during the course of the day when I can escape the uh constant ring of the telephone and other people And that's when I'm out jogging. Yet I was tempted to bring the world along with me. Instead, we can use times like that to think about God, to think on Him, to develop. A growing trust in him. Instead, we would run about from product to product like a rabbit chasing a carrot. We would run about like that. And too often our attitude would be characterized by that of our society. The noise and the clatter and the clutter that we hear. That constant input on our senses. I would I would just want to make make uh sure you realize that I am not uh criticizing material things as such. Please don't hear me say that all material things are bad because that's not what I'm saying. Rather, I want you to think in a balanced way, in a balanced way about all the things that are are seek seeking our allegiance. Think about those things in balance with listening to what God is saying Listen to David as he says, I will wait in silence for God. See, we have to be careful that we get our bearings. From God Himself. And not from the people in our society. As our definition of needs, our own needs, changes, much in line with the definition of needs that our society has. But ask you in your own private worship, do you have a tendency to quickly read through a passage and then quickly reel off your requests to God? without taking the time to listen to him. To listen to him and get your bearings from him. You know, that's hard. It's hard to take the time and relax and do that because our society calls us to be productive And that is simply not a productive way to spend your time, is it? David seems to think it's about the most productive way to spend your time. Listening to God, being patient, being quiet before Him. Listening to what He is telling you through His Holy Spirit by the word written that He has given to us. And as we listen, as we listen to the quiet voice of God, we are then able to quiet the din. of the things that we hear around us, the clatter of things around us. See, David trusts in God as his rock and his forpass, as we see in verses 2 And then in verse 6 as well. Verse 2, God is my fortress. I will not be shaken greatly. I will not be shaken greatly. He then in verse 5 is conscious of calling himself to remember God alone. And then verse 6 is a mere repetition of verse 2. With one addition. And it seems that a lot of the translations don't really bring this out. Instead of just God is my fortress, I will not be shaken greatly He says, God is my fortress. I will not be shaken. It's almost as if he's saying, I will not be shaken at all. He's been given time to think and reflect And with confidence he can say, I will not be shaken at all. This is much more than just a theoretical appreciation of God as being strong and capable of providing for David. This God is personally known by David. He says, My one, my salvation, my refuge, my fortress. Can you see David's vision of faith? His eyes are securely fastened on God and not on the distractions that he sees around him. His eyes and ears both are attuned to wait silently for God. God alone, four times, he repeats in this song, four times, God alone, God alone is my rock and my salvation. What a beautiful irony it is. While the world seeks constantly to find that stability. to find the the solidity of things in this life, things that can be seen, touched. We find our solidity, our rock, in something we can't even see, can't even touch. Where people go through mid-life crises and late life crises. A little while back I went through an early life crisis. A lot of people my age are struggling with what God wants me to do with their lives. And I was struggling whether God wants me to pursue the vocational ministry, and if so, what kind of ministry? And as I was struggling with those things, I found that I was looking more and more at myself Looking more and more at my capabilities or lacko. Looking more and more at my strength And I was being a little bit shaken by the lack of security that we so often see in the ministry. The lack of physical, material security. God brought my attention to this psalm. He was speaking to me very clearly and very loudly through these words. I listened to David's urging in mercy. Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your hearts to him, for God is our refuge. And as I poured out my heart to God, he pointed out graciously and gently that I was looking to myself and not to him. And it was impressed on me in a very strong way that God and God alone is my refuge and my strength. There are two reasons given later on in the psalm for God instilling such confidence in us. We find them in verses 11 and 12. One thing God has spoken. Two things have I heard. That you, O God, are strong, and that you, O Lord, are loving. I can only come up with two reasons for people to doubt God. There are only two reasons that I can think of for people to question God. as refuge, God as wrong. The first thing is that he just can't. He can't be a wrong. He's not strong enough. And this psalm speaks to that very specifically. You, O God, are strong. The second thing that I think some people think of as a reason not to trust God as refuge is that he won't. He doesn't care to. He's not a loving God. The psalm also speaks very directly to that. You both more are loving. Have you ever pictured what God would be like if he were only a God of strength and not a God of love? He would be able to help, but on one given morning he could choose very well not to help. He could choose not to help. He could be like faith, the fate that we read about in Homer's Greece, who chooses by the capricious act of love will. To help or not to help a given mortal when that mortal is crying out to him, we can thank God that that's not the Abba Father that we have revealed to us in his word. That is not our God and Father But I'm afraid that many people seem to think of God in this way. He is is just not willing to help. He doesn't have that interest in personal in individuals. That's no fortress and that is no rock. But on the other hand, think of what God would be like if he were only a God of love. If he were just a God of love, he would be weak. Although he would want to help. He just couldn't. He would see us struggling with some difficult situation, but he would be impotent to help us. This past November, I read a statement that was prepared by a group of Roman Catholic cardinals. The statement was in opposition to the proliferation of nuclear arms. Now I would have to agree with the overall thrust of that statement, that is, it is ludicrous to amass an excessive amount of arms the capability to destroy another country time and time and time over again. But it was the reasoning that those cardinals came up with. That I just couldn't believe. These are leaders i in uh in a church. They're saying that uh the reason that they were against the proliferation of nuclear arms is it's because it exceeded God's ability to control. That it destroyed his sovereignty over the world that he had created. I think many people think along those same lines in God's dealing with us as individuals. He really is a good God. There's no question about that. But he just can't help out in this particular situation. It's too tough. It's too tough. But we can praise the Lord for that perfect balance of love and strength. We can praise this God in whom we trust because we don't have to fend for ourselves. We don't have to take care of ourselves, for He is both willing and able to be our rock and our fortress. Do we really believe that as a church? There are many people in our congregation who are greatly concerned about a facility, about putting up a building somewhere in Colombia. But there are many, many people who just think, it just can't happen. It just can't happen. It is too big. The interest rates are too high. We are too small. I'm not suggesting that that's uh that we ought to be putting up a building, but the attitude that we just can't do it is wrong. It's an attitude of trying to trust on ourselves. We so often think that an invisible God, our invisible God, can only work when we see And we control the means that he would use. I think also of our outreach as a church. We tend to believe that God's plan for Columbia It's just about as big as we are right now as a church. We overlook the fact that God is strong and God is loving and he is bringing his kingdom about right now. As with the facilities, we would say that our invisible God can only work effectively when we can see and we can control the means. In thinking about the men's evangelistic breakfast that we had recently, I said, hey, finally, finally, we're doing something as a congregation that God can use. As if he had to wait for us to put together a little breakfast over at holiday. But we tend to think that way when we see the means, when we're controlling the means Then our God can work. We have to be on our knees in prayer. And not running and not putting together a bunch of projects. We have to be on our knees in prayer. To this God who has called Himself our rock and our salvation, be on our knees to that God who is both strong and loving. And how about as individuals? Do we tend often to look to what we can provide for ourselves? And just count on them. Just depend on that. I was involved with a man a while back who gave me a very striking example of what it means to look to God and God alone as the rock. This man in our congregation, a man in our congregation, was losing his job. And he was given a job offer in California, a very good one, one that he would have delighted to take, except for one thing. He didn't think that's where God wanted him to be. He thought instead that he should be here in Colombia, working with this church, and he should be here on the East Coast where he could be accessible to his family, which had a great deal of need for him. He talked to me on the phone a couple of times and he said, what what should I do? Should I take that job? And after talking with him for a period of minutes, a period of uh of of of hours, actually, over a period of hours. I encouraged him not to take the job. And I was scared when I told him to do that. Because God has said, provide for your family, hasn't he? This man turned down the job, confident that that's what God wanted him to do. He was scared and I was scared, but within the next two days that man received three job offers here in the Columbia Airman. He was looking to God. God was his wrath and his salvation. We saw again how it takes that step of faith to see God working. You know, if you try to get in the grocery store over there giant food, you just won't do it unless you take that step. And you land on that black mat right out in front of that door. Then that door will open and you'll be able to get in. But you have to take that step We can praise him, for he provides for all of our needs. He is our rock, our salvation. I was working with another man who had a great deal, an extreme amount of guilt, and an extreme amount of insecurity. And he would say to me, Dick, I just don't see how God could love me. I don't see how God would be able to take my sins away from me. God directed us again to the song. And we thought about our God, who is both strong and loving. We thought about our Lord Jesus Christ, who on the cross Became God 's sacrifice for our sins. Jesus Christ Himself and only Him. He was strong And his loving. He's able to take that sin. And when we see that, when we invest our hearts and our lives in that, we can exalt in the fact that yes, our God is strong. And our God is loving. And we can see him answering every doubt as we look together to Jesus Christ. You know, I was strengthened by that man. I was strengthened by him as he impressed upon me the importance as we remind each other of the importance of looking to the cross, where God's strength and God's love met in the person of Jesus Christ as our sins are removed. The psalm ends with a warning in verse 12: Surely you will reward each person according to what he has done. That's a warning that we have to take seriously. We can be thankful, though, that God has rewarded Christians on the basis of what Jesus has done As we, in the words of verse 8, trust in him at all times and pour out our hearts to him, as we recognize our weakness, our frailty, our instability. We look to him. We see him as our rock and our salvation. In this day and age of flood , in this day and age of things that are coming, are forcing their way into our homes, over the radio and over the TV. I would urge you to set that aside as best you can. To listen to the quiet voice of God, to take the time to do that as you look into his word and as you pray to him. Because that's how God will appear to be the rock, the salvation that we need in this world of flux. Let's pray. Lord God, we we thank you for your strength and for your love. We thank you that you care about us. We thank you that you are both willing and able in Jesus Christ to deal with our sin. To give us that solidity that we need in you. Help us to see that, Father. Help us to see that more than we see the things around us, the things that give the appearance of being stable and solid. We praise you. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.