Thank you. Thank you both, Lydia and Linda, for that reminder. What if, right? What if all those Trials of life are there to remind us that this world is not our home. What if exactly? Well, it's a privilege I have to uh share God's word with you today. I want to invite you to turn To Paul's letter to the Galatians. We're going to read from Galatians chapter 5 in just a bit. So if you want to find your find that place in the New Testament. And um take your little ribbon thing and put it in the page there because we're going to refer back to it throughout the message But before we uh read from God's Word, uh you'll see in the bulletin there this little poem by Christina Rossetti. Who has seen the wind? Neither you nor I, but when the trees bow down their heads, the wind is passing by. And we're reminded of Jesus' words to the Pharisee Nicodemus, who visited him at night. And they were discussing how one inherits the kingdom of heaven, how one enters into God's family. And Jesus said, He must be born from above. He must be spiritually born. And then Jesus elaborated in a very similar way, the wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. We see the effects But we can't see the Spirit of God. And this is the mysterious work of the third person of the Trinity. God the Holy Spirit. So we continue today to look at this three-part series that Pastor Randy started a couple of weeks ago. The Foundations of a Vital Church. You'll see the title in the sermon outline is correct, and two or three inches down, the uh one of the main points is not correct. It says Faithful Church. We want to be a faithful church, but the point here is to be a church filled with life and vital The vitality that comes only from God. So we continue that. And you remember the first point two weeks ago we looked at? By necessity, a church that is vital, a church that is filled with life, is a church that is Christ-centered. Christ-centered, recognizing from the pastor to the Hebrews from chapter 1 that Jesus Christ is above all things. That he is alone God, and he is the only one who is able and willing. Praise be to God. To offer that which was necessary for you and I, and that is the purifications for our sin. Through his death on the cross. And he conquered death, and he rose victorious from the grave, and triumphantly ascended to the right hand of the majesty on high, the writer of Hebrews tells us, and we worship Christ. And so a church that is vital, a church that is alive, a church that is worth worthy of the name, Christian church, is Christ Centered. That was the first point. The second point that Pastor Randy took us through last week from Hebrews chapter 2 is that the church is gospel -driven. The good news that this holy God who created all things would never ever compromise his holiness, would never diminish his holy law, would never throw it out because you and I couldn't achieve that standard. He wouldn't say, oh, well, that's okay. You don't have to love me or serve me with all your being. No, he would never compromise his holiness. In fact, rather, he himself took on flesh. And he lived as one of us, as one under the law, perfectly obeying every jot and tittle of the law. And took on your sin and my sin, our disobedience to the law, became a curse for us. Suffered that death on the cross. This is the good news. This is the evangel. This is why we We uh don't proselytize the rest of the world. We don't try to conquer them and make them come to our ideology. We evangelize the rest of the world. We have a message and we stand in the town center and we cry aloud, the king. The king is loving. The king is worthy of praise and service and adoration and your life. And we have a message of hope. And so the vital church is Christ-centered and gospel -driven, and it is spirit-filled. Spirit-filled. The church we are called to, the Church of Jesus Christ, is a church where we're called to relate to one another, not isolate from one another. That's why Pastor Randy encourages don't bolt for the doors. Fellowship. And join a small group and relate to one another and interact. Not just on the scores of the O's game or what is happening in the community, but interact with this great news that we've been given, that Jesus Christ has shed his blood for us. That's what it means to be gospel -driven and Christ-centered. To be spirit-filled is to be cooperating with God's Spirit at work in us. We want the gospel. We need the gospel. We need the gospel to be worked out in us. That gospel of Jesus Christ is not merely for entrance into the family of God, but it is the very breath in which we live and move and have our being. We fulfill our individual roles through the gospel as the Spirit gives us the life. Take for example a husband who sins. Not that any of us would do that. What we need to know is that the gospel is our life, that Jesus Christ is the gospel, and that the Spirit gives us utterance. So the husband who sins against the wife The husband has a unique role to fulfill to the glory of God. And in that sin, his role is diminished. But what does the wife need? The wife needs a husband. What does the husband need to do? To be? He needs to be and to do husbandry And so living in the gospel is to receive the forgiveness that Christ has purchased for that sin. And to receive by faith the forgiveness of Christ, and then to be clothed again in the righteousness of Christ. Admitting and acknowledging that his husband righteousness is pathetic. But clothed in the righteousness of Christ, He is able to enter into again that role that God has called him to and fulfill That which he is to be to the glory of God. I think we lose sight of that Because we lose sight of the role of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer and the life of the church. To be spirit-filled is to be a people who are joyfully cooperating with the work of God's Spirit in our lives, to bring us to a deeper knowledge of God's grace in the gospel, that grace which he lavished on us as sinners. responding to the truths of the gospel with an eagerness, a zeal, if we could be so bold as to use that Presbyterian term, a zeal to live a life that reflects God's glory in all that he calls us to do, trusting that he who began this good work in us is faithful and will complete it even unto that day when Christ Jesus returns to claim his bride. So much confusion about the work of the Holy Spirit Time does not permit me to give you many illustrations to this effect. Maybe see me in the lobby and we can Talk about all the abuses of the Spirit that we've each encountered. But Jesus Christ, knowing what we needed And speaking to his disciples, we just heard from John 16, thank you, Randy, for that. Jesus said, It is to your advantage that I go away. Can you believe such words? The Holy Son of God said, It is to your advantage that I go away. Why? Because if I do not go, then I cannot send. I cannot send another just like me. And when he comes, he will glorify me, for he will take what is mine, and he will declare it to you. The Holy Spirit of God works in us to communicate the life of God. The Holy Spirit of God reveals to us Jesus. Paul told the Corinthians, no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says, Jesus be accursed, and no one can ever say Jesus is Lord except By the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit regenerates us. He gives us life, according to John 3. The Holy Spirit assures us that we belong to God, according to Romans 8. Verse 16, the Holy Spirit seals us until the day of Christ's return, Ephesians 1. The Holy Spirit sanctifies us. He grows us up. Ephesians 5. The Holy Spirit produces fruit in our lives. We're going to see that from Galatians 5 today. The Holy Spirit gives good gifts to the church. From 1 Corinthians 12, the Holy Spirit empowers our evangelism. According to Acts chapter 1, the Holy Spirit is vital for the believers. Imagine how long the church would have lasted without Jesus fulfilling that promise to send the Holy Spirit. Can you put it in your head for just a sec? Imagine how long the church would have lasted. If you said a full generation, you're probably way overshooting. I doubt very seriously, with just a cursory reading of the New Testament and their lives being reflection of our lives as well, that they would have lasted a couple of weeks. Without the Holy Spirit to provide life, to bring an awareness, and to work repentance in the heart of the believer. So it's our pursuit as the community of Christ, our pursuit to pursue together. The truest picture or reflection of Jesus Christ. Isn't that what it means to glorify God and enjoy Him forever? And so we have this passage before us. Paul writing to a church that has received the good news of Jesus Christ, have embraced the forgiveness that Christ purchased Are attempting to understand the liberty within which they live. And Paul writes to them the work of the Holy Spirit and how we can cooperate. So I want to read from Galatians 5, beginning in verse 13, all the way to the end of the chapter. God 's word for you individually and for us together For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries Dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before. That those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy , peace , patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, gentleness, self-control Against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. So if we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Paul is writing to a group of people who have understood the gospel and have tasted the sweetness of the freedom that Christ purchased. Freedom from the bondage of sin. And there's a group of uh Judaizers, Jewish people, who have come and said, that's too good. That news is too good. We've must also keep the law. We've got to obey the law in order to be right with God. And Paul is in the first several chapters hammering that. He's taking a firm stand against the legalism that is being presented. To that fledgling church. But in this section, and in verse thirteen in particular, he turns the attention to the other and equally dangerous. Reaction to the gospel, and that is, well, if we're free, then we can do whatever we want to do. That's pretty cool. And Paul says, no, do not use your freedom, brothers, as an opportunity, as a place of operations. It's a military term there. as a base of operations for your flesh. Don't do that because your flesh will wrap onto that like a boa constrictor onto a warthog And you will be killed. Don't do it. Remember that Paul stood against this in other letters. We're called to relate to one another, not to isolate from one another. That is the picture of the gospel community. And so he says, don't use an opportunity for your flesh But he says, through love you will serve one another. This is the community of faith operating, reflecting Christ, self-sacrificial love. Meals ministry, praying for one another, cutting grass, raking leaves, helping people move their household goods, finishing off sheetrock. Coming alongside a wayward team, serving one another through love I think it's interesting that Paul here says all of this hangs on the one word. And he doesn't quote the greatest commandment, to love your Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, body, and strength. He goes right to the second commandment. Love your neighbor as yourself. You say, Paul, you missed something. What's going on? Why did you do that? Well Paul knows what the Apostle John knows, and that is you can't say you love God if you do not love your brother. You cannot say, I love God and we relate well together if you withhold love from your fellow believer. Remember uh several weeks ago we looked at Hebrews 13. In the beginning of that chapter, the writer of Hebrews pastoring that people in persecution, the first thing he wanted to remind them of in terms of good followership is Let brotherly love continue. It should be there. It should show up in your congregation. They will know we are Christians by our love. And Paul points out the enemy to the love is right there within each of us. This word that is translated flesh in the ESV, it's translated probably sinful nature and your NIV if you have that is the Greek Greek word sarx. It certainly is referred to uh as the body, the physical body in various passages, but it's also that element of us. That is contrary to God. It's that part of us that wants no part of God. And it's that indwelling sin that Paul talks about when he wrote the letter to the Romans. It's that thing that rears its ugly head when we go to pray, when we go to Bible study When we encounter a fellow believer who has a word of admonition or rebuke for us, it's that thing that creeps up and finds itself spilling out It's the flesh. And Paul says it wars against the Spirit of God within. Please don't leave this room unaware of the enemy within. It's feisty. It's scheme. It's nasty. It wants to win. So we come to a couple of warnings that Paul gives to his beloved church in Galatia. I just want to point these out because when I was rereading this and studying this and trying to put an outline together, these jump off of the scripture page. The first one is found in verse 15, and I think it's it relates it it has to do with our relationship with one another. And the second is found in verse 21, and it has to do with our relationship ultimately with God. The first warning is this If we're not aware of that enemy within, then we'll go to our natural tendency. And Paul says in verse 15, our natural tendency is like something off the discovery channel. We will bite and devour, and be careful lest you consume one another. You see the progression there? It's like the plains of Serengeti It's like left to ourselves, not cooperating with the Spirit of God, we'll bite at one another, we'll gossip, we'll tear down, we'll dismantle We'll judge. We'll sit in moral high ground. We'll evaluate without the criteria of the word. And we'll bite and we'll pick and we'll pull. But it leads to devouring, will crush the spirit of our fellow believer We'll squelch a young person who's just trying to feel their way through what it means to follow Christ, and they utter something that's weird in the Bible study Well, that doesn't have anything to do with the confession of faith. Be careful, Paul says, lest you consume one another. You see, when the flesh is at work, we've got to get this. When the flesh is at work, it always, without exception, leads to destruction There is no kind of cooperation with the flesh that leads to life So Paul says, be warned. Be warned. The natural tendency is to bite, devour, and consume. And then the second warning is ultimately the greater of the two warnings. Did you hear it when I read earlier? After Paul lists the deeds of the flesh, he says, I warn you. As I warned you before, that those who do such things, those who practice these things, will not inherit the kingdom of God. We we need to let that sink in. There's a misconception that the God of the Old Testament is all wrath and judgment and fire and mountains trembling, and the God of the New Testament is all whistling Dixie and eating a sandwich at the foot of a hill. The apostolic warning coming from Paul is for Columbia Presbyterian Church 2011. This date, whatever that is, twenty fourth, and this time. Because We need to know that if you continue in these things, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. So let me plead with you to pay attention to this warning as I demand of you, my fellow brothers and sisters, to plead with me to not Ignore that warning. This is serious stuff Paul says there's a better way. Hallelujah. There is a better way. Paul says, so don't be consumed. Don't bite and devour and all this stuff. The flesh is there. Yes, it's an enemy, and yes, it will consume. But there is a better way, and so I tell you the better way. Walk by the Spirit. Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. And the desires of the spirit against the flesh, for these are opposed to one another to keep you from doing the things you want to do. Now, outside of Christ, the thing we want to do is to disobey God. But those who have been born again, those who have been regenerate, those who have been saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. Want to please God. And so Paul says, listen, the deepest desire of your heart, believer, is to please the God who made you And redeemed you and has completed you in Christ and is bringing you to that day So the thing that you want to do, the Holy Spirit of God, is right there to enable you to do. There is a better way, he says, to walk by the Spirit. In verses 16 to 18, we see two beautiful word pictures of what it means to cooperate with the Spirit. You want to be a vital church, CPC? I do. I know you do. So let's keep in step with the Spirit. Two word pictures. The first is in verse 16. The Greek word parapeteo. To walk by the Spirit. Jesus was referred to as a parapetic rabbi. You know what that means? Aristotle had a parapatetic school And he would walk. It means literally going from place to place. He had no regular synagogue that he taught from. So going from place to place, and he taught as he went What Paul says is that the Spirit leads us from place to place, from glory to glory, from grace to grace. Walk with the Spirit. It's like the the picture of all those golden ticket holders from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Not the scary one with Johnny Depp, but the good one with Gene Wilder. They get into the chocolate factory and it's all filled with wonder, right? I mean a chocolate river? Come on, right? But you have to stay with Willy Wonka Because he alone knows all the dangers. And you can see how good it did the first four, right? And even Charlie, he drank busy lifting drinks Walk with the Spirit, by the Spirit, wherever the Spirit leads, as the Spirit goes, parapateo Going from place to place, stay with God's Spirit. This world is filled with danger. Threats abound to rob you of your joy and ultimately even the inheritance Walk with the Spirit. And then the second word found in verse 18, pedagogue. We see this again, to be led by the Spirit. That's the guardian. This is what Paul uses in in Galatians chapter 3, that the law served as our guardian to keep us guarded, protected, until the time of Christ had come. Same word here. It's that pedagogue. It's that Spirit's work to guard and to guide against the thoughts, the words, the deeds that don't reflect the life of the living God within. The pedagogue It's kind of like the picture of Jiminy Cricket. Remember Pinocchio? Always let your conscience be your guide. What happened to Jiminy Cricket when he discard what happened to Pinocchio when he discarded Jiminy Cricket? He's on Pleasure Island, shooting pools, smoking cigars and drinking beer. He became a Presbyterian I'm here all week. Try the uh at least I hope I am. It's the idea of a guardian. Paul says, be led by the Spirit of God. There is a better way than simply devouring one another. Yikes. And then Paul says, again, I think Paul is a big brother. We don't have a history of his family, but this guy Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, of course, writes like our big brother. And in verse 17, right in the center of these two better ways. Verse 16, walk by the Spirit. Verse 18, be led by the Spirit. He reminds us again of the enemy, the flesh. As if Paul knows how dull we really are. And here's the reminder. Several years ago I read a book called The Enemy Within, Straight Talk About the Power and Defeat of Sin by Chris Luntgard. I recommend it to every person within the sound of my voice. Lundgard takes the Puritan John Owens uh the death of death and the death of Christ, and he basically brings it into modern language for us. But Lundgard uses an illustration in one of his chapters to describe the flesh reaction when you and I seek to walk by the Spirit or meditate on the Word of God or pray intercessing. for our brothers and sisters. And he describes it this way. You enter your biology 101 lab room and you're handed a live wolverine to dissect Without the anesthesia, without any way to tie down the wolverine, here's your scalpel. Have at it. So what do you do? Do you talk nicely to the Wolverine? Please, Wolverine, would you sit on the table so I cut you open and look at your insides? You can rest assured that you will receive the claw, the tooth, and everything that Wolverine has to offer. So it is with our flesh when we Walk by the Spirit. When we are led by the Spirit, we can rest assured that that which is at war with God's Spirit in us will rear its ugly head. Which is easier to watch a two-hour Bruce Willis movie or Jane Austen movie or to read five minutes of scripture? You can answer that privately. Because the flesh helps with that answer. So Paul gives these two lists, and they are in stark contrast. Throughout Scripture, there's several of these lists that go along. The list that Paul lists of the deeds of the flesh, they're in verse 19, 20, and 21. They hardly need any explanation, and I won't give them explanation here. I want to encourage you to think about that list this way. With the words that Paul ends that list, his holy etcetera, if you will. And things like these. Because that is not an exhaustive list, but it's simply representative of the work of our flesh. Producing lusts and impurities of all manners and sorts and kinds And Paul says, those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Now, if you're anything like me, you may be right now saying Okay, so h ha how many how how many times d how many times do I have to do those things before I am disinherited? Let me answer the question two two ways. The first way is this, you're already guilty All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. If you don't manifest these things on a daily basis, that doesn't mean that your heart Fallen in Adam is not right there and already under the judgment of God. That's the bad news of the gospel, right? But there is some help, as God's word clearly lays this out. The Greek word here translated for do these things Indicates habitual action, not an occasional lapse. Habitual action, not an occasional lapse. But I would be wise to point out to you, and we would all be wise to hear, that an occasional lapse Must never be entertained. That's what Paul is saying about indulging the flesh. Because occasional lapses left unchecked become a lifestyle Of habitual action. And all of us need to know that left to ourselves That's us. So you see how the love of Paul is? Let's keep in step with the Spirit. Let's walk by the Spirit. Let's be led by the Spirit. The writer of Hebrews, we heard the last couple of weeks, today, if you hear the Spirit of God speaking to you, do not harden your hearts. As has been done in the rebellion, today is the day of salvation. If that list reflects your life I want to encourage you to find forgiveness in Christ today. To come to Him, to admit what God already knows, to acknowledge that openly before Him, and to receive the forgiveness. that Christ has purchased for you. To receive that forgiveness and to walk in newness of life as the Spirit of God gives you life. But look at this second list. It is a character sketch of our great God and Savior. It's a reflection of Jesus Christ. And each of these can be found in the life of Christ, even, if you will, self-control. And so as we see the list of the fruit of the Spirit, it's important for us to see that it's the fruit of the Spirit, not fruits. Not plural. We've been uh having some summer fruit salad in our house And so it's not just mango and raspberry and blackberry and bananas and all this stuff. You can see the different fruit. But it's one big bowl of fruit with vanilla pudding mix to mix it all up with, which is really good But it's that picture of we see what love is, we know what joy and peace and patience, kindness Gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, and self-control. But to see them together, woven together, they don't exist in isolated vacuums. It is a picture of Christ. And so Paul lays this list out for us, this character sketch of Christ and he says, This is what is produced in you, believer. Look for these things. Check all that apply. And get your friends and spouses to look for these things. Because this is the way we evaluate how we are doing in Christ Patients show up at the sight of that flat tire? Is joy evident in that hospital room Is self-control the watchword in front of that computer screen? This is the way that we evaluate the work of God in us God didn't leave us to guess at it. Interesting balance to be struck with the fruit of the Spirit, lest anyone be tempted to say, well, I ain't got no love because obviously God ain't produced in me yet. I ain't got no joy because Pastor Tim said it's all a work of the Spirit, it's an exclusive work of the Spirit. He produces it. You'll see in the bulletin outline, we're not going to spend time on it right now, but every one of these characters, characteristics of Christ is also commanded in the scriptures. We don't get away with just saying, well, I'll let go and let God I always switch that to say, I'll just lay back and blame God. I'm just gonna lay back and blame God. Because if there's no patience in me, that's because God hadn't produced it there yet So I'll choke the life out of you in a meeting. And it's God's fault. And we can't get away with that. We're held accountable to reflect the life of Christ. And then Paul makes that statement. I wrestled with this statement when I was in my twenties. Against such things there is no law. And I think it means simply that. It's like what's the deeper meaning? What's going on? Against this list, the fruit of the Spirit There is no law against that, first of all. And secondly, there is no either man-made law nor God-given law that can produce that I don't care how many times you slap choose civility on the back of your car, if somebody cuts you off in traffic, choose civility rule cannot help you to be civil. But the Spirit of the Living God at work in you, you're not only civil, you'll go the extra mile and the extra self-sacrificing activity. And it's just the same with God-given laws. That cannot produce life in us. When the law comes and says, do not covet, Paul says, all he wanted to do was covet more And so when Paul finishes this list of the fruit of the Spirit, he says, against such things there is no law. There is no law, man-made or God-given, that can produce the life of Christ. Only and exclusively by the Spirit of the living God. So how do we walk with the Spirit? Two points in closing. First is, we crucify the flesh. Crucifixion means death, no exceptions, never will be one. I was reminded when I was looking at a commentary on this passage by Philip Riken of the characteristics of crucifixion and how crucifixion is a shameful death. Crucifixion is a painful death. There is pain involved. Crucifixion is a gradual death. It's not immediate. And crucifixion is a final death. And so it applies as you and I crucify the flesh, as we mortify the flesh, as we put to death the deeds of our flesh and our sinful nature. It's shameful. It's painful. It is gradual. And we need to take Great comfort in the fact that God's sanctifying process is a process. But be encouraged, beloved. It is a final death. Those who have crucified the flesh with all its passions and desires We walk with the Spirit. Maybe it's a reminder of something you already know. That Doing the things according to the flesh, it just feels right. Feels right to reach out and smack somebody. It just feels good Initially. And to withhold, to practice self-control, it feels like death And that's because Jesus said the call to salvation is if anyone would follow after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me daily. It's gonna feel like death to follow Christ. And so Paul gives those two reminders right as the conclusion. Here's Big Brother Paul again It's almost as if we need the reminder scattered throughout. So if the Spirit of the Living God is the source of life, then the Spirit of the Living God should set the course for our lives. Verse twenty five. And no matter where you are in your walk with the Lord You're neither to become conceited about that and provoke one another, nor are you to become envious of those who look like it have it altogether. You see the reminder there in verse twenty-six? So how do we do it We do it by a meditation on God's Word. If you would write in your notes, Colossians 3. 16 and Ephesians 5. 18 And then the little reference point afterwards, the little FF, what follows? If you look at what follows from those two scriptures, what follows is parallel. It's Paul's parallel passage. And what follows is speaking to one another and hymns and psalms and spiritual songs and giving thanksgiving to God. If you look at Ephesians 5, 18 Paul says, do not be drunk with wine, but whenever it is now, it's in the active present, be filled with the Spirit. And you think, since everything that follows is the same in Colossians 3. 17 and follows, you'd think it would say the same thing. But if you look at Paul's letter to the church in Colossae, he says Let the word of Christ dwell within you richly. And so what we conclude from that is that God's word that was breathed out by God's Spirit Is the process by which we walk and keep in step with the Spirit of the living God. It's just that simple. So we don't run around looking for conferences where people are telling us that we're going to be thrown against the wall or smacked down on our face or somehow float above the ground three inches or whatever. We read the Bible. We process the truths of the gospel together in fellowship. We admonish and instruct and love and serve one another. And by so doing, we, Lord willing, keep in step with the Spirit. Let's pray together. Lord, I praise you for the way that your word penetrates our hearts, and I I ask, Lord, that that would indeed be the case right now. that even now as we prepare to sing in response to celebrate your holiness, to worship you, that you would draw us into a more obedient walk, more disciplined life. That we would not uh indulge the flesh, Lord, but that we would um take advantage in the truest sense of the word the freedom that you have provided, and that we would By your grace, meditate on your word and be filled with your Spirit so that the world would see that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. In the name that is above every name we pray. Amen.