If you would turn to Ephesians chapter four, we're going to continue what we began last week. And if you would take out your outline as well, that'd be helpful. Ephesians chapter four verses one and then seventeen through seven through sixteen. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received But to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. It is he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers. To prepare God's people for works of service so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every teaching, by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Last week we looked at the first part of chapter 4, and we saw that verse 1 of chapter 4 is the pinnacle of Ephesians. It is the crux of what Paul is trying to say. He's looked in the first three chapters and he's explained the indicatives of who we are. In verse 1 of chapter 4, he makes a statement that he then spends the rest of the book, the rest of his letter, unpacking. And we're looking at Ephesians 4, beginning with verse 1, and seeing that overarching look of Ephesians. Last week we looked at the unity that's found in verses 2 through 6. That's the first of the three points that Paul makes about how it is that we live worthy. Today we're looking at verses 7 through 16, which is Paul speaking about the gifts and the ministry we're called. To practice as members of Christ's body. And so we need to look back at verse 1 again and see what it is it's saying. Just remind you briefly that we spoke last week about the fact that verse one is tremendously good news. Because what Paul is saying Is very good. We might misunderstand it. We might come to think that what he's saying is, listen, God has done all these wonderful things for you that I've explained to you in these first three chapters. Pay him back. But that's not what Paul is saying. Paul is not saying, now that you've been given a wondrous thing, out of your gratitude work to show that you're worthy of it. That's not the sense of the term worthy. What Paul is saying in saying live worthy is live in equilibrium. Remember that term means balance. It's an economic term that looks at whether or not the scales balance out. But I think we need to understand it in a little bit more of a popular way. What Paul is saying is live in harmony with who you are. Live in balance with the person God has made you. And to do that, he's begun by saying, therefore, because of all these things, because of what God has done. Live as the person God has made you to be. And so we looked at what it is that Paul has said about who we are, and we saw that it says, I am a child of God. I am a child who has many siblings. I am a child of God who has many siblings and is deeply loved by my father. I am a child of God with many siblings who is deeply loved by my father, who is gifted for service. And lastly, I am bound for heaven. That is your identity. And as you continue to grow in your relationship with the Lord, if you continue to exercise that identity, it needs to become second nature for you. It needs to be what you think of yourself. It needs to be how you present yourself to yourself and to others. Because if you haven't grasped your identity in Jesus, You can't live worthy of that identity. We also looked at the fact that there are some challenges to us as we begin to try and identify ourselves as we grow in that realization of who we are. And Paul stresses that in the last half of this epistle. One of the things that he stresses is that you're involved in spiritual warfare. If you look at chapter 6, Where he's concluding his talk, his message on living worthy. He says in verse 10 and following: Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground, and after you've done everything, to stand. You're in a spiritual war. Satan does not want you to live as a child of God. He does not want you to know that you are a child of God, and he will deceive you. He is called the deceiver. He intends to prevent you from doing exactly what Paul has said, and that is the ground of our war. That is the battle that we have to fight. That is our calling. But there are some human elements to challenge our calling and our identity as well, and the first of which is being that our identity is that of adopted children. There's a transition that's taken place. There is a time when you were not a child of God. God has called you from the beginning of the world. Before the foundations of the world were set, he knew he would call you. But there was a time in your life when you were not a child of God. There is a time when you became the adopted child of God, and that identity that you had before has ceased. And the identity that you have now is as God's child. Anytime you make a change like that, there's a lag. And it takes time to grow. It takes time to adjust. It takes time to live as the person you have become. And so we either might not have gained perspective on who we are. It's quite possible that there are some of you here this morning who've never really concretely thought. about your identity in Jesus. You may have taken it for granted, but you need to know specifically who you are You need perspective. There may be others of you who haven't gained that perspective at one time or another in your challenges and the trials that you face have lost that perspective. So that your struggle now isn't so much to gain something you've never known, but to recapture that experience of your identity. But perspective is a tremendous challenge to the believer because it is so easy for us to narrow our vision, to focus in on the trials. To focus in on our difficulties and lose sight of our identity and of our Lord. But there's another challenge, humanly speaking, that's on our end of the issue, and that is A failure to live with the power that is ours as a child of God. As a child of God, you have tremendous resources. You have the Spirit of God indwelling you. You have God's promises to care for you. But it's easy for us to live with old habits. It's easy for us to resort to the old ways that we've done things. I just got a new computer. And it's an amazing thing. Very powerful. Lots of things that it can do. But you know, there's there's ways that I can simply refuse to use that power We can still do our booking, our our bookkeeping by hand. And my wife is is really good at that and she loves to do that and she's not excited about the computer the way that I'm excited about the computer. So we're still doing some things the old way But there is power available to us as Christians that we have to recognize and we have to use. We have to exercise that power You have to be aware of the resources God has granted to you. You might think that what we're saying in this passage is, or saying in this point about power, is live as Superman. But that's not what Paul's saying. Paul isn't telling you to live as Superman while you're still some mere mortal. What Paul is telling you is that you are better than Superman, but you're living as a mere mortal. Because you're better than Superman, because you are a child of God, use the gifts that God has given you. Accomplish the things that He intends for you to accomplish. Be who you are. Grasp your identity. One of the things that Paul says and the focus of this morning sermon as he speaks of our identity is this: living worthy means living in ministry. He says in verse 7, But to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why he says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. Jesus has given gifts. The giving of those gifts has a purpose, and that is that we might accomplish ministry. The first thing we need to understand about the fact that we are called to ministry is that we have been gifted for ministry. If you look at that outline, I changed the beginning of the talk. The fourth point. You recall that last week I said that we were called to service. In further study of this passage, what I want to stress isn't that we're called to service, but that we're gifted for ministry. We are called certainly to do things for Jesus, and that's what this passage is all about. But the way that Paul presents this is by beginning with the notion that we are gifted for a purpose. If you have a relationship with Jesus Christ, if you sit there as a child of God this morning, you must know that you have a gift. Now Paul begins by talking about the grace that's given, and that intends to point out that we have been given salvation, but more than salvation. We've been given gifts. He says in verse 8, and he gave gifts to men. Each of us has been given a gift. But it's a gift. And that means that we're not his master, we are his steward. It is a gift. It is not mine by right. It is not yours by right. The things that God has enabled you to do are not yours because you're a wonderful person and you control and you own them. They're given as a trust. The difference between a master is he who gets, possesses, and sustains what he owes, what he owns. A steward, on the other hand, is given a trust. He's given a responsibility, and he has a master to whom he is accountable for the best use of that trust. We are stewards. What God has given to you, He is given with a trust. It is not something over which you can become proud It is not something over which you control its full use. You are a steward, and you are called to use that for your master's benefit. But the point is, he's given us these gifts. He's given them to each of us. It says in verse 7. But to each one of us, grace has been given. That's an emphatic He's not saying to each of us, he's not saying you all have this, he's saying to each one of us. You cannot be a believer without a gift. You cannot be a child of God without being a steward. You each have a gift. Another way to look at this is that there are no benches in this game. There are no spectators. This is not something that you can sit out and watch unfold. You have a part in Jesus' plan. So they're a gift They're given to each of us. But Paul also stresses that they're given in a different measure. He says in verse 7 But to each one of us, grace has been given, as Christ apportioned it. Dick read earlier from Romans 12, where Paul says, We have different gifts according to the grace given to us. Paul has stressed the unity in the verses 2 through 6, and we look at that fairly well last week. He's stressing now both the diversity and the unity. We are one body. But we have different gifts. We have different tasks and we're given different trusts. Not all of us are called to do what is popular. Not all of us have what Paul might call the higher gifts. And I would imagine that every one of you sitting there has something that you would love to be able to do. But if you could write out your dream list of gifts and your dream list of ministries that God's calling you to, it might be somewhat different from the things He's shown thus far. But you're a steward. God has given you those gifts, and God has given you those gifts for a purpose, and it's His intent that you exercise them and that you accomplish that purpose. You cannot choose your gifts. I'm sad to say that. There are gifts that I would love to have. There are gifts that I sometimes become envious of. It's a lot like when I was in third grade. We lived in Florida. My grandparents had gone off to visit Bush Gardens in Florida and they had come back loaded with treasures for their four grandsons. And as I saw the gifts without knowing who they were given to, I knew which one I wanted. There was no question, it was a beautiful little ring with with a silver and a little black stone in it. And I thought, ah, just let me have my choice. But his grandmother handed them out. That was the first to go, and it went to the firstborn, and I happened to be secondborn. It wasn't mine. And I got this really neat little pen that had this boat with skiers trailing behind it that moved up and down the pen. Being a third grader and being rather immature in my use of my emotions. I let them know quite plainly that I was displeased. And I learned a very important lesson that morning as I sat upon my bed pondering the fact that not only did I not have the ring, but I no longer had the pen. And that is that gifts are at the discretion of the giver. A lesson that I hope I continue to learn as I look at what God is doing in my life. Because your gifts and my gifts are not at our discretion. They are at the discretion of the giver. You cannot Pretend who emphasis. You cannot pretend to be submitted to God To be his child and to love him while you grumble, complain, and become bitter about the gifts that you wished you had, failing to exercise the gifts that he's given. I want you to think about that for a moment. You cannot remain comfortable as you deceive yourself. Into believing that things are okay with God, that you love him and he loves you while you grumble, complain. Argue about the fact that the gifts you have aren't the gifts that you want. He's God. He is your loving father, he knows you best, and he has a purpose that he intends for you to accomplish. You are a steward. You are given the trust. You don't claim it. And you have gifts that he intends for you to use Moving on on the back of the page , point B, the body needs my gifts. If you look at what Paul does as he develops his point beginning in verse 12, he talks about the body. He's spoken a bit about the giver. who has ascended and descended, who has given gifts. He speaks about some of the people that he gifts the church with. And this morning we had the privilege of seeing that not only are gifts something given to the believer, they are the believer himself or herself given to the church as well. We have been gifted this morning with new members. They have gifts that we need, and God has known that and brought them to us You have gifts that we need. And this morning you need to recognize that your gifts are essential to our well-being. And not only ours as a congregation, but ours as the body of Christ represented here in this area. Your gifts exercised at Columbia Presbyterian are essential for the well-being of Chapelgate and of Grace Community. Because as the part of the body of Christ, we all must come together using our gifts to maturity. Paul says in verses twelve through sixteen, he speaks of the body of Christ, to prepare God's people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up. Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the ways. And blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and crackiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Your gifts are essential. The goal that God has for us as His church, the goal that we support as individual believers, is the fullness and the maturity of the body of Christ. Paul says here that will not happen unless the whole body does its ministry. Listen to verse 16. It's speaking of the body, and it says, from him, meaning Christ, the whole body, that's us. Joined and held together by every supporting ligament, that's you , grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. That's you. If I cut my knuckle, the finger below the knuckle is gone. If I just cut the ligament and don't take the bone off, the finger below the knuckle is useless. You each are essential to God's purpose. Your gifts are essential to God's purpose, and he's calling you through Paul and through me. To use your gifts. Now you may think that they're not important. You may think that the gifts that you have aren't essential and that if you don't do them somebody else will pick up the slack. You may be tired. You may have been using your gifts for so long you wonder where the other people are. It's a good question. But the point of the matter is your gifts are essential, and even if the others pick up the pace, you can't slow down. God will empower you and He will keep you going. If you want to see the body of Christ reach maturity and completeness, he's your gifts. Now you may be asking, well, what gifts do I bring to the body? I'm not all that significant and spectacular of a person. I sort of sit back as as the rest of the wallflowers do and And kind of wash as as the people with those wondrous gifts stand up front and do 'em. I can't play guitar like Charlie Lees. And I honestly can't. That's not the issue. The issue is you have a gift and God says use it. The issue is you have a purpose in this body and God says fulfill it. It may be doing something that's behind the scenes that nobody will know. And you may think because it's behind the scenes, nobody's going to notice if you fail. We will. You have gifts, and God wants you to use them. How do you identify them? Well, the first thing you have to do is you have to come back to that bedrock foundational realization. If I am united to Jesus, I I have gifts. It's not an issue of asking whether or not I do. It's an issue of asking what are they. So begin with the presumption that you have them. Begin with the presumption that they're necessary. How do you test your gifts? How do you find your gifts? Well, if you honestly have no idea about what it is God is calling you to do and has prepared you to do, ask someone who knows you well. Ask, what do you see God doing through me? Look back at your past and find out whether it's a gift of teaching, whether it's a gift of encouragement, whether it's a gift of exhortation. Whether it's a gift of preaching. What is it God has called you to do? And there's lots of quiet gifts such as giving and service, ministry. There's a lot of things that He can call you to do that may not involve anybody else ever knowing you've done them. But he's given you the gifts and you can ask people who know you. You can look at what it is you've been successful as you've done it When does God use you? And how does he use you? And if after you've exhausted both of those possibilities, you still don't have a sense of what God has gifted you to do, then you come to Alan and to me. And we'll take you through the scripture and we'll talk about some of the things that God does provide for people to do. We'll talk about some of the gifts that God's given, and we'll be willing to work with you. I haven't asked Alan, but I'm sure he'll say yes. But I'll be willing to work with you. Because your gift is important to us. And then lastly, as you begin to identify your gift, use it. Test it. See whether or not that's what God wants you to do. See how he blesses both you and the body as you use what you see as your gifts. God has given those gifts again with an intent. And He's asking you this morning To recognize that. And he's charging you this morning to identify and to use them. Because it's not just this church It's Jesus. It is his body. He is the head. And his body will come to fullness and to maturity. And it's you. Because if you don't use your gifts You'll not grow. But He's given you a responsibility, He's given you a trust, and He's calling you to use those gifts. I want you to leave beginning this morning to think about what is God telling you to do with your gifts. Let's pray. Lord, we are grateful that you have called us as your children, that you have given us the gifts that you've given, that you've established in our identity for us. That speaks powerfully of your love for us and of our opportunity to love you through the ministries that we exercise. Father, we long for the day when we will be in heaven and our ministry is to worship you forever, face to face. But we also long, Lord, to see your bride complete, unblemished, coming to you. Lord, we long to see your body fully exercised, developed and grown, able to bring you pleasure and glory. And so while we wait for that fulfillment, while we wait for that time that we're in heaven, Lord, we ask that you would continue to work in us that we might not be passive. That we might not be willing to sit back and wait simply to see what you will do, but Lord, use our gifts. Bring us to service, that we might please you and give you the honor that you so richly deserve. Where we don't know what it is you want us to do, Lord, please reveal that to us that we might intelligently serve you, that we might know we are your partners, able to do what you've asked of us. But Lord, don't let us sit back quiet. Don't let us continue to be wallflowers. Don't let us see ourselves as a useless cog in a large body. We're your child. We are essential to your your body's well-being. Lord, exercise our gifts for us and through us and in us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Oh, So I don't know.