So let's turn to Ephesians chapter 4 verses 1 through 6. If you have your Bible, go ahead and turn to that and I'll read it. While they're doing that, there's a little bit of an echo from me. Are you guys hearing an echo? I don't know if we can do anything about that. There we go, that's much better. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all I have an instinctive reaction whenever I have a biblical command given to me. And I don't know if you have the same question, but I'm going to show it to you this morning, and that's on your outline, and that is, is this good news? There's something I've been told to do, and my immediate reaction is to say, oh no. Another command. But I want you to think this morning about whether or not Paul's command to you to live worthy of the calling that you have received. This is good news. Because I believe that it is. You see, my immediate reaction is to say that Paul is now telling me, and I translate this into the Steve Green authorized version, which I advise none of you ever buy God has given you these wondrous things. God has done so much good for you. Now pay him back. You see, I translate live worthy to be, God has said that he's going to set his love on you because there may be something in your future that you're going to do that's really going to be grand and glorious, and therefore he has reason to love you. Let me set your hearts at ease this morning. Paul is not saying anything like that. The words can't mean that. Because there's a different message. You see what Paul is telling us is glorious good news. He's telling us the good news that we are to live in equilibrium with who we are. We're to live in balance with who God has made us. We are to live in harmony, to live worthy of the reality of who we are. God has called us to a calling. He has given us a new identity. And he expects us to live in light of that identity. That's all that Paul is saying Let me put it another way. It's like a balance. Alan teaches this particular verse in the newcomers class, the now discovering CPC class, and he says that it's really the term axios, which is the Greek word for worthy, it means in equilibrium. For example, if God has given you his Spirit, live as one who has the Spirit of God. If God has called you to be His child, live as a child of God. If God has given you his love and showered it upon you, live as one who has received God's love. That's what Paul is saying in verse 1. Live in a manner worthy of the calling you have received. Well, what is that calling that we have received? That's point B. If you don't write anything else out in your on your outline blank today, I want you to fill in those five blanks. Because Paul wants us to know who we are. He wants us to know what God has done in us. And he spent three chapters telling you that. Now he's moving forward and saying, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk worthy of the calling we have received. So therefore it's pointing back not just to something immediately preceding, but to the three chapters that speak of who we are in Jesus. It's telling us Because I have done this in you, live this way. He's telling us that we have to learn who we are. We've been orphans. We have each been separated from God from the fall of mankind. We have lived most of our lives, depending upon when you came to the Lord, in the reality of being separated from Him. And you develop a good mindset of being an orphan. Paul is telling you now, because you are a believer, and this is only true for those who have a relationship with the Lord through Jesus None of what I say in this message is something that you can't in your own power stimulate. If you don't have the calling, if you don't have the spirit, if you're not a child of God, and if you don't have his love, you can't live as if you do Your first issue is to get the calling. But for those of you this morning who have a relationship with God through the work of Jesus Christ, he's saying to you, because you are this, be this. Now on your blanket says I am capital letters and then there's a colon. I want you to write your name. For example, Steve is Or Mark is, or Dana is, or Ron is, or Jim is, or whoever your name is. Put your name in there. Write it down now and say, Steve is. And the first blind is a child of God. Ephesians 1 5 points out that in love he predestined us to adoption. I'm not going to go through all the verses that are next to the blanks because I'm going to assign that to you this week, or at least strongly recommend that you look at those. But the first point is that I'm a child of God. Now, Ephesians 1. 5 also points out that I have many siblings. That's the second blank. This is one of those y'all verses that Bob so good so clearly pointed out to us last time. Y'all have been called to adoption. You have many siblings, you are not alone. And that's going to be a focus for this morning. Who is deeply loved? Or if you want to emphasize on the unity, who are deeply loved. Ephesians 1 says, in love he predestined us to adoption. I want you to look this week at chapter 3, 14 through 19, because that so clearly points out God's love for us. I am a child of God with many siblings who is deeply loved by God, who is called to service. Next week we're going to look at the passage that follows this one, Ephesians 4:7 through 16. And that speaks of the ministry that God has called us to accomplish. I am a child of God with many siblings who is deeply loved by God, who is called to ministry or to service. And lastly, is bound for heaven. That is your calling. That is your identity as a believer, as a child of God. That is, this morning, who you are. Paul spends three chapters presenting that to you, and then he says, I, as a prisoner of the Lord, therefore urge you to live in a manner worthy of the calling you have received. The question then comes in, why do I fail to live up to my calling? There are three things that Paul points out this morning that I think you need to see. Bob did a good job last three weeks in pointing out that we are involved in spiritual war, and I want you to write next to Satan's challenges in the corner there. Spiritual warfare. The number one reason that I think we need to look at this morning that we fail to live up to our identity is that we are in spiritual warfare. Satan does not want you to know your calling. He does not want you to live up to your calling. And Paul points out in chapter 4 and 5 three challenges that Satan issues to the believer. Number one is what we're looking at this morning, and that is that he challenges us and he wants to break our unity Jesus' high-priestly prayer that Dick read before the sermon from John 17 is a prayer that Jesus has for the church as he is in the garden. Praying for them right before he's arrested. And his prayer is for one thing, that they might be one, as you and I are one. That same evening before he was arrested, as he had taught immediately following the Lord's Supper, he'd instituted the Lord's Supper, he'd washed the disciples' feet, and then he gives a new command. That command is a new command I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you. By this all men will know you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. There is a command that God gives us to unity that Satan wants to defeat. You have an adversary. And he will do what he can to break us apart. Second attack that Satan gives in preventing you from living according to your identity in Christ is he wants to prevent you from ministering. Ephesians 4, 7 through 16 points out that Paul is saying, We have been given gifts, we are called to service, and only as we fulfill that service using those gifts will the body of Christ come to maturity. We'll look at that next week. But Satan does not want you to use your gifts, and if he can keep you from recognizing that you even have them because he prevents you from knowing who you are in Christ, he's done his job. And then the last half of chapter 4 and the bulk of chapter 5, Paul points out that Satan's third scheme, his third point of attack, is to embroil us in sin. And Paul says, put off the old self and put on the new. So Satan has a strategy to prevent you from living according to your identity in Christ. That's why I want you this week. I'm really going to encourage you, and I'm going to ask you to do it now. I'm going to ask you now to do it this week. I want you to take five days And I want you to look at each of those points during one of your devotional times over those five days. There are passages that are next to it. But I want you to meditate this week on the fact that you are a child of God. Who has many siblings, you're not alone. It is not you and the Lord. It is you and the body and the Lord. Who is deeply beloved by God Who is called to service and who is bound for heaven. You need to make that second nature as you look at your relationship with the Lord, because if you don't have that down You can't live worthy of that calling. Secondly, not only are we involved in spiritual warfare, but one of the things that really is a problem for me as I try and live out my identity in Jesus is perspective. I misunderstand who I am. I have a narrow view. And I'd encourage you next to point two, when I say misunderstand who I am, to write perspective in big letters. Because you need to keep clearly in your mind who you are. I still see myself many times as an orphan. I don't recognize that I have been made a new creature. As you become a Christian, you have a new identity. You embark upon a new life, and you are no longer the same person. Paul speaks of it in Romans 7, where he says, My old self and my new self. Paul says in Galatians two, I have been crucified, and it's no longer I who lives, but Christ lives in me. In this life which I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and delivered himself up for me. You are a new creature. You have been given a new identity, and you need to recognize who you are When you introduced yourself earlier this morning, I want you to think back, how did you introduce yourself? What did you say to the people you were speaking to? People you don't know very well, hopefully, if you did what I said. People who you want to know because they're part of this body, which is your body. People who need to know you because you're part of their body. How did you introduce yourself? Probably you mentioned your name. You might have mentioned your job. You may have even mentioned how long you've been here. But there are a number of issues about you that you almost might look at as externals that you mentioned. Let me ask you this. I'm not going to ask for a show of hands. But did any of you mention your identity in Christ? When you mentioned who you are to those around you, was your identity in Christ the forefront of what you want them to know? Let me phrase it in a way that I think will emotionally communicate. Would God have introduced you to the people you introduced yourself to in the same way that you did? What would God want them to know about you? This morning I want you to understand that God is telling you who you are And it's a wonderful truth, as long as you're in Jesus. He wants you to establish yourself in that identity. He wants it to be second nature. This week, please take those five truths. Meditate upon them. Ask God to make them second nature. Because only as you do that will you be able to live the truth of who you are. Now there's a third reason that I fail, and I think it's probably true for you guys as well. And that is because I have an old identity as well. And I battle my old nature. Some of you may have been Christians for years. And you may, in the best of cases, been growing strong in that relationship with the Lord. Your roots may have been well founded in the gospel of grace, and you may see God changing you radically in your life. Praise the Lord. If that's your case, then most of what I'm going to tell you this morning is going to be second nature. But there may be those who, like me, have been a Christian for a long time and have had periods of growth that have been wonderful, and periods of stagnation that have been depressing. You may have habitual sins that you continue to battle that have plagued and beset you from day one. You may have a very clear understanding of your old identity in the Lord. I mean your old identity in yourself, not your new identity in the Lord. And you may struggle. And when you hear this command, live worthy. You may have a lead balloon drop into your stomach that says, Lord God, I've tried. You can't. You may be a young Christian. You may have a long history of living that old life, of maintaining that old identity, and it may be so deeply inculcated into your understanding of who you are. That you don't have any idea what it means to live worthy. That your natural reactions are sinful. And that as you come to circumstances, you immediately respond in a sinful way You have an old self. You have an old identity. You have to battle that identity. You have to declare war. You have to decide that this stops. And you have to live in the power that God has given you. In 1 Corinthians 10, Paul writes, No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful and with that temptation will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. Satan has an enemy behind our lines. He's placed our enemy behind our lines. It's his spy. It's his associate. That's our old self. We have a history and a habit. We have to battle and we have to declare war. And this morning, you need to commit to breaking those habits. You need to commit to seeking God's power to live as the person he has made you to be. It has to stop. The reality of it is As you see more balance in your life between who you are and how you live, one of the major changes that's going to take place is going to be that of unity in the church As you focus upon yourself and as you focus upon your relationship with the Lord, it is easy to become me and thee. The reality of it is you have siblings. The reality of it is in 1 Corinthians 12, in Ephesians 4, in Romans 12, Paul wants to stress that we are united. Jesus' prayer the night that he's betrayed is for unity. Jesus' command to his disciples the night he is betrayed is that the world will know you're my disciples if you are united in love. Paul says here that the way we live worthy of our calling, the way that we live out our identity Is in unity. And he says that for a number of reasons. But number one, he points out that if we live worthy of our calling, it will be a humble lifestyle. On the back of your outline, moving into point two, God will humble you. For you see, you're not worthy of his calling. The very fact that if you struggled with the command like I do Oh Lord, live worthy? If I have to live worthy, I'm in trouble because like the prodigal son, I am unworthy. Paul in chapter two of this very letter has been saying, For by grace you have been saved through faith. That not of yourselves, not as a result of works, it's the gift of God. You can't boast about it because it's not from you. And so as I come to him and I have that identity in him, it's not because I'm a special person. Again, it's not because he saw either something in me Or because he saw something that with his help I would do, or for any reason that he has loved me other than he has chosen to set his love upon me. I am unworthy. As I grasp my unworthiness. I lose my pride, I lose my selfishness, and I focus on the wondrous good gift he has given me. You see, I haven't earned his love, but I have it. That should bring a smile to your face. Because you see, you are secure in his love. He has set it upon you, and it is not due to you. It's him. And as you see that, you lose a sense of yourself and you focus upon him. He is so wondrous. He's so good. He is so gentle and kind. That it's ludicrous for me in an understanding of that to think about being selfish. It's ludicrous of me to think of pride because I am scum. I am not worthy of his love, but I have it. On top of humbling me, God also makes it possible for me to love you. And to be honest, He makes it possible for you to love us as well. When I realize that I'm not worthy, when I realize that there is nothing in me that has promoted his love for me, I need to take that and make an extension on it. Because to be honest, each of you have his love the same way. None of you have earned it. None of you have a claim to it in yourself. And the freeing thought of that is as I look at you. I'm not called to love you because you have earned my love. I'm not called to love you because you have made it easy for me to love you. You're not called to love me because I'm easy to love. We are called to love each other because that is the nature of our identity. We are called to love each other because we have a Father who has loved each of us. And so I am not judging and weighing whether or not I can extend my love to you on the basis of whether or not you deserve it. And I hope that you sense that same command. You cannot decide who you will love in the body of Christ because of anything in them. We share the same Father. To some degree we all love the same Father, and that may make it easier for us to love each other. But we don't love each other because we love the Father We're commanded to love each other because he loves us. You have the Father not because He has decided you're worthy, but because He has decided to love. And I'm not called to love you because you can reciprocate. I'm called to love you because he has given Paul says in chapter 4, verses 2, be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Just as an aside, I want you to understand how strong that word is. Make every effort. He is saying, eagerly devote yourself completely, fully, wholly, in every way possible to preserving the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That is one of the more emphatic of the words in his entire letter. He's commanding you to set yourself to realize that you are one. Thirdly, as I grow in harmony or in balance or in equilibrium with who I am and how I live, as those two settle out and measure up. There's something else that happens. God enables me to grow in my humility and in my ability to love you because He focuses me on the things that you notice Verses four through six, Paul is teaching that there are a number of things that we all share. There is one body. We are one. We may not want to accept that. We may not want to live out the reality of that. There may be tension, there may be strife here even this morning. But we are one body, one seamless whole. There's one Spirit. God has given each of us His Holy Spirit in full measure. You cannot separate from one another because you have the same spirit. We are called to one calling, one hope of our calling. Do you realize that you will see each other face to face for eternity in heaven, and in the same time see God face to face? Now granted, there will be a glorification that takes place that will free us from those residual sins. But do you look forward to seeing each other in heaven for eternity, face to face? And in the same setting, worshiping God face to face. If there is anybody that you have Separated from. If there is a a tug in your heart that says that, Lord, anybody bought God 's telling you this morning to reconcile that relationship. There's a lot of ways to do that, and if you need counsel and help in how to do that, you can talk to me, you can talk to Alan, you can talk to your elder. But talk to somebody. Because you need to recognize that you need to take action, that you need to pursue reconciliation, and realize that there is one seamless body filled with one entire spirit. Who shares one hope of their calling, which is heaven together forever in the presence of God? You cannot let that fragmentation continue. There is one faith, one baptism, one Lord, one God and Father who is over all, through all, and in all. You are one. Jesus' prayer to the Father has been answered. And you will experience that unity forever. Why wait? Why allow Satan that delight in whatever fragmentation exists? You see, the reality of it is God is calling you to turn away from your sinful focus If you have one, and because I do, I'm sure that you must. God is telling you to turn away from that sinful focus on self. on differences, on offenses, on sin. And he's calling you to unity with one another and with him. We are the church. We are the body of Christ. There is one seamless whole. And we can begin to experience that now through His grace. God is urging you this morning to refocus upon what unites you as his body What can you diligently do to work, to earnestly and urgently and stridently preserve the unity of the body? To preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace? What can you do to bring honor to Jesus? What can you do to begin to grasp that identity He's given you as a child of God with all that that entails? You have the perspective that you are God's child. You have the power of the Holy Spirit given to you. You have a calling. Now if you don't have that calling and you're not clear, please talk to somebody this morning. Because it's available. But if you have that calling, if you have been given that new identity, I want you to live in light of that. There's a lot of reasons to do that. I think the two most important, beginning with number two, are because you need to live out who you are. You have been given a wondrous gift. Don't settle for lust. But number two is because it honors Jesus. He has given you that gift. He has made you his child. He wants you to experience the fullness of that. And to bring you honor. Let's pray. Lord God, it is an amazing truth to know that you love us. Thank you that you have chosen to set that love upon us in lavish measure. But Lord, we are a frail people. We are plagued by sin. We are beset with a failure to gain perspective. We see what we want to see. Lord, I ask that in this morning, through these words, and in the application that you bring, that you would change our perspective. That we might know intuitively and in second nature that we are your children with all that that entails. And that knowing we are your children, Lord, we would be able to live as your children. Experiencing the fullness of your grace, growing to the full measure of the body of Christ. Lord, build unity amongst us. Set us to your purposes. Empower us to fulfill those purposes and to bring you pleasure, that your church might accomplish what you set it to do, and that we might be the people of God. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think