I'm reminding you get into the third posture of the disciple as given to us in the book of Ephesians, the posture of walking. I heard there was a little bit of enthusiasm for that when he did that, right? Walking. Let me tell you, since I've last preached, I was uh at a conference at Long Reach Church of God, and I want to tell you, they engage more And you know, I get a little spoiled over that. I mean when the when the preacher starts preaching over there, people start shouting, Come on, come on you know I want to get him so that he is realizing there are live people out there that he's talking to. Let's engage a little bit when it's appropriate. Not for the simple fact. It's not the idea of you know kind of stirring you up as a pep rally. This is God coming to speak to us through his word. But I think it's appropriate for us to be able to respond so that we're engaged in God's word in that. Anyway, the text this morning is from Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1 Let me read the text, which is as I have said the what I call the link pin of the book of Ephesians As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. And I've reminded you many times that that word live a life is the word walk. Walk worthy. That's the basic, simple command. Boil it all down. That's what Paul's saying in verse 1. Walk worthy. And I believe that the posture is significant. I believe that that word walk is significant that he uses, a word that is used to describe the Christian life more than any other posture. Eight times Paul uses that word in the book of Ephesians. And I think it's significant how he uses it. Very briefly, let's notice them. You see them listed there, but let's just briefly see. Chapter 2, in verses 1 and 2, Paul says, As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live, the word is walked, in which you used to walk. When you followed the ways of this world, the ruler of the kingdoms of the air. What do you notice about that? It's an indicative, right? It's you know a statement of fact. It's not telling you to do something, it's simply stating a fact And then as he goes on in verse 10, talks about what God did in remaking you, for we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. Literally the Greek is that he created us in Christ Jesus to do good works in which God prepared us to walk. So the idea there again is walking. Again, not telling you to do anything. Chapters 1 to 3. It's an indicative, just simply saying God is working in you to do this, to walk. But then when you come to chapters 4, 5, and 6, the word appears six other times, and in every case it's in the imperative. In every case, it's telling you to walk. Chapter 4, verse 1, we just said, I urge you to walk, worthy of the calling you've received. Verse 17. So I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer walk As the Gentiles walk, it appears twice there, in the futility of their thinking. Chapter 5, verse 1 and 2. The imitators of God, therefore his dearly loved children, and walk You know, NIV says live a light, but you miss that, you see. You gotta note you may want to put in the margin of your Bible to help you to remember that what these postures are Live a life there is to walk just as Christ loved us and gave himself for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Verse 8, for you were once darkness, but now you're a light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Verse 15: Be very careful then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. Every single one is a command. This is in contrast to what he said in chapters 1 to 3, where the emphasis there was on our sitting. It was on our resting by faith. In the finished work of Christ alone for you. You remember chapter 1, verse 19 Paul had said at the end of verse 19 there that his prayer was that you would know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance and saints. Verse 19 is incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Jesus' work is finished. And so he is now seated, seated in victory, seated with his work accomplished. Then chapter 2, verse 6, Paul then says, now He who raised you up with Christ seated you with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus, in order that in the coming ages you would know the riches of his kindness. Jesus is seated, you are seated with him. That's the first posture, the basis. And let me say it again. If you are not resting in Christ and his finished work , You will never have the power to live the Christian life. You cannot do it simply by saying to yourself, well, here's what it says, I'm just going to walk in it. The walking must come out of the sitting, out of the resting in his finished work. Let me state it even stronger. If you are not resting this morning, In the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross and his resurrection, you're not going to heaven. It's not a matter of whether you walk a good walk It is a matter basically of whether you are this morning seated in Christ. Whether you have given up on your own efforts. To be able to be good enough to please God, but you're simply saying, my only hope for life, my only hope standing before God is judge of my life, who will know every thought of my heart. Where there will be before that righteous and omniscient judge no blame shifting or excuse-making, I know that my hope is I am resting in the finished work of Christ. Amen. Now that's foundational. Your resting is the foundation of your discipleship. But then, as we saw, Paul goes on from that to speak about our kneeling. And that is, as you see it written there in your bulletin outline, after you've seen who you are and what you have in Christ Every morning, that's once and for all, that's something every day you get out of bed, getting in the shower, you know, have a little some little spot that triggers it. You know, when your feet hit the floor, when you get in the shower, whatever it is, some place where you're saying I've got to remind myself Of who I am in Jesus. And this morning I'm going to say, Lord, I'm resting in you. I'm resting in your finished work. I'm resting in the external righteousness of Jesus given to me And now I kneel in order that I might seek his power to experience his new life in me. You may not want to do that in the shower, but you want to Find someplace. Number of you have said this fall that you have found kneeling to be greatly beneficial to your prayer life, and that's exciting to me. I'm glad that that's happening But you see the model for it in Paul's prayer, chapter 3, verse 14. For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. And then he prays that prayer which we said is summed up in simply saying that you might know his love and his power. And pray that you all know his infinite, dimensionless love. And that you all also know his infinite, inexhaustible power which is at work in you. Having said that, you see, he now goes on to say I beseech you, I urge you, as a prisoner of the Lord, that you will walk in accordance with the calling that you've received. In other words, that you will walk in equilibrium to your sitting. Your walk will flow out of your sitting Your walk then is appropriating that power by faith in my daily living. Now let me tell you that this morning, this is heavy stuff. This is kind of the linked message. And so uh you're just gonna get a lot of heavy teaching, you know, and I and if you're new here, I just wanna help you to hang in with this because there's a lot of heavy stuff this morning. I realize that But I think it's really vital for us to see the connections of God's Word and what He's trying to get through to us. It's precious stuff for us. So the walking is appropriating that new life that you have in Jesus Christ. Now let's face it, we're tempted to want to end at the end of chapter 3, aren't we? You'd like to quit right there. Martin Lloyd Jones says that the end of chapter 3 is like the peaks of the delectable mountains in Pilgrim's Progress, where it's kind of like the Mount of Transfiguration, you know, when Jesus took the disciples up and Peter said, Let's just stay here. I mean you read, we look into the messages on Jesus' love and his power for us, and everybody says, Amen, and I quit there, and everybody says, that's fine, that's all we need to hear from Ephesians, let's go home and celebrate. But just as the disciples had to go down from the delectable mount of transfiguration to the man whose son was demon-possessed. Into the world of the battle again. So Paul calls us out of the city to start walking Very important that you realize again, you've heard many times, there's no chapter divisions in the Bible originally. And so when you read from chapter 3, verse 14 to 21, Paul's prayer, and then go on to chapter 4, verse 1. There is no chapter 4, verse 1 in Paul's letter. It's a letter. Not written originally as a book. Therefore, there is no break or division whatsoever between verse 21 of chapter 3 and verse 1 of chapter 4. He says, now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to walk worthy of the calling that you've received in the Holy Ghost. And so we must realize that there is no break, and that our walking should flow out of our sitting in Christ. But as you walk and he unpacks what that walk looks like, something happens over the months and the years of your Christian life. You become surprised that you're not further along in your walk than you thought you'd be at this point, aren't you? I mean, how many here are surprised that you're not further along in your walk by this point in your Christian life than you thought you'd be. Somebody say amen. I don't lip read the lips on that to see, but it's true, isn't it? And that's why after Paul goes through from chapter 4, verse 2, on up to chapter 6, verse 9, he then brings in the fourth posture. And the fourth posture is that abrupt reminder that you and I are in a spiritual battle and therefore we must stand. Standing is the fourth posture. Resisting the evil one by faith in temptations and trials. It was a significant breakthrough in my own Christian life. I remember the time in my life when I first realized that I was in a spiritual battle and that Satan was real. And when I realized that, and I understood I had an adversary and a foe who was out to destroy me, to discourage me, to distract me, whatever he could do to separate me from Christ, to bring me down. I realized that I wasn't simply walking and that the only thing I had to deal with was some bad habits. That I was dealing with someone who was trying to drag me back into my pre-Christian life And to nullify my witness for Christ. So we'll also have to be looking at what it means to stand. Keep that in mind as we talk about the walking. But we're going to look at the walking tonight. Now one thing I regret is that you can't control the calendar. Way things fell out. We're going to talk about all this now. And then we're really not going to develop it until after the holidays. Because there's so many other special things coming up that have to do that are time sensitive that, you know, we're going to lay the foundation now And you say, okay, let's go. You know, and then I say, okay, hang on till the end of January. We'll get there. So we'll really be developing this whole walking idea in the winter and the spring. But here's the foundation for it laying it out for you today. First of all, notice that walking is in contrast to two false notions of the Christian life. Why does he use this word walk? Well, first of all, I believe it's in contrast to the idea of leaping or jumping. The Christian life is a walk. It's not a leap or it's not a jump. Walking is taking one small step at a time. Very often, I think, as Christians, we think we ought to be running or leaping, and we wonder again. Why is it that I can't move faster when God Himself said the Christian life is a walk? Now he talks about running the race, but most often the Christian life is described as a walk. Even the running the race is describing the discipline and the effort. It's a walk. Remember that your progress as a Christian will generally be incremental matter of daily small decisions. Incremental, tiny decisions about priorities, choices, whether you're going to read scripture or watch television. Whether you're going to choose to do this thing or give in to that temptation to compromise the slightest bit. Things that don't seem to matter all that much. What's the big deal? But it's a walk. It's step by step. This week you'll be confronted with choices. And those choices will determine your steps, one step at a time. But be encouraged. If you walk faithfully, you will see progress. I'm dealing with the same sins I dealt with 20 years ago. But I'm not dealing with them on the same level. You know, I'm dealing with them on a deeper level. And so you can be doing that also in your life as you walk, just that step by step, Lord, just today. What do you want me to do? I don't have the whole future mapped up, but you've given me to me the instructions of your word this day to walk. Step by step in them. Be faithful. Notice also, by the way, uh that reminded me just this week as I was uh preparing that I happen to uh think of that hymn, uh Trust and Obey. Do you know how we got that hymn? The hymn Trust and Obey came from uh a D. Al Moody campaign, Brockton, Massachusetts, back in the late nineteenth century. And after that campaign, a number of people were giving testimonies about the dramatic work that God had done in converting them, transforming them. People were going standing up and talking about this. And one young guy stood up and he said, Well, I can't say all these glorious things that the other folks have said. But he said, all I can say is that I want to trust him and I want to obey him. The song leader that was leading that campaign with Moody uh was so impressed with that he wrote a pastor friend of his about that incident. Inspired by that, the pastor wrote this hymn, Trust and Obey, for there's no other way. You see the idea is step by step, one small step at a time. Nothing may be so dramatic that you might like to see on CBN or some other show, but it's the step-by-step faithful. Those are the people that I've seen over the years going on with the Lord Not flashing up and then flaming out, but the step-by-step walk, trusting and obeying. Also, walking, I think, is in contrast to riding. Christian life is a walk, it's not a ride. Particularly in our day of Christian radio and TV, many Christians passively live their Christian lives through the experiences of others, what I call the vicarious Christian life. Not the victorious Christian life, but the vicarious Christian life I live my faith based on other people's answers to prayer and the things that I read about or hear about or watch on TV. But Christian life is a walk you take. Paul says I urge you, you walk worthy It's not a ride. Nobody's going to take you. It is for you to respond in step-by-step obedience. Notice, see finally there that there's a cost involved Paul prefaces verse 1 as a prisoner for the Lord. Then I urge you to walk. Very significant. Why does he stick that in there? You know, it's one of those things you say, well, I don't know why it's in there, but it doesn't really matter Part the heart of it is walk where it well it does matter. What Paul's doing there is he is saying, I want you to notice where I'm writing this, when I'm talking in a walk, I'm talking in a walk which may get you in trouble. Because it's as a prisoner of the Lord. I'm in prison for my walk. And it's out of that context I'm urging you to walk. It's going to cost you to walk for Jesus Christ in this unfriendly world. We're going to deal with that more next week when we consider the persecuted church. We'll pick up on that phrase as a prisoner of the Lord and be looking at another text in conjunction with that. But let me just remind you now that we will be praying for the persecuted church around the world next week and It's not in a bulletin today, but please mark in your calendars was in before, but make sure that you have that as an option to join us Next Sunday afternoon from 1 to 3, any part of that that you can, even 15 minutes, half hour, whatever you can do, to come join us for that time when we pray for the persecuted church around the world. The Christian life is a walk which costs. As a prisoner, Paul says, I urge you to walk. We'll see with that more next week. The grace of God is necessary for this walk. You walk as you sit. That's the important thing I want you to see. Now Notice the second word, and it's one we've also dealt with, and I want to just spend a few minutes on that, and then we're done on this, and can't go any further. But the other word, notice, it's walk worthy. That word worthy is one we've looked at many times before too. It's that word axios in the Greek, which means simply to bring a scale into equilibrium. And so what Paul is saying here is not that you will walk in a way that shows that you're worthy of the calling you've received. That's impossible. That doesn't even make sense. What he's talked about in chapters 1 to 3 is how unworthy we are. We never could be worthy. It is all by grace. So why in the world does Paul say walk worthy? Because the word worthy is really not a good translation. The word worthy is a word which means to bring into equilibrium. It's a word which means to put two things into equivalency. For instance, in chat, well, you know, just to get the picture again, it's as if you have a scale here. And chapters 1 to 3 are on this side, that's this weight, and chapters 4 to 6 are on this side, and that's this weight. Paul says, bring your living into equilibrium with your calling. Bring your daily living into equilibrium with your new identity in Jesus Christ. Get an idea of how that word's used in Romans chapter 8, in verse 18. Paul is talking about our sonship, and then he says, I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. It's the same word axios there, worth comparing. What he's saying there, you see, is he saying, I'm saying if you take a scale And you put on that one side of the scale our present sufferings and you pile them all up, all the misery and everything you've ever had to endure Because you're a Christian or because you're in this world, you put all those things on one side of the scale, then you stick the glory that's going to be revealed in you in the other side of the scale. Paul says they're not even worth comparing The glory so goes through the floor in its weight compared to the sufferings that he says that there's no equivalency whatsoever. This scale just bombs out. You see, that's the idea. Now what Paul's saying in chapter 4, verse 1 of Ephesians is he says, bring your calling and your living into equilibrium. Balance the scales. It's like you know picturing you got this scale and you got all the Halloween candy that was ever consumed of this week. You know, you know how much Halloween candy was consumed this week? Just to give you an idea, I don't know what it was in wait. $900 million worth of candy sold for this Halloween. All right? You only have a billion dollars, you can balance a d part of the one state's deficit, you know. Halloween candy. Alright, so you pile all that candy on the one side of the scale, then you put all the weight on the other side of the scale to bring them into equilibrium. See, that's the idea that Paul's talking about. here. Now just to help you on this, I'm going to show you. You see there's a little space you have up there. And this may help you to get a little better idea of this. Alright? This is what Paul's talking about. He's saying chapters 1 to 3, this side is your calling. Alright? Or you might call it this is your resting. This side, of course, is your what? Yeah, this is your sitting. I'm sure I should put that sitting, resting. And this side is your walking. Alright? So this is your walking or your daily living. Now, over here is also your kneeling, and this is your standing. What Paul's saying here Now as bring these things into equilibrium. Bring this so that the walking is becoming more equal to your calling So this is coming from Christ, your calling, your walking is making you more like That should be like. Like Christ. Can't really see that, can you? That's from Christ. That's your calling. Your walking is to become like Christ. And in terms of what's happening here, these are since you don't see this one well, let me try another one. These are the indicatives. And the indicatives are telling you what you are and what you have This side are the what? Imperatives. Good, you're with me. Imperatives which are to be or to do. You see that? Enough. Alright. Or another way of saying it is that this side tells you, try another green, this side tells you your position In Christ, this side tells you your practice. Alright Now you want to put every whatever you want to stick down on that that may help you to see well you can see that precision practice where I'll I'll have to stick with that red marker for the next uh service That gives you at least some idea of the dynamic of this book, okay? That's what Paul's talking about, your calling, which Summed up, as you see in your outline, is the fact that you have been adopted by the Father, you were redeemed by the Son, you were sealed by the Spirit. That's chapter 1. Chapter 2 and 3 then speak about how because of that you were vertically reconciled with God the Father, Son, and Spirit. Therefore you are horizontally reconciled with your brother and sister in Christ. You are part of a new body. Big emphasis in the book of Ephesians. One chapter on that. Then he lays out the implications of that in terms of our relationships. with one another. Because of that, then he talks about your living. That's B, your walking. So A is your calling or your sitting. B is your living or your walking Which is divided into three parts. Let me just give you an overview now. You know I don't expect you to get all this and you know say, well now I got that all down. You know put it down, file it Keep it for when we go over it again. It'll help you to see where Paul's going in the book. He divides our living, as he talks about our walking now, into three parts. One is our body life in chapter 4, verse 1 to 16. Then in chapter 4, verse 17, on to chapter 5, verse 20, he speaks about a renewed life. And then he goes on in chapter 521 to 6. 9 to talk about our submissive life in our various roles. The body life deals with your life in the body, obviously. Renewed life deals with your life in the spirit. Your submissive life deals with your life in society in your various roles. The key ideas that Paul's going to develop are the unity and diversity of the body and your place in that. Your unique place as part of that in the body. He spends 16 verses to go over that. Then he develops from that your renewed life as an individual in Christ And the key idea there is the putting off of the old life and the putting on of the new life. In your walk, out of the resting, being seated in Christ, you put off and put on. That's the key idea that you'll see flowing through that. Then when he gets into your roles, the idea is where you are. You're doing this in the family and in the workplace. In your daily living, gets right down into the relationships. Then he moves from that into the standing. Okay? Now, having said that, one more idea, and then I'm done. I just want to see to see the relationships again here between, thank you, between Chapters 1 to 3 and 4 to 6. Two things to note about them. First of all, they are inseparable. They're inseparable. Each of us has by nature an inclination toward either chapter 1 to 3 or 4 to 6 Some of you say, man, I love chapters 1 to 3. Boy, it just lifts me up there in the heavenlies and I see all that Jesus has done for me and I love to rest in that, and that's great. Amen. Finish there. Let's go home. Others of you are saying, man, I haven't been able to relate to this stuff. I don't know what you're talking about, the seed and just tell me how can I live? I want to know what does it mean to live in the body? How do I live with my husband or my wife? I've been looking for answers to that for ten years, you know, and my kids and all, you know. Help me to know how to live, you see And what Paul's trying to do is say you can't separate those things. You're not going to know how to live until you know who you are and what you have in Christ. But if you if you're focused on who you are and what you have, that's not going to change your life until you begin to see what it means to walk in it. Alright, so we've got to put those things together. Some of us are doctrine-oriented, some are duty-oriented. We need to balance. Secondly, notice that the order is vital. Verse 1 of chapter 4 is the prisoner of the Lord, therefore, says then it's a little weak. The Greek is a therefore. Therefore, I urge you to walk. in equilibrium to your calling. In other words, you must always establish your foundation in Christ before you talk about the walking. every single day. You and I must start by establishing our new identity in Christ by faith and then talk about how we live that out in that particular day in the particular commands we'll be dealing with. So as we go through this, we'll be talking about a lot of things that had to do with changed life. We must always root that back into the grace of the gospel. In terms of application, therefore, notice chapter 4 to 6 will orient us more toward repentance. To direct you to look in. It will reveal to you your life and your heart as it is. And as you see that You will learn things about your heart and your life that may discourage you a great deal I wrote in my own journal looking at this as I was studying it for myself, these words. I can review chapters 4-1 in the light of chapters 1 to 3 intellectually, and it will not move me very much. It's interesting to see Paul's flow of thought and realize that I am to make that true in the scale of my experience brought into equilibrium with a calling that I have in Christ on the other side. That's pretty neat. But it's a very different thing to view this in terms of the practical repentance and faith of my life. To think how Paul points out in chapters four, five, and six that my life is not what it should be in terms of my peace. and serving the body using my gifts, my preserving and protecting my privacy, so that you will let me sin in my way if I let you sin in your way. To put off my old nature and to put on the new mind of Christ, I need to know far more of what this means. It shows me that I have not really been honest when no one is looking. It examines my speech that tends to tear down rather than to build up. It searches my bitterness and my resentments It seeks out my impurities and shameful deeds of darkness. It exposes and reveals to me how to know and to follow God's will for my life. It reveals my being filled with the Spirit's power over my own life dominating sins. It shows my attitude, whether it is observing or demanding. My attitude toward my wife or my husband, my kids, my parents. My attitude at work toward my superiors and those who serve under me, my resisting temptations rather than rationalizing and playing with them The vitality of my prayer life, and the boldness of my witness. All these things we will deal with. But chapters one to three are the foundation, and they call us to look up Chapters 4, 5, and 6 call you to look in. Repentance. Chapters 1 to 3 call you to look up in faith. And if chapters four, five, and six will reveal to you and to me the vastness of our sin as we have never seen before. We are to go back to chapters one, two, and three And see the mightiness of our Savior as we've never seen him before. You ready for that? Let's pray. Lord our God, it's an exciting and yet a disturbing thing to think about what it means to enter into this walk. It has been relatively unthreatening to us to consider what it means to rest in Christ. And even though we like to think about your love and your power, and all the things that you've shown us , they haven't really pressed us Now, Lord, we will see that you love us too much to let us remain as we are. You love us too much to even allow us to remain on top of that mount of transfiguration. Observing your love and your power, you want for us now as a people by faith to begin to walk in it. And that's going to mean steps of faith that will make us very uncomfortable, but by which we will see your power in our lives as we have never seen it before. And right this moment, Lord, we want to tell you that we are ready and we are open for you to do that in our lives. Holy Spirit, I want to pray in the name of Jesus that by the time we finish chapter six, we will not be the same people that we are now. We will have grown in grace. We will have grown in the experience of your power and your love in us and through us. That will transform us not to be perfect. We don't expect to be perfect in this life. But as we walk, we do expect substantial progress by the power of your spirit. We look to you, Lord Jesus, as a mighty Savior who loves us and has forgiven us and continues to forgive us and will change us. And we affirm that together, Lord, as together all God's people said. Amen.