I want to begin by reading the passage one more time, beginning in verse one of chapter four. Hear the word of the Lord As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. In verse 17. So I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord. You must no longer live as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their thinking. They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, with a continual lust for more. You, however, did not come to know Christ that way. Surely you have heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds. And to put on a new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. Let's pray Lord God, we ask this morning that you would feed us. That you would change us. That as we leave this service, you would have us put on the new man, the new self. That you would take off that old self. That you give us victory in the battles we face with our sins. Lord God, we ask that we would recognize our identity and walk in equilibrium with it. That we would live in light of who we are. Work this in us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know about you, but when I'm told to walk worthy of anything, I get a bit leery. When I read verse 1, where Paul tells us to walk worthy of the life or to live worthy of the calling which we have received, my hackles go up. I have an instinctive emotional reaction that says, I can't. It's impossible. For you see, one of the things that jumps out at me immediately is when I hear somebody say, be worthy. I list my failures. They don't stop at five, but that's all I have on my hands, that's all I'm going to show you. And my unworthiness overwhelms me. If I begin to think about changing and becoming more like the man I ought to be , My fear of anticipated failure and the guilt of failures I haven't even accomplished yet grabs hold of me. And I can sometimes become paralyzed with the fear of not accomplishing what I set out to accomplish. Because frankly, I'm unworthy. Paul says, live in a manner worthy, and I tell you I'm not. Now you may feel the same way as someone comes, as Paul comes, and is I come this morning to tell you to live worthy of your calling, which means to live in purity. I'm surprised to see as many of you here this morning because they have the habit of putting the sermon title in the bulletin for the next week. And the title of this sermon is To Live Worthy Means to Live in Purity And that frightens me, and I'm sure it must you. But that leaves me with a choice See, we all have a decision to make this morning, and actually there's two decisions to make. There's one that qualifies you to make a second. The first decision you have to make is where do you stand with the Lord? You see, Paul is speaking at this point to the Christian. He is telling the Christian to live in a manner worthy of their calling, no longer to live as the Gentiles or the non-Christians do. So if you do not have that relationship with the Lord, your first business today is to find out whether you ought to. Because the rest of what I'm going to say, you don't have to listen to. If you are not a Christian and you have not got that relationship with the Lord, what I tell you now is something you can look forward to, but it's not something you can have. You have to decide about Jesus. But the second decision, the one that most of us this morning here are going to have to face, is will I decide to live my identity? See, Paul is telling you no longer to live as the Gentiles do. He's writing to the church in Ephesus, and it's obvious from what he's writing that that church did not live As the Christians are called to live. Otherwise, he wouldn't have set these three sections together following verse 1, where he talks first about unity. And says, Because we have one Lord, one faith, one baptism, we are one body. And then he talks about ministry. And they obviously weren't doing what they were called to do because he spends a section then talking about how each had been gifted and called to service. And they weren't doing it well enough yet that he could ignore commanding them to live in ministry. But now he spends most time on purity. And he's telling us, and he's telling all Christians who need to change, live according to your identity. Live in purity. That's your choice. You have to make that as a participative decision with Jesus You have to commit yourself to living a holy life. Because if you don't, you won't. But you can't do that. The issue isn't you making a decision, and the issue this morning isn't you changing yourself It is not pulling yourself up by your bootstraps. I know you guys, I know you well, and I know several of you battle the way I do with issues of sin. And for me to tell you this morning that what you need to do is change And to tell you that you have to do that in your own power would be ludicrous because I can't. And I've talked with you and I know the efforts you've made. I know the battles you face. And the issue this morning is not that you face them. The issue is not that you pull yourself up by your bootstraps, but that you know your identity. There are a whole series of blanks here that I want you to take your pencil or pen, and if you don't have one, beg, borrow, or steal, because I want you to fill these out. Well, don't steal. Gotta go against purity and be the whole point of my message. Beg or borrow. But I want you to fill these out. It's important. Because the first line of blanks has two spaces, and I want you to write down I am. This is you. If you're a Christian this morning, if you have that relationship with the Lord, you are what I'm going to talk about. So write down I am. The second blank, the second line of blanks is a child of God. The verses are there, you can go through them this week, and I really encourage you to look at the sheet that's for your meditations because it will follow through on some of these things. And I want you to use that this week so that you become more convinced of your identity. But the first series of blanks, there it is, a child of God. Ephesians 1:5 says, In love he predestined us to be adopted as sons. You are not servants. You are not slaves. You are children and heirs. The second line of blanks there following with verse 15 and 219 is with many siblings. You're not alone. For those of you who are here back in the early fall, you'll recall that we had the message on walking worthy means walking in unity. You are part of a body. You're not alone. You don't face these issues by yourself. You do not have to handle them on your own. I'm a child of God with many siblings who is deeply loved. This is to me the most precious of the parts of my identity. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as sons. Chapter 3, the verses that are there, Paul's talking about his prayer, he says That you might know the height, the depth, the length, the breadth of the surpassing love of Christ. The love which surpasses all knowledge. God's love for you is so great you can never grab around it and know all of it You're deeply loved. But you're also called and equipped for service. That's the next one with chapter four. And that was the second message that we went through back in early September, where Paul is pointing out that our calling is not simply to reside in the household of God and be lumps on a log. We're called to ministry, to service. And as we use our gifts and serve, God's body is built up into fullness. And lastly, you're bound for heaven. Chapter 2, verses 4 through 7 talk about the fact that in Christ we have been brought into the very household of God. And that's our home, that's our future. That's where we'll be forever. This is temporary. The battles we face here and now are temporary. We will find that God glorifies us. Brings into that relationship of being a child of God and brings us into his presence to dwell with him forever. That's your identity, and if you don't grasp that, you'll never comprehend it all. But if you don't grasp that, you can't move forward in either unity, in ministry, or in purity. Paul comes back and he says again in verse 1, I urge you therefore to walk worthy of the calling with which you have been called. That is your identity. That is who you are. That is who God sees when he looks at you. He doesn't see the battles with sin. He doesn't see the senses of unworthiness. He doesn't see your failures. He sees his child. But Paul is speaking to the church in Ephesus who needs to know their identity. That's the next series of blanks under two. He's speaking to Christians who need to know their identity. And what he says in verse 17. So I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do. That's strong language. He 's insisting in the Lord that you no longer live as the Gentiles do. How different is your lifestyle from the non-Christians around you? Don't you face the same issues they face? You may not be as bad as they are. It may be a different in degree But not in condition. You face the same temptations that they face. You fail in some of the same areas where they fail Paul's telling you this morning that you are not to live as the non-Christians live. Now, one of the big mistakes that we can make as we look at that , is to fail to distinguish between the externals and the internals. If when you hear Paul say, don't live as the Gentiles do, you begin to categorically look at the external issues in their lives. Materialism. Sensuality? Chastity? Marital faithfulness? Ethical integrity? If all you look at is the externals, then you're going to open yourself up to a holier than thou attitude. And you're going to open yourself up to a false identity. You're going to begin to say, well, I don't do those things And frankly, they don't do the things that I do that I ought to do. You know. How many of your friends give generously to charitable causes? Except in the month of December when they're trying to avoid taxes in January. We're called to give sacrificially. How many of your friends have habits? That you don't want to have. And if you simply look at those externals, you can feel pretty good. The standard you have to look at is in Matthew 5, 48: be perfect if your Father in heaven is perfect. And that's a standard you cannot attain. If you're judging how well you're living , As a Christian, by how well you fit with this congregation, whether you wear the right clothes on Sunday morning, whether you are regular in attendance, whether you give, whether you say the right things, whether you Show the right characteristics, whether you're a good fit. That's not what Paul's talking about. He's not asking you to fit in with a Christian culture. He's telling you to be different He's telling you to face your issues. You all know the sins that you battle with. You all know that. I know the sins that I battle with. Paul's telling you to change. He's telling you to commit yourself to a righteous lifestyle. He says. At the end of the passage, that we were created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. You're not worthy of that. You aren't. Neither am I. Paul goes on to talk about the internals. He says why the Gentiles have given themselves over to impurity with a continual lust for more. He talks about a darkened mind, a futile understanding. But the key is, he says, that all that is due, in verse 18 , is due to the hardening of their hearts. In the Greek, that word is is petrified. Their hearts aren't hard, they're stone. It's not an issue of having become callous, it's an issue of their hearts are impenetrable. And because they have impenetrable hearts, they don't care what they feel because they don't feel Their minds are darkened, and so they don't think about God. He's not taken into consideration when they decide what they will and will not do, because he's not a factor. And if you go out into the streets of Columbia or Howard County or Baltimore or DC, I don't think you'll find very many people at all, if you find any. Who would take God into the equation of what they do and why they do it? Because he's simply not an issue. Like John was saying earlier in the service, there is no connection between God and their behavior. When we sin, we feel guilty because there is God, we know him, and we're part of his family. God is an issue that we take into consideration. But Paul is telling Christians not to allow their hearts to be hard. He's telling Christians not to be darkened in their understanding. You see, here is a pattern for failure. As you begin to allow yourself to fall into the patterns that your friends, your non-Christian acquaintances, your neighbors, your family members fall into, as you allow that heart to become somewhat thick-skinned, And from there to become callous. And from there to become hard. You will find that you don't take God into account when you make your decisions. You will find yourself slipping into habits of sin that are going to be more and more difficult to break. You will find that you've fallen into that pattern of failure. If you want to be convicted of that, I challenge you to recall your New Year's resolutions. It is two weeks to the day from New Year's Day. How many of you have succeeded every time in these last two weeks in keeping your resolution? You don't have to raise your hands. I don't want to embarrass you. But I want you to think about it. How easy is it for you to escape that pattern of failure? How easy is it for you, on the other hand, to fall into a pattern where your heart becomes hard? And instead of feeling your guilt Instead of acknowledging your failures and recognizing your position in Christ as an unworthy son, you redefine your resolution. I do. It's much easier on my part to redefine success than to go through the labor of succeeding And I don't think I'm unique. There's a larger picture of that pattern as you look at particular extremes in people like Dahmer, as you look at people like Ted Bundy. These are men who have been interviewed prior to their death. Both have died, one by execution and one by murder in prison. Both had committed horrible murders, but they began with a hard heart. With decisions they made without taking God into account, becoming involved in things that were easy to hide and often socially acceptable. In both cases, pornography was a major incident in the start of their downfall. One moved into animal butchery. Both moved into killing people, sadistically, in some cases ritually. There is a pattern that they embarked upon that led to their failure. There's a pattern that you must acknowledge and you must fight. That's the pattern that Paul is talking about when he says, no longer walk as the Gentiles walk. Paul is speaking to Christians and saying, do not slip into this pattern. But how do you avoid it? If you turn over your outline, you look at the top of the page. How do you escape the pattern? How do you overcome the sinful lifestyle The first thing you have to do is to put off. And in the Greek that is to disrobe. Paul sees this as an external to who you are. The sin that entangles you is not part of your identity. It is not you, it's your habits. And he says, take them off. The first thing you have to do is you have to battle those external issues that are so visible You have to live a lifestyle that speaks of your love for Jesus. You have to fight your sin. But not all sin is external or visible. Even the external sins, those things that are part of what you do and think, can be hidden. Issues like pornography. Issues like lust, greed, pride, covetousness , sexually unacceptable behaviors We're a large enough church that I know for a fact there must be people out there who are battling with those issues. Battle them fiercely. Put off the externals. In verse 22, he says, You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. Put it off. You also have to put off the internals, the old self. You have to get rid of that hard heart. You have to have clear thinking. You need to know Jesus. But you can't do that. In Ezekiel chapter 36, God speaks to the nation of Israel that was in exile. And he gives a profound promise that I want you to hear. For I will take you out of the nations. I will gather you back from all the countries and bring you back into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart. I will put a new spirit within you. I will remove your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and to be careful to keep my laws. If you sense that your heart has become calcified and is moving towards being petrified, pray. God, as a believer, has given you a new heart. That heart is subject to callousness. You can fall back into your old patterns and you can put on the old man. That's why Paul's speaking to Christians and saying to put it back off. Take it off. Depend upon him. Allow him to do heart surgery. One way to participate with that surgery is to recognize your sin. We began with the fact that we're unworthy and that we don't want to acknowledge our unworthiness. Let me restate that. I began with my unworthiness and stated to you my unwillingness to recognize my unworthiness. God is saying to me, face your sin. God is saying to you, face your sin. Look it in the eye. Confront it. When I really get down to the brass tacks and I realize why I don't want to face my sin, it's because I feel that if I'm unworthy, Christ won't accept me. And that's ludicrous. God says, but while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That's how he demonstrates his love. He's not going to refuse me now that I'm his child and is still battle with sin. He wants me and he loves me enough that he says to me, Steve, face your sin Look it in the eye and hate it. Then you will remember your evil ways and wicked deeds, and you will loathe yourselves for your sins and detestable practices. Be ashamed and disgraced for your conduct, O house of Israel. And he follows that by saying, I will be your God and you will be my people. He knows my sin, and he's not rejected me. He won't reject me if I know my sin. As a matter of fact, knowing my sin is the only way to pursue that righteous lifestyle that he demands. And he'll keep me safe while I battle my sin. He'll keep you safe while you battle yours Ask God as you put your new identity on, as you clothe yourself in the new man, as you understand Christ who has redeemed you. Ask God to give you a soft heart. Ask God to enable you to face your sin and to confess and to repent and to loathe it. See Christ. You can't grasp his love for you if you don't know your sin. His love means nothing if he redeems a bunch of holy people. He's redeemed us. He loves us. He's changing us. But you also need to take off the old externals and put on new. Paul follows this passage by beginning to speak of a number of areas where he says Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood, following the same language, and speak truthfully. He speaks of putting off stealing and working so that you might give to those who have need. He speaks of putting off coarse jesting and filthy speech and saying words that are consistent with edification and building one another up. He speaks of putting off bitterness, wrath, anger, malice, and putting on kindness. He wants us to be so radically different that we are walking beacons of the gospel. He wants us not only to be with him in heaven, not only to be his children, able to enjoy him and glorify him forever once we reach heaven, he wants us to be what we're intended to be here and now. He wants us to be holy and righteous, able to be all that we're intended to be, instead of being people who happen to have a ticket to heaven and the meanwhile are stuck in the misery of their sin. He wants us to delight in him. He loves us enough to accomplish that through us. Can you change? Yes, you can change. It is a lifelong process. It is a calling with which you have been called that you are able to live in balance with. He's not telling you to change yourself. He's not telling you to be something you're not. He's telling you not to be something you're not. He's telling you not to live as the Gentiles live, but to live as a Christi Able to experience God's transforming grace. To be the new creature that Paul speaks of when he says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature. The old things have passed away, behold, new things have come. He loves you, he will not let you rest. He wants you to be all that he has made you to be. A child of God with many siblings who is deeply loved, equipped for service, and bound for heaven. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, even in focusing upon my identity and our identity as brothers and sisters in Christ. It is still a frightening battle to consider taking on my sin. I pray that you would strengthen all of us to encourage one another, to love one another, to build up one another. To fan the fires of the gospel, to help each other to see that you have loved us and you are going to transform us, that you're doing it now. And Lord, I pray that as we focus upon your grace, we would delight in doing what pleases you. In the name of Jesus, our Redeemer and our Lord, we pray. Amen. Please turn in your hymnals to hymn number four ninety-nine. Impacts our relationship with Him, and it belittles our view of salvation. Are you able to see the impacts of pride in your own life? Does it even matter to you? Are you able to say that I enjoy my walk with the Father? If you can, then what we are called to do here is to humble ourselves before Him. Humble ourselves under God's Almighty Hand that He may lift us up. Shall we look to Him in prayer? Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do confess to you this morning that indeed our hearts are full of ourselves. We look at the things that we have. We look at our other relationships. We look at our situations and our jobs at times. And we take such great pride In what we claim to have done with our own hands. And we forget that it is you that has enabled us to accomplish all that we have done. We pray that you would forgive us for forgetting you. We pray that you would enable us through the testing that you put us through. To cast ourselves upon you, to bow before you in humble adoration. And confess that you alone are our hope and our salvation. We pray this in your song 's most precious and holy name. Amen. So you can expect what I'm just saying as you can see about the example what's the text and 54 testing and make another fifty test.