Or against him. The beast was given a mouth to utter proud words and blasphemies, and to exercise his authority for forty-two months. He opened his mouth to blaspheme God and to slander his name and his dwelling place and those who live in heaven. He was given power to make war against the saints and to conquer them. And he was given authority over every tribe, people , language, and nation. All inhabitants of the earth will worship the beast. All whose names have not been written in the book of life belonging to the Lamb that was slain from the creation of the world. He who has an ear, let him hear Let's pray. Lord Jesus, who as we sing is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, we worship you this morning and we pray that It is we just read that we would have ears to hear. Lord, your word without your spirit is like light to a blind Like beautiful music to a deaf man. We pray that your spirit will come. And give us ears to hear. That we would feel this passage and not just know it intellectually. That we would see our enemy in a fresh way. And see you in an even fresher way. In Jesus' name, amen. About three weeks ago I was at the Presbytery meeting here in Maryland. There was a Chaplain who had returned from the Persian Gulf the day before, he had his camouflage, fatigued on. He came in front of the presbytery, addressed the group about the war for about two minutes And he went and sat down, and there was a tremendous ovation for him. People just just spontaneously clapped and cheered for this chaplain I clapped and cheered too. A little later I thought about that. I had spoken several minutes earlier about Japan for about four or five minutes as a returning missionary to the presbytery. And people were very responsive, but nobody clapped and cheered. Several other missionaries had spoken and uh and uh had given very good presentations about the work they had been doing No one clapped or cheered, but when this chaplain, who had been gone for six months, spoke, people stood up and clapped and cheered. I thought about that later. Why was that? There's something about a real battle we can see that is a little Easier to be riveted to, isn't it? The one we can see before. I was that way. I was in the Marine Corps for seven years. I tell ya I was glued to the television set every day of the Gulf War. My wife got mad at me. I was so tied to the T V set. And yet as I thought about that afterwards, and the response of the Christians and myself as well, there was something inconsistent there. Because all of us believe what Tom read earlier, that we are in a battle, that we are in a war. In Ephesians six he read it, it is a war not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. And it is real, it is even more real than the war that that chaplain was in. And yet it's harder for us to feel it, isn't it? It's not in front of our eyes as easily, although in some periods of our life maybe it is. Maybe some of you last week or last year, maybe next week, next Year. And we want to talk about that war today. I hope you're not turned off by the title, but it is a biblical term. It is true. We are in a war. And for the first time in my life, I think I really felt it this last four years, especially this last year. Let's talk about our enemy in this war first. Who he is on your bulletin outline. He is the dragon. If you look back in chapter twelve, verse three Tells us about this dragon. Another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his head on his head. Don't get so hung up in the symbolism of the heads and what one head means or this head means that. That's where people go astray in interpreting Revelation. The point is This dragon is big and he's bad. this He is powerful. He is incredible. He is enormous, this dragon. And look at verse uh Verse four, his power, his tail, swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to the earth. The drags dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to give birth so that he might devour her child the moment it was He is a big dragon, he is an evil dragon. In verse 7 of chapter 12, and there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. And he is a dragon that is fighting against the good spiritual forces in the world, the Lord and his angels. He is there, he's our enemy. Who is this monster? We see from Revelation chapter twenty, verse two, that he is Satan. He is the devil. Uh Revelation chapter 20 verse 2 tells us that. And then we see more about this enemy. In chapter 13, we see that this dragon sends another Uh chapter 13 verse 1 that we read earlier. He sends this beast who's coming out of the sea. And we see this beast also in the symbolism is big, he's ugly, he's powerful. He's incredible. He's got seven heads and ten crowns on his horns. He uh each head a blasphemous name. And then verse two, the beast I saw resembled a leopard He had feet like those of a bear and mouth and a mouth like that of a lion. And then we see that the dragon, the end of verse 2, the dragon gave the beast his power And his throne and great authority, the word there in the original, is mega authority. That struck me, the beast who is under Satan has mega authority. Who is this beast? Well, the beast represents the helpers of the enemy, the other spiritual forces. It can be across history, it can be governments that are being used by the enemy. To fight against the kingdom of Christ and against his people. Uh it could be sickness, it can be all kinds of things under the power of this dragon, this beast. He's strong. He's powerful And we see in Psalm two that all of these governments, these forces that are arrayed against Christ and against His anointed, that they really are Well what does he try to do this beast? We see in back in chapter twelve where I read the first thing he tries to do on your bulletin outline is he wants to destroy Christ We see he's waiting for the birth of the Messiah, and he's waiting to devour this child in verse 4. And we see all through the scripture that's the case. He wants to destroy the Messiah. Um in Psalm two, as I mentioned, we see the the kingdoms of the earth coming together against Christ and against his anointed seeking to destroy him. And we see that in Acts. It refers to those kingdoms as being those who who tried to destroy Christ at the cross, the powers that tried to destroy him and couldn't. And even today it's the same. the powers and authorities of this world using civil government, using anything they can to fight against Christ to destroy them. But not only to destroy Christ, but to destroy his people. Christ's people on your outline. In chapter 12, verse 17, if you'd look there with me. After the dragon was unable to destroy The Christ, verse 17, then the dragon was enraged at the woman, and he went off to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who obey God's commandments. And hold to the testimony of Jesus. Who's that? That's us. The Church of Jesus Christ. Those who follow the Lord Jesus. He is after us. He is out to destroy us. We have an enemy. Chapter 13, verse 7. Look there. As I read, he was given power to make war against the saints and to conquer them. And he was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation. And that's the third point on the outline. He wants to destroy the world. He wants to lead the world astray. He's after you, he's after me. It's real. It's not as Time magazine this past week, evil You know, is the title. It's not the way it's depicted in Time magazine. But there is a personal devil who hates you. He's after you. He wants to destroy you through sickness. He wants to to destroy you through apathy to Christ. He wants to destroy your children. He wants to come after my children and hurt them. And steal them from Christ. He wants to come after your children and make the covenant invalid. He wants to tempt them and show them Uh, that it's better to sin, that sin tastes good. He does everything he can to destroy Christ and his people We do have an enemy, and he's after us. He's very real. He wants to lead the world astray and we see it all around us, don't we? In Colombia we particularly see the secularism. We see how easily the world is led astray. I'm amazed sometime how, as we see in the bullet today, it speaks about uh about uh some of the a quote by uh one of the people from Planned Parenthood regarding abortion That the best that someone can do for uh for their young for their babies if they have lots of them is to kill them Now, you know, we read something like that from the perspective of grace in God's word, and we're just amazed. For me as someone with lots of children, I read that. And I believe my children are a blessing. And I read these things, we say, how true it is that Satan is leading the world astray. We see the nations where I live in Japan. It's amazing how far astray people could be to offer Food to idols and to look at the creation and say, There is God Instead of saying, what a marvelous creator we have. It's all around the world. The enemy wants to lead the world astray. Friends, are you afraid of the beast? Should you be? Tom Brode told me a story as we were talking about this message two weeks ago about Spurgeon and one night he thought he heard something at the foot of his bed and he he woke up. And he turned he lit a candle. I guess he couldn't turn on a light. He lit a candle and he looked at the foot of his bed and he's s and he had an image or something of of the devil. And he said, Oh, it's only you. And he blew it out and went back to sleep. Is that should that be our attitude? Is that a biblical attitude? Ruth Olson told me a story and I got her permission to use it. She told me this Thursday night that she was camping with her family and a bear came. She heard she was camping, she was asleep. It was middle of the night and she heard this huge bear. It made the ground shake. She said, Where's Ruth? Are you here, Ruth? Huh? Okay. Over there, okay. She said she heard the ground shake and she could just vision. Danny and the other kids went in another tent She said she was terrified. She told me the story. I was convinced she was terrified. Ruth believes that the Lord protects her that that bear, as with this bear of chapter thirteen, cannot touch one hair of her head or of her children's head without permission of the Lord Jesus Christ. You believe that right, Ruth And yet she was terrified, weren't you? Was she justified in being terrified? I think she was justified and terrified. She visualized the claw of that bear coming through the canvas of that tent. And yet the bear went away because the Lord is in charge, as we'll talk about shortly. Should she have been afraid? I think she's justified. I've been afraid this past year in Japan. You know, we moved into a target area that we thought was really different. There are hardly any shrines, no temples dedicated to the enemy, no uh Uh very little visible Shintoism, Buddhism and other things there in our target area. It's a brand new city. It used to be all fields. And we often go up on this hill in the middle where we can see most of the target area And we can see of our for our first church, and we can see all around the older towns. Sorry, Gary. We can see the older towns all around us, and you can see temples and shrines. And for a while there after we moved in I was praying and thanking the Lord and almost visualizing in my mind, Oh the enemy can't come in here, you know, this is new. There are no temples and there are no it's not his territory. We've staken out this territory In one week last year, my whole view towards that really changed. We were having a team meeting. I was five hours away up in Katawizawa and Melly, one of the wives on our team, she lost a baby in the womb. Shortly after, her husband had an appendix, had his appendix, he went into pain early in the morning, about four in the morning, and had to be taken to the hospital. His appendix appendix had to be taken out All that week before we had been experiencing new opposition to our work. There were people from a sect that were opposing us. They were spreading lies about us, things were there are all kinds of things going wrong. There seemed to be a darkness over our work. And then these physical things started happening. We were in the middle of the meeting praying for Fred and everyone was really concerned and we get a call from the target area from my wife who was at the hospital with one of the short term wives. Uh she was also pregnant and was having contractions and turned out just lost the baby within a few hours. This is the same this Same three days. Got a call a little later. We we stopped our meeting and we went to prayer. We got a call a little later from Carol saying she was having contractions. She was pregnant with Hanadin. My theology didn't change, as Ruth's theology of bears didn't change. But as Ruth felt the power of a bear that day, during that week and several days after, our team felt the power of the enemy. He is real He is real and he's after you. He's after me. He's against Christ. In fact, uh, we got back and and Um and that night my wife and I we just I ru we stopped our meeting, I went back, we we uh went to fasting and praying and the The contractions that that Carol was having stopped and and that night Carol and I stayed up. I've never we've never done this before. I uh but we stayed up till one or two in the morning praying and talking about the things that had happened that week Friends, it was so real. Maybe some of you have experienced that before. It was so dark. I felt the darkness in Japan before. You know, there's so little light, so little salt. But that week it was different. It seemed it seemed more powerful. In fact the next day traveling into our target area with a Japanese worker I work with, uh as we came into the target area, he said, he stopped me. He said, Dan, do you feel it? And I I did feel it. I had goosebumps go up and down my spine and I I'm not a mystical person at all and I don't I think it was probably just him telling me that. But he said it just seems that there's a darkness over this And we say, don't we? And who is like the beast? Chapter 13, verse 14. I'm sorry, chapter 13, verse 4 The end of verse 4. Who is like the beast? Who can make war against him? Is that your question? And can you feel that today? A little bit. Not just intellectually, but can you feel it? There is an enemy And the message of revelation to you is that he's real. But we can't stop there. And maybe I spent too much time on that. And I've never preached a message before on this except after this week to our team. In Japan on Wednesdays we have our English worship. There is an answer. And it's not the answer of the Time magazine. The answer is a loud yes. There is someone Who can wage war against him? And it's our Lord Jesus Christ. Look over to chapter 17, verse 14. Chapter seventeen of Revelation verse fourteen and this is the theme verse for Revelation. Don't get hung up in all of the the uh The misinterpretations and the trying to make sense of every little detail, but this is the theme. We can start at verse 13 of chapter 17. They have one purpose speaking about these enemy forces. And they will give their power and authority to the beast, and they will make war against the lamb, but the lamb will overcome Will overcome them because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And with him will be his call, chosen, and faithful followers. You can take every part of revelation And fit it into this verse. This summarizes it. This summarizes what happened at the cross. It summarizes what has been happening throughout history. There is a war going on. The forces are against the Lord Jesus Christ and against his people, but Jesus will win. Do you believe that? You know, I hope you felt the other. I really wanted you to feel that. But I hope you feel this more as we look at these verses and talk Talk about Jesus. Look who he is. In verse seventeen chapter seventeen, fourteen there he is the Lamb. Yes, and if we go back to chapter twelve, keep your finger in ver in chapter seventeen, but go back to chapter twelve. And we remember chapter 12, verse 11. How did the saints overcome the enemy? Chapter 12, verse 11, they overcame him. by the blood of the Lamb. I wish we had time to talk more about that. But in the cross of Christ, that beast has been given a fatal wound, which though for a time he appears to be resurrected He is plow he is he was he is going about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour but he has a fatal wound and the blood of Jesus Christ has secured us and we overcome him because of the blood of the lamb. The lamb But he's not only the lamb, he is the lion in Revelation. And it's interesting, the two animals that are picked. Not only this lamb, the meekest. Jesus who came and who humbled himself to the lowest of situations on this earth and was so weak and frail in that stable This same Jesus, the Lamb of Calvary, is the Lion of Judah. He is the King of kings on your bulletin outline, as we just read, and as we sang earlier, he is the Lord of Lords. And he has all authority. We read earlier that Satan has mega authority. But don't forget Matthew 28:19, the great commission that Christ gives us, he reminds us that Jesus has. All authority. And all authority is greater than mega authority. And as you look through the gospels, you see this over and over if you looked at If you looked at Luke chapter eight, verse twenty seven, don't look at it now, but as the as the uh the man possessed by the demon comes before Christ, this demon who was so powerful and wrought havoc on this man's life, that demon. Trembles before the Lord Jesus. He begs Jesus. The words that are used are begging and pleading, because Jesus has all authority. There's no comparison. You see, power is relative. From August the 2nd on for months, every day in the news it talked about the power of Saddam Hussein and the evil of Saddam Hussein. And can we beat him? You know, what will happen? Oh, look what he did to Kuwait in less than a hundred hours. But see, it depends on who you're fighting. He may have torn up Kuwait in less than a hundred hours. But Saddam Hussein versus Kuwait plus the United States put him to shame in less than a hundred hours. Or for sorry, Shan Sandy Sharp and other international people Kuwait plus the United States and England and the other allies put Saddam Hussein Hussein to shame in less than a hundred hours. It really is relative power when we think Of the enemy. Yes, when we're alone, we are so weak. But when we stand with Christ, who has all authority It won't take a hundred hours, as we will sing later, one little word will fail him because he trembles before the Lord Jesus. What is a personal application for us in this? Well, the first would like to remind us to pray. If you look back to chapter 8 of Revelation, there's a very interesting passage It fits with the passage Tom read earlier from Ephesians 6. In this battle, what does it tell us to do, Tom read? To pray. You know? As Glenn Mitzah would always pray when I was here before, I remember Glenn so often saying, we participate with God in this battle in our prayers. And we see in chapter 8 verse 3, another angel who had a golden censor came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer. With the prayers of all the saints on the golden throne. The smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of the saints, went up before God from the angel's hand. Then the angel took the censor, filled it with fire from the altar, and hurled it on the earth. And there came peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes, and lightning. and an earthquake. Now it's hard to know exactly what's going on here, but the point is that these prayers of the saints go up before the throne and they come back to earth as thunder. They are powerful Someone said, you know, prayer is like the long-range scud missiles. That's a terrible illustration. It's much more like a tomahawk missile. No, it's much better than that. Because these prayers notice they go up And then whether the prayers were prayed accurately or inaccurately, the Lord takes those prayers and they get put right on target exactly where they're supposed to go. Somehow in the mystery of prayer, we participate with the Lord Jesus in subduing his enemies. Some of you were praying for us the week we went through that. And we didn't know what's going on behind the scenes, but the Lord took those prayers and he brought victory. During the 1973 war, the Israelis took their tanks and they charged across the Sinai. It had worked in the earlier wars. They lost hundreds of tanks. So many soldiers killed because they didn't have artillery cover. They thought they could attack that way But a new development had taken place, the Sagar missile with a range of three thousand m uh meters compared to the tanks range of a thousand five hundred meters, and they were wiped out continually the first day. They just couldn't win And they had to change their tactics. They had to cover the tanks charging with air and with artillery. And it's the same way as we go into battle, whether in Japan or here in Colombia, we must cover our work with prayer. We have to. We must. It's so important. You know, it's almost criminal it seems as it was for those commanders to send those tanks into battle without artillery cover To send people into battle without it. How could we call two new men to be elders of this church in light of what's happened to elders here and their families and the struggles that they have gone through without saying, yes, we are going to pray for these elders. We are going to cover them with prayer. Or to send to send Tito and Kim into the enemy's territory in the front lines without covering them with prayer. Prayer is one of the ways we participate in the battle. Maybe we need to call G. C. Brown back. You know, I was amazed at the campaign, how well it went, you know. For something that all of us would agree is less important than prayer, I think. We all agree, right? I mean, is it that building I'm so far I'm so behind it, I think it is It is marvelous. I think it's gonna God is gonna use that as a great tool here and to the ends of the earth. But what if we did this? What if we called them back and said, look, we want to have a prayer campaign. And he tells his Baptist jokes, you know, and we have a banquet, you know. And uh and we have a banquet that our brother could host again. I don't know, maybe you and your wife don't want to do that again and And whoever we can have Loyalty Sunday, you know, and Al could preach a whole series on on what we all believe, I think, is really more important And uh I don't think the people that put on Loyalty Sunday may not want to go through that again as well. And then we have our pledge card. Everyone gets envelopes, you know, Leslie can do it all up in nice uh excellent material. It's a raise the consciousness. I'm kind of saying this tongue in cheek, but I don't know. But but you get the point. Is do we really believe it? How can we mobilize more prayer in our congregation? For our work here and for our work around the world. I'm so thankful for those of you that are gathering and praying for us. We need more prayer meetings like that. For I know there there are a number of them during the week. Maybe you could think, just like the campaign, gee, what could I give to the Lord in prayer this next year or this next three years? What hours could I set? I can't come every week. Maybe I could come once a month or every two months. and covenant with someone maybe to do that together. Second in the outline, another personal application. We defeat the enemy as we make disciples. And I'm not going to take a long time on that. You can look it up in Luke 11, 17 through 18. The Sunday morning after this week that I told you about before, I was reading through Luke. And it's been a very dark week. I've never have never had a week like that in my life. I was afraid, my wife had been afraid, our team was afraid, there was a sense of oppression, there was a c these people that were opposing us, but the forces of the enemy were as real to me as that bear was real to Ruth. That Sunday morning I read Luke 11 about how Jesus, when he sent the disciples out and they came back, do you remember what happened? They said, Lord, even the demons are subject to us. Anybody remember Jesus' words? What did he say about Satan? He saw Satan falling from heaven like lightning. And this is consistent with all the scripture. As we preach the gospel and make disciples, and those disciples multiply and go out and preach the gospel and they come back having been victorious. Satan in this war, this ongoing war, until until the Lord Jesus returned, he is defeated in that. And his kingdom continues to be beaten back Because Jesus is King. Making disciples. That Sunday morning I went walking to that same hill I told you about earlier. And after having read that and I had really met the Lord that morning and had really sensed and I know we gotta be careful to go by our feelings and all that, but it had just really sensed in a new, fresh way. Jesus is going to win this thing. And he's going to win it worldwide and he's going to win it right here in the middle of Satan's territory. And I went up on that same hill and I looked out over, I could see where the shrines are and the and the Buddhist temples, and I didn't have this false impression that our little area was protected because it was new. He's not limited to space. I in in those kinds of ways. And I just had such a sense of Jesus conquering and Satan falling Like lightning from heaven, as we see people coming to Christ and disciple them, and they go out and they tell people, maybe an application for you would be to get some training to do that and to learn how to do that better. And the third application Is please don't forget the lesson of Revelation. This message today. You know, it's the message of the book of Revelation. That's why it's dangerous to interpret it for one particular time in history. The message of chapter 17, verse 14, and that's a good verse to write at the front of Revelation so you remember to find it, you know, summarizes the battle. It summarizes the battle in Acts, it summarizes the battle in the Reformation, it summarizes the battle today. It's an ongoing battle and don't forget it. And here's the lesson to remember. Things are not as they seem It appears that we're losing sometimes. When you're going through those times where there's sickness, and some people in this congregation have gone through incredible sickness and despair, it must have been hard to think Things are not as they seem, but they aren't, as it was not for the early Christians. Things were not as they seem. Jesus is your Lamb. As we read in chapter 12, verse 10, the accuser may come before you and say, oh, you're still so sinful, you are so bad, and he accuses you and wants to make you think you're not the Lord's. But you remember that it's the blood of Christ which cleanses from all sin. And if you are his and have trusted in him, he cannot accuse you, he can't beat you. Is he your lamb today? You Christian, you kids from Christian homes, is he your lamb? Are you listening to the enemy? Or have you embraced the Lamb? Is he also your lion? Don't forget when you're going through those times, don't forget the message of Revelation. Don't forget, Job, that the enemy had to come before the Lord and beg permission. to touch one of his, just like that bear could not touch Ruth or her children without permission. And we don't understand all of that, but we know as we see the behind the scenes of Job chapter one and two, that the Lord had a greater purpose. And as hard as it was for Job, the Lord is king, and he is in charge. Your family difficulties, your work difficulties, your money difficulties Your sickness, spiritual battles, emotional battles, you can fill in the blank. You've had them last year, last week, next week, next year. The thing that that is true about us all is we're all in this battle and the enemy will come against us. As Scripture tells us, remember this message. Prepare yourself. Be ready. I was amazed last week as the little as Hannah was born and the cord was around her neck. Because the doctor was ready. I mean she just stopped. Stop She cut, she clipped that cord, cut it, and it was done in about three seconds. She was so ready for the situation. We need to be ready for when it comes. Prepare ourselves. Remember this message. God is all good and he is all powerful and he is in perfect control. Some of the guys on the front line in the Gulf, they must have been saying, We're not winning this war. They see their buddies being Killed or wounded, things seem to be going so badly. And some of those guys were in the victory parade yesterday. Because we know who's going to win. Don't forget One of the best things to remember, I think, to help us, and the one I always think of is Mary at the cross. Surely she must have thought God had lost as she stood there and she saw Jesus hanging there. She must have been thinking, God, what happened? Maybe as Time magazine says, you can't be both all-powerful, all good. And evil also be present. It just doesn't fit. She must have been thinking that. If she went to bed Friday night, how could she sleep? Feel her pain. But also feel Her Sunday, feel Sunday night as she went to bed. And the images of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world went through her mind. all the images of the Passover and that Jesus as he hung on that cross and it appeared that Satan had won That all through Jerusalem that day the Passover lands were being killed at the very hour that he died How Mary must have not been able to sleep Sunday night as she thought through those things. The Lord Jesus Christ did not lose control one bit, even down to the hour. that he was killed. Yes, we serve, as we sang earlier, a Lord who is in perfect control, and may He help us to remember that, because Revelation is a book for us today as it was for the early Christians. And as we sing this next song, I hope it means more to you than it ever has before. Fervor, the curve of her flesh. I promise you that. Nevertheless, to remove the tumor in her cheek, I had to cut that little nerve Her husband is in the room. He stands on the opposite side of the bed, and together they seem to dwell in the evening lamplight. Isolated from me, private. Who are they? I asked myself. He and this wry mouth I have made Who gaze at each other and touch each other generously, greedily. The young woman speaks. Will I always be like this? she asks. Yes. I say. It's because the nerve was cut. She nods and is silent. All at once I know who he is The husband. I understand, and I lower my gaze. Unmindful he bends to kiss her crooked mouth. An eye so close I can see how he twists his own lips to accommodate hers. To show that their kiss still works. Isn't that what Jesus has done? He twisted himself by becoming man. And he kissed us who were deformed by sin. He kissed us with his righteousness, with his holiness, with power to live lives that are pleasing to him. In the midst of our busyness, live lives that are godly from the inside All the way to the outside. The Lord Jesus empowers you to do that. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we come as people who have been richly Blessed. We come as people who see the law before us and we want to obey it. We want to remember that that you really do hate sin, that you are a holy God. You are a holy, holy, holy God. Yet so often we trifle with sin. And we slide into assemblance, appearances of holiness, with our hearts far from you. Lord, work in our hearts by your Spirit, work in our minds, work in all that we do and say, so that we would be holy people all the way through. Not only in what we do. But in what we think and what we are in our hearts toward you and toward one another. Enable us, Spirit of the Living God. Do that which only you can do. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.