Between the third and the fourth picture of judgment in Amos chapters 7 to 9, there's a record of an incident in Amos 's life, the one bit of history, the one record of experience that Amos had in the entire book. And for those of you who have not been part of this, either recently or at all, we have been going through the book of Amos, a series for some months now. uh coming down the home stretch of it. And uh in the study on this book of Amos we have noticed all of the prophecies, but today we come to that one section in the book where there's some history and experience that Amos had. at this point between the third and fourth picture of judgment in those last three chapters, perhaps because it happened chronologically at this point. But at any rate it gives us an insight into the religious climate. into which Amos spoke, and has the effect of confirming his message. It's sort of like Amos telling us that when he's giving us this message, he's saying, You want to know how bad things were? And you say, Yeah, how bad were they? You really want to know how bad how bad were they? And then he says, let me tell you something that happened. I'll give you one example of how people responded to my message. And so this is the one record of a response to Amos ' message, a response by the religious leader at Bethel. Not only does it give us some insight into what Amos went through, that we might see his message confirmed, but it's particularly helpful for us here in Columbia in nineteen eighty four because it's instructive for us concerning what we can expect. When we take the same kind of position that Amos did regarding sin and salvation, when we give the same kind of gospel that Amos did, what can we expect from our culture? Especially from religious leaders, apart from the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit. In addition to that, it will help us to see, I hope, how we should respond to the response that we get. Because we have here both a record of the response and how Amos responded to that response. So now with that in mind, let's take a look at the passage itself. Let's give our attention to the Word of God as we read from Amos chapter 7. The first three pictures of judgment have been given in verses 1 to 9. And so we pick up the scripture now in this book. incident in Amos 's life in chapter 7, verse 10 to 17. Let's hear the word of God. Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent a message to Jehoam, king of Israel. Amos is raising a conspiracy against you in the very heart of Israel. The land can't bear all his words. But this is what Amos is saying. Jeroboam will die by the sword, and all Israel will surely go into exile, away from their native land. Then Amaziah said to Amos, Get out, you seer, go back to the land of Judah, earn your bread there, and do your prophesying there. Don't prophesy anymore at Bethel because this is the king's sanctuary. temple of the kingdom. Amos answered Amesiah, I was neither a prophet nor a prophet's son, but I was a shepherd, and also I took care of sycamore fig trees. But the man took me from tending the flock and said to me, Go prophesy to my people Israel. Now then hear the word of the Lord. You say do not prophesy against Israel, and stop preaching against the house of Isaac. Therefore this is what the Lord said. Your wife will become a prostitute in the city, and your sons and daughters will fall by the sword, your land will be measured and divided up, and you yourself will die. in a pagan country. And Israel will certainly go into exile, away from their native land. Let's pause as we look to this portion of God's Word to learn from it. God to give us open and teachable hearts. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you might teach us from this incident that occurred so long ago, truths that are relevant for our own experience today. This week, in our living for you, give us open hearts and teachable hearts, and lift up the Lord Jesus before us we pray. Amen. There's just two points that you see in your words and outline that I'd like to divide this passage into and draw your attention to. First of all, that as a faithful servant of Jesus Christ, we should not be surprised. By opposition. Then, secondly, as a faithful servant of Jesus Christ, we should not be shaken by opposition. Surprised in verses 10 to 13, shaken verses 14 to 17. First of all, then don't be surprised when you receive opposition for your stand for Jesus Christ. I remember some years ago attending a conference on evangelism in which I heard a very noted evangelist whose name he probably recognize. And he said to us as he was training us in the evangelism techniques that he was espousing, that the reason that people in the United States do not respond to Jesus Christ is simply because they've never heard a clear presentation of the gospel. And he said, if you simply make the gospel plain to people, most of them will respond gladly to receive Jesus Christ. In fact, he then went on to give us a telephone evangelistic method, which he claimed if we used it precisely the way that he taught us, he would uh guarantee seventy-five percent positive response. That is, three out of four people that we called and used this with would at the end of that conversation pray to receive Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Now that's a particular View of the effect of the gospel on our culture. And I'd suggest to you that if the gospel simply entails the message that God loves you and accepts you simply the way you are and places no demands on your life, then that's probably the Kind of response you'll get. But that's not the gospel. And so what Amos was giving was the gospel, which was a life-transforming message. And when you get that kind of message, it cuts across the grain of people's Sin and lifestyles. Then you can expect some opposition. Then you can expect that it's going to take a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit to not get opposition. And that's what we see here in Amos ' message. I'm still standing. By the message that I gave on Pentecost from Acts 2:1, that said that when the Holy Spirit came, he came at Pentecost because it was the first fruits of a harvest, then we should expect that harvest. I'm not backing off of that and saying we should only expect opposition and reason, and we don't get and the response as personal pure and all of the rest of that. I'm simply saying that along with the positive response that we can expect by the gracious work of the Holy Spirit, there will also always be opposition. to our message. Peter said in a mess in a letter that he wrote to saints who are undergoing persecution, 1 Peter. He told them in chapter 4, verse 12, Dear friends, don't be surprised at the painful trial that you've your suffering, as if something strange were happening to you, but rather rejoice that you're participating in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. Don't be surprised. It's not something strange, Peter's saying, when you do And so that's what we have here: a record, an example of that in the life of one Christian, of one who followed God and sought to witness faithfully for. The example is the encounter between Amazon. And Amos. Now notice that Amosiah was a priest at Bethel. You see that in verse 10. He's one of the religious leaders of that day. And so you have here an example of the fact that this is not simply some. Fellow who is reacting, but he is not somebody who is connected with the Lord. This fellow was called to be a servant of Jehovah in his temple. He was a priest set aside to stand for the Lord. Lord. And he here is pictured as Amos's chief adversary. Reminds us of Paul when he went with the gospel. Every place you see him go. It's not the Romans that give him the hassle, it's the Jewish leaders. Who give him the flag for his message? And we see uh the same kind of thing in our own experience. Uh those of you who are familiar with the uh uh interactions we've had here that I stand for uh the gospel, the exclusive work for Jesus Christ. It was in the clergy meeting that I received the gravest opposition of anything that I received during that entire time. Much more than anybody at the flyer or anybody else in the community. It's the clergy. It's the religious leaders who either stand for Jesus Christ. Or against him. Near neutrality in that position. Now notice the nature of that opposition. It takes two forms that are important for us to understand. First of all, he talks about Amos. And in doing that, he misrepresents. resents him. He talks about it. First of all, you notice, that's in verses 10 , verse 10 and 11. He goes to the king. And first of all, notice what he does. He distorts Amos's motives. He says he's raising a conspiracy against you. He distorts his motives. It was nothing further from Amos 's mind than a conspiracy to undermine Israel. He's trying to save Israel. And yet his motives are all twisted so that the way it comes out before the king and before the public is that this guy is a low-down conspirator. And so, how often will there be that misrepresentation of a person's motives when they seek to witness? For Jesus Christ. Secondly, you notice that he distorted his message. He says there in verse 11. Now, this is what Amos is saying, Jeroboam is going to die by the sword. Now, if you notice up there in verse 9, that's not what Amos said. Amos said, but the Lord has said, my sword I will raise against the house of Jeroboam. And in fact the way that was carried out was that Jeroboam's son was assassinated and his dynasty was was removed from power. He didn't say that Jeroboam would die by the sword. We don't know how Jeroboam died. It's not recorded. But you see, it has a lot more effect if you say to the king, this guy said, you are going to die by the sword. You know, it doesn't exactly endear Jeroboam to Amos to know that he's going around saying that. And so the whole thing is designed to turn Jeroboam against Amos. And how many times can we stand for Jesus Christ in one way or another? And somebody will take our motives and they'll twist them and they'll take our message and it's not quite what we say. And it'll be distorted just enough to turn somebody else against us. The kind of we you sort of thing, you know, it's it's you and me against this guy. Who's causing trouble? Let's get together. And so you turn the person against that other one by an evil report, by gossip, by misrepresenting their motives, by distorting their message. And in doing that, the person has No way to defend themselves. Have you ever had that kind of situation? Well if you have, if you've ever been misrepresented, your motives, the things that you've said twisted, and you haven't been able to defend yourself. What this is saying. Don't be surprised. You're in good company. This is what happened to Amos, God's prophet. Don't be surprised when that happens to you. Notice the second form the opposition took. He confirmed Amos Iah talks to Amos, not only about him, but at least he has the guts to stand up and talk to him. But that is what he tries to do. He tries to intimidate him. And that's the second form that opposition will often take. Intimidation. He tries this by two means. Notice how he does it. One is in verse 12, and the other one's in verse 13. In verse 12, he tries to intimidate him by saying, Get out, you seer, go back to the land of Judah. Go Your bread there and do your prophesying there. Don't prophesy anymore at Bethel. Now, what's he saying there? Well, you see, in a subtle way, he's appealing to Amos' self-interest. Amos, you remember, came from Judah. He came from the South. He was not born and not raised in the north. Now in the South, in Judah, what would be the response if Amos went around talking about how God was going to judge the ten northern tribes? He wouldn't get nearly the response you'd get in the north, he said. And so what he Really saying, and what you and I are often told is that subtle temptation that says, go give your message where it's where people want to hear it rather than where they need to hear it. And so often as Christians, it's easy to succumb. You see, it's one thing for me to stand up here and boldly declare to you that homosexuality is wrong and God's word speaks unequivocally against it. It's another thing for me to write that in the flyer and state the same position. It's another thing for me to state that in the public forum where people are going to be cheering me on and saying, yeah, yeah, stand for the truth, Al. You see, it's so tempting for us to state boldly the things that God says were to receive, where people want to hear them because They agree with us, and not to stand against the opposition where they needed to be heard. And that's what Amosiah said. Go back to Judah where they want to hear you say these things. Don't stand here and tell us we don't want to hear it. But of course Amos was simply there because he knew they're the ones that needed to hear. And he couldn't back off from that. You notice that uh the uh second thing that he does is that he simply tries to, once that's failed, suppress Amos by intimidating it with sheer authority. Verse 13. But don't prophesy anymore of Bethel, because this is the king's sanctuary. Temple of the kingdom. Basically he's saying, uh, who do you think you are anyway, coming up here in the king's sanct sanctuary and saying these things, these traitorous things, you ungrateful, disloyal fellow? And so he's trying to intimidate an By the sheer authority of where he is and his own position. Have you ever been intimidated that way? I sure have. I can remember back in college, another professor, told you about one last week, I'll tell you about another one this week. This was a professor that I naively took an Old Testament Bible course from. And I was naive as a new Christian to think that perhaps at a uh school like the University of Pennsylvania I could learn something about the Bible in some sympathetic way. Well, this fellow used to refer to that little Israelitish deity that the uh records gave us uh an account of, and he would just one stripe after another attack the authority of the scripture. And time after time I couldn't take it anymore, and I'd stand up in class and I'd object to what he was saying, I would object to how he was saying, the slants and the and the basis on which he said it, the one-sided view of archaeology and all the rest of that. And I remember how we used to dialogue so much in class that uh he used to just get tired of my standing up and would just you know we'd just become the two of us kitten because I don't remember anyone else objecting in that class to that uh to anything he was saying. I was a new Christian, I didn't know very much. So I was probably making an ass of myself a lot of what I was saying, but I just couldn't sit there and undo that. But I remember One time, finally, when he had exhausted all the arguments of intimidation that he tried, the one thing that he said that still I remember as a sophomore in college just struck me as absolutely ludicrous, he said, Mr. Harris, do you realize how few people hold your position to how many people hold my position. And I thought, well, now that's a really scholarly argument. And all he was trying to do is to intimidate me in front of the class So then I back down. That's exactly what you have here with Annis. You ever have that a situation? Somebody can't answer your argument, and so they'll simply intimidate you into submission. By their authority? By rejection, by embarrassment, by destroying your image, whatever way they may do it, the effect is the same, to make you back down from what you've said because you're intimidated. And so the tendency is the same thing. To want to go back and say it to where you'll be received, to want to give the message to where people will agree with you. To have a two sided uh value system. A certain value system that you hold on Sundays. And then another value system that you hold during the week when you're discussing issues with people at work and with the neighbors and others. And you're very clear on your stand when you're in your Christian fellowship about what you believe about certain moral issues. When it comes to discussing Those same issues with your non-Christian friends, all of a sudden your values shift. And there is by that intimidation, the silence of going along, perhaps, to the things that are said. Believe me, I have felt the same thing, I have succumbed to it myself. again and again. You feel dirty. You feel guilty afterwards. But it happens to us. Don't be surprised. Don't be surprised when those things happen. It's part. of the experience of the believer in Jesus Christ to have that intimidation. We don't have to respond by giving in. But don't be surprised when you're intimidating. Now notice how Amos responded in the situation that he was in. There's two things to notice about his response. Don't be shaken by this opposition. Amos was not shaken. Notice how he responded in these two ways. First of all, there's a need to be confident that God has appointed you. A need to be confident that God has appointed you to speak what you've said. Look in verses 14 and 15. Famous answer. He says, I was neither a prophet nor a prophet's son. But I was a shepherd, and I also took care of sycamore fig trees. But the Lord took me from tending the flock and said to me, Go, prophesy to my people Israel. Now what's that got to do with the poor? Here's Amaziah saying, uh, look, uh go back and say this uh message back in Judah where they want to hear this stuff. And don't prophesy here because this is a king's sanctuary, and we're not going to tolerate that kind of thing around you. Who do you think you are anyway? And then Amos might talk about his career. But why did he do that? You see, what Amos is simply saying is: look, fellow, I'm not a professional prophet. I'm not a preacher by trade, you see. I'm a shepherd and a fruit grower. See, I work at APL. I'm in medicine. I'm an engineer. I teach. I'm a nurse. I'm a homemaker. I'm in one or another occupation. I'm not a professional. in this field. That I met Jesus Christ. I saw my need for a Savior. I saw that my whole life was going in the direction that was set against God who had made me. And I saw that he had an absolute claim upon my life and that I was guilty before him and helpless to do anything about it. And I saw Jesus Christ lifted up. I saw him die and take sinners, sins and punishment upon himself. And I saw him offer that salvation to me. And I responded in my profession where I was to Jesus Christ, just as I was. And he took me. And he received me to himself. And then he gave me a commission. And he said, Go, make disciples. Go into all the world, into all walks of life, wherever you are, in whatever you're doing, and go make disciples. Declare me, baptize disciples in my name, under my authority, because I'm with you. Wherever you go to do the good. And he told me in Ephesians 5:11 that I'm not to partake of the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather I'm to reprove them, to expose them, to lay them open, to condemn them. Threaten them. God has given to you and to me that commission. Just as he gave to Amos the commission to prophesy to Israel. And so Amos says basically to Amos , I don't have any choice in this. This isn't what I was doing. You see, tell them a prophet or a prophet's son is saying, I neither was a prophet by trade, nor was I in grad school for the prophets. The prophet's son was the designation given to those who were in the schools of the prophet's. Who studied under some big well-known prophet in order to gain their credentials? So he says it wasn't a prophet either by my own choosing, and I'm not in grad school for it. I'm not studying for the profession. God took me where I was and what I was doing, and he said, You've got to go. speak the message. And that's why I'm here. I don't have any choice. I can't back off of this. I've got to be faithful to the Lord who's commissioned me. Now notice the second thing that he does. He's direct in speaking the truth that Amaziah needs. He's direct and faithful in speaking the precise truth that Amaziah needs to hear at that point. He says, verse 16 and 17, well then hear the word of the You say, Don't prophesy against Israel and start preaching against the house of Israel. All of this. Verse seventeen, therefore I'm going to prophesy to you. That takes guts, you know. Say, listen, I don't want to go around here prophesying anymore. I want you to go back to Judah on the way here. Any more just prophesying here. Quiet. You know, you might say, Well, I'll cool it for a little bit because think about that way. My options, you know, from that. But you know, he says, Okay, he says, This is what you say, don't prophesy. Don't prophesy. Hear the prophecy of the Lord. Then it is a guy who knew his commission. Therefore, this is what the Lord says your wife will become a prostitute in the city. Your sons and daughters will fall by the sword. Your land. will be measured and divided up. And you yourself will die in a pagan country. And Israel will certainly go into exile, away from their native land. Let's say this still here. Warding him for all he's working. You see, when a person gets that hardened, that set against the gospel, there's only one thing left to do, and that's to warn them in the name of Jesus Christ what they're facing. To warn them what is Going to happen if they continue in the course that they have set. And when you and I seek in gracious humility to put forward the gospel, and it is rejected, and there is opposition, and people stand against that, there's only one thing. have to do, and that's to rule. To say, okay, you have the choice to do what you're doing, but I simply want you to know the consequences of that choice. This is what's going to happen. You don't have to be a prophet to know that. You know from your own study of scripture that Jesus said in Luke 13, 3 and 5, He said, You look at all these people that have suffered these disasters. Jesus says, Except you repent, turn around, change your mind about myself, my claims, you also will. Perish. He that hardens his heart, being often reproved, shall suddenly be cut off, and that without a remedy. You have many things that you can take from scriptures by which you can warn people. This is what the Lord says is going to happen in your life. you continue to go the way that you're going. You don't have to be a prophet with personal inspiration for that. You may know the details of a person's family and what's going to happen to them the way Amos knew what was going to happen to Amaziah's wife and his children and his land. Those things which should have shaken Amaziah to hear it. But you can speak. But Scripture says as principles are going to happen to someone who rejects Jesus Christ. And that's just as prophetic. Can you imagine? Imagine what it must have been like to say those things to Amos I. Here's a fella who has the ear of the king. You think it's tough to talk to your boss? You say, Man, that guy can hire me and fire me. He can keep me from getting a promotion. He can stagnate my career in this corporation. Then look at this person that I I'm a neighbor to. And I try to get along with that person. That person, I want to have a good neighbor. I want to have somebody that's that's pleasant to be with. I don't want to have tension because I've got somebody ailing me from me. We count all kinds of things. I I remember just uh 4th of July being at a picnic uh with my family, with some people that I had never met. And I found again that concern for my image Watch how I say what I say. I don't want these people to reject me. Probably I gotta see 90% I'll never again. But there's still that concern. I don't want to be rejected. A Messiah. could have probably had Amos killed in his own human authority. And Amos, humanly speaking, was taking a terrific risk to tell the priest who sits next to the king, your wife's going to be a prostitute, your kids are going to be cut down, your land Going to be taken, and I stand by my message. Israel will go into exile. You yourself are going to die in exile. And to say that to him, not arrogantly, I'm sure that Amos said that to him pleadingly. But said it to Directly. Set it to him with our longing and not backing down. Without the fear of man that puts us in bondage. Do you have the fear of people in your heart this morning today? That fear which will not permit you to say what you know you ought to say in certain circumstances at work, in the neighborhood, with friends, and relatives, the fear of people that keeps us in bondage. Let's pray to God that He will release us from that fear. He will set us free from that. That we might be faithful, as Amos was, to speak what people need to hear, whether it's warm invitation. Presenting the claims of Christ and his offer of salvation. Whereas words warning. Warning of the consequences of sin. To be faithful in saying what we need to say. The transgression of an ethical principle where we work. To not say, I've got to think of my career, and that stands before anything. And so I will not say anything in this situation. But to trust God and to say I will speak because it's sin, it's wrong, we shouldn't be doing this. And I'm going to say something as tactfully and as helpfully as I can say it, but I'm not going to back down. I'm going to say it because to do anything else would be the discredit murder of Jesus. And I love him too much to do that. He's died for me. How can I possibly turn my back on what he's called me to say in this situation? We've experienced that as a congregation, and we'll be moving out in a couple of months because there's going to be some of us that will be picketing Abortion clinic this Saturday. There will be people there that will no doubt scoff, may say insulting things to those that are picketing, may say rude things, and there may be confrontation of one kind or another. But are you willing? To endure that? To be faithful to the Lord? We're going to have a homosexual anonymous meeting on July 26th here. That's already caused a reaction. Already somebody at the meeting house said, Well, you guys really want to go out on a bat. Don't you? We may get picketed ourselves in protest. But do we believe that the scripture speaks to that and that people who are homosexuals but want help should have the ministry of the church and not just the accusations. Should we seek to help a minister in that way? We're going to find out if there's a way that we can do that. Are you willing to take the flak from that? Or will we say, hey, I didn't know we were going to get flaked for that meeting. We shouldn't have done that. That was our Who said getting flack determines whether something's unwise or not? Amos got a great deal of flack. Are we willing to stand in situations against opposition where we may be misrepresented? But it will be intimidating. But because we know God has called us, and we know that we must speak because we love Him. There was a man some time ago who wanted nothing more in life than to simply be a scholar. He wanted to study and he wanted to write and he wanted to lead a quiet life. He was a rather sickly fellow, not very robust. He constantly had headaches and stomach pains and all the rest of it. But he loved to study. And he had a brilliant mind. And he set out on that course, but one day he met Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ took a hold of that man, forgave him of his sin, and turned his life completely around. His values were changed. No longer was it simply my career Is going to be first place and making a name for myself in my scholarship. But it was to serve Jesus Christ. Because of serving Jesus Christ, he was kicked out of the place where he lived. And he fled to another city. In that city in which he planned stay only overnight, somebody said, You have got to stay here and help us. We need leadership. And you are a leader and you can help us. And so he stayed. And he joined with another man who was much more robust, much more powerful, an effective person. And they sought to work in that city to transform it. Now the city was full of people who professed to be Christians. In fact, the city called itself a Christian city. Well, it sponsored openly prostitution, new dances in the streets, drunken brawls on a weekly basis, and every other kind of rougy and foul corruption within the government and everything else that you can think of. And so these men, joined by another fellow who was blind, saw together as one really unlikely Trio to try and turn things around in that city. They tried for about 15 months. Opposition grew and grew and grew to them. They were misrepresented. Their motives were misrepresented. The things they said. said were misrepresented. Out and out lies were told about them. Particularly this one fellow who had been a scholar. He began to preach in that town. And as he preached, he found the people becoming more hostile. He sought to win them. He sought with tears and openness to plead with them to turn to Jesus Christ. And the opposition grew. In fact, from the second year that he was there, he had to stand for a principle in which he could not back down. And the people stood against him. The government stood against him. No one supported him except his two friends. He was utterly alone, vilified, misrepresented, hostility all about him. He got into the pulpit on Easter. Morning to preach his Easter message in response to all the hassle, all the opposition, and the tension that was going on in the city. And he stood up and he declared the gospel, and people drew their swords to kill him. Some of his friends thrown the shield. around him and saved his life. And the next day he was thrown out of town with his two friends. An utter failure at the age of 28 vilified, misrepresented. Everything he had done distorted. And that was how John Calvin spent his first two years at Geneva. Three years later, he was called back by the city. But over the next 15 years, because they understood that he was the only person they could call who had convictions to lead. Out of the disaster into which that city was headed. Geneva became the Reformation capital of the world. And to this day stands as the city that understood what it meant to live by the Bible. Because when Begin by saying, I can't back down. I will not be intimidated out of this. And I will take a stand for Jesus Christ. Don't be surprised when you're misrepresented and when you're intimidated. But stand for Jesus Christ, who loved you so much, that he gave his life for you. And you and I can do nothing less than to be faithful to him. That means this week that we have our Time of prayer. I'm going to lead us together, and then I'm going to give a couple of minutes for anyone who wants to to lead us in asking God to give us abundance, their own situations. As a church, in our jobs, wherever and however we're standing for Jesus Christ, feel free briefly to lead us loudly so we can hear and join with you as we seek for the Lord's work in our lives. Let's pray. Lord God, we give you praise and thanks this morning that you have called us out of darkness into your mind. Marvelous light. But the way you call us, you transform us. Lord, if there's anyone here this morning who thinks that they can follow you without being transformed, we pray that you would show you. The gospel in its fullness, or that person right now might realize their need for Jesus Christ to forgive on the basis of his shed blood and resurrection, to transform. and to give that person a new life. Lord, as we consider the life that you have given to us, we pray that you would take away our surprise when we find that we receive opposition. Surprise when people reject us. Surprise when we find that we're concerned about that rejection. Lord, we pray that you would give to us that heart of your Servant Paul, who said that we seek not to please men, but God who tries our hearts. But so we pray now, Lord God, that you would give to us a freedom from the bondage of the fear of man. That you would Free us from fearing what people will say to us or do to us, and that we might learn to fear you above all things. And Lord, that in your kindness and in your goodness in Jesus Christ you have received us to your Yourself. And therefore, out of the awestruck response to grace, Lord, we can do nothing but be faithful to you. It would hurt too much to do otherwise. Give to us, Lord. That holy gentle boldness that comes from seeing what Jesus has done for us and what he has commissioned us to do in exposing sin and in calling people to repent. Repentance and faith unto Jesus Himself.