In by by by just uh telling you a little bit about um a stage play. And and the name of this play was called The Sign of Jonah Uh the first person to tell me about this play was my um uh was one of my professors in seminary, a man by the name of Ed Clowning. Um For the longest time I I I had a hard time trying to picture why they called this play the sign of Jonah, because it has really nothing to do with Jonah It obviously has some type of biblical reference to it. And uh if I remember at the towards the very end of my message, I'll uh try to remember to tell you why uh I think it is called the uh sign of Jonah But the s the the the play is really uh begins with a small gathering of townspeople and and it's just very average type of folk uh you had a housewife, a a a mailman, a a a businessman, a student. I mean just your average type of people who gathered together and they were having a conversation. And the conversation that they were having was concerning the Holocaust. The time was post-World War II and the world was in the aftershocks of what had happened in Nazi Germany with the execution of six million Jews. And so these people were gathering together to talk about that and they were contemplating how could this happen? I mean, what in the world was the cause for this. I mean how could this happen in our day? And as they were talk talking about it, they w they were trying to figure out who they could blame. And one person said, Well, you know, the ones at fault were the soldiers who who who who uh shot their weapons and the ones who, you know, herded these people off like cattle, the these heartless people, they're the ones who are at fault And another person said, well, you know, no that's not right. I mean they were just following orders. The ones who are really responsible are the uh officials ab above them And they said, you know, the the the captains and the generals, they're the ones who are at who are to blame. And they said, well no, the because they were just really following orders too. The one who was really at fault was Adolf Hitler himself So you see everything was Hitler's fault. And then another very clever person said, Well, no, there is an authority higher than him And it is God. You see what they were doing now is saying, you see, God is at fault. It is his fault that this happened Now I don't know what thoughts come into your mind when you hear about this beginning part of this play. The thought that came into mind, this is so much me. This is so much us To constantly be shifting the blame, complaining, grumbling, and griping, and ultimately blaming God for the things that happened in our lives. That's exactly what is happening here in Exodus 17. If you read with me now in Exodus 17, starting on verse 1 It says here, the whole Israelite community set out from the desert of sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Raphedon, but there was no water for the people to drink. So they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses replied, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? But the people were thirsty for water there, and they grumbled against Moses. They said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to make us and our children and livestock die of thirst? Then Moses cried out to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me. The Lord answered Moses. Walk on ahead of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Niles, and go. I will stand there before you by the rock at Horeb. Strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the place Nathah and Meribah because the Israelites quarreled and because they tested the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? Well this is uh this passage here in Exodus 17 is really one of the most intriguing stories that you have in the Old Testament. And a quick read of these seven verses You would think that not much is really happening here. You have a significant problem, the people need water. Moses strikes the rock and and water comes out. But don't be fooled by that because really behind the words of this passage really is interwoven the gospel, the grace of God. You see, the background of this passage is one that we're very familiar familiar with. 400 years of slavery had just come to an end. 400 years of slavery has ended and Israel is now free. And not only are they free, they were freed by the power of God, and Israel was witness to this. The people of God saw the ten mighty wonders of God that he performed before the people. He saw the Israelites saw the parting of the Red Sea They saw the the presence of God and the pillar of fire and the pillar of clouds. They saw all of these things. Not only that, they were also in need as they were traveling from Egypt. to Mount Sinai to receive God's law. They needed water, they needed food, they needed sustenance, they needed all of these things, and in every stage God provided In the previous chapter, in Exodus chapter 16, what you read about is God's miraculous provision of quail and of manna that came down from heaven. You see, our God provides And not only is he a provider, he is all omnipotent, he is all loving and all kind. Of course he is going to provide for his people. He is not going to live leave his people in need And you would think that here is Israel now with a significant problem. They have no water to drink. I mean that's the problem. We're living in it in our day now. Without water we die Israel is thinking without water we die. We need water and God is not providing the water. I mean what is going on here? I mean God has been faithful in the past and yet Israel still forgets Israel still doubts. They saw the mighty act of God in Egypt, and they still doubt. They saw God partying the Red Sea for them. There is nothing too difficult for thee And yet they still doubted. God provided the quail and the manna, and you would think at this point that they would now remember. But no, they once again forgot. They doubted. And so what does Israel do? The first thing that you read about Israel doing is complaining against God. In verse 2 in chapter 17, it says So they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Now that word quarreled it does not mean just merely griping and complaining. The Hebrew word for for quarrel is a is a term of legal significance. In other words, what's going on here is that Israel is bringing a legal complaint against God. And the complaint they are there that they are bringing against God is look. We have a covenant relationship here. We shed blood over this. You know? You are not holding your end of this covenantal arrangement. We are dying here of thirst. You are unfaithful to your covenant It's as if the Israelites are suing God. They are quarreling with God. They are bringing a legal complaint against God. You see, what they are really doing is forgetting they are not trusting in God. They are trusting within themselves. Whenever we come into a crisis situation That is what we all tend to do. Forget about God, depend upon ourselves. It has to make sense to us. We have to be able to see it. We have to make sense of it, or else we start to panic. Not only does Israel complain, now they make accusations against God, and the accusation that they make in verse 7, is the Lord among us or not? You see, it's not just that God is not providing water, it's that God is no longer here in our midst And it's not like we asked to be here either. If you read in verse 1, it says that the reason why the Israelites are in this deserted area is because they were following the commandment of God The Lord's word directed them to come here, and now what's going on? Now God is abandoning us. Here we are dying. I don't know if you've ever felt this way, like God led you to a certain point in your life And you reach that point. And now all of a sudden you feel betrayed. You feel abandoned. You feel alone. Like God is not there, and you have got to now do things on your own. You see the complaint here in this passage, although it may seem that it is directed towards Moses , It is not. It is directed towards God Himself. The ultimate blame goes to God, it seems, whenever we get into a crisis situation. We are all like this. It's a s it's a familiar theme. I mean it goes back to the garden in Genesis chapter three, when humanity fell into sin and the Lord comes to Adam and asks him, Why did you take of that fruit that I forbid for you to take? What is it that Adam said? It was the woman that you gave to me. Always a male tendency to blame the woman around us. But who was Adam really blaming? Was it really the woman? No. Who provided the woman? It was God. You see, the reason why I'm struggling now, O Lord, is because of you. The woman whom you gave to me Feeling abandoned, feeling betrayed, feeling alone And so Israel moves on. Not only do they complain, not only they do do they accuse, and now comes the lawsuit. Now comes the actual suing of God. If you read verses 5 and 6, what happens there is that Moses is gathering the elders of Israel. And in the presence, in the midst of these elders, the presence of God now comes to stand upon the rock. In other words, the picture that you are reading there is a picture of a court scene. Israel is now gathering into a trial. The one on trial is the Lord. The accusation, God is not faithful to his covenant. Now we may read this and we may think, oh man, you know, this is pretty horrible. And we and we tend to distance ourselves from the passage. And that at times is one way, unfortunate way that we read the Old Testament as a whole. All of the pa of the stories that we read, we distance ourselves and think thinking, even if Paul, you know, if that were me in that situation Boy it would have been very different. If that were me, I never would have done that. You ever um uh see the uh the musical Camelot? And the introduction to the one of one of the characters of Pamela was the Knight Lancelot. And his opening song, he sa in that song, he says Had I been made the partner of Eve, we'd be in Eden still. We really think that That we would we are very different. Oh yeah, Israel fell, they blame God, but I would never have done that had that been me You know, Israel, in Exodus 16, it says that God led them through all of these trials to test their faith. And Israel failed by testing God. You know, and we again are all like this. We will tend to be brain shifters, complainers, and grumblers all of the time. You see, what is the real sin that Israel is committing here? What is at the core of what they are doing? They forgot. God led them out of Egypt after ten miraculous acts. Here they need water, and they forgot that God provides. Israel was hungry in the desert, so God provided quail and manna. And here they are thirsty, and now they forgot. God provides In all their times of need in the past, God was there every step of the way to provide for them. Here they are in another crisis, and what do they remember? The great deeds of God in the past Israel forgot. We are peoples who so easily forget. And this is the reason why we are constantly needing to remind ourselves of the truth of scripture. We cannot do things on our own. We are made in such a way to depend upon God. And in fact I think about uh Deuteronomy chapter six. There you have that picture of a father and son in worship together. And the son says to his father, Why are we doing all of these things? Why do we eat these these bitter herbs? Why do we take of this bread And the father takes that as an opportunity to remind the son of the great things that God had done. And the warning there to the parents is that do so in such a way that your children will not forget Talk about this in your waking and your sleeping and your walking and all that you do so that you will not forget the things that God has done. But we always forget If you read the book of Judges, it says in the book of Judges in chapter 2 that a generation grew after the days of Joshua that did not know the Lord or the things that he had done. A generation after Joshua that forgot. And as I think about generations and I think about children, especially today, when I think about the uh covenant children that were now made communicate members today, I think about our generation of children as well. You know, it's not going to take long before we junior high students start to grow to be high school, high school start to become college, and then your thinking all starts to change As you go through these crises one after the other, and even that transition from high school to college is not an easy one, folks. It really isn't. Who are you going to remember? And who are you going to forget? You know, as I think about that and you even move on beyond college and you think about, you know, all of a sudden even things like dating is not so important. Now you think in marriage You think beyond college, now you think work and making the making money and ma and getting a job. You know, pretty soon you guys is and and your and the kids the the younger people who are out here are not going to be so consumed with going out to eat anymore as is you're going to be thinking about things of life. Pretty soon you're going to be inviting each other to each to to to weddings. You're going to be getting invitations to each other's baby showers. And it will happen someday you will be inviting you will be going to each other's funerals. Life will be filled with crises, and when those crises come, who are you going to trust What will you remember? And who will you forget? And as I think about that, um I I want to share with you an insight that that I was reminded of this past week. And for the younger folks within our congregation, this specifically applies to you, is I don't know, it was like an epiphany. I mean it's not a deep insight, but yet it meant so much for me to contemplate it this way that you and I, we are peers Now I don't know if you all think of it yourselves as that way, as being co-workers for the gospel and for the building of the kingdom of God, but that's what we are. We are working together to build God's kingdom, and as you do that Who are you going to remember and who are you going to forget? You looked at your friends and you may think, I mean, don't you know why You don't like to play games anymore. I mean, don't you know why? You look at your friends and they don't look the same way that they did before. Why it is that you don't you feel more pressure in certain aspects of your life? It's because you are growing and you are facing more things of life and when you do this Who are you going to remember and who are you going to trust? I look into this congregation, you know what I see? Yeah, I see future doctors and businessmen and and and societal people and all of that. You know what else I see? I see future cell leaders. I see future deacons, I see future elders, I see future pastors even, missionaries for the kingdom and for the glory of God That is what I see. And when you face these situations and the pressure starts to come and things may not work out the way that you hope, who will you remember? And who will you forget? This idea of forgetting is such an important thing. The Bible is filled with it. The people always forget, and in the Old Testament, God always remembers The people are always forgetting about God. It is God who always remembers them. The only time the idea of God forgetting is ever applied is when it comes to our sin. God forgets our sins, but He sure remembers us. You know, and this idea of forgetting, I'll tell you, the Lord's really reminded me of this this in the past two weeks in my life. Two weeks ago, um my wife came to me and she kept saying to me, I'm late, I'm late. And I kept telling her, Oh good Lord, I sure hope you're talking about a meeting. But she wasn't talking about a meeting. She was late. And we were looking at possibly, possibly having our fifth child. Our fifth child. Um now let me just tell you now, she is not. But I tell you when the the when it was seemed very real that she was, I went into panic mode I kept thinking, Oh my, what am I going to do? What am I going to do? What am I going to do? What am I going to do? Our fifth child What am I going how could I justify staying a student with another baby coming? What am I going to do And not only I mean, if you look at our children, you know, Kara, my my daughter, is a handful. What you may not know is Micah, my youngest, is even more of a handful. And if number five keeps up this pattern, man, we're in big trouble. And I'm thinking, my goodness, what? Are we going to do? And I began to doubt, I began to come crum uh grumble, and I began to complain. What is going on? And in the back of my mind, I'll tell you, I'm a good Calvinist boy. I have read my Reformed doctrines. I know about the sovereignty of God. God is in absolute control of all of this thing. He could have kept this thing from happening if he wanted to, but he didn't And then back in my mind I ca by the way, that's a really bad application of that doctrine. Okay? I just wanted to tell you up front, that is a really bad way of looking at it. But In the back of my mind, when you are in panic mode, when you are in the middle of a crisis, you don't start to rationalize things, things become irrational, and subtly I began to blame God Last Saturday as I was preparing for my messages to uh preach a covenant, God forgive me, preaching a covenant was not uh what was on my mind I kept thinking, what am I going to do? But do you see what the problem is already, folks? What am I going to do? I'll tell you what I can do. I can't do nothing. I can't do anything. Now it had worked out that Clara is not pregnant, but someone actually asked me in in in the hallway in between the two worships What if she was? That would have changed everything. And I would have said, Oh yeah. It really would have. And I wish I could tell you now as I stand before you that I would be able to rejoice, but I just don't know. You see the tendency in our hearts is to stray away from trusting in God and to trust within our own abilities. It's gotta make sense to us. We've got to be able to see it. We've got to be able to touch it. We can't always trust. It's got be within our own hands or else we'd panic. And that's exactly what I began to do. I began to panic And you don't folks, you don't may know my history and my family's history too well. And that's really unfortunate because I'll tell you right now, as as God is my witness, all of my four children were born in un idealistic circumstances. And yet the Lord provided. One of them I had as I was getting started in my studies at Catholic University. I knew I wasn't going to be making any h income and I knew we were going to have our have our fourth child. And I even stood here before you all on a Lord's Supper to tell you how gracious God was in providing for us at that time. And yet two weeks ago, when I hit a crisis situation, I forgot I forgot that God is faithful. I forgot that God is true. I can't do anything on my own. I already know that. I need to be reminded of that and to depend upon Him God will be there. God will provide. He won't lead me into a wilderness and just led me to die of thirst. Not only does he give me water, he will give me waters that will flow to eternity. That is what our God will do for us. But let me ask you about your lives and what is going on within you. I mean, I don't think I'm much different. We are all complainers. We are all people who will doubt. We will be pressed into a situation and we will come out swinging with false fists. Because we have got to be in control. Our tendency is not to trust God. Our tendency is to forget. And so in light of these things, in light of our tendency to complain, in light of our grumblings and our doubts and our quarreling with God How does God react to these things? What does he do? What he does, folks, is gracious. Look at verses 5 and 6. It says there In the court scene, that it was God first of all who organized this court. He didn't wait for Moses to call it. God calls the trial together. And then it says in verse 6 I will stand there before you by the rock at Horaz. Now, here's where a little Hebrew does really help. Because the picture that you get there is that you have the elders, you have the rock, and God comes and he stands next to to the rock. As a bystander to watch now Moses strike this rock. That's not what is going on in this passage at all, because what the Hebrew says is not that the Lord came to stand by the rock. It says that the Lord came to stand In other words, the picture that you get is not the picture of the Lord standing next to the rock. The picture is of the Lord standing upon the rock. Now what about the staff that is described here? This rod. The rod is given one specific description in um in the let's see. In verse six, it says there, strike the rock, the walk oh no, it's the back in verse five. Take your hand, take into your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile The only thing that you're told about the staff is that this is the staff that struck the Nile. Strucking of the Nile, turning the waters of the Nile into blood. This was an act of God's wrath. This was an act of God's judgment. The staff was a staff of wrath, the staff of God's judgment. And this is a staff that God tells Moses to strike the rock. And in order for God to first strike the rock, he must first strike down the presence of God God takes upon himself the wrath. Jesus takes upon himself. The Lord takes upon himself God's wrath. You see, the picture that you get here in Exodus 17 is just a small image of that greater, greater picture. What you get here is a small glimpse of that great act that would happen far off in the history of redemption. That time when the Lord Himself would truly take upon Himself the wrath of God, so that you may be spared. You see, it doesn't make sense, folks. It really doesn't Every time I read this, it it doesn't make sense. Who should have been struck by this rod? It should have been the people, the audaciousness, the the the the arrogance to to put God on trial themselves That think that you can do that and walk away guilt-free. The people are the ones who should have been on trial. The people are the ones who should have been struck down, but no It was the Lord who took upon himself God's wrath, so that you may be spared. And this is the reason why in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 4, Paul says that Jesus is that rock. He is the rock upon which uh Moses struck. And this is also the reason why Moses later on in the Old Testament God tells him not to strike a rock, but to speak to it, and the waters will flow. But Moses doesn't obey and he strikes the walk again because you see Jesus dies once, the book of Hebrews says, for all. He dies once for all of our sins. How does the Lord react to the grumbling, complaining, audacious people? He goes to the cross Now the people of Israel here needed water and the Lord provided that. But of course by faith you can have something so much more. A water that will never die. A water that will prove that will replenish and refresh you for eternity. The naming of this place I think is significant. Masa and Meribah. Testing and quarreling. I don't think in the history of Israel they ever had occasions to walk by this land again, so it was really more of a memorial a constant reminder of the sins of Israel and their dependence upon God. We who are unfaithful worship a God who is always faithful. I don't know what crises are going on within your lives as folk. I don't know what's happening within everybody here. There's gotta be some things I'm sure that that you are dissatisfied with, that you complain about, that you grumble about, that you lived up to the Lord and are absolutely confused because you just don't understand What is going on? Why is this happening? For people like you, for people like me, the Lord went to the cross. And in light of our doubt, is the Lord among us or not, he reminds us again of that eternal truth, encapsulated within his name, Emmanuel. He is God who is with us. And he will never leave us or forsake us. There is nothing you can do within your situations. That is a good truth for you to know. Because it reminds us always of our Lord, because there is nothing you may be able to do, but there is something that God can do The ending of that play, the sign of Jonah, as these people were blaming God, they began to now put a trial scene together, and in the play you could see this trial start to take place. and they were putting God on trial. And the trial of course was for the ho horrors of the Holocaust. And they said, God is in fact guilty. What will now be his punishment? And one person said, You know, humanity suffered horribly. So may God become man. And they said not only was it humanity specifically were the Jews that suffered horribly, so let God become a Jew Another person said, I lost a son in this war. May God also now lose a son. And the irony of the play I think is obvious. Man does not judge God. It is God who judges man. We do not condemn God. It is God who should rightfully condemn us. But when we should have been the ones who are on trial, it was the Lord who took that upon Himself. When it should have been us who should have been the subject of God's wrath The book of Ephesians says, God transformed us into objects of his love. When it should have been us who should have suffered The horrors of God's judgment, God spared all these things and put it upon his son, so that we can have the flowing of loving, living water. What did God do in light of our grumbling, in light of our complaining? He sent his one and only Son And I hope that is the truth that will win you over and remind you always that you are not alone. Let's all pray together. As we meditate for a second, I'd just like to give you a minute to perhaps uh reflect on your own life and the things that God is doing. Things that perhaps have you stumped, that has caused you perhaps to question and doubt, to doubt God's faithfulness. If you look at your life, I'm sure it's a lot like mine, a testimony of God's faithfulness in each stage And as we do that, I'd just like to give you a minute to reflect, to meditate, to repent perhaps even for some of you, and to remind ourselves once again of the faithfulness of our God. Let's just spend a moment in prayer Our Father, we thank you that you did not give to us a complaining people what we so perhaps rightfully deserved. Instead, Lord, took upon yourself, Lord, the wrath and the judgment that should have been ours And we thank you, O Lord, that you are so pleased to remind us, O God, that we are powerless on our own abilities. And that is a good truth, O Lord, for it reminds us always that you are the one who is in control, loving and kind. And so, God, as we meditate and reflect upon our lives, upon our hearts, I pray, Lord, that we may perhaps for some of us be stung by what it is that we see or come to realize That it may lead us, Lord, to the cross, to the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, and through that, Lord, be replenished, Lord, by the flowing of living waters. Refresh your people today, Lord, with abundant joy, with abundant grace. Remind us once again of who you are as our God and the things that you are doing for us. And so, Lord, hear our prayers, for we pray these things all in Jesus' name.