Please turn to Galatians chapter five, where we read from verses one through fourteen. Galatians chapter five This morning I'm going to ask you to imagine that you are a group of believers sitting in a house in Antioch of the Cidia Antiochusity was a city located in what is now South Central Turkey. You are all believers? You are some of you are Jewish converts, some of you are gentle converts You have been sitting there for a long time, you have been hearing one of the elders reads from a letter that was recently received from Paul This is what you hear. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all Again I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. But by faith we easily awake through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith, expressing itself through love. You were running a good race. Who cut in on you and kept you from obeying the truth? What kind of persuasion? That kind of persuasion does not come from the one who calls you A little youth works through the whole box of gold. I am confident in the Lord that you will take no other view. The one who is throwing you into confusion will pay the penalty, whoever he may be. Brothers If I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been abolished. As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves You, my brothers, were called to be free. But do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather, serve one another in love The entire law is summed up in a single command, love your neighbor as yourself. If you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out or you will be destroyed by each other So I say, live by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. Or the sinful nature desires what is contrary to the spirit, and the spirit what is contrary to the sinful nature. They are in conflict with each other, so if you do not do what you want, but if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law The acts of a sinful nature are obvious sexual immorality and purity and debauchery, idolatry and witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, sits of rage, selfish ambition, dissentance, passions, and envy Drunkenness, orgies, and the like, I warn you as I did before, that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law. Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the sinful nature with its passions and desires, since we live by the Spirit, let us be concept with the Spirit. Let us not become conflited, provoking and injuring each other. Well as you sat and heard those words yet, you might have wondered, why am I hearing this? Let's go back and review some of the developments prior to this occasion. Three years earlier, in AD forty-six Paul and Barnabas were commissioned by the church in Antioch to go on a mission to the Gentiles. Paul and Barnabas departed, went to Cyprus first, and then up into what is now Turkey. The first city where we have a record of them being is Antiochus Tacidia. In Antioch, Paul preached first in the synagogue, and then when the Jews did not want him to be there, he preached elsewhere. We have a record of that in Acts, chapters thirteen and fourteen. I'd like to read you some of the words that Paul spoke to those people as he proclaimed the gospel. Therefore, my brothers He says after summarizing the way God has been working in the history of his people down through the lives. He says, Therefore, my brothers, I want you to know that through Jesus the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you Through him everyone who believed is justified from everything that could not be justified from by the law of Moses. And the result of that It's recorded in the last chap last verse, you know, in verse forty eight of chapter thirteen. When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and honored the word of the Lord, and all who were appointed for eternal life believed. Paul and Barnabas, after being run out of Antioch of the Cydia, went on to other cities in his manner. They went to Iconium, Liska, Verde, Kerga, cities that you all have heard of. As they came back to their cities on the way home, they appointed elders in each of the congregations. And then thinking all this well that the mission had been recently successful like that strong burnables return to Antwerp Later, people came to see you all. You know the account of City. These people came, perhaps, from Judah. They came and they saw what was happening If you were believing in Jesus, trusting in justification by grace, they came to you and they said Hmm. This is a nice thing that we see here. But I don't understand why we don't follow the customs that we are used to following. We mustn't talk about all these weird questions that we come to know and teach with. Justification by grace can't be that simple. There must be something else These men came and said, you know, circumcision is something awfully important. Remember when God instituted it? It was something that was the mark of the believer, the one who trusted in God. I don't think we could throw that out. I think we really ought to be circumcised. These men also said, you know We have twelve hundred years of traditions in our holidays. We really should be celebrating Passover. We really should be celebrating these feasts. Because after all, God didn't institute those feasts for nothing He wanted us to remember his great deeds. We'd better be celebrating these peace. Also they would say , okay. You know, when God instituted the ceremonial laws containing food, he wasn't just feeling around. Some of those laws were important for your health. Others were important to set you apart from the other people. We mustn't sell them out. And so in a very reasonable way, I'm sure these ideas were proposed. And the people began to think, you know, he's right. Maybe it's not as simple as cause though. Maybe we've got to remember some of those things from the past. And maybe in a distance to being justified by faith in Christ's work on the cross We ought also to keep some of these rules and regulations. We better be safe. We wouldn't want to miss out on heaven and the inheritance we have there if we flip up somewhere. And so they begin to believe that they were right in God's sight, not only on the basis of their faith in sights, but on the basis of their work When Paul heard about that, he wrote the letter that we read part of. Now you might say, that church in Antiopic of Cydia is not like us That church was a church or young church, they didn't have the whole Bible, they didn't really understand what the gospel was about. It's easy for them to fall into this trap of being persuaded that they had to add something to the gospel But I would like to persuade you otherwise. I would like to persuade you that it says here in Colombia, those of us gathered around here is not in a much different situation in the church in Angela Picidium. We can be drawn away into the same kinds of ideas that they were drawn away into. Let me give you an example. Most of us who are believers, I would hope all of us, had an experience at one time of really appreciating the joy and freedom of being a Christian Some of us came to Christ from very traumatic emotional experiences. Some of us came to Christ more gradually as it began to dawn on it through the work of the Holy Spirit that Jesus was our Lord and Savior. But each of us I'm sure can recall a time when we felt free. We thought that, wow, the burden is off my back Like the pilgrim in pilgrim's progress. We realized that we were free from that fear of death. We didn't have to worry what would happen if you died in that fee. We were free from the guilt of sin. We were free from the power of sin And all we wanted to do was to praise God. We wanted to stand up and fear whenever we heard that Christ had died for us. We wanted to tell others about that experience. We wanted to serve others It seems almost part of the way God made us as people, that when we experience a new kind of freedom, we want to help others. We become very generous And so that's the way we thought and we became believers. But I will guess that many of us have had experiences since that time that weren't so joyful, that weren't so bodily, that weren't so happy, we'd become discouraged. And I would suggest that the reason we become discouraged is that we lose sight of that freedom. that we once had. We begin to fall back under the law. Just as the people in Anthropocata did. How do we do that? I propose three ways that we do that. The first way that we flip back into a way of thinking that we're justified by our work is in the way we set goals and then fail to meet them. There is nothing wrong with setting goals and failing to meet them. But let me put forth this set of circumstances. I set a goal to become more spiritual in some way. Perhaps if they have a more consistent quiet time. I in the first few days after I set that door I'm indulgent, I have a good flight time. As time goes on, that doesn't work out so well. I look back and I say, Boy, I've really dropped below that level of spirituality that I had there I can do better. I know I can do better. I did better. God must really be at the point of the move. I'll get back in touch with God really and clearly after I choked up When I return to that level where I was and where I know I can do, then I'll get back in close touch with God. Then God will love me. Then God plays his hand on me. You see, we've extended grace. law. We've extended the freedom we have to come to God our Father. Because He is merciful and gracious to us. For a kind of Legalism it requires that we tape up before we can commune with God, before we feel He looks on us to serve us. Another way we can clip into this is by beginning to serve others because we love God. A perfectly good motive, and one we'll talk about later. As we begin to serve one another, we join prayer groups, we join Bible studies, we help others We become pioneer girl guides in hell, we become Sunday school people, we become trustees of our congregations, we become deacons, we become elders, we become ministers, we become all kinds of people who serve others. But then after weeks and months go by, instead of our service being out of love for God and gratitude for Him, freeing us from the power of sin those services become ends in themselves. We begin to look at our being an elder, as being a poor, a job that needs to be done. We look at separation for Sunday school as a tool that has to be endured. And if we endure all of those things, somehow God will Turn its face toward us. We begin to feel that if we don't carry out these responsibilities we committed ourselves to, God is going to frown on us A third way that we can fall into this kind of thinking is by setting standards for ourselves. standards that we set collectively. You know, whenever there's a group of people that live closely together, sociologists tell us that they develop what are called moral These aren't as strong as morals, but yet they are guides for behavior and patterns of life that we all kind of come up with together, which if we violate we are somehow outside full fellowship in that group. When we set guides for for expectations, for quiet time, for undercepted group participation for ministry efforts, when we start feeling bad because we can't make a pallorium, when we can't get involved in follow up work When we can't do the things that we want to do, when we start to feel that our holidays need to be celebrated in certain ways, because everybody else is sort of doing it that way and we wouldn't measure up in a Christian life if we didn't do it that way. When we almost unacceptably begin to set standards for our lifestyle, for a Christian, I'm glad it's out of that Christians not have a dislike. The system has to do this, the system has to do that. We begin to fall into the same traps that the people did in Antiochidia We begin to feel unacceptable to God unless we measure up to those group goals. Now don't confuse this kind of despair, this kind of discouragement in meeting these kinds of things I talked about with the despair and the decision that comes from sin. You know, if we sin, there is a barrier raised between God and us. When we sin, God cannot look on us That is different from setting a barrier up ourselves and saying, I have to measure up to these kinds of standards before God will accept us So if you're here this morning and you feel a barrier to between yourself and God, and that barrier is caused by sin, there's only one thing for you to do And that's to turn to God and ask forgiveness. To turn and repentance be safe from that sin. Then God will restore the fellowship. Then God will bring to you a new fellowship if you've never done that before. You know the gospel is a very repressing thing. The gospel brings freedom wherever it goes. That freedom comes to those who are now in bondage to sin, to death. And so if you feel that bondage, if you feel that you are free, that if you are bound up in sin, then turn to Christ. Turn to Him, trust Him. He will give you the freedom. That you long for. But Paul was not primarily talking to people who were in that situation, I don't think. Paul was primarily talking to believers. And so it is believers now that we must think about. Paul's proclamation to the people was, you're free. You have a freedom in Christ that you really don't understand perfectly. Let me tell you about it. So if you get a little background into this, let me read you some of the things that Paul said in the earlier parts of Galatians. In Galatians chapter 1, verses 6 and 7, we read I'm a stone that you are so quickly diverting the one who called you by the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel This is really no gospel at all. Evidently some people are throwing you into confusion and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ In chapter 3, Paul said, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ could clearly portray the crucified I would like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain the goal by human effort? Have you suffered so much for nothing? Is it really if it really was for nothing? Does God give you his spirit and work miracles among you because you observed the law or because you believe what you heard? Then in verse 26 of chapter 3, Paul says, You are all sons of God, keep faith and Jesus Christ. For all of you who were baptized into Christ have been clothed with Christ There is neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise Then in chapter four, Paul says, Formerly, when you did not know God, you were slaves to those who by nature are not God. But now that you know God, or rather are known by God, how is it that you are turning back to those weak and miserable principles? Do you wish to be enslaved by them all over again? You are observing special days and months and seasons and years. I steal for you. Then in verse 21 Tell me, you who want to be under the law, are you not aware of what the law says? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman The son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way, but the son by the free woman was born as the result of a promise. These things may be taken figuratively For the women represents two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai and there are children who are to be slaves. This is Hagar. Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem Who takes thee as in slavery with her children? But the Jerusalem that is above is true, and she is our mother. For it is written, Be glad, O barren woman, who bears no children, break force and cry aloud You who have no labor pains, because more are the death are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. And then verse 31 Therefore, brothers, we are not children of a slave woman, but of the free woman. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Paul shows the people that there are two ways they can do. One is to be free, one is to be a play. Now I think when we read verse 1 of Galatians 5, it probably leaves us a little cold. When we hear these words, it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. What is it doing? Nothing. I'm looking at this. What does it say? One, three, six, so what? I think we as Americans because of our background, because of our culture, have a very poor view of freedom. For us freedom is so commonplace, so ordinary, that there is nothing at all special about it But if you were living in Antiochophilia, you would have known something of the picture to all that they're saying here. A contrast between slavery and freedom. For the Galatians, slavery was a way of life. Slaves were all of the menial words. For example, if you were a banker Your bank manager would be afraid because no free man would preach to put himself under the authority of another free man for any length of time Slaves were primarily obtained in wars. The armies of Rome would go out, conquer a new land, and bring back slaves. Slaves were also gotten by pirates, who would set their ships up in hiding along sea routes, capture ships containing Roman citizens even Pold these citizens for ransom, if no ransom could be obtained, they would sell them as slaves. The slaves indulate them We're not flat slaves like we think of when we think of slaves in America. The slaves in Galatia were Romans, Greeks , Hebrews, Germans , French. All kinds of people were slaves. After Augustus there were no major wars in which slaves were obtained in great numbers, and so at the time that Paul was in Galatia Most slaves were gotten by being born as slaves, or by being imported from the far centres of the empire. The treatment these slaves received varied a great deal. Some slaves who were domestic slaves enjoyed a very happy, relatively happy Certainly free from the prayers of being beaten and ripped, being taken from their families. But the treatment was not universally that way. Many slaves, the evidence for this of course, are the reverse that it Many slaves are feared very badly. was And so if you were a slave, there was somewhere down inside of you the fear, even though things were going well, the fear that if my master dies and I'm sold I have no idea who I'll be sold to. Next week things could go so badly for me that my wife could be taken from me and sold to another master. My children could be taken from me and sold to other masters My life could be taken, I could be whipped, I could be put in prison, I could be beaten, I could have all sorts of horrible things happen to me So when Paul spoke of freedom and slavery, even though Paul was speaking of a spiritual slavery and a spiritual freedom, the people who heard those words knew exactly what he was talking about. They saw slavery firsthand. Those who were free could contract their freedom through the situation of the slave. Those who had been slaves and were now free could experience the freedom in a material way, the Paul speaks of in a spiritual way. Can we really feel that? How many of you have been in a situation where you didn't know from one day to the next whether your wife would be with you, whether your children would be with you, or whether they'd be taken away from you How many of you have walked through a prison door, heard that metal door clanged up behind you, and know that you weren't going to come out of there for a long time? How many of you have ever been kidnapped? How many of you have ever been held hostage? We have in our minds right now a very vivid example of what it means to be a hostage As you hear reports from the American hospitals, they're returned from Iraq. They tell tales of of woe that we would find very hard to understand Yet these are people who were taken against their will, people whose students, as we understand them, were severe severely abridged These are people who could not do the things they would ordinarily do. They couldn't even go to the bathroom by themselves. Now that's the opposite of freedom. I think America in the last day has come to appreciate the freedom we have in a political sense in a way we couldn't have before Because we have for so long seen freedom of commonplace. When we're surrounded by freedom by the it becomes a social idea. So what? But to the Galatians it was a special thing. And I think as we try to come to understand freedom, it should become a special thing for us too. As Paul draws a picture of this freedom, we see him in chapter four, in verses eight and nine, reminding the people of what they were before they came to believe in Christ. He says that you were slaves of those who by nature were not God. He says you are not turning back to those loose and miserable principles. The people were turning back to a fear, a superstition. They were turning back to the capriciousness of the pagan gods, of the pagan priests. Those who had been in the Hebrew tradition were turning back to the law and righteousness by work. Paul says in chapter five, that if they pick up this idea of righteousness by work , They are denying Christ's life and death. They are saying Christ's life and death has no value. Paul reminds them it should be under the law at all. It should be under the whole law. Paul reminds them that to be to try, to be justified by keeping the law, is to be alienated from Christ. It means to be rejecting Christ, to fall from grace. Paul says that justification by works, legalism is equally exclusive of justification by grace. You cannot have them both. You must have one or the other. What then is the freedom Paul speaks of? If slavery is back. If slavery is being back under the law, if slavery is being fearful from day to day, what is going to happen to your soul? What is freedom then? Freedom is hope. Paul says in verse 5, But by faith we eagerly await through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope We heard a few weeks ago two messages on the hope that is a Christian, the hope of a new heaven and a new earth, a hope for a time when righteousness will reign. That is the hope that he says is involved in this freedom. Paul says we eagerly wait for that. Our freedom is Related to is included with and eagerly waiting for God to work, both now in our lives and our hearts and in the future. Paul goes on to say that it doesn't matter if we're circumcised or not, the keeping of the law has nothing at all to do with our right standing before God. Going back to Romans 3, which was generally accepted to have been written later than Galatians. Paul amplifies this. In Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 24 he says But now a righteousness from God, apart from law, has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference For all of kingdom falls short of the glory of God and are justified freely by his grace, through the redemption of sin by Christ Jesus We're free because God has of his own will come to us, has taken us from sin, has put on us the cloak of righteousness that is Christ, has said, You And me are acceptable now to me because you are wearing Christ's righteousness. You're free. You don't have to go back to keeping the law like you thought you did. You don't have to go back under fear. You are full. If that is freedom, how do we go about preserving this? Paul says in Galatians 5, chapter 1 , it is for freedom of Christ to set us free, stand firm then, and do not let yourself be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. It's one thing to talk about freedom, it's another thing to preserve it. Of course, the obvious conclusion we would come to if we are asked, for example, to preserve our freedoms as Americans. We would say we resist an impingement on that freedom. And so, in a spiritual sense, we must resist legalism We must resist those who would come to us and say, in order to be acceptable to God, we must do this and this and this. We must not, under any circumstances, allow ourselves to be returned to the bondage because we So however, most of us in our school experience and other experiences have heard the phrase the best defense is an offense Okay, if we're defending against legalism and bondage, how do we uh go on the offensive I think the ways we go on the offensive are to remember the freedom that we have and contrast that with the slavery that we were under before we came to Christ. You know, I used to think it kind of strange that people would have Fourth of July celebrations. I would watch the parades, even in graduate school, I'd watch the parades go by. And it's, you know, sort of fun, sort of interesting. But I didn't see much point in it. As I get older I'm coming to appreciate something of why those things were instituted. And the reason I think is that unless we remember our freedom In a special way. It becomes commonplace and we forget it. We don't realize what we've got. I think the same way as Christians, we need to remember the freedom we have If we forget it, if we go off and do our chores, be elder, be decent, be Sunday school teachers, be all kinds of children, if we forget that we're free We come right back under the bondage we were in before we came to Christ. We must remember our freedom. One way to remember that is in our worship to keep Christ foremost. To in our worship remember Christ and what he did for us, to remember his work on the cross, to never forget us, to be reminded of the gospel, in our worship, to rejoice in what God has done for us. Another way that we can go on the offensive here is to, in a vicarious way, re-experience our conversion. How do you do that? You read books about people being converted? Yeah, that will do it. But there's another way I think, and it's a way that I need to do as well as you need to do And that's to really be involved in evangelism. Because as we see people coming to Christ out of slavery to freedom, it's an exciting thing. It reminds us of our experience. It gives us a fresh view of the freedom that comes when we come out of sin and into Christ. Now what are the results of being free? We've talked about what that freedom is, something of a way we can preserve it. What are the results of being free? Does it matter to be free? Yeah, it matters to be free. Because if we're not free, we're unhappy, we're discouraged, we're astonished, depressed, we go around at long faces. When we're free, we're happy. Happiness and joy and gratitude become directed toward the one who sued us. Some of you probably watched the return of the hostages from Iran with more uh Soud cheering and laughing and hoppy just being hoppy and laughing One thing I remember was the story of the Marine who came off the plane in the West Point. First thing he did was kiss the ground And why would he do that? Well, because he was grateful to America. Because somehow America had gotten him back his freedom Now how if that is the way someone like that would respond to that kind of freedom, how much more we should respond to the spiritual freedom we have in Christ You know, God has freed us for two things. I think primarily, those two things are for joyful worship And for loving servants. You know, Jesus when asked what are the commandments, he said, The first is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, your soul, your mind and your strength. Second is like unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. Paul says in Galatians 5 But the greatest of all the commandments is love your neighbor as yourself. Now you might say, why did he forget the first one? Why did he forget the hidden of all the commandments? I don't think he forgot it. In the ways you find Worship generally. In chapter four, you remember I read the reference is be glad, O Baron Woman. Break forth and shout. You're free. Worship God in freedom Paul here though is primarily directing his attention to these Galatians who were engaging in works so that they would be right with God. And so he is telling them that these works you do Are not works to be right with God. These works you do are works that flow from the love you have for your Redeemer, the one who set you free So if we're free, let's show it. Let's show it in our worship. If you really feel free. The feelings you should have should be very much like the feelings of that Marine if you came down off that airplane and took the ground. When was the last time you felt free I thought a lot more freedom as I prepared this sermon. I think one way we feel the freedom is to look at the resistance of it in God's Word We must be glad, we must break forth and shout, cry aloud, rejoice when the Lord is feeders, eagerly wait for that time when the hope of righteousness will be fulfilled We have no freedom to worship when we're oppressed by the law. How about serving one another? That service so often becomes a real problem. Becomes a real core for us. But Paul says we must serve one another in love. Love motivates like nothing else. If we realize our freedom from the slavery of sin And the laws. We will love the one who may used. We will love our redeemer. If we love our redeemer, we will seek to worship him, to adore him. To serve him and to serve others. How many of you remember when you were in love? Okay? Just by saying that, don't we tell ourselves something? You know, when I ask myself that question about saying this method I looked over to Judy and I said, What kind of question is that? Think of when you were in love. Aren't you still in love with husbands and wives? Okay? I wonder. I think in our relationships with each other with husbands and wives, we sometimes get into the same kind of a way of thinking as we do with a love relationship between ourselves and you with each other 's sake. We forget the flowering of that love as we came to Christ, just like we forget the love we remember between ourselves and our spouses, for example. And I think that a parallel there can be talked about a lot. But we need to remember that with our wives either and our husbands Our service to them is not a store. Ought not to be a store. There ought to be an outpouring of our love for them, just as our service to each other is an outpouring of our love You know After experiencing this kind of freedom again and oppressed, we may do the same things we're doing now. We will still be elders, we'll still be deacons, we'll still be semi school deacons, we'll still be pioneered girl guides But if we understand the freedom we have in Christ, we'll be doing that with a joy. We'll be doing that with a pleasure that comes from serving one we love In summary, I challenge you. I challenge you who do not know Christ. Who are under bondage to sin, to turn from that to the freedom that Christ offers you in his work on the cross Those of you who are believers, I challenge you, especially you who are feeling the bondage of the law, partly I know some of you are. I do occasionally. It would be very surprising to me if this morning none of you felt that way. I challenge you to look at the book of Galatians Paul writes to assert experience in the same kind of things we don't have as search as experience. I challenge you to appreciate your freedom To explore it, to enjoy it, to revel in it, to celebrate it, to understand it, to preserve it , Let that freedom and the love you have for the one who set you free motivate you in your worship and your service. One such person who was so motivated was Charles Westland Charles Westley wrote wrote a hymn, a hymn that one of my favorites, and I know is a favorite of some of you. That hymn was entitled Anne Kennedy Let me read you verse four of that one. Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin and nature's night Thine eye diffused a quickening ray. I woke, the dungeon flamed with light, my chain fell off, my heart was free I rose, went forth, and followed thee. My pain fell off, my heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. That freedom of pain falling off By going forth to serve the one who has set us free with love in our heart. May the words of that song, each time we sing it, each time we think of it, bring a fresh to us The recognition that we are free. We are a people who are not under the law, but a people who are free in Christ, free to worship, free to serve. Ah Lord, as we reflect on what you have done for us, it is so much more impressive even at what our nation is able to do to those hostages in Iran. When you set us free, Father, from the power of Satan from sin and death, when you broke those things, you did a a miracle Father, cause us to reflect on that more and more. Cause us, Father, to recognize that in Christ we have a freedom that knows no bounds We have a freedom in which we can delight, in which we can celebrate, in which we can rejoice together as the people. We pray, Father, that you would give to each of us through your service that freedom. where we might have fallen into patterns of working out our righteousness, however subtle, you would take those away from us, but you would remind us that when we first came to you our lives were much worse than they are now even. But you took at the sinners. You took at the road without hope, those of rubber, and you brought it to yourself. You clothed it with purchase like your hand. Feel it by your own grace. Our Father, bring that into our minds over and over again. So as we worship, we remember that you are the one who said it true. You are the one we adore. God is father that to him. Fill it a real, real deep sense of him. So we active and we look man for his word. The thank God.