Kathy and I first met Tom and Nancy Bauma around 1970. We were on university staff in this area. Tom was an engineer in Baltimore, as I recall. And they came on the local committee there to help us in our support. That small step led down the slippery slope of Tom becoming an university staff worker along with me. We served in the 70s together uh as staff workers. And then in 1981 with two small boys, Tom and Nancy, went to University in Italy, basically International Fellowship of Evangelical Students. And that was a tough assignment. It was kind of a pioneer work. Uh to this day, the last uh statistics I had heard, uh Italy is basically an unchurched country. Just because the Pope lives there doesn't mean that everybody goes to church. In fact The last I had heard, uh, eight percent of Italians go once a year, four percent go weekly. Compare that to about forty percent of Americans, ten times more Americans percentage-wise go to church than Italians. Well, um Tom, uh God used Tom in developing that work through the years. He is now general secretary of the GBU, which is basically the Italian student movement. The boys have grown. Three weeks from yesterday. Their oldest, Daniel, will be married here in the States, and that's why he's back, I understand. So it's great to see you once again. Three years ago was the last time that Tom and Nancy were here. Nancy won't be here until next week, so we don't get to see her. The other thing that's changed remarkably since that time, in 1981 when they went there, if you lived in Albania, it was the death penalty for believing in God. About ten years later, that began to change, and now in Albania there is a wide open opportunity for the gospel. What's significant for that in terms of Tom and Nancy's work is that many Albanians speak Italian. And so they have in the last few years been conducting missionary tours, training students, taking them over, working with the leaders over in Albania Many of whom have never even seen a Bible. Tremendous opportunity. God strategically placed them there both for Italy and for Albania. Tom is a brother who I highly esteem in his perseverance for the Lord and in his love for the Lord and for his word. So it It is with great pleasure that I welcome Tom. In fact, I don't remember that you have ever preached a sermon here since we began as a church. Tom actually was part of the group helped us start Columbia Presbyterian back in the mid-70s. And so I welcome you with great pleasure, Tom, to come bring the word to us this morning. I've just been waiting for this invitation to preach for a long time. Let me also just say he'll be having the whole middle hour to be doing a report on what's been going on there. since we'd last heard him. So hang on, stick around for the middle hour report. If somebody tells me where that meeting's gonna be, I'll be there. I had in mind the uh community college when I was thinking coming back to Columbia. That was the only picture of building setup I could remember and and I knew that wasn't right but anyway I'm in the right place today. It's a joy to be here. Nancy and I will be here next Sunday to worship with you. One of the things you think about if you you know when you leave Italy, well you get a chance to be in a church where uh you can just worship. But often that doesn't happen. Often we end up hearing ourselves. So uh as commitments came together and fell apart, next Sunday morning it's free and so we'll just be here with you if you want, and you can have a chance to to say a few words if that fits in, but just to be able to greet you personally. I have a letter of greeting I'll show you at the second in the middle hour. This is greetings from our church in Italy to you and Christian brothers and sisters of brothers and sisters. saying thanks to you for helping us, Nancy and me, be in Italy, working with students, and also helping in a local church. I want to talk about Italy and Albania, but I want to preach the word, and so I decided I would preach the word and use ministry for illustrations. instead of talk about the work and try and use Bible verses for illustrations. I think it's more effective. I'm not going to read 2 Corinthians 4 beforehand so I can save just a little bit of time, but rather we'll read it as we go through. Now, uh when I get back to America, there's always the thing called culture shock. Reverse culture shock is worse than culture shock going somewhere else because you expect to understand the country you came from and it's changed, it's moved. And there's always a series of impressions. And one that's hit me more recently was the number of churches, how big the buildings are, even in tiny little towns, you have an intersection with four large churches on all the corners Uh you listen to Christian radio and there's the latest seminars, techniques, mega gatherings. I was at Promise Keepers with one of my sons. In Chicago just a few weeks ago. Basically we had ten percent of the number of people there. If you'd multiply by ten, you'd have the number of evangelical Protestant believers in Italy. That is, all Protestants from the most liberal to the most conservative lumped together would make about ten promise keepers gatherings. It's a different perspective. The things that happen in America filter out everything that happens in America against Italy, but all just so the religious things. So this uh Promise keepers, uh, I'm starting to hear people have heard about it. There's talks about maybe doing something like that in Austria, Germany. There's things like health and wealth gospel. I don't know if you've encountered that. If you follow Jesus, you shouldn't be sick It should be fabulously successful in your business. It's sweeping across Sweden, but it came from America. The Toronto Blessing. People are saying you need to go to Toronto. This will solve all of Europe's problems. Various views of what this means. Church planning techniques. Our mission solid, this worked in Puerto Rico. Therefore, all our missionaries in the world will now use this approach The fact that there's some people working in the very kind of yuppie area of Milan where people don't come home till nine o'clock at night rather than standing outside their house all day. It means it just doesn't work. People aren't there to be found. They all live in high-rise buildings. But the mission said it worked here, so the American directors dictated this would be the only way we do it around the world. These are the effects. In 2 Corinthians, in the first chapter, Paul writes, just to give you the context, from a very different point of view. He writes, verse 3, Praise be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion, and the God of all comfort Who comforts us in all our troubles, this is good, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves have received. Later on in verse 8, Paul writes about how hard it has been that even the great Apostle Paul has despaired for his own life. So he's writing, not in big success, there's money for all that's going on, but in slug it out, yes, get up another day, go face it kind of situations and he's writing to a church that has letters coming because they have problems. All the churches that got letters basically had problems. So this is the context of this letter when we get to chapter 4. Let's see what Paul has to say for the big success oriented side of Christianity But on the other hand, also for the smaller struggling, there's just a few of us that we bother to continue on side of the church too. Let's see what Paul has to say first. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He writes, therefore, since through God's mercy we have this ministry, we do not lose heart. All ministry, any ministry, any service for the Lord is given to us by God. Maybe some friend came and asked you to do it. Maybe the church elders thought about it. Maybe there was an election in the church. But it's been assigned to you by God. The Bible word, you've been called to that. That's the basis. All ministry Come to us by God's calling, choosing, by God's mercy. We have it. So we shouldn't say we're deserving, like we've finally worked our way up to this position, now we have this higher response. No, we're not deserving. It's through God's mercy. that he even lets us in on it. Therefore, we do not lose heart. Losing heart is a real possibility. Wanting to give up There's something here to be very much aware of. When I meet new missionaries that come to Italy, Because we happen to be in Florence and that's one of the language centers, uh we often people find us. If they have young children, they're they're facing the problem of what do they do about school They hear about us and they come because we put our kids to Italian schools. Is that an option? What does it mean? And and so we end up we have them for a meal. We spend most of our life with Italians, but we still meet the new ones that come through. And one of the things I say, now look you have a you have a mission, you have leaders, you have people give you their your objectives. Here's my objective for you if you ask me. Be here at the end of the first year. They all kind of laugh. Until the year's up. And they come back a lot of them said, You're right. I was tempted to to bail out. You wouldn't believe the things that hit me in the first year. Sickness, family problems, discouragement, tension within our own mission. I was ready to go There's a real possibility to lose heart. So be aware of it, be prepared for it, and then you go on Paul writes on, rather we have renounced secret and shameful ways. We do not use deception, nor do we distort the word of God. There's that temptation when things are struggling to kind of pump up the reports and make it look better Well, what do I have to do? What kind of spin do I need to put on this? You know, they're like the spin doctors in DC, you know, the president says something the day after six people say what he really should have said or wanted to say or what you didn't understand. Well there's this thing where what happened and then what do we write back? How does it come out in a prayer letter? Does it sound true? Would would I agree that's what happened? I got uh one of these mission bulletin inserts once visiting a church and it said That having shown a Jesus film in Albania, a third of the country became Christians, having seen it on television I don't believe it. I've been there enough to know it's not true. The fact that in February, when there was a whole series of pyramid investment schemes They were tricked and went bad and nine up to ninety percent of the savings of the country disappeared. And people went berserk, they broke in the army barracks, everyone had a Kleshnikov machine gun, little kids. Everyone was out to get something back. If a third of the country had been Christians, there would have been one Christian standing between every two people fighting That didn't happen. There was no moral base that made any difference So there's this temptation, temptation maybe to use secret and shameful ways, it says. We want to distort the truth. We have our statistical analysis that makes it look funny. Uh, but it seems better when we tell somebody else. No, we don't distort the truth, we tell the whole truth. The Lordship of Jesus Christ comes with Christ as our Savior. There's a call to follow Him, there's a real commitment. We don't try and make it nicer, more appealing, but to be honest in what we're saying. And he says, rather we set forth On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. See, there's a need to be transparent ourselves. That is, our lives aren't False. So the gospel looks better. We have to be transparent. A couple weeks ago I preached in a church and there was a plexiglass podium. Absolutely transparent. That you saw every you knew if I was wearing Nike Air or Floorshine. Just to illuminate the mystery I'm wearing Nike Air. But you have to be transparent. Your lies Or the Bible people see an awful lot. That transparency in how you face problems says, is it real or not? Is there a basis of what you're saying? I I had this uh speak in Albania in a in a coffee bar, which is the only place I could meet in the town of Elbasan. And there were four talks given and they were strange topics. The last one, which was given to me, was Christianity and sex. The Bible, what does the Bible say about sex? Evangelistic talk. In an environment that was mostly non-Christian, in a macho world where the guys are all tough and the women are treated like dirt, and it was sixty, seventy percent non Christians. The bar was supposed to be closed in ours 'cause we rented it and there was a policeman having coffee there so the owner didn't close it. So there was all the other customers there. Ended up speaking to about a hundred and fifty people. Pushing their chairs up and listening. And I plan to talk about the beauty of God's purposes in the sexual relationship in marriage, also talking through the example of my own marriage. And there 's a need to be transparent. Not different because of the people you're speaking to. Open. This is what the beauty of God calls us to. These are the challenges. Not easy to do. And Paul says, going on, that the truth is not always understood. Verse 3 and 4. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. The God of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. who is the image of God. There's this struggle in Italy that it is not a soil prepared to grow the seeds of the gospel. It's the Old Testament example where they wanted to destroy a nation, and so they threw rocks in all the fields. They put salt there. You couldn't plow it. Things didn't grow. They died. There's so many eyes that just can't see the gospel. Yes, they've heard about Jesus. For the most part, people have an indifferent or bad opinion. About anything that you might start to say. And so you don't start out in a neutral position, like an obani, you start out way back. You spend a long time working up to neutral position where you can say something about Jesus And it doesn't strike all these other images that people have rejected. We did evangelism once in the a square in Florence. There's a series of churches together and the Nancy and I is responsible for the G B you got asked to train the counselors and they were mostly GBU students that came. You would think in ten nights of open meetings, outside, lots of music, and maybe at most a 15-minute talk, some people would express an interest And tonight one person said, I want to talk about this. And you're talking about hundreds of people there. Well, there a number of undrugged, a little drunk already, young people 's hangout. Known to be a problem square piazza. And so these students, and that's what we had you had to go up to people and ask them if they wanted A little packet of information. You had to go to people one on one to see if you could just move them a little bit to think about Jesus for a small moment. The gospel is veiled. Not that the gospel itself, but people have put on blinders and they can't see it. So what's the solution? We need big, big programs, new techniques, latest seminars. If we can just get the right things in there, it'll all change, right? No. Paul says, for we do not preach ourselves, but Jesus Christ is Lord, and then ourselves of your servants for Jesus' sake. See the solution is to keep putting Jesus forward. Not talk about ourselves, not talk about GBU or our church or our mission group. You need to focus on Jesus Christ, who died and was raised again. Make sure your evangelism is not Christ died for our sins. And then you forget to raise him from the dead. See, if there's no Jesus rising from the dead, there is no hope for anyone. So we need to be clear on that. The focus is on Jesus. And then we can let that light shine, as he says in verse six. For God who said, Let the light shine out of darkness, has made his light shine in our hearts. to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. Now there's a lot in there. But let me summarize it in this way. You may be the first Bible a lot of people ever read. In some cases, you may be the only people, only Bible people ever hear. That is, how does that light come through your life? What impact does it have? Are people left in darkness? Or is there clarifying? Are they pointed to Jesus Or is it just some kind of active religious religiosity that they see in your life? I can think of several examples where people wrote back to Nancy, who they had known her in high school, who had since become Christians. And said, I knew you were different back then. I didn't want to believe it. But when I finally came to know the truth, I knew that's what you'd been talking about. There was that first bit of light, that first link on the chain many years before. See, that's what we're all about. It's not special techniques or big programs. It's one person touching another person, being faithful in that moment, for God to use them And expecting God to carry things to conclusion. Paul goes on, but we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that this all-surpassing power is from God And not from ourselves. There's common flower pot kind of containers, clay pots, fragile, not especially beautiful. But they're used to hold a treasure. Notice the difference, the contrast between the container and what's being contained. Simple pots. That's us in ministry. Big glorious ministry. Lots of dollars behind it. Lots of people saying rah -rah. Small, unnoticed things. Same ministry. And inside is the power of God. So that everything that achieved comes through God's power, not from us. I wrote once about a trip in Albania where in the same time at El Bassan We were doing two evangelistic meetings and I was asked speaking Italian and one night give them the bad news and the next night give them the good news. And I knew it wouldn't work because once they heard the bad news no one would come back the second night. Yeah. You you can just psychologically you knew that wouldn't work. We were using part of the dining hall, kind of had two eating areas and a middle place where you could get the food. The some Muslim students after the first day were protesting, went to the president university, said we couldn't be there, was wrong. There was a lot of opposition. The power was out in the city. So we got into this room, it was absolutely dark. Two candles in the kitchen. The cook seemed to be the only person in favor of us being there, loaned us one of her candles, and we started this meeting with one candle. Well, we were in one side and the people could get their food and eat in the other side. Nothing there. One little candle over here. People just kept coming to where there was light. Fifteen minutes of program singing the candle. Thirty seconds before I started, the lights came on. I shared the gospel, challenged them to believe, pointed out who the Christians were in the group, brought it to the conclusion, we lost the lights. How do you explain it? Because of what we did? No, it's the power of God. We were just clay pots. Feeling stupid for going there holding one candle and trying to preach. And God worked through it. See, in America where things are big and successful, we're just the same. We're clay pots, just that we may have more trouble acknowledging that We think somehow we got it right and others don't. No, that's not true. All the credit belongs to God. So Paul writes, look, we and this I have this in my prayer list when I pray about student work in Italy. These verses. We are hard-pressed on every side, but not crushed. Perplexed, but not in despair, struck down Excuse me. I missed one. No, persecuted but not abandoned. Right? It's real. Persecutions there struck down, but not destroyed. We get up, there's another day, try another approach. First door didn't work, where's the second door? Where's the third door? Keep pushing There is a real struggle in Roman Catholic cultures of Europe to take the gospel out. Now I didn't say Roman Catholic Church. Because the influence is Roman Catholic culture that goes back to the Middle Ages, that has formed the way people think. And you can draw a line across Europe and say, here's where the Reformation hit. And here's where it was rejected. In a way people relate, the openness to gospel is completely different. That's not saying everyone were The Reformation was accepted at one point are believers. No, but it's a different world. It's a literally a different world. Student work happens differently in one part of the earth compared to another. So we've hold held training things where we got together the Poles and the Austrians and the Portuguese and the Belgiums and the Italians and the French and the Irish. And the Spanish, because our world is different. Although you say Austria and Germany, that's awfully similar, and they have lots of money in both cases. No. The ministry is different because of this Roman Catholic culture, this heritage from the Middle Ages that is left. So there is this fact that we're hard-pressed, but we're not crushed. Close at times, but not crushed. You know, perplexed. What are we doing here? Italy has been described as a graveyard for missionaries. A lot of people don't last very long. Within five years, a good number have gone and don't come back, which is very hard on the other people who are there. who have prepared the way, have been looking for them, helped them get settled in, and and they bail out. We've had situations like a university professor, a Christian who has worked with us many years, taught camps, and then Got upset about a book review in a student magazine that he didn't agree with everything in, nor did we, but he thought the book review was too favorable and started a national campaign against the GBU student work. Writing to elders, they should not let their students be involved in the GPU. Not if we don't have enough problems from the outside. Now you have it from the inside. Or working for two years to recruit a staff worker to come to work with internationals in a key town that really needs a constant outreach internationals. Two visits to Italy, all the application process. The last week before she came, I got a fax. More or less I said it doesn't seem right, I'm not coming. I've never had an explanation why. A real blow. Everything you prepare for. Never even understand why. What what went wrong? Conflict between a staff worker and a student group. Never really clear. They wanted a certain objectives, a staff worker we said was working towards others. Well, you can have differences, but no, it didn't work out and it kind of went into gossip and then there was spreading in the churches. And in the end, it was not one of those they talk about the win-win situation, you know, in the business. No, this was a lose-lose We had to come to the choice. There was nothing else to do except pull the staff worker out because we couldn't we couldn't unravel it Had gifts that were really useful there, and yet some other little thing just didn't click, something didn't work right. And so when this decision was made by the National Committee, Denai as general secretary had to carry the message. Now, because Italy is Evangelical World Network Italy is like a fishbowl You can't just say, well, we'll go to another city because the gossip would have continued and spread. So we had to say it just isn't working out. You can't continue with the student work. A month before, the stapper had been in a motorcycle accident, had a broken leg, had been in bed with a cast up to his hip, was facing another month before it would be off, and then several months of rehabilitation. In the midst of all of this, I had to go and deliver this message. Not fun. I thought if I ever had to do that again, I think I would leave. What happened in Albania? The door was wide open for the gospel. It was incredible. People wanted to hear. It was new. It was enticing. And then by this Who it's still not known but this these investment schemes that we're offering ten percent a month on your money And then a hundred percent, and then a new one. In the end they were offering up to eight hundred percent a month interest. Just put your money in. People were selling their homes, putting their savings in. This obeying mentality that you couldn't be left out. You had to be like everyone else And has it just destroyed the whole infrastructure and trust and fabric of the society as fragile as it was? Armed rebellion. They're supposed to have elections this month. If they don't go through, if they don't come out seemingly honest, who knows when the door will open again? How do you explain this? And Paul writes about this thing. We always carry it around in our body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body. And so on. Let's go down to verse 13. We do have a hope. These kind of things happen, but there is a hope. It's our hope. It's a hope for others. He says, verse 13, it is written, I believe, therefore I have spoken with the same spirit of faith. We also believe and therefore speak. Because we know that the one who raised the Lord Jesus from the dead will also raise us up with Jesus and present us with you in his presence. We know this is a sure thing. Jesus was raised, and we will be raised with him one day And Paul says, all this is for your benefit, so that the grace, grace of God that is reaching more and more people. It may seem to be going slowly right now, but the grace of God is reaching more and more people. may cause thanksgiving to overflow to the glory of God. Beautiful picture. The grace is going out. It's spreading. More and more people are being touched by the gospel. He doesn't just say, so people are thankful, but the picture is that this Thanksgiving, you can't contain it. It's overflowing. This is the right perspective to have. All to the glory of God, because we're in jars of clay. It's the power of God that's doing it. So it's all to the glory of God. Paul says we can rejoice. God's kingdom is moving ahead. Our ministry, remember, was assigned to us by God. Not by men or women. The truth needs to be clearly proclaimed, shining out in our lives, that all surpassing power comes from God Remember, God who raised Jesus the third day will raise us up too. Therefore, he repeats, just like the beginning, we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. There are problems, there are struggles, there are difficulties. Nobody's trying to deny this. But he says, For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory That far outweighs them. You remember chemistry class in high school? Had to measure some elements, you had this double pan balance Have your little whatever was on the one side and then you put your little weights on the other side to weigh it out. Well what he's saying is we take our troubles that are weighing us down, the problems that knock us flat, so we literally have to get back up. And we put them on one side. And we put the eternal glory of God on the other side. And it far outweighs them. Now that's not saying Our problems are of no consequence. On any other comparison, they're grievous and unending. But compared to the glory of God He says they're light and momentary. Get the perspective. That's the only comparison that we can make. So he says. What are the oddest things? So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is not seen. We look at what we can't see. Don't look at what you can see, look at what you can't see. We like to go out to Colorado on vacation, get up in the mountains. We like to go out and walking. There's not paths everywhere. You know generally where you are, but all you see are ravines, trees, bushes, rocks. But every so often we know we're generally heading back towards town, and you catch a glimpse of Mount Baldi sticking up there, high above the timber line. We can't see it, but every time we catch that glimpse, we know where we're going. The tree you had to get around, the ravine you crossed, the rocks in the way. You don't, oh gee, I've got to remember that rock. No. Don't look at the things you're seeing. Look at the things in a sense you can't see, but every so often you catch that little flash. That image, you know where you're heading. You know the thing that's true. Why? Because he says what is seen is temporary. This tree has been here a short time. It will not be here forever. What is unseen is eternal. That mountain has been there much longer. The trees don't grow on top of it, but it's still standing We need to look not at what we see, but what we don't see. God's eternal glory. What's the application of this just briefly? God calls us to be faithful Biblically, he does not call us to be successful. Success we leave in his hands. God calls us to be faithful. Bloom where you plant it, as the phrase says. From place to place, time to time, country to country, people group to people group, the results are going to vary. If he's put you somewhere, hang in there. If you look at Roman Catholic Europe compared to former communist Europe Former Communist Europe is still exploding. All kinds of opportunities. Roman Catholic Europe is where you just slug it out day by day. Seems to be lots of problems, a few Christians they are. They bite at each other. Albania is closed now. When will it open? There are people who have felt they should leave. There are other missionaries who stayed. There are Christians of are living there. What will be the effect after this all comes out? Think of China. The missionaries were thrown out. By the communists, the end of the influence of Christianity. When China finally opened up, the church was so much bigger. It looked different than the Western Church, but it was so much bigger than when the missionaries were there The power of God at work. Secondly, the missions outreach of a church should not be run like it was a business. Where do we get the most bang for our buck? No. Where does God call us to support the work? Let's be faithful there. Because it's to support something else, let's be faithful there. Let's not rush at what's new and hot just because some other church has or a mission group has. And third, God's perspective. When you're in the midst of struggles and problems, we're facing light and momentary troubles. That achieve for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them. Troubles that weigh us down problems Outweighed by this eternal glory of God. That's the perspective. In the mission thrust of the church, in the life of this local church, when your own personal walk with God We're in it for the long haul, the long term. We need to keep this eternal perspective on things. Therefore, we do not lose heart. Amen.