Feel free to open up there. It'll be also, I believe, on the screen. So Acts 23, there's just the first 11 verses. And by the way, before we do dive in, the title of the sermon is We Need Courage. So I didn't have it in time before this bulletin was printed. So if you want to write that down, we need courage. That's where we're heading this morning with the text. So picking up in verse 1 in Acts 23. And looking intently at the council, Paul said, Brothers, I have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day. And the high and the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth. Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall. Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, yet contrary to the law? You order me to be struck. Then those who stood by said , Would you revile God's high priest? And Paul said, I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest, for it is written, you shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. Now, when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out to the council, Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. It is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial. And when he said this, a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees And the assembly was divided. For the Sadducees say, There is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees acknowledged them all. Then a great clamor arose, and some of the scribes and the Pharisees' party stood up and contended sharply, We find nothing wrong with this man. What if a spirit or angel spoke to him? And when the dissension became violent, the tribune, afraid that Hall would be torn to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him away from among them by force and bring him back to the barracks The following night the Lord stood by him and said, Take courage, for as you have testified to the facts about me in Jerusalem, so you must testify also in Rome. Let's pray that God would help us understand this. Gracious Father, I thank you for your word here. Would you, by your Spirit, teach us what this word means and help us to apply it to our lives, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen. So we are going to take yet another detour from the Gospel of Luke. But if you could summarize the Gospel of Luke in one sentence, you could say that it is an account. Of the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. And so is Acts, also written by Luke. In one sentence, it is an account of the life and ministry of the apostles of Jesus Christ. So today, of course, we're going to focus just on the Apostle Paul. But we're diving way deep into Acts 23. hopefully catch up here quickly. I'm going to leap Frog and Daisy China away from where he became a Christian in Acts 9 to how we get to chapter 23, how is he even in jail in the first place? So Acts 9 records Paul's conversion to Christianity. He was on the road to Damascus, having been given orders or permission by the high priest to go and round up Christians and take them to jail, when suddenly the Lord converted him right there on the spot on the road to Damascus. And he immediately began fellowshipping with his new brothers and sisters in Christ, and he also began immediately preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ And he began to grow steadily in influence and uh was having a very positive effect on the Jewish community, not because of anything that was, say, in him in terms of his winsomeness or his eloquence But because he was able to prove from the scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. That's why he became so popular so fast. And so very on, early in Paul's ministry, he was he's a Christian Pharisee, he's needing to make a sen a decision. How is he going to ultimately create alliances now in his life? Is he going to acquiesce, if you will, to the cultural norms of the uh what we might say is the religious elite of the day? Or is he going to proclaim Christ no matter what it cost him? Clearly he chose the latter. That's how he ended up in jail in Acts 23. And so from Acts Acts 9, you have Acts 15, which is Paul's essentially, he's being commissioned at this point to start being a missionary. And so Acts uh excuse me, that takes place earlier. But Acts 13 is when he's on his first missionary journey. Excuse me, Acts 15, his second journey, and then Acts 18, his third journey. And so he's ac he's arrested in Acts 21. Which effectively you may uh you might say ends his formal vocational ministry. And so when we're in Acts twenty-three, he's been arrested and he's been dealing with various conflicts and getting beat up and suffering and And so we're now in Acts 23. And so I've divided Acts 23 into three sections, just these few verses. Paul's Conflict, 1 through 5, Paul's Confession, 6 through 10. In Paul's Comfort, verse 11. I'm going to reread just the first five verses, and then we'll pick up in Paul's conflict and what I mean by that. So looking at the council, Paul said, looking intently at the council, Paul said, brothers, I have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day. And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth. And Paul said, God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall. Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, yet contrary to the law, you order me to be struck? And those who stood by said, Would you revile God's high priest? And Paul said, I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest, for it is written, You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. So there's a lot of dynamic back and forth. Paul says something, he gets hit in the face, he responds back, he gets corrected, and then he kind of corrects himself. It's a very dynamic moment. Remember last week when I mentioned how we respond to sin when someone sins against us matters just as much as the sin against us? And so that's that truism, if you will, applies to Paul. How Paul responds to the sin of this high priest matters just as much as the sin of the high priest here in this moment. So As a counselor, I was sort of imagining myself having a reconciliation conversation between Paul and this high priest, a man who we was just referring to as a brother. I would first start off with Paul. I would say something like this: Paul, Luke tells us that you were looking intently at this council, at this group of people, and that you even refer to them as brothers. How did you not know that this was the high priest? There's actually some mixed commentary on how Paul got that wrong when you look at verse 1 and verse 5. One commentator puts it like this, that it was more of a ironic or sarcastic response in a way that, oh, I didn't know he was the high priest. as if to suggest that this is not really how God's high priests treat people. You shouldn't be doing this. And so for all, let's just say for in Paul's defense, In that moment, he was right in his rebuttal. He said, are you sitting to judge me according to the law, yet contrary to the law, you order me to be struck? It was contrary for the for the priest to do what he just did. And what was the law that he was referring to there? Well, he was referring to Deuteronomy 25, if you want to write that down and re reference it for yourself. I'll read it to us. Also, 25, 1 through 3. He says this. If there is a dispute between men, and they come into the court, and the judge decides between them, Acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty, then if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down and be beaten in the presence with the number of stripes in proportion to his offense. Forty stripes may be given to him, but no more. And here's the part that is important. Lest one should go on to beat him with more stripes than these, your brother will be degraded in your sight. And so this was one of the core errors of the high priests here in this moment. He did something that could only be done after it was proper adjudication, and even if Paul was guilty. Okay? But the law stipulates not just what is going to happen to us physically. It's not concerned just what happens to us physically with the 40 stripes. But the law is also concerned with the man's dignity. That word there, that that last part of the phrase, your brother be degraded in your sight, I like how the KJV translates it. It says that your brother would seem vile to you if you keep beating him more than he ought to be beaten according to the law. And so then I would turn to the high priest in this hypothetical conversation. I would say, okay, high priest, what provoked you to degrade your brother right now, such that he would seem vile to you Was it probably, he would probably say this, that it had to do with what Paul just said in verse 1. He said that he had lived his life in a good conscience before God up to this day. And I would say, okay, well is that true? Is it true that Paul has been living his life in a good conscience before God up to this day? Is that testimony true? Now let's help let's help out the high priest for a second because how can Paul say that? I mean some of us know he was just rounding up Christians there in Acts 9. How can he have a good conscience before God? Well, this is what he says to Timothy. I'll quickly refer here to 1 Timothy 1. He says, I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service. When did he appoint him to his service? In Acts 9, on the road to Damascus. Though formerly I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, an insolent opponent, but But I received mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief. So let's just give give Paul again the reasonable doubt here that he did not know who the high priest was. Do you think the high priest knew who he was? I think very much so. Paul was very prominent in his ministry. He certainly knew who Paul was and his ministry. So the high priest's dilemma is this, his theological dilemma is this. That if Paul's testimony was true, that it meant that he, that Paul had a good conscience, it necessarily meant that he and that whole council of Pharisees and Sadducees did not have a good conscience before God. When Paul testified that he had a good conscience as a fellow Jew, as a fellow Pharisee, and a Christian, he was basically saying that they are not saved. They don't really know God as they think they know the God. And so you have a bad conscience before God that's suddenly happening here in these Pharisees. You mix that with a bad theology about God, and then you I think you f you throw in a little bit of pride in your heart. You're going to lash out in violence against your brother, which is what we see the high priest do there. And so a simple lesson we learned from Paul's conflict here. Is that when pride rules our affections, when it when it rules bad theology, we will resort to violence, or we could be prone to resorting to violence and debasing our neighbor? Maybe not physically, but certainly maybe in our hearts. But if you have a good conscience before God, even murderers and idolaterers , violent men like Paul , they're innocent. And so the question that we ought to ask ourselves is, well, what does it actually mean to have a good conscience? How does one obtain a good conscience? Well, I'm glad you asked. A good conscience rests on. A good conscience before God rests on a good confession of God. Which is the second part here in verse 6 through 10, Paul's Confession. So a good conscience before God rests on a good confession of God. I won't read all those verses, but think of those first five verses this scene. One. And this is scene two, if you will, okay? Paul just had this very uh dynamic interaction with the priest where people are being violent with one another, and he maybe he doesn't really know who the priest who the high priest is. But he's got to figure something out. He's got to figure out a way to get out of there because he's got a high priest who seems a little bit of a loose canon. So he might he might actually die here. And he's got to figure something out. He's got to either figure out a way to get out Or he's gonna die. And so he's gotta he's gotta crystallize if he's gonna use one thing that comes out of his mouth, he's gotta He's got one sentence he could say, either to figure out a way to align himself with somebody who will help him, or if it's going to be his last breath, then let it be a good one. And this is what he says in verse 6. He says, Brothers, I am a Pharisee. A son of Pharisees, it is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial. That's why he was here. He believed not only in the concept of the resurrection, which the Pharisees, they really only believed it in concept. The Sadducees didn't believe in it at all, but he believed in the actual resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so 7 through 9 is the clamor back and forth, people debating. I like to think of it as like what happens on the Twitter sphere when people think uh there's so many opinions clamoring back and forth and and whatnot. And so if Paul was going to align himself in this moment to figure out how to get out, if he was going to find a way out, who do you think he might have sought to align himself with? The Pharisees. And so Paul seemingly very cleverly uses his Phariseeic history and his background and his religious orientation of the Pharisees' party. Very much in the same way that he just did the day prior on in Acts 22. You remember when he was about to get beaten by that Roman centurion? He said, Is it lawful for you to flog a man who's a Roman citizen and uncondemned? So Paul uses his Roman citizenship the day before. Today he's using his religious affiliation to get out of a jam. And so what that's Paul's confession that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. And so here's one commentator, he crystallizes it like this. He says Paul's confession focuses on that aspect of the gospel that will be central to his apologetic throughout his trial. It tells the truth about the ultimate reason for his arrest by the Jews. For Paul and Luke, resurrection, especially the Messiah, the resurrection of Messiah Jesus, is the key issue. That determines the nature of the continuity between this continuity and the continuity between Christians and Jews as to who really are the people of God. And so I think, in my opinion, I think the high priest understood that intuitively. He got where Paul's ministry was going, that there's a separation between who really are the people of God. And so let's just quickly let me ask you real quickly, is Paul's testimony, is his confession true? Did Jesus Christ raise from the dead? Yes. Yes, we we believe that wholeheartedly. First Corinthians, I'm going to read a large section here, and then I'm going to have us do a call and response in a moment because I think this is really good. But Paul says this in 1 Corinthians 15, 12 through 17. He says, Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised, and if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in is in vain, and so is your faith We are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then your faith is futile, and you were still in your sins. Now Please turn up that that uh that next slide for us if we could, please. I'm gonna here's a call and response. I want you to try to interact with me a little bit like we talked about this morning. Christians, why are you here this morning worshiping in CPC? Because Christ rose from the dead. Why am I even in this pulpit preaching this morning? Because Christ rose from the dead. Now, how do you know that your faith is not vain or futile? Because Christ rose from the dead. And how do you know your sins are forgiven? Because Christ rose from the dead. And why do you, I know all of you who are Christians, why do you have a good conscience before God this morning? Because Christ rose from the dead, yes. Everything, and that's I'm not being hyperbolic here, everything in your life hinges on this, whether this is true. This is one of the comments that I open up with when I'm doing my counseling, and I begin the counseling, and I'm I'm recognizing people are coming in with pain and burden and struggle and hardship and suffering. They're remember like Mahemakim, this feeling like they have the weight of all sorts of struggle on top of them. And I say, no matter how hard something in your life may be, You have hope. And this is what I appeal to. You have hope because Jesus is risen from the dead. So we have hope. Here's the lesson from Paul's confession. We have hope. We have peace, we have comfort, we have a sure faith, a true faith, we have final and lasting forgiveness of sins because of this uniquely Christian confession that Christ has risen from the dead. And so now speaking of comfort in Paul Paul this is Paul's comfort here in verse 11 The following night the Lord stood by him and said, Take courage, for as you have testified to the facts about me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome. Now what are the facts? Jesus is risen. We were just talking about this. I want us to notice some things though about what's not here, if we could, as we're just observing the text. In this cell, when Jesus appears, he's not making a note of and being impressed with Paul's cleverness, his ability to read a crowd. He's not impressed with Paul's religious pedigree. That he's a Pharisee or a son of Pharisees. He's not impressed with Paul's alliances, whether they're political or national. Jesus himself enters the isolation of this prison cell. And as he enters, what does Luke say? Here's the third scene. What does he say? The Lord stood by him. Now we know that we can face any hardship and any trouble when we know for ourselves that the Lord is standing by our side. And so textually speaking, does it matter how Luke refers to Jesus? It's a very interesting word. He refers to him as Lord. He refers to Jesus as Lord. So that's instructive for us. That Greek word kyrios, what does that mean? It means to whom a person or a thing belongs, about which the one who is there, who is the Lord, has power of deciding. It means the possessor, it means disposer of a thing, it means the owner It means that person has total control of the person. So Paul has something that's even better than cleverness and political affiliation or religious pedigree. He has Jesus as his Lord. He is the Lord. Possessive. So Paul is owned by Christ our Lord. And if you have the same good conscience as Paul, then you too are owned by the Lord. Christ our Lord. And so when Paul, Paul's Lord and our Lord, he's meeting Paul in the prison cell He was there because people wanted to kill him. And where did when did he meet him? He met him the following night. He met him at night. And as I was thinking about this, I was wondering if Paul might have been discouraged, even for a little bit. I mean, he he strikes me as a guy who maybe would have been able to fight that off, but he's just a man. He had just been beaten up and betrayed and slandered and abandoned by his religious kin. I wonder if he had thought this thought to himself. Is this really worth it? Because in Acts 20, just a few chapters before he headed off to Jerusalem to end up in jail, he was at a really great pastoral gig. He was the pastor of Ephesus. He had just planted Ephesus. I'll quickly read another few verses for us to get a sense of what he left in Acts 20, 36 to 38. And when he had said these things, This is Paul. He's kind of giving his goodbye speech to the church in Ephesus. He knelt down and prayed with them all. And there was much weeping on the part of all. They embraced Paul and kissed him, being sorrowful, most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship. And that was when he was accompanied to the ship, that was him shipping off to Jerusalem and then end up in Rome. That's where he was ultimately going. So the duty of this pastor The duty of the pastor in Ephesus, their pastor Apostle Paul, he had to leave. He had to go to Rome. That was his calling. So this prison cell was his calling. The last two days of his suffering was his calling. And what was the word that Luke uses that tells us, instructs us, that the Lord saw fit to tell Paul When he might be questioning his calling or certainly needs some counsel in the midst of this moment at night when he's alone in a cell, he says, take courage. And so as Christians, we we need to be told this to take courage because we need it. We need courage, and that's why I titled our sermon today. See, we need courage to keep pressing through. the sufferings and the trials and the pains of our lives that we face. We need courage to move forward, to try and maybe reconcile broken relationships in our life. We need courage To not go with the crowd that wants us to deny our faith. We need courage to suffer for Christ. We need courage to hold on to our confession. And so when we're suffering through some trial or some difficulty, and we choose to heed this counsel for ourselves, to take courage in Christ, we are suffering for Christ. When you take courage to follow after Christ with a good conscience, bearing this right confession, and despite every temptation to turn aside, And trust me, as I know I know you all know, sin and suffering can produce all sorts of temptation to abandon Christ. But when you choose to s when you choose Christ and you suffer for it, that suffering is suffering for Christ. And that is why Paul and all who take the call to follow Christ can take comfort in this word here that he's given to Paul in this moment. Take courage. Because even when God is calling us to the very, very worst. Jesus is alive, he is risen, and he is our Lord. Let's pray Gracious Father, thank you for this word. We confess how much we need courage and how much we struggle with courage. We need courage to endure our hardships and our struggles. We need courage to hold on to our good confession. We need courage to fight the temptations that we face in this life and that vie for our heart's attention. Help us, O God, to hold on to a good confession. With a good conscience. Help us, O God, to set apart Christ in our hearts as Lord as we eagerly await for our Lord Jesus to be revealed. Amen.