See the New Testament passages which speak about the body of Christ, the churches of the body of Christ. Ephesians chapter 4 and 1 Corinthians chapter 12. We took two weeks to look at Ephesians chapter 4. I'm going to try to take two weeks now to take a look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And this morning I want to remind us from that portion of God's Word that the church is not simply a human organization, but it is a supernatural living organism. The church is supernaturally alive. And it's in this context that I want us to see that you and I have a profound and an expensive need for one another in that body. Let's take a look then at God's word from 1 Corinthians chapter 12. It speaks of this need that we have for one another. We take a look together at the first 27 verses, 1 Corinthians 12, 1 to 27. Now about spiritual gifts, brother, I brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant You know that when you were pagans, somehow or other, you were influenced and led astray to them idols. Therefore I tell you that no one who is speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus is curved. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit There are different kinds of servants with the same Lord. There are different kinds of workers with the same God who works all of them in all men. Now to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. One is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, to another the message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit To another faith by the same spirit, to another gift of healing by that one spirit, to another miraculous power, to another prophecy, to another the ability distinguished between spirits To another the ability to speak in different kinds of tongues, and to still another the interpretation of tongues. All these are the work of one and the same Spirit, and he gives them to each man just as he determines The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts, and though all its parts are made, they form one body. So it is with Christ. For we were all baptized by one spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slaves, or priests, and we were all given the one spirit to drink. Now the body is not made up of one part, but of many. If the foot would say, because I'm not a hand, I do not belong to the body, it would not for that reason cease to be a part of the body. And if he used to say, because I'm not an I, I do not belong to the body, it would not for that reason cease to be a part of the body. If the whole body were an I, where would disciples hearing it? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? But in fact, God has arranged the parts of the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be If they were all one part, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, but one body The eye cannot say to the hand, I don't leave you. And the hood cannot say to the feet, I don't leave you. On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And the parts that we think less honor may be treated with special honor. And the parts that are unpresentable are treated with special modesty. While our presentable parts need no special treatment. But God has combined the members of the body and has given greater honor to the parts that lack it. so that there should be no division in the body, but that its parts should have equal concern for each other. If one part suffers Every part suffers with it. If one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. Now you are the body of Christ, and each of you is a part of it. So far for the reading of God's word. Let's pray for this moment Lord Jesus , the view to us are a part of your body. And pray that you will speak to us that must be given to you. If you will make us peaceable and open. And apply your word to our lives now. For Jesus' sake. Amen. I want to deal with this need that we have for one another, the parts of this one body under three heads that you see listed there in the bulletin outline. First of all, God's design of diversity and unity, we see in verses four to fourteen. Secondly, I want to deal with the problem of inferiority, the fact that the body views you, in verses fifteen to twenty. And then thirdly, the fact that we need the body, the problem of Christ, in verses twenty-one to twenty-seven First of all, then we see in Paul's argument here his laying out of the principle of God's design of diversity in unity in verses four to fourteen. Now, this is shown in three ways in this section, as you see listed there. First of all, there is the comparison of the Trinity. Notice what he says in verses 4 to 6. There's different kinds of gifts But the same spirit. There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. And there are different kinds of working, but the same God works all of them in all men. Notice there are those three verses that there are three pairs of words. And there's a note, three pairs of words, three sets of words of differences, and three sets of words of sameness. You see, he's saying that uh there are different gifts, there are different kinds of service, and there are different kinds of working. But it's the same Spirit, it's the same Lord, and it's the same God. You put that together and you have uh sort of the argument that from the same spirit all of the gifts, however different they are, originate. And those gifts are for the purpose of differing ministries that you and I have. And those different ministries, however, are to serve the same Lord Jesus, more than the New Testament, given like this means the Lord Jesus. But so the Spirit equips us with different ministries by different gifts to serve the same Lord. And that ministry that we have, the word ministry is there's the same word Ephesians 4. 12. We've equipped the saints for the work of ministry. That ministry is by the different working of God. Again, that word is working there in verse 6 is the same word in Ephesians 4, 12, the work of ministry And so the Spirit equips us with various kinds of ministries by the various manifestations of the power of God working in us. And it's the same God, the same Spirit, and the same Lord that are all involved in this. But there are different gifts, and there are different ministries, and there are different manifestations of power to different parts of the body. Now you notice not only here this linking together of the same and the different but don't miss his analogy You see, not only was he mentioned the Saint Spirit, Lord Jesus, and God, but he has linked together your divinity as the example par excellence of diversity and unity. You see what Paul's saying? He's saying there's a minality of the church with our being one unit, but nevertheless carrying out different functions to what God Himself is. Because God Himself is made up of three persons, an indissoluble unit, but there are three persons in the Godhead, each carrying out a different substance. To accomplish the saving purposes of God in the church. And so in the church, we reflect God's diversity and unity. As God Himself is one and yet carries out different functions in the three persons. So the church is one, but we carry out different functions among the various members of the church. So how are we different? Well then we see move on verses seven to ten, seven to eleven, describing some of these different gifts that are given. He talks about them to the manifestation, each uh one manifestation of spirit given for the common good. And he mentions there then nine different kinds of gifts. Mind gifts of the Spirit. Now that is not meant to be an exhaustiveness of the gifts of the Spirit. Now that's very clear because if you go to Romans 12 and Ephesians 4 where the gifts of the Spirit are mentioned You have a series of a number of other gifts that are mentioned in those passages that are not mentioned in this passage. In fact, even those three passages I don't believe are exhaustive You have hints of that you see in other places in the New Testament where you have gifts of the Spirit Mansion that are not even in list. For example, the gift of voluntary celibacy You see, if you are a single person this morning and God is giving you a satisfaction and a joy and the ministry that you can have immediately as a single person, that is a gift of the Spirit And the Bible tells us that. We we need to understand that and appreciate that. And so that uh there are all kinds of gifts, there are all kinds of things that God gives to equip the body. There are beyond this list or any other list that you can simply draw up from copying out particular lists in the New Testament. And these then are an illustration to it of the fact that the body is given various different ministries. And to those different ministries will be reflected in different kinds of people. For example, you have here the gift of wisdom making Well now a person if we characterize the gift of reasons is going to likely be a person who may be somewhat reflective. He'll have a particular counseling ministry. He is a much more thoughtful person. His personality, his ministry will be significantly different from a person who has the gift of faith. A person with the gift of faith, mention Jesus, will probably be much more of a person inclined to action He will be a person of vision. He's the guy that says, let's stop thinking, let's get up and move, let's step out on faith and press God to move us in this project To believe God for greater things. And then the guy with the wisdom says, Well no, we need to approach it this way. We need to begin to apply this to our relationship, to the church in this or that era And you might say that these two people become in great conflict. Very different kinds of ministry. But God's telling us right here that these two are meant to complement each other. That they should not at all threaten each other, but that there should rather be a great harmony, because they're of the same spirit to serve the same Lord by the power of the same God. Well you see, then he goes on to describe this by giving us an even more vivid illustration of how it could work And so he moves on in verse 12 to say, this is to give you an understanding of how this is to work, let's look at the human body. And so in verses 12 to 14, we have an example. of the unity and diversity in the comparison with the human body. Notice what he says. Verse 12, the body is a unit Though it is made up of many parts, and though all its parts are many, they form one body, so it is the Christ. For we were all baptized by one spirit into one body, whether Jews are Greeks, slave or free, and we were all given the one do it to bring. Now the body is one. Now the body is not made up of one part, but of many. Now a lot of people miss the impact of this because when we read the word body in verse twelve, we tend to think of the church. He's not talking about the church In the beginning of verse 12. He's giving us an anatomy lesson. He's talking about the human body. So when Paul says in verse 12, the body is a unit, he's talking about the physical body. He's talking about your body. And Paul's argument there is that the body is a unit, so it's made up of many parts, and though all the parts of this human body are many, they form one body. And then he says in the comparison of now, that's the way it is with Christ. It compellers us, so consider a person 's body. Paul might stand and you say, Oh, you know, you look at suck color, you know, you say, Yeah, here's stuff colour. So you don't say, Now there's a little chuck and there's a little chuck and here's a bit of chuck coming in the door, you know, or a little bit of chuck going out the rear door there. You know, and uh here's chuck, here's tuck, a little chuck here, a little chuck there. The body's a unit. We look at Chuck and there he is. He's an identifiable unit. He his parts hang together, they work together And Tuck is a unit. But that's not to say that Tuck has nothing differentiated in it. It is very far there Those parts are all composed and operate together so that when you look at stuff and you say, Well there he is. One person, I can see him, he he is his unit, but stuff is very complex. It's complex in many ways because there are various parts of self. Physically, emotionally, spiritually, but there are many parts, even particularly physically, just considering the body, that are operating together in order to cause him to be a body, to be a human body with all its complexity. And this is what Paul is saying. Now he says, just as when you look at stuff and you consider that, then he says, look at the church And you see exactly the same thing. You don't look at the church and see why not being their own thing here, there, and everywhere, and none of them are related to one another. But he says the body is to operate as a unit. Even though there's great diversity, diversity that might even seem to produce great conflict. And you wonder how can two parts of the body so dissimilar with such different ministries ever get along together? It is to say that that's the way God has brought the body together so that God would produce in that a whole unit. It would be uniquely the truth. You see, notice what he says here. Say Christians miss it In the previous paragraph, he has likened this to the gifts of the spirit. But he gives another, a second kind of diversity that's in the body. He says then, for we were all verse 13, baptized by one spirit into one body. But Jews or Greeks, slaves or free. And they were all given the spirit to drink. You see Paul saying here that the that the body of Christ The human body is like the body of Christ, and that is like uh saying that there are all the the Jews and the Greeks are like arms and legs, he said. The slaves and the free are like eyes and ears Uh if he were writing today, he'd probably say uh so it is with the body, whether blacks or whites, whether Asians or Hispanics. Uh whether uh w those who are on welfare or those who are well off, you think, all are made to drink of that common fountain in verse 13, all given of the one spirit. No matter what your background or my background, what our traditions, how well off we are, or whatever. are those things that comprise our own identity. Paul says when we come together with all that diversity, you have to kneel at one fountain. And you've got to go to one spirit. And you've got to rest in the one work of the finished work of Jesus Christ. And that unity binds you together and far outweighs all the diversities, all the potential conflicts. Now, that then produces a problem. And it's his problems that he then begins to address himself to. Two problems. Also when he's got that kind of potential For conflict in the diversity with God's design to bring that diversity into such close contact For unity , we've got two problems, problems of inferiority and problems of pride. And that's what he addresses himself to. This is how he doesn't moves on then in this question of inferiority, the problem of inferiority in the body, in verses 15 to 20. Now his first disc there is that the body says the body is you If you are dealing with a question of inferiority this morning as part of the body, God's message to you is that the body needs you. He deals with this uh in mentions there are three different aspects to this kind of a problem and God can leave them to it. Notice what he says. If the foot could say, because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body, it would be for that reason cease to be a part of the body. He's talking about inferiority because I am not like some other part of the body You see, here's a foot. And this foot is saying uh the hand's really where it's at. You know, the eye the foot has really relatively little to boast about the And look at the hand away. The hand can grab things, it can hold things, it can point things, the hand can feed the body, the hand can wave, the hand can find its planner. And it gets all kinds of things. The hand can do. What can a football get walked on all the time on the lowest place? A hand is what a Christian looks like. If you really want to see a model of what God's person is, then look at a hand. Because a hand is normative. A hand is the way a Christian ought to look, face to place. And see what's the problem with the foot having. Well you see the foot is judging by the wrong criteria. The footy miss that there is a distinction between gifts and fruit The food is missed the fact that God says if you want to see what a Christian looks like, you look at the fruit of the Spirit, don't look at the gifts of the Spirit. Because when you look at the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5 22, and you see that the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control, you see in those marks That is to be true of every Christian. But you dare never look at the gifts of the Spirit or particular peculiarities of ministry of Christians And make those to be the sign of what true Christianity ought to look like. And that's the problem with the pattern here. Paul goes on and he says, uh, what does the ear say? Of course I'm not an eye, I don't belong to the body. Paul says, is that going to make the eye in the left part of the body? Of course not. So all it produces is that the ear loses all the joy of being ear. You know, God made that ear to really rejoice. I'm an ear, I can hear, I can touch the body to hear things. And I can I can enjoy being in ear. God says uh just because you're not going to enjoy being in ear doesn't make you any less of an ear. All you're doing is missing out. But you're still part of the body You see, the ear looks and sees the eye, and it envies the eye and sees all that the eyes do, and then the ear says, Well, because I can't see, and because I can't do all the things the eyes can do Maybe I'm not even a Christian. Or at least a second rate Christian at best. And God wants the ear to be freed up cannot be weighed down with self-imposed inferiority because it doesn't look like the ears, the eye. And so it is, brothers and sisters, in Columbia Presbyterian Church God has designed this church in bringing people together. And not by chance. Well, God hasn't brought this group of people together Shh as just some sort of a chance gathering of people that happened in on particular Sunday. God has arranged the body here. And He has equipped this body I believe, by the Holy Spirit. So that there are various functions and ministries that each of you has, if you identify with this body, to build up and to equip this body, to build this body up in Jesus Christ. And if you're one part of that body, and then rejoice in being that part, and not simply look at the fact that you're not like some other part of the body. And therefore miss the ministry that God wants you to rejoice in and enjoy and have in being the various the particular part of the body that He has made you to be. Because you see the problem is not simply one of inferiority It's not simply a problem of saying that I don't um belong because I'm not like someone else. In fact you notice he even says there uh in verse uh Sixteen verse seventeen says uh if the whole body were an eye, then where would the sense of smell be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell uh excuse me, if the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? And if the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? But in fact God has arranged the parts in the body, in the body of Columbia Presbyterians, as well as anywhere else. Every one of them. Just as he wanted them to be. If they were all one part, where would the body be? As it is, it's many parts. Put in one body. Yeah, you ever heard the phrase uh I'm all ears? Tell me, I'm all ears. Okay You know, we need to communicate by that. I'm listening to you with every bit of my attention, but even thinking of that, what would it look like if you're all in a big bag of ears standing there? You couldn't even hear. It is your own ears because the ear depends on the nervous system and the brain to process the information, be able to understand The simplest functions need a cooperation within the body. And God has composed the body spiritually for the same thing. None of us can accomplish any ministry that God wants us to accomplish apart from the rest of the body. None of us can have a meaningful ministry of the body in isolation. But God has brought us together. So that in cooperation in the body we carry out our ministry. Not only is this a problem of interiority But also there's a problem of envy that you see here. Because you see, the ear is really envying the eye The foot is really envying the hand. And because of it, you can just see the foot. No longer is it happy. You're just carrying the body around. Now everything that the hand does, the foot begins to compare itself with the hand. And when the foot compares itself with a hand, you know, maybe the foot tries to play the piano, gets itself all bogged up, you know, and could try to wave goodbye or something like this and it finds that it really can't do these things before it won't give up. Yeah, that's our nature. Because when we begin to compete We become defensive. And so as we begin to compete, we lose the ministry. I remember my first couple of years on University Fast. I used to look so forward to staff conferences. Uh staff worked uh in relative isolation, did back in those days, don't anymore. Back in those days you're a pioneer on some field, never saw anybody else on staff for except for staff conferences maybe. But I remember how very threatening were those times together. Yeah, I'd go to staff confidence. There's Pete. Oh, we'd have fellowship together, but then I'd see how confident Pete was. I'd see that in every situation Pete had something to offer. And I'd see that how creative his ideas were. And I'd see how his ministry was taking off and how God was using him. And I'd see what a model staff worker Pete was Did I say, thank God for Pete? Well I just want to serve him and minister to him and help us build him up. Not on your life. Every time I saw Pete, I was jealous of what Pete could do. And I looked at Pete and I said, that's what a staff worker ought to do. And I began to feel very inferior, and that inferiority caused me to envy him. And by envying him I wasn't free to minister to him. I wasn't free to love him. I was to support him. I thought he had enough. He didn't need me All I want to do is to be able to prove that I'm worth being on staff by trying to show in comparison that I can do things as passive or can do them at least as well Every time that you and I begin to take such an attitude of envy, we lose the ministry God would have us to have to that member of the body. Someone has once said you can never get ahead as long as you're trying to get even. And that's true in the body too. As long as we're envying someone and trying to get even by comparing ourselves with them, we'll never get ahead of ourselves spiritually or help that person to get ahead The problem is that you and I have gotten our eyes off of Jesus Christ. We got our eyes on the hand. We've got our eyes on the eyes. And by doing that we have missed him the glory of Jesus Christ, feeling our security in him , being able to serve him as part of the body, rejoicing in what God has given us and what he's not given us. We're not able to admit our weaknesses until we become dishonest because we're defenseless. We're too insecure to be able to admit that we're not like peace or the eye or the hand or anyone else And until we're able to come to that place where we can say, So I'm not like he. So I don't have the kind of gifts he does. That doesn't make me less a part of the body I remember how God had to deal with me in that area. And God still deals with me in that again and again. It's something that you and I have to deal with time and time again. But the question for you this morning is Is there somebody in this church , that you envy? Is there somebody in this church that to you has become a source of either irritation or to you has become a source of dissatisfaction because you're always comparing yourself with that person You look at that person and say, uh, why can't I be like that? So you're not open to ministry to that person or receive ministry from them. Because there's a competition that's blocking the work of the Spirit between the two of them. You're more concerned that that person gets more credit for the kind of ministry that they carry out. And their gifts are more prize. And so because of that, we're not open to receive the work of God through them or to minister to them. There's only one solution to that, you and I have to come to repentance. We've got to confess to God. We've such a sinful attitude. It's this satisfaction with how He made us And ask God to change us so that we will face that. And so we'll be able to come and realize that God has arranged the body just as He wants it to be. You see there in verse 1918. And you can arrest in that because that's the way he wants it to be and be freedom. Someone has said that the gifts of the Spirit are like our faces Each one has a unique composite of gifts. The form of your face, a unique appearance overall. If you Shh envy somebody else's face and say, I sure wish I had a face like that, boy, I don't like mine. There's no way you can change your face. You can imitate their face. You can try to camouflage your face. You can try to look like their face, but you'll never be their face All you can do is to thank God that He made your face the way He made your face because He wasn't in a bad mood when He made it. And God knew what He was doing when He put it together And so it is with a gift of the spirit. God knew what he was doing when he arranged and gave us those gifts and just and distributed them in the precise way he intended. And you and I will never be satisfied and happy in rejoicing in the Lord until we can rejoice in what He has given to us in equipping us. Finally, certainly you see there's an insecurity that may come because I don't have all the gifts. It's slightly different problem. See, it's a problem where I don't just envy that one person or that particular gift, but I'm just sort of dissatisfied because I'm not self-sufficient. Uh I look at all kinds of people and I see that there's this that I can't do and there's that that I can't do. I can't do this as well or that as well. And so I become insecure and I'm in and I'm depressed basically because I'm not self-sufficient. In the body. Now the message for you is select. Select. God never intended you to be self-sufficient. You realize that? God never intended that you wouldn't need the eye and the hand and the ears because you would be able to do those things. In our culture, we have such a pressure to be self-sufficient. That there's so much pressure upon us to be people who can take care of ourselves and be independent of others. It's very difficult for us, isn't it? When we come to the church and we have to admit our dependence. We come to the church and we have to confess that we're not self-sufficient But God didn't intend us to be that way. It it goes contrary to the very nature of the body. And God wants us to relax in our lack of self-sufficiency. He wants us to relax in our dependence upon one another. So that we can realize our need for one another. And we can receive the ministry that God intends for us to have from one another, because we know that that's his way. And to resist it is to resist God Not simply to show that you're important or self-sufficient or to do something that you think you ought to do. Relax God wants us to be able to minister to one another, and none of us be self-sufficient. Thirdly, you see here in the major uh categories, The problem not only of inferiority, but the problem, the opposite problem of five. In verses 21 to 27 Verses 15 to 20, Paul has dealt with the question of if you look at another part of the body and say, because you're not like that part of the body, you feel inferior and say, maybe I'm not even part of the body, or second rated best Then he says the opposite problem is verse 21. On the other hand, the eye cannot say to the hand, I don't need you. The head can't say to the feet, I don't need you On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. That's the problem with pride. You see, I cannot say I don't need you to any other Christian, particularly to Christians who are very much unlike you. You ever say to yourself, Well, now there's one part of the body I don't need? Come on, be honest. I do. I do. Again, I remember back when I was on IV SAF, I remember at a very staff orientation. The fellow that I met at that new staff orientation, Bob We really hit it off boy, I'll tell you. We had such conflicts that after three days we had to arrange a dinner to get together to try and resolve something ill many other three days, you know. But we had so many conflicts So many disagreements on things, we had to get together for a special meal to try and work some of these things out. Well, we didn't work them out, particularly. We discussed them, heard them, came to a better understanding of them. But I continue to think, now there is one guy which would go off fast. There's one part of the body I don't need. Now I remembered that Bob and I were assigned to a particularly difficult conference together. It was a real struggle. It was a kind of conference that uh you sort of like to look back on but not live through As we went through that experience, I remember in a very unusual way , God cast Bob and I upon each other in a mutual dependence and need for each other that neither of us would have ever chosen. That camp was so difficult that Bob and I went out one day, walked up the street, wept together, prayed together, and put our arms around each other and said, Brother, I need you And I remember so profoundly that moment when we had prayed together and wept together, thinking, what a relief. I can receive something from God. I don't have to be all things to all people. I can learn from Him. He can minister to me. And I can see, if I'm willing to see it, something that God has in my life from God. And from that day on, Bob will continue to be just as unlike me. And we continue to have as many disagreements. This map point on it was a profound appreciation for one another. And we loved one another. And I hated to see anyone else there. That's the kind of situation that God wants for us to experience so that we understand that when Paul's talking here in 1 Corinthians twelve. About the body. We all as Christians mouth this. We talk about this. We pay lip service to it. But do we see the practical necessity of it? Do we really believe that we need those Christians who are so very unlike us? Or would we rather simply associate with those who are a little bit different? But compatible. Notice what he says. The art can't say to the hand, I don't use you. The head can't say to the feet, I don't use you. On the contrary Those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. , And the parts we think are less honorable, we treat with special honor. What 's he talking about here? He's saying not only can you not say, I don't need you to the Christians you feel very unlike you, but maybe you'll respect down deep. He's saying you can't even say I don't leave you to the weakest Christian is your estimation. What is this train of thought? He says that on the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. Let's take the example. I knew a fellow likes who cut off his big toe. Yeah, I mean, what is a big toe? You know, you look at the big toe, you cut the toenail, you know, and you don't think much about it. That's one part of the body, you say about two part of the body that can lose. Well, big toe, so doesn't really matter much A person winps for the rest of his life. You cannot walk straight and evenly without your big toe. Now those parts of the body that you take less regard for because you take them for granted How many of us uh discovered muscles we never even knew we had until we told them? And all of a sudden we are painfully aware that there is one part of the body we need. There are parts that you think are very dispensable, Paul says, will discover in one way or another, are quite invaluable to you, quite necessary to your function. So he says in verse 23, the parts that we think are less honorable, we treat with special honors. The parts that are unpresentable we treat with special modesty. possibly thinking in the line of his thought there of the foot again. The foot, you know, you just walk on it, you really don't pay much attention to it. But what sandals were constructed for the foot In order to show off the foot, to give honor to the foot of the person in that time. You went into a person's house, and what was the way that you honored the person? You washed their feet And so you see it is that those parts that we may take for granted that we think are unprecedented, we give honor to, because we recognize that they are necessary. I never saw a person who said, I don't like my nose. It's too big. It's spread all over my face. I wish that I didn't have a big fat nose like I do. And therefore said, I'm going to cut it off. I don't need it Or even shave it down, you see. And you may not like the shape of it, you may not like the size, but it functions quite well. And so you give honor to your name. However it looks Because it's necessary. That's what God is saying about the body. You don't despise any part of the body, however unpresentable it may seem to you. Because it's very, very precious to your functioning. And so he goes on to say, while our preventable parts don't need any special treatment, but God has combined the members of the body and has given greater honor to the parts that lack it. So that there should be no division in the body, but its parts should have equal concerns for each other. Well, uh, I've experienced this kind of thing. Oh why is it? Why is it? But this is God's way of operating. You see, it's because there is a very basic and profound kingity principle. That is that God works through the humble. God worked most might only for those parts that seem so unpresentable. This is a panel in the Old Testament A woman who had no children and was the spies, and God chose Hannah to have Samuel. And after she had Samuel, she wrote But it's the Lord who brings down the proud and lifts up the humble and causes the barren woman to rejoice and bear seven. Hannah, humble Hannah , was God's instrument of blessing David was the eighth in a line of eight kids. He was so inconsequential that when Jesse was supposed to bring before Samuel all of his sons, he forgot about David. So I've seven of them they said uh are these all of them? He said, Oh yeah, so I forgot there's David and he's out in the field out in the field. But it was David that God raised up To be the king of Israel, the anointed one, the one whom even the Messiah himself was called the Son of Jesus. Mary writing in the same pattern as Hannah. Because when she told that she is going to bear the Messiah, Mary writes, God has lifted up his handmaid. He brings down the proud and exalts the humble. That's a sign, because that's exactly how God accomplished his salvation. When Jesus Christ came, he was despised, so he was rejected of men. He was characterized as one who doesn't lift up his voice or shout in the streets or call attention to himself. But Jesus, the one who is the spy, is the one who accomplished our salvation. God does not accomplish your salvation in life in some sort of a cosmic Star Wars. Salvation was accomplished at a cross. A Roman cross on a hill outside Jerusalem. That's where God's glory is best seen. And God's glory continues to be seen through the humble. God's glory continues to be shown through the unpresentable because that's the way of Jesus. I begin to exalt our gifts and begin to want to draw attention to ourselves, or on the other hand, through Christian media and various other seducing elements, begin to exalt those who have the most popular, presentable kind of gifts. In a media image. God says you've missed the way of the kingdom. The way of the kingdom is that God gets the credit to those who themselves Do not draw attention to themselves. Those who do not appear to have the great gifts in the eyes of men, in the estimation of the world, because then God gets the credit. We look at White Meady. We look at Billy Graham and we look at many other great creatures of the past and we praise God for them, past and present. We thank God for their ministries and there's nothing wrong with that The great almiti said of his own ministry toward the end of his life, because so much of his ministry was accounted for in God's blessing because of a woman, a shut-in, in London, in England Who prayed first for his ministry to begin there and to continue. He said, Oh God, thus you my ministry is so much a part of what that woman daily praying For my ministry, the campaigns that I have run, and God hearing her, God listening to her heart, and not simply to the people seeing my lips. And you hear my voice. God used that part of the body in order to give glory to himself. I've experienced this myself in my own life just recently. I remember this summer I'm talking to some part of the body. A person said essentially, you know, your preaching is so bad that it drives me to the scripture. Because when I hear you preach, I've got to go to the Word of God to get said. Now there's one part of the body I don't need. That was my thought at that time. But then God used that and some other input to cause me to re examine my preaching. To cause me to go again and say, God, have you really called me to preach the gospel? Have you really equipped me for that or am I just seizing myself? And I remember one day this summer that was a result of that input. I went out and had a day of prayer and I began to cast myself on the Lord and speak for what he was saying about this. He varied alternatives. I wasn't thinking of leaving the church. I just wanted to examine and re-examine. What did God call me to do? Is there something here that I need to do? And I remember as I went out God's so clearly showing you. Alan, you haven't missed my calling. You've missed my faith in the calling. And God had to show me at that point that I was slipping into a subtle kind of professionalism. A subtle kind of presenting of messages in a way that were refined and were perfected, were presentable The messages that uh would show that I was a good preacher and that I could see you as a people of God. But there weren't messages that were passing through my heart The right messages that God was giving me in my own life so that I would be able to speak from my heart to your heart. God had to humble me at that time. God had to enable me to call sin. God had to bring me back in refreshing screens of grace to see his faith and to be refreshed by him. And he did it. But he did that in my life. But God used the part of the body that I considered very weak. God used the part of the body that I would have not inclined to be open to. A part of the body whose ministry I was not inclined to receive. Is it possible that God has some ministry for you? But He wants for you to receive it. If you're going to have to receive it through a humble part of the body, you're going to have to humble yourself in order to be open to that ministry. I confess before you that I have been sinning against you and what I have been doing in my own desire uh to present good messages and to be a professional preacher. And I've repented of that. And I ask that God will help me to to benefit and God will continue to pray for me. And God will have to do with me this and again and again But what is it that He has for you? What is it that God wants to show you and teach you? No part of the body can you say, I don't need this. I have no use for you, because that part is too weak. I ask you to consider yourself the point of application that you see there on the rear. To consider, first of all, you're part of the body. Perhaps you come here this morning and you hear all of this. But you can't say in your heart, as he says in verse 3, that Jesus is Lord. You can't say that apart from the Holy Spirit. From your heart you know If you have never come to know and thus three with strength is your own Lord and Saviour, you are not part of the body God 's longing and desire and call for you this morning is as you bow before Jesus Christ, and you realize that you have broken his mind. You have gone your own way. And it was only the same force of Jesus Christ that is possible for you to be reconciled to God, for you to be brought back to Him, to have peaceful between you and the God He may be And then if you would come to him, offering nothing, but humbling yourself before him empty, God will apply the work of Christ to your life and bring you into his body. I plead with you if you've never done that. Do that today. Those are who are in the body. What's your own attitude on this? Do you see more diversity in our church is good or bad? There is a danger of associating and worshiping only with those who are like us. We all want a little bit of diversity in the church, so long as we're comfortable with it. We want to associate, however, basically with those who are like it. You see, the church is composed of all these seeing eye fellowships, you know, the hearing-ear church of Christ. And the walking foot movement. And we associate with all those who have a common vision, a common like-mindedness. And we say, God has called us together