What do we do? In the presence of God. We realize that our acts have eternal consequences. And we're constantly as Christians running up against new areas. Areas of our lives in which we realize there is sin, no. Areas that we need to yield to the Lord. There's so much that we're aware of that we're not doing for the Lord and for one another. There's so much that we're aware of that. needs to change in our lives. Christianity is indeed serious business. And yet I sometimes wonder if it isn't too serious. If we don't take it perhaps too seriously or perhaps take ourselves too seriously in it. As we sing morning by morning, as we worship God, what are our emotions? As we come to worship. Are emotions full of joy? Are emotions full of a festive, celebrated kind of spirit? When we come, do we find that we can hardly contain ourselves from outbreaking? of joy doing the worship that we have? Or would we more like the Vermont who said to his wife, Adelaide, when I think of how much I love you, sometimes it's all I can do to keep intelligent. Do we find that as God's people we can indulge in holy laughter and joy? Or do we find that we're a rather sober -minded people? Do we sin because it's the only appropriate response? To God's grace and goodness to us. Whether we sin because it's time to sing. It's been said And I've heard this said, but if you want to have fun and a good time, don't pick Presbyterians. If you want to have a party and you want to make sure it's a real success, Uh only made the Presbyterians. Those guys don't know how to have a good family. They're nice folks, you know. I mean don't get me wrong, they're they're very friendly folks. They're very warm folks and they really seem to love the Lord. But I'm not sure that they know how to have a good time Just just something there that that seems to be lacking in their full experience of the Lord. I've heard it said of our church. We're a real people, that we're very friendly people. I've heard this again and again, always encourages me when I hear people who visit, who will say how you as people have welcomed them and talked with them, how you've followed up with them, invited them over on occasion, gotten to know them But the question that I want for us to consider this morning is: are we a joyful people as well as a warm people? Are we a light-hearted people? And so I would like to remind us of God's word of Psalm 118, verse 24. I'd like first to meditate on that. As we have the first part of our worship this morning before we respond to God's word. Psalm 118, verse 24 tells us this is the day That the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad. Polo eight hundred and eighteen is the last of six Psalms, Psalm one hundred and thirteen to one hundred and eighteen, which the Jews called the halel from the word hallelujah. These were psalms that were sung in praise on the three great annual feasts, especially the Feast of Passover. These psalms will be sung in procession to the temple in order to make the sacrifice. And Psalm 118 is the last and climactic Psalm of these. And so let's read now together Psalm 118 in order to see the context of this verse. And as we take a look at that, then to understand what verse 24 means for us Follow along in your Bibles then, as I read Psalm 118. Let's consider God's own holy word spoken to us. Give thanks to the Lord, for He's good! His love endures forever. But Israel say, his love endures forever. But the house of Aaron say, his love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, His love endures forever. In my anguish I cried to the Lord, and he answered by setting me free. The Lord is with me. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? The Lord is with me. He is my helper. I will look in trouble for my enemies. It's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It's better. To take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of the Lord I cut them off. They surrounded me on every side, but in the name of the Lord I cut them off. They swarmed round me like bees, but they died out as quickly as burning thorns in the name of the Lord. I cut them off. I was pushed back and about to fall, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my slave to my soul. He has become my salvation. Shouts of victory, joy and victory resound in the tents of the righteous. Fallout, my land has done mighty things The Lord my head has lifted high, the Lord my head has done mighty things. I will not die, but live. And I will proclaim what the Lord has done. The Lord has chastened me severely, but He has not given me over to death. Open for me the gates of righteousness I will enter and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord through which the righteous may enter. I will give you thanks, for you answered. You have become my salvation. The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone. Well it is valuable. It's marvelous in our eyes. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Oh Lord, save us. Oh Lord, blend us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, and the house of the Lord we will bless him. Below is God, but he has made his light shine upon us with bows and hands, join in the festival procession up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give you thanks. You are my God, and I will exalt you. Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good And His love endures forever. Now I would like us to take a look at this Psalm, and particularly at verse 24, a verse that's very familiar to us. Sing it, say it, every Christian knows it. This is the day the Lord is made. Let's rejoice and be glad of it. Some have plaques on their walls. We're very familiar with this verse, but let's look now at what it means. And I do that by looking at it three ways. First of all, I want to look at how the Jews of the Old Testament sang this Psalm Secondly, I want to look at how Jesus sang it on the way in which he was betrayed. And then, thirdly, I want to look at how you and I are the same. First of all, then how did Israel sing it? Then they would begin in their procession going up to the temple. You notice verse 1 to 4 with four calls to worship. Three times it said there, His love endures forever. And we're called upon four times to make that statement. Now the statement there, His love endures forever, refers to God's covenant love. It's the love which binds him to his people. And so he's talking about a very particular kind of love here. He's talking about a love in which God has pledged his mercy and faithfulness to us. A love which has caused us to be owned by him for eternity as his children. This covenant love endures forever. It never changes. And then notice the king is leading this. Because it's the king who refers to his combat, you see, with the other nations. And it's the king who is the head of Israel going up. To the uh temple, and the priests are waiting there. So you get the picture. There's the king of the nation, and he is leading the people, and he is the spokesperson. Now for the people as he goes up to the temple. And so the king gives his personal testimony. And in verse five we see And yet these statements, His covenant love endures forever, are not might be made from someone who has never known suffering, who's never had to wrestle with apparent contradiction of God's love But remember she says in verse 5, In my anguish I call to the Lord. I've experienced deep anguish and suffering and pain And so I say to you that he answered me and he set me free. And then he goes on to describe this in verses 5 to 14. He talks about how he's learned that it's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in the Lord. men, or even princes, even those who are uh supposed to have reputations for loyalty and courage. And he says that God deliberately out of the most extreme circumstances And then, having said this, they come to verse 19. And now speaking on behalf of the people, he says, Open for me the gates of righteousness. Thou thou come into the very gates of the temple. I will enter and give thanks to the Lord. And then the priest respond. They speak back and they say, Well, this is the gate of the land through which the righteous may enter. Out of a warning, the king's coming in and saying, Now open the gate so we can come in. And the priest said , Wait, he just said, the gate of righteousness. Only the righteous can enter this gate. And when the king responds back again on behalf of the people, I will give you thanks, for you answered me. You, who, the Lord, have become my salvation. And so you see a very definite messianic poken reference here in these verses. The gates, of course, of righteousness are ultimately the gate who is Jesus. He is the gate of righteousness through which we enter into the presence of God. For the temple always symbolized the presence of God. And we enter into the presence of God through Jesus. And it's clear that the Psalm has that in mind because verse 22 is clearly a messianic verse. In fact, verse 22 and 23 are quoted and referred to. At least six times in the New Testament as having direct application to Jesus Christ. The stone that God has rejected has become the capstone. He's the one who's our salvation. The Lord has done this, and it's marvelous and opportunity. And then in the light of that he says, This is the day the Lord has made. Let's rejoice and be glad. What then? But now notice he's not talking about any old day. You know, that's um rainy days and Mondays, you know, and sort of a drag until you get up and you say, Well, you know, God made this day. I ought to rejoice and be glad in it, and it's not a day that happened along by chance somehow. God's in control and I'll give birth. That's not what he's saying. Old Testament King, God's regent, stood up and he said, This is the day the Lord made, what do he has reference to? He has reference to the Exodus. Because you see, this is a festival procession. You see that in verse 27. It's not just any day. This is the day of a festival process. procession coming up to the temple. And in the Passover, it's with reference. What's the Passover remind you of? Well the Exodus. That's why the Passover existed, to remind Israel that God delivered them. But in their anguish they cried to Then there was no hope of deliverance. And God set them free. God brought them out with a mighty hand. You see in verses 15 and 16. It was God who delivered them on that day. And so this day, this is the day. The day the Lord has made, the day he delivered us, the day he brought us out from Egypt. Let's rejoice and be glad in it. Let's commemorate it now. Let's remember it. Let's remember what God has done for us. And so they go on. But notice it's not fulfilled because verse 25 and 26 show us it's still a future vote. He gave the right hand then, after saying, let's commemorate God's victory, His day of salvation, to say, Oh Lord, save us. Lord, grant us success. Blessed is he who comes, still coming in the name of the Lord. In the house of the Lord be blessed. We're still looking for the Lord to become our salvation. For the Lord is gone and He's made his light to shine upon us with bows and hands. Going in the festival procession up to where we take the sacrifice and bind it to the hearts of the altar. So that Israel would come up into the courts of the temple, and as they'd be gathered around there, the priest would take the sacrifice. That the king had brought on behalf of the people. But he'd made that sacrifice on the altar. And then with one quick stroke of the blade, he would cut the throat of that victim. That sacrifice, that lamb, would lay upon the altar with the blood rushing out from its And that blood would be gathered around there into a basin and into a ditch around the altar. Blood poured out as a sacrifice on behalf of the people. And it was that hope that the king would then say, Lord, verse twenty eight, you are my God. You advance. You are my God and I will exalt you. Give thanks to the Lord for He's good, for His covenant love. Endures forever. The Lord is going to make a provision for us, and He is the one who is going to save us. Then we come, the celebration of this Passover, to a very special Passover in Jerusalem, where each family had come up to sing the great halal. And we're in an upper room, and there are thirteen. 13 men in this room, and then there are twelve men. And in this room, the men who are gathered about sing Psalm 113 and 114. And then the hosts, the leader of these men, sets them at a table, and he takes bread, and he breaks the bread, and he says, This bread is my body. Which is given for you. And then he takes the cup of the wine, the cup of thanksgiving used in the Passover. And he says, This cup Is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins? And after having done that, they stood and walked out. They sang Psalm 115 to 118. And as they approached the Garden of Gethsemane, they sang Psalm 118, which you and I had just sung. But now it's not the king of Israel who has been put on an earthly throne that's leading this procession. We have here now of the heavenly king. Jesus, who sings this song, leading his disciples. And if Jesus sings this song, can you imagine what it meant for Jesus to say these words? Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. And his love endures forever. He has just said to one of his disciples, You're going to betray me. You're going to turn me over into the hands of sinners, and you're going to be the cause of my being betrayed into the hands of the Romans to be crucified. Jesus faces certain death which he himself is determined to face. And he says, Give thanks to the Lord. He's good. In his covenant love, he does forever. Jesus goes on and sings, In my anguish I cry to the Lord. And he answered , setting me free. Imagine what it meant for Jesus to sing. Verse 10. All the nations surrounded me. 11. They surrounded me on every side. They swarmed around me like bees. I was pushed back and about to fall. But the Lord helped me. Jesus that night, as he goes into Get Summon, he sings the words. I will not die, but live. And I will remain what the Lord has done. The Lord has chased me severely, but He has not given me over to death. Jesus sings those words knowing that in fact you will die. And while not remaining dead, you will not die and remain dead but live. But I will not Deliver him from death. But his chastening would be unto death. Why? So that you and I could sing, open the gates of righteousness. Because Jesus now is coming to be the stone that the builders rejected. He's coming ultimately to be rejected by his people. And to be crucified as the one who's been rejected by all men. And what you could have sung, this is the Lord's doing, and it's marvelous in our eyes. But Jesus walks to the cross, saying, Father. I am the stone that's been rejected for my people, so that thou be able to send open to me the gates of righteousness, and Father. This is your doing, and it's marvelous in my eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be gladdening. And Jesus sings with his heart full of Of emotion in those time in that time as he comes toward itself. Ready to meet Satan face to face. Lord, this is the day that you have made. And remember, the Jewish day began at 6 p. m. and went on through the next day. So the day he's speaking of that evening is the day of his crucifixion Jesus name, this is the day that you have made, this day that commemorates the exodus. And how can Jesus sing that? Luke tells us in Luke chapter 9, verse 40 and 31, that then Jesus went up to the mountain and was transfigured. But at that time when God revealed Himself through Jesus Christ in a particularly majestic and splendorous way Jesus met with two men, Moses and Elijah. And he appeared in glorious splendor, and they talked with Jesus. And what did they speak about? What is it that Moses and Elijah spoke to Jesus about when he was transfigured on the mountain? Luke tells us they spoke about his departure, the Elive as. But the word in the Greek is not departure. The word is literally Exodus. They spoke about his exodus His Exodus. What Exodus? They spoke about his exodus, which he was about to bring to fulfillment at Jerusalem. So Jesus sings, this is the day the Lord is me. Let us rejoice and be glad. For this is the new Exodus, my Exodus, in which I lay down my life. Verse 27. Jesus will now be bound to the altar. Jesus is going to be the sacrifice for sin. And he says, this is the land that the Lord has made And I can rejoice and be glad in it. Why? Because, Father, this is the day you have appointed for me to do the work that you have given to me The work of saving my people. And in the fulfillment of that I please you and I accomplish all that you've given me. And so we see That the horns of the altar have become the arms of the cross. And Jesus is bound to those horns, bound to the arms of the cross And Jesus is stretched out. And Jesus becomes a sacrifice for sinners, for you, and for me. So he can say, You are my God, and I will give you thanks. You are thy God, and I will exalt you. Give thanks to the Lord for his good. And his love endures forever. And as though the very words died upon his lips, he walked into the garden of the Sunday. And he met Satan face to face. Now what does it mean for you and for me as we look at this song? What does it mean for us as we think about in the light of that how you and I are to save this person particularly? This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. What does that mean for us? The word rejoice there is a word which in the Hebrew means to turn and circle. And the word then came to mean to whirl about. And it came from that meaning to have the meaning to dance round and round in a circle with joy. And so is the picture that the evil would have had in mind as he read this verse, the picture that God wants us to get And this picture language, Hebrew, is that this is the day the Lord is made, that's wound round and round in dancing with joy in this day The word is used along with be glad, that other word, many, many times in the Old Testament, often associated with that word. But in Psalm 32. 11, it's associated with the third word. In Psalm 32. 11, we have rejoice and be glad in the Lord and Shout for joy because of what he has done. You see, they're all external, outward expressions, dancing round and round for joy, shouting for joy to the Lord. It's a word which expresses outward enthusiasm, a festival celebration. The word be glad is written there. Rejoice and be glad in the Lord. It's also a clear, vivid picture word. What that word means? I didn't know this until this week was a hard word to trace down. But the root of that word actually means to shine brightly as a light It's a word which refers to lights shining. To shine brightly as a light, and then figuratively, of people it meant to glow. Ever hear of somebody who's just glowing with the spirit? Glow with the spirit? But whether that person knows it or not, it is a biblical concept. This verse is saying, This is the day the Lord's made, let's roll round and down, with dancing and joy, and let's be a glow, let's shine. brightly, vividly, with joy and gladness to this thing. The word is used in Zechariah 10, 7 to say that we are to be glad in God's salvation as those who drink Long in a party. Yeah. That's Zechariah 10. 7. You're going to write that one down and look it up, I know. Zechariah 10. 7 says that we as God's people are to be so glad at his salvation. He says your gladness has to be as bigly. That's the kind of enthusiasm that we're to have here because of the Lord's goodness. Anna uses this word after the birth of Samuel, and she says, God has made me glad. He's given me a light. I've seen this work in my life. You see, Christians should be those that have the most fun at parties. How sad to think that when you think of Christians, you think of those that you know everything else sort of wander around with their hands and their pockets not knowing how to have. A good time. We as Christians should be able to show the world how to have a good time. We as Christians should be those who lead the way in zeal and joy, in an outward demonstration of being glad and exalted. This is the day, the day of salvation that He has made. Let us dance around in joy. Let us be aglow with the spirit of the joy that He's given to us, because we can enter the gates of righteousness. You and I can enter those gates and we can say, Lord, forbid me to come into your presence, because Jesus was buried to the altar. And because of that, I have direct access into your presence. Because of that, I am forgiven. You will never count me guilty again. You have washed away my sin. You have seen it all, and Jesus has paid for it all. And I washed clean. Oh, if you've ever heard, as I hear from time to time, people who go through the religious exercises, hoping that by going to church and by singing and by performing certain religious duties, by singing certain things, that they're going to have some sort of a closer feeling with God. And then know that Jesus has brought us Into God's presence. But where the people who have direct access to Him were forgiven. We've been washed clean by the blood of the Lamb. How that should give your heart and my heart a likeness and a joy to be able to sing and to shout. For God's mercy. When you see that not only have we been forgiven, but his Holy Spirit is at work in us, changing us and healing us and making us look more and more like Jesus Christ. That he's teaching us, that the Lord is with me. Verse seven, He's my helper. I will look in twelve for my enemies. Those sins which drive me down , those habits which seem to consume me. Those things that I say, Lord, I think I'll never be rid of this. And then Lord says, He's blessedly. He's my helper. I can look in triumph on my enemies. It's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in men. To trust in anything on earth. And the Holy Spirit's changing. And He's changing to learn more about that. He's teaching us. When he says in verse 13 that I was pushed back and about to fall, but the Lord helped me. He puts us in circumstances where we're pushed back and we're about to fall. And you say, What joy is there in the Christian life? And it's all consistent. Because what he's doing in verse 14, he's showing us the Lord is my strength. He's drawing me to himself. Peace my strength and my soul. Peace become my salvation. Shouts of joy and victory resound, because the Lord's done mighty things. Because he put me in extreme circumstances, because there were things in my life that I realized I couldn't cope with. I couldn't deal with it. God put me at the end of myself. And I had to turn to it. His Holy Spirit's making me new. And so I can see this. This is the day the Lord has made. This is the day of salvation that He's given to me every day for the Christian is a commemoration of the exodus of Jesus Christ. You and I can come and we can say, This is the day that I And Jesus is taking me along with him. And his Holy Spirit's changing me and He's teaching me. to experience the truth of this song. Now, you know, you hear that and you're listening to it, but do you catch the drift? Do you understand the momentous truths that God has for us here? If you're sure of your relationship with Jesus Christ, you have this kind of joy. It's in you. The Holy Spirit is the spirit of joy in you. It's one of his roots. We experience that. But let me first warn you that you can only have that joy if you are in a relationship with Jesus Christ this morning. That can only be yours if you're united to Jesus Christ by faith. Only then can you enter into those gates of righteousness. I was talking with a fellow just this week who talked about how he realized that Jesus had died on the cross and he needed that. But he was also mixing into that the things that he needed to do to please God. And so he found that in his life. In fact, there was never the assurance of really being right with God because it was always a little bit of what He did, a little bit of what Jesus did, all sort of mixed in together. If you have that kind of a view this morning of salvation, you'll never have the joy and the rejoicing of verse. 24. You can only have that when you realize there is nothing that you can do to make you right with God. But the only thing you can do is to cast yourself upon Jesus for the work that He has already finished you. When he went to the cross, you know, you know, he went to the Father so that you and I could be saved through this one, nothing of what we do. And when you enter into that and fully, deeply realize that, Lord, there are so many things that need to change in my life. But That doesn't matter in the joy that I can have in your salvation. Because you have made me right with my God, and I stand before Him completely your righteousness. Perhaps you say this morning, yeah. You don't know the problems that I have. If you had my problems, how would you feel about rejoicing and speaking so liberally of that? And let me remind you again , this psalm was written by a king who wrote in verse 5, that in my anguish I cried to the Lord. This kind of joy and gladness is not foreign to suffering. It's not a joy and a gladness that doesn't know problems, who is problem free. Let me remind you that Jesus Christ sang this verse On the way to the cross. Are you going to tell me your problem is bigger than facing crucifixion? Bigger than facing the jaws of hell opening beyond you and facing Satan himself in dread combat? Be going to tell me that you know the problems that Jesus Christ never faced when he sang this song. But those problems are consistent in this verse. Because those are the problems that the Lord uses in order to show. That he can do mighty things, verse 15 and 16, to show that it's better to trust him than to trust ourselves, to trust man, to trust princes, to trust anyone. on this earth, but that uses those problems in order to deepen our joy Can you set aside your struggles this morning with all those things that you're fretting over? Say, Lord, I want to enter into the experience of this soul, and I want to know this kind of joy and gladness. But you know, Jesus knew that joy because he was obedient to what the Father had. He didn't shrink back from the cross and said, No, no, I just can't stand pain. I just don't want to face that. Lord, if there's any other way, uh then give it to me, but Lord, anything but that. Remember, he prayed, Lord, if that's the only way, your will be done. And in doing that, he was affirming, Lord, this is the day that you have made. And you've appointed everything that you have for me in this day by your own loving hand. And therefore, because this is the day that you have made, whatever problems you have for me in this day are problems to accomplish your purpose. Problems to learn to lean upon you and to experience your salvation. And when you go into that kind of obedience, setting aside your struggles for glory, there is more power. And I state this on scriptural grounds and on experience of myself and those whose lives I've been touched by. Again and again, there is no problem that can take away that joy and that rejoicing and that gladness But you say, but I'm so worried about tomorrow. Boy, these things that are coming up, man , I I wish I could put them aside, but they just keep eating at me. I keep thinking about what could happen with these things that are facing Notice what the psalmist says. This is the day for mortgage. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Learn to live, brothers and sisters in Christ, one day at a time. Learn to live drawing upon God's grace for this day. Matthew 6, remember In verses 25 to 34, Jesus gives us a whole section there of advice concerning worry about tomorrow. He finishes it up by saying, Seek first his kingdom And his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well, all that you need. And therefore, do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Suppose Alicia Corner speed at Delture College. had always lived thinking about what things would be like in the future, concerning herself with what was coming up in the fall, not being able to rejoice and be glad in the day that the Lord had given her that day Because of what was coming. Alicia Carter, who loved Jesus Christ, was murdered by someone. Just a little over a week ago. She's in the presence of the Lord now. The testimony I hear from her friends is that Alicia was a girl who knew how to enjoy the day or the name. She knew how to live for the days of God 's giving, one day at a time. You don't know what this week is going to bring. You don't know what next month is going to bring. It could be things that would be blessings that you couldn't imagine at this point. It could bring difficulties through which the Lord would bring blessing that if you knew now would cause you to tremble and shout, and need to about my own. But the Lord doesn't give us grace for next month because we don't need it. He gives you grace for today. To rejoice and be glad in today. For this is the day that the Lord has made for you. Rejoice and be glad in it. Maybe you say, but my relationship with the Lord is stare. And I can't rejoice and be glad today because I'm going to feel close to the Lord today. Again, I remind you from this verse. This is the day that the Lord has made. Rejoice and be glad in it. You have a relationship with Jesus Christ, and a relationship must be renewed day by day. You can't live on your relationship with Jesus Christ a month or a year ago. You can't live on the blessings of some conference that you went to. Six months ago, barely you must be renewing in the relationship with Jesus Christ through his word with repair This past week I took my Annual Day of Fair, in which I go out to think about the fall and begin to get some understanding of where God wants to take me in my ministry in the year to come. To pray about that. And I've had some rich times the last couple years doing that. And I found myself this year trying to recapture the experience of last year. Well the Lord had to remind me and bring me up short, Alan. You're looking to reproduce an emotion, an experience of last year or the year before. I'm not back there with you. I am here with you today. Meet me today. This is today the Lord is me. Meet him and rejoice and be glad and give today. And I will just put you remember that he gave you last week, today. And then finally you may say, well, well still, this Christianity is serious business. I mean there's so many things I need to change in my life. There's so many things that I need to do. And you know, you just can't be frivolous about the Christian life. Well, no, I'm certainly not arguing with verbolity. But I am saying But I think there are times that we take ourselves too seriously. Times when you and I look at what needs to change more than what the North has changed. We look at what might happen more than what has happened. Marie Ruby once wrote that humor is the medicine prescribed by a good creator to keep us from taking ourselves too seriously. And I think sometimes that we as people We need to look at God's word and see what God has done so that we can whirl around with joy and we can shine and glow for the goodness of what God has given to us. And take ourselves a little less seriously. lighthearted people to rejoice in God's goodness. Let's pray. Lord our God , we come to you this morning, we come to you to sing hallelujah. We come and Lord, we'll be singing this in a moment. We want to come and sing this with joy. We want to come and we want to remember that Jesus Christ came and he himself sang this. On the very night he was. that he was betrayed, came and gave his life for us. So that we, as your people, would not be so laid down that all that we need to change and we need to do and all the things that Satan wants to drag us down. To rob us from our joy, to make us a burden and heavy people. Father, Father, we come to you this morning to remember that your covenant love endures forever. It'll never change towards us. Because Jesus Jesus has brought us into your presence as your own children. We're in his own righteousness. And so we come this morning to rejoice and to be glad in that. Teach us, Lord, to be a light-hearted people. Teach us this week when we begin to complain. Fain and get heavy, to look, Lord, at your goodness and to remind ourselves of that, and then to rejoice and to enjoy and encourage one another to rejoice. To be a people who are known by our life. For that honorship, Lord, that honorship who has saved us, that we might rejoice through Jesus Christ. Amen.