Today I want to begin a three-week mini-series on covenantal parenting in honor of Mother's Day and Father's Day. I am speaking in between each Not on e either one, but uh that's the occasion. Let me tell you why I am doing this Mother's Day and Father's Day are not a biblical holiday, in case you were wondering. And so I don't feel any necessity to preach on Mother's Day or Father's Day each year. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. Last year I did not. And uh right after the message to the service last year, uh one mom came up to me, took my hand, uh, shook it warmly, looked me in the eye, and said Thank you so much for not speaking about Mother's Day. So many of us feel guilt about doing so poorly. Thank you for not making it harder. Well, little did that person know, but at that moment I thought, next year I'm speaking on Mother's Day and Father's Day Because anything that is that important an area in our lives that produces such a sense of inadequacy or confusion or guilt, we need to hear God address We tend in our generation, now older generations, preachers preach to make people feel guilty. You sort of went on Sunday to get that good catharsis of feeling guilty about all the rotten stuff you had done, and then you'd you know, you sort of Get that purged and go out, and that's all changed today. Today guilt is kind of anathema, and we want to do everything to avoid that. And guilt is certainly something that the gospel speaks to so that we are not drowning in our guilt. But nevertheless, there are things that we need to address from God's word to help us to see either the things that we are doing that is not following him or the things that he simply wants to address in our lives. Mother's Day and Father's Day produces guilt not only because of our own inadequacy as parents, but also because of the tension that we feel for many of us in our relationship with our own parents, unresolved, difficult, strained relationships. Not speaking on that ladder this year. Probably will sometime in the future. But this morning or in these next three weeks, I would like to bring the gospel and God's Word to bear on this question of how we can do a better job of passing on the faith. to the next generation. Now I realize that many of you are not parents, and I realize that some of you who are not wish you could be parents. Either you're married and wish you could be parents, or you are single and wish that you could be married and a parent I realize that I am not speaking to everybody's situation specifically on how to do a better job of parenting. But I think there are some general principles in Psalm 78 that we'll be looking at in these three weeks about passing on the faith to the next generation. of God's ways and his works in our own lives that will be applicable to all of us. And just the principles that God gives to us here are worth examining for each of us. The passage that I want to therefore use in this is the one I've looked at since last year. I've been meditating on this some. It's Psalm 78, a long psalm of 72 verses. I will not read it now. I urge you to read it at home, go through the meditation this week. and read it. Derek Kidner says that if you summed up this psalm, you could call it From Zone to Zion. Zone is the region of Egypt, verse twelve. Zion, of course, God's place of his dwelling, where he manifests his presence in Jerusalem, in verse 68. So it's the picture of God redeeming his people out of Zone, out of Egypt, bringing them through the wilderness and to Zion, where he established them as his people in peace. It's a record of his faithfulness and of the people's repeated unfaithfulness, their unbelief, their rebellion, their disobedience. And one of the chief reasons for the apostasy of the people of God through this time Is their failure to pass on the faith to the next generation? The failure of the people, the parents, to do what God had said in Deuteronomy 6 to bring that faith to bear in every area of life and pass it on to their kids. You see in Judges chapter 2, after the great victories that are recorded in Joshua You read in Judges chapter 2 in verse 10, that after that whole generation had been gathered to their fathers, people who had known God and what he had done and seen his great works. Another generation grew up. This first generation is like the first generation Christians. These people had come to a knowledge of God. out of slavery, out of their own bondage, out of the wilderness, seeing God bring victory in vanquishing the Canaanites and establishing the land for them. They knew firsthand of his deliverance But then there was another generation that grew up who knew neither the Lord nor what he had done for Israel They did not pass it on to them. And then as a result, the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord and served the Baals. They forsook the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of Egypt. They followed and worshipped various gods of the peoples around them. They provoked the Lord to anger because they forsook him and they served Baal and the Ashtaroth. One brief generation. That's all it took. And you have that sync cycle of the dark ages of judges, a spiritual wasteland. of God's judgment upon the kids who had gone so quickly into rebellion, disobedience, and utterly forgetting the God of their parents. It was a wild generation, a restless generation. A generation perhaps not altogether unlike ours, the generation that uh we uh could c characterize as the generation of Beavis and Butthead, right? uh those uh two amoral characters who have no values except the satisfying of their own hormones. Uh maybe this is a kind of a characteristic of all that we fear as parents. Imagine my kid turning out like With this as his hero, you know, man, I gotta can't miss Beat as a butthead, you know. Sort of remind me, I've been reading uh about World War One recently. It was a German propagandist during that time who is described, they said he had no convictions, only appetites. And that's so true of a lot of today. There's no convictions. The the kids are being bombarded. by postmodernist thinking that there are no absolutes, there are no values that are permanent. And so I'm not saying for a moment there aren't great kids in our generation, not even only Christian kids. There's a lot of great kids, but they are not because of the political correct philosophy that is being thrust upon them in all the schools and media and everything else, but rather in spite of that And you and I are fighting an uphill battle when God says to pass on the faith to the next generation The thing I want to focus on this morning, the first of the three messages, is on the determination to pass on that faith. Let's read just the first eight verses of Psalm 78. First eight verses. This is the statement about the application of the lesson that is then given in the rest of the psalm. Psalm 78, 1-8. This is God's word to us. O my people, hear my teaching. Listen to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter hidden things, things from of old, what we have heard and known, what our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children. We will tell the next generation the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and the wonders he has done. He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children, so the next generation would know them Even the children yet to be born. And they in turn would tell their children. And then they would put their trust in God. And would not forget his deeds, but would keep his commands. They would not be like their forefathers. A stubborn and rebellious generation whose hearts were not loyal to God and whose spirits were not faithful to him. I want to particularly focus on verse four. We will not hide them. That is, these Truths, these dark, these hidden things, the truths of the covenant, things from of old, we will not hide them from their children. That's our father's children, so our children also. We will not hide them from our children. We will tell the next generation. Brothers and sisters, I submit to you that is not a determination for the weak willed in our day. Let me remind you, every time we baptize a child up here. The first part of the second vow that every one of us as parents who have had our children baptized take is, do you promise to pray with and for your child? To instruct him in the truths of the Christian faith, acquainting him with his need of a savior, and teaching him the plan of salvation and the principles of the Christian life. We will not hide them from our children. We will tell the next generation. How many of us? How many of you Who have taken that vow are satisfied with how you've carried it out. Talk about guilt. Well, maybe we feel guilt, but the point is not to feel the guilt So that we're immobilized by it. The point is to recognize that guilt, when it's true guilt, means that we've sinned And when we've sinned, there's hope. If I do something that I feel trapped in and it makes me feel lousy and it's not sin , then I may be trapped. That's just kind of the way I am. That's my limitation or whatever it is. But when I recognize that it's sin, I recognize God has given a way out of that. He's given repentance. And he has promised to give me the power to overcome sin. So there's good news in recognizing if there's something that I believe I've done wrong and I can identify it, not a free-floating guilt, but a specific sense of what God wants me to change. Let me therefore call our attention to three things with regard to this. First of all, is the problem of time. That's the biggie, right? The problem of time. We feel like we have no time. We come home exhausted from work. Or if we're at home with the kids, there are so many distractions, so many intentions that go unfulfilled. I want to spend time with my kids telling them of God and of his ways. Spending time with them, simply imparting biblical values, building the bonds and the relationship that are necessary to do that. Denny Williams uh who used to be part of our congregation wrote a postcard recently in which he said he had heard a speaker that said, it takes time with someone to transmit faith and values. He said I thought about that a lot. It takes time with someone to transmit faith and values. And that's the one commodity so many of us feel like we are so short of. We sometimes feel like other people have more hours in the day or more days in the week. They must because they're able to get more done than we do. I went to a conference, Steve and I and uh Larry Clifford to a conference uh last week where we heard about a guy who slept from eleven PM to 2 a. m. And then he was up moving into his next day's work. If he slept till 3 a. m. he thought he would have been a sloth and overslept, you know And here's a guy who, you know, charges ahead and we think, boy, you know, I'm just not like that. I don't have the time. And I I you know, even after eight hours it seems like I'm dragging and I just lacking and so w we come home and we're tired and it's kinda well I you know I know I should spend time with the kids but not tonight and I know we should be having family devotions but And you know, maybe tomorrow we'll do it. I'm I'm tired tonight. I I just gotta unwind. I've gotta be besides you got homework you gotta get to and and you've something to carpool you to, you know, some sports event and there's all the practices to get to and You know, they I gotta work overtime, I gotta do some stuff, they're downsizing, I gotta put in extra hours, or there's chores, you know, there's holes in the wall, the garage door doesn't work, you know, I mean all kinds of stuff that has to be done And the days turn into weeks, and the weeks turn into months, and the months turn into years I read a little short story from a woman, a mom, Elizabeth Worley. She talks about one day she came home And she had all these things on her mind, all these chores, all these things that had to be done around the house. And the kids, her two little boys, wanted to go catch tadpoles. It's about this time of year. And uh she had talked about doing that sometime with him. They said, Mom, come on, let's do it now. She said I vainly sought for any excuse, any reason, all the things I had to do. But I told him I'd do it, so I thought, all right, let's get this over with. So she changes, she says, as I was changing into my jeans, I caught sight of myself in the mirror Tiny, not quite invisible creases on my brow and finely etched laugh lines reminded me of the passing of time. And then I hear the excited chatter of my boys below as they weigh the merits of plastic over glass containers. Was there ever a time, I wonder When the weightiest thing on my mind was squiggly swimming things that grew legs and hopped away. So she goes down with them and says, I perversely hope there wouldn't be any tadpoles there as we get this thing over with and get back home all the stuff I had to do. Finally she settles down and watches the kids try and of course they slosh up all the water and making all the mud and they can't catch any and so they say Mom come on show us how And she says I re- I snap back, I don't want to. I can see their faces fall in disappointment. And I'm suddenly ashamed. While they are young and full of wonder is a precious time, I remind myself, and I'm denying them and myself its richness. All right, all right. Let me get my shoes off, I'm coming. So she goes into the pond, stands still, and they watch and she waits until the tadpoles come around her feet and then she catches one in the jar and her oldest son says Wow he's a really big one mom she feels a little pride at her prowess in catching the tadpole And then she teaches them how to do it and they catch five and put them in a little dish on the bank and watch them swimming around and observe them and All of a sudden, the youngest says, Let's play tag. You it, mom. She goes, hey, I've already blown the evening catching tag poles, why not? And so off they run through the meadow and the brook and the pond there and Play tag for a while and finally crumble into a laughing heap on the bank. And she realizes I've just recovered something that I thought I'd almost lost A sense of the wonder of spending time with my kids in something that could not be recovered if we let it pass. And she's so glad that even by the time they get home and all the things were still undone, the time was worth it. How many of those memories that you have you recall were times that were caught when you didn't think you could take the time, a serendipitous moment. Remember one time when we were at Cape Cod and just driving along the road. In fact, this just came to my mind at this moment and had intended to say it, but just we were driving along the road and it was a particularly low tide. And uh the tide was way out. We had other plans. Um, but on the spur of the moment, uh, Dean and I said to Kathy, take the car home, we're just gonna head out in the flats Then we went out and explored things and found things that you hardly ever see when the tide's not so unusually far out, so low And have just a glorious time, an hour, hour and a half, unplanned. Those times that you seize, the times when you stop, when you do something, because you say, you are important to me. You're more important than the things I need to get done. I was thinking this week and looking back over the times with my own kids and thinking, I wish there were more, more things in my journal, more times. that I would have seized with them. We used to have a time with Heather we called seven thirty sillies. It was in the dinner t after the blood sugars had been recharged and can remember dancing wildly to Carmen on the stereo with her 7 30 cillies before bedtime or the time that Julie and I went for a walk and she tried so hard to train this bug to sit up and beg. Were the times with Dean and we would go out on the sand and we wouldn't just build sand castles, we build sand cities And then we would laugh and watch them destroyed as in the flood of Noah when the tide came up and took everything away. I remember when I was a kid there was a poem. It was in a magazine. I read this to my mom, even as a kid, sensing that there was something to it of worth. I still have it. It's very short Let me read it to you. I still remember my mom's response as the tears came in her eyes when I read her this, thinking about how short our lives as kids are. A boy, a dog, a summer's day. A fishing rod and an old pathway that leads to a stream where cool waters gleam. And one can fish all the day, and school and books are far away. A boy A dog. Down the old pathway, barefooted, tired, homeward come. How many fish did you catch today? Just one. But oh, 'twas fun. A barefooted boy falls fast asleep. The dog curls up his watch to keep. A boy, a dog, a summer day. How quickly they pass away. This week I've been thinking about my own life Thinking about time, we will tell our children it takes time with someone to pass on faith in a vision Time with parents cultivating the relationship that the kids need to see This week I was rather forcefully reminded of my own failures, my misplaced priorities. I hadn't realized, hadn't planned what I was thinking about this message, uh, to think how much God would speak to me. To see that in subtle ways I had let CPC and duties and schedule become my God, my preoccupation. So that what I have found and came to realize this week is that when all my emotional energy given to ministry, it was Very little, if anything, left of emotional energy for my family when I got home And that has had its toll. There's been a cost to that. And as I thought about that, I thought, well, what can I change? You know? I feel trapped in my schedule? You feel trapped in the duties, the pressures that are on you? I'll tell you, I came to something this week where I thought, I don't care what it costs. You know, if I have to find another job, whatever it is, I can't continue With a kind of schedule that I've been continuing on, where there's nothing left of me for my family. I shared this with the elders. Just happened providentially. We had a half-day retreat yesterday Of course I found them very supportive, very encouraging. We're working on things to change, working on things that we can do differently, and I'm not sure where all of that is going. I'm ashamed that it had to come to that, but I'm determined it won't continue. What about in your life? Somebody wisely observed, I never heard a man say on his deathbed, I wish I had spent more time at the office Think about that. It's a question of priorities. That's the next blank. A question of priorities. Maybe you feel trapped. Maybe you feel guilty. Whatever it is. It just begins by you and me saying to ourselves, what is important in my life? What help can I get from my spouse for us to wrestle with this thing together? What can we do to live out our professed priorities? And to do that before it's too late. Before our kids are gone. And we read verse 4: I will not hide them from our children. I will tell the next generation so that they in turn will tell their children. We say, oh, I wish I had spent more time with my spouse, cultivating our relationship, and out of that context, telling our kids. Of the Lord and of his ways. How to live the Christian life. Takes time together to do that. It takes time imparting those values. I can recall that time when Heather and I were shopping at Christmas. She had just a little bit of money. She had Christmas money to spend for gifts. We were in Kmart and I remember there was this there was this Barbie doll that was just, oh man, that she saw that thing and that was just what she wanted. And she had enough money for it. But if she got that, there wouldn't be much of anything left to buy presents for the family and for friends. So she, of course, chose the Barbie doll. We were going up to the cash register and standing in line there and and I said I mean you know I d you know me I I never like to lay guilt on people. I just just raised a question. I said Now you're sure that's what you want to do with the money. She thought about it. You could just see, you know, all this going on inside Finally, she took it back. She came back in line with her money for presents for others. And I still remember her saying, Dad. Stores really make you want stuff, don't they? You know, you you can't conjure up that lesson in abstraction. The lesson of sacrifice, of thinking for others , takes time together to impart faith in a vision. What's God saying to you? I know he's speaking to me. Things I need to change. Maybe you say it's not just time. The second problem is the problem of skill. The problem of skill where you feel like verse 2 says, I'll open my mouth in parables, I'll utter hidden things from of old, what we've heard and known, what our fathers told us. You say, My father didn't tell me any of this. I don't have a heritage of my father's telling me something that I can pass on. We've just come to Christ ourselves with no Christian background. I need a model. That's the next blank. The need for a model. You know, in the Discoverers class, most of you have been through that, particularly in recent years, will know there's a question I ask. Well, what's the biggest spiritual influence in your life to this point? And occasionally, not very often, but occasionally, somebody will say , My dad, or my mom, or my parents. And that is a rich, rich blessing. But if you are one of those like myself and my wife, Kathy, who do not have that as your heritage Don't cop out and say, I don't know how to do family devotions. I don't know how to disciple my kids. I don't know how to do this stuff You're within a Christian community. Tell us if you're saying, I need help in this. We do provide help from time to time. We'll do that. We'll do it in one way or another. You can do it within your cell, within your small group community, where you can share these things, or we'll do stuff on this together. You can use the meditation that I provide for the sermon and just go over the message at least with your kids. Use those questions. Read scripture. Ask simple questions of fact, meaning, application. Take turns doing that. Talk about the day and what's happening in your life, what happened in school. See how to apply God's word as it speaks to disappointments, to frustration, to broken relationships, to anger. Take God's word and apply it in daily situations. You may not have a model. Maybe your father didn't pass that on to you, but there's still the determination of verse 4. We will tell. The next generation. We're going to break that cycle. We're going to start a new cycle of being God's Word and how to apply it. We'll do it by His power, because His power comes to those who are in weakness. Finally, the third thing is the problem of guilt. Maybe you're one of those that feels hypocritical talking to your kids about how to live the Christian life. Because you feel like I'm not a model for them. My own life is so inconsistent. Let me share with you a secret. Something that many people miss. This is so obvious, and yet I'm amazed at how often we as parents miss this. One of the greatest models that we give to our kids. Is the model of repentance. Modeling repentance for them as failures. Psalm 78 is about failures. The whole psalm is about generations of failures. And when you and I can come to our kids and say, Dad, mom, messed up in that. I'm ashamed of what I did. We're going to come to God now, and I want to ask his forgiveness, and I want to ask your forgiveness if I wronged you in this That is modeling, that is passing on to the next generation, the ways of God, the ways of his forgiveness, and the gospel at work in daily living. Model repentance for your kids. Model the faith that's saying, God, in my inadequacy, in my insufficiency, we're just asking you as a family, we want to grow together. I'm not pretending mom and dad have it all together and you kids, you know, just follow us. We together are seeking to grow to serve the Lord Jesus and love him. You look at the people in this Psalm, verse 10, they didn't keep God's covenant. They refused to live by his law Verse seventeen, they continued to sin against him, rebelling in the desert against the Most High. They willfully put God to the test by demanding the food that they craved Verse 22. They did not believe in God or trust in his deliverance. Verse 56 They put God to the test and they rebelled against the Most High. They did not keep his statutes. Like their fathers, they were disloyal and faithless, as unreliable as a faulty bow. It simply highlighted their need for grace. That's the last point. The need for grace. You look through this psalm, and two times you see the word yet. Twice you see the word but. Verse 22. They did not believe in God or trust in his deliverance, yet he gave a command to the skies above and opened to heavens and provided manna for them. Even in their sinful motives, God met them and provided for them. Verse 37. Their hearts were not loyal to them. They were not faithful to his covenant. Verse 38. Yet he was merciful. He forgave their iniquities and did not destroy them. Time after time he restrained his anger and did not stir up his full wrath. He remembered that they were but flesh, a passing breeze. that does not return mercy and forgiveness. Verse fifty-one describes Egypt in their sin. He struck down all the firstborn of Egypt, the first fruits of manhood in the tents of Ham. Verse 52. But he brought his people out like a flock. He led his sheep through the desert. His mercy was on his people to provide for them, to bring them out. through the Passover Lamb, pointing to Jesus, whose sacrifice on the cross is sufficient for you and for me and all our inadequacies and our failures and our shame Through him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of God's grace which he lavished. On us with all wisdom and understanding. Verse sixty two. Amen indeed He gave his people over to the sword. He was very angry with his inheritance. Fire consumed their young men, and their maidens had no wedding songs. Their priests were put to the sword, their widows Their widows could not weep. Then the Lord woke as from a sleep, as a man who wakes from the stupor of wine. He beat back his enemies. He put them to everlasting shame. Verse 60 uh verse 67. He rejected the tents of Joseph. He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, strong, mighty, powerful, numerous Ephraim. But Verse 68, he chose the little scrawny tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loved. Feel inadequate this morning? God is a God who shows us strength to parents, to people in general who feel inadequate. But it means that we mean business and wanting to follow him. But our priorities in setting new patterns Breaking the patterns of the former generations, and in cleaving to Jesus for his mercy as sufficient in all of our failure. Let's pray. Lord, as we search our hearts this morning, we ask that you would grant to us the courage to look honestly at our priorities. To look at those excuses that we make, saying I've never had training or a model or pattern. I'm doomed to simply perpetuate the dysfunctional patterns of what I grew up in and to forget That even to stubborn and failing Israel, when they turned to you in their weakness and sought you, you were merciful. You remember that they were but flesh, a passing breeze that does not return, nor does what we're like. The days of the childhood of our children are so brief. Lord, help us to determine. We will tell the next generation. We will make the changes necessary by your grace. We will cleave to you, and we will know your forgiveness for failures even like us, even like me, and all the mistakes, the misplaced priorities The slavishness to my schedule that has kept me from giving myself fully to my family. Forgive me Forgive each of us who have failed in that. And give us grace to change. For you meet us in our weakness. In Jesus' name. Amen.