Last time I preached was on spiritual warfare. You remember the text was from Ephesians chapter six, verses ten and eleven. Finally be strong in the Lord And in his mighty power, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Now the problem with that text is that the only person who will pay attention to it and read it and heed it is the person who feels weak. Because if you feel self-sufficient, then it's hard to connect with that. It's kind of like Saying that you're going over to Jeffers Hill Elementary School and I offer to you a bulletproof best Now my kids went to Jeffers Hill Elementary and um any of the times I was there I didn't particularly feel a need for a bulletproof test. That'd have gotten worse since I was there, but I don't think it's gotten that bad. So you'd say, well that's very nice, thank you. But I think I can manage on my own. Well, um last week Peter Lee spoke about overwhelming pain in our lives uh pain that we all experience. And you remember he quoted from Wesley, not John or Charles, but Wesley in Princess Bride. Now um you need to know that um I've only ever bought two videos in my life. That's one of them. So when he starts messing around with quoting from Princess Bride, you know, my wife and I are back there doing lip syncs with it. And uh the one thing he left out, when he quoted Wesley Life is pain, anyone that tells you difference trying to sell you something. Is you need to understand this is a bedtime story for kids, you see. So that's the whole thing is full of this adult kid kind of back and forth. But the fact is that when Peter said that and then illustrated how in his own life, remember, he talked about taking a shower, the tears streaming down, and him saying, God, take away the pain. I was moved by that, and I think all of us can identify with times where we have felt overwhelmed with pain, weakness So what I want to do this morning is I want to revisit a text that I had preached some time ago. And I would like to make a connection between pain, weakness, and God's power And I believe that's especially relevant to us for us as we enter into a new year. Now, whatever the calendar says, this is really the beginning of the year, right? You know, I mean I mean what's January? January you're just you know exhausted from Christmas. This is now you come off of summer, back to school, back to new projects, whatever else is going on. Practically everybody's schedule just changes And you think newness, there's these expectations, these hopes, these aspirations for what's coming up in this new year. And I think that it is a hope to show that it is especially helpful to look at a text like this as we consider the promises of the fall and our hopes. The text of 2 Corinthians 12, verses 7 to 10 is what Tim read, so I don't need to read it again, but I want to make four points from it that you see in your bulletin outline. Those four points are the problems that you have here, Paul's prayer, the principle stated, spiritual principle, and then the principle restated and applied. So, remember the context of this passage. Paul is here defending himself. Against the super -spiritual leaders who said that Paul was a lightweight. Paul really didn't have very much to offer. They were the builders of megachurches with exciting ministries And Paul was somebody who really didn't understand spiritual power. And Paul talks about what he has experienced, what he has suffered, what he has suffered physically, what he has suffered emotionally, stonings and shipwrecks and fear of failure, that all his work was in vain, and on and on and on he goes And then he says, now because you guys have pushed me, I'm reluctantly going to tell you something that I've rarely ever talked about. It appears nowhere else in any of his writings. He says, I want you to know. God took me to heaven, and I saw visions that no person before or since has ever seen. Now Paul must have been irrevocably changed by that experience, don't you think? I mean, how could you visit heaven, see something of the glory of God, and come back And both the unchanged, but not only. I mean, can you imagine with Paul when you hear people talking about heaven and God and he would think I've been there. That's so stupid. It's not like that. You know, and he'd be you know and and how could you feel like you're like other people? I mean, God chose me to go to heaven. That's pretty unique. And so it'd be pretty hard to not feel a tad superior. Now that's the context of what he says in verse 7. So when you come back to verse 7, Paul says, so to keep me from becoming conceited, because of these surpassingly great revelations There was given me a thorn in the flesh, in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. So the first thing is the problem, which is pride. Notice that that thorn or that affliction is both from God and from Satan. Mystery that we cannot fully understand and I'm not planning to unpack it this morning, but I want to just to notice is like Peter talked about with Abraham being called by God to offer Isaac, Satan would use it as a temptation To disobey, God uses it as a test to reveal his heart. Jesus in Gethsemane, God brings him to that point as a test of his heart. Satan wants to use it, so he'll divert his course So you have this the same theme, tests are trials, trials are tests, and that's true in your life, it's true in my life. A lot of Christians spend energy trying to figure out, well, is this from God? Is this from Satan? And they'd say, yeah, you know, whatever you're going through, I mean, it's a difficulty Then both God and Satan are involved in it. It was a messenger of Satan, but God used it to prevent pride Now Paul's response is exactly what ours would be. He prays about it. He prays, Lord, take this away. Now, what is it that he's praying to have removed? He calls it a thorn an affliction. I think he leaves it vague like that so that we can all identify with it Uh a number of scholars have uh speculated on what they think it is. I tend to believe that the most likely thing is uh a matter of his eyesight He was very weak in his eyesight, whether that developed after this visit to heaven. Not a re reference to it before, but he does refer to it a few times in his letters It certainly was an affliction. It certainly made ministry difficult, made life difficult for him. Great restrictions, limitations, had to have other people write his letters out for him. Um and so Paul prays, Lord, take this away. Lord, remove it. And uh despite the fact that He had gone through a number of these experiences without any miraculous delivery. That's significant. Is he the super leaders, super spiritual people are saying, We see, you know, we see God working miracles all the time and here's this Paul, you know, he's pretty weak and what's he had to offer And Paul's saying, you know, yeah, I've gone through a lot of things and suffered a lot of things and haven't had some miraculous deliverance, but you know I'm sure that whatever it was like before heaven, after heaven, there was a new confidence and faith that Paul had. So he must have prayed this with a sense of closeness to the Lord. Lord, I prayed, take this away. Glorify yourself. May they see, like when I Took the serpent that bit me and shook it off, and you were glorified by the fact that I didn't die. Lord, take this away. And he pays Nothing happens. So he prays again. Okay, Lord, I understand. Persistence, perseverance, praise again. Nothing happens. Three times he says, I pray. Now, at least the third time something happened. He didn't get healed, but God spoke to him. And you might say, hey, I'd take that. I mean, even if in my life God didn't take away that thorn, that thing that has been plaguing me, that thing that that so depresses me and and afflicts me if God just spoke to me and said verbally My grace is sufficient for you. You know, something. Boy, that'd be a great encouragement. Don't count on hearing something audible But when you read this passage, I hope you can with your imagination remember that the same God who revealed himself to Paul comes to you. And that you could, if in your circumstances you find that there's a parallel, be able to imagine him In tender, loving tones, say to you, My child, my grace is sufficient for you. In the Greek, it's sufficient is my grace for you. Now you might say that's kind of like saying, well, I'm not going to do anything to take away the pain, but you know, just smile and it'll just, you know, I'll be sufficient. What what are you offering? But I think I think that's something profound that he is saying because he is saying This will not take you away your joy or your contentment. You're going to, by my supernatural power, live above your circumstances. And you will be able to continue. In fact, you will know new joy and new contentment and new power as a result of my grace working through this situation. So that's third point, which is the principle, recognition of your weakness and doorway of spiritual power, the first thing about the prayer. But now D. Look at B. What's in the blanks? Well, if you look at the NIV, it's quite clear, he says, For my power is made perfect in weakness. I would like to suggest an alternate translation. I'm very grateful to New Testament scholar Marva Dawn for her book on these verses and on Ephesians 6, which is why I read the book back when I was preaching that. The book is called Powers, Weakness, and the Tabernacling of God. It's an excellent book. And she points out that there are two closely related Greek words Now I'm not after giving you a lesson in Greek, but just listen. The two words are teleo and teleao. You only need to know that they sound pretty similar, right? Teleo, teleao And they are not that different in meaning. Tala 'u means to finish something, to accomplish something, to end it. Talao means to bring something to completion of its goal. to um bring something to perfection, to uh bring it to its fullness It's sort of related, but she takes twenty-eight times the word tele 'o appears in the New Testament, and it's all end, end, end, finished. John 19, 30, Jesus says, it is finished on the cross. That's tele 'o. It's done, it's accomplished. She says, for whatever reason, I'm not quite sure, the word teleo is used here, but people have always translated it as if it's telea'o. My power is made perfect in weakness. And when she lists all twenty-eight, you see it's the only one that would be translated made perfect. It doesn't fit. Now then she also points out that when you see where it says my power, the word my is not in the Greek. The Greek says the power. For the power. So it doesn't tell you whose power. Now she says, let's just imagine That what God is saying here is the idea of bringing to an end, which is what the word says, and make it your power, referring to Paul's power. So doesn't that make more sense? My grace is sufficient for you because your power is brought to an end. in weakness. The power that you think you have, the confidence that you think you have, that illusion is smashed in weakness. Then that's why Paul says, you see, it makes sense the rest of the verse, therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses. So that Christ's power may and I be rest on me. But once again, Marbadon says, not just the word rest, it's a very special word. It's the word Dwell or tabernacle. My power will tabernacle upon you. Now she says, think about that The tabernacle was the dwelling of God. Now, in the Greek, I mean the Hebrew, that word for dwell is the word shaka, from which we get the word shekinah. Shekinah refers to the presence, the glorious presence of God. For instance, in Exodus chapter 24 When it describes God's presence in glory coming down on Mount Sinai, that's the word it's used. The glory of God came and rested on the mount And then when God goes on to say, chapter 25, and again and again, build a tabernacle, which is the same word, cognate, Build the tabernacle for my dwelling. I will dwell among you. In fact, in the next chapters in the instructions on building the tabernacle, in the next hundred and forty verses, hundred and thirty verses That word dwell appears 140 times. I will dwell with my people. I will dwell in your midst. I will dwell among you. And the whole thing is climaxed in chapter 40 When you read that Moses could not go into the tent of meeting because the Shekinah, the presence of God, was there. Now Paul takes that word, a word which John used in John 1. 14. You remember when John says the Word was with God, the Word was God, then the Word became flesh and Tabernacled among us. That's the word. It's the same word. Paul takes that word and with Pauline precision of the inspiration of God, the power of Scripture, the precision of God's mind. Paul takes that word, and when he says, so that the power of Christ may dwell on you He takes a little prefix, epi, and sticks it in front of this word for tabernacling. The word epi means not quite fully So, what Paul says is that my grace is sufficient for you because your power is brought to an end in weakness, so therefore I will all the more gladly boast of my weaknesses and the rest of that, so that the power of Christ may Not yet fully, but more completely, rest, dwell upon me Do you see the fullness of the image of that? And how that fits in? Paul goes on, you know, remember in Ephesians he talks about chapter 2, you and I are the fullness of the dwelling. We are the tabernacle, Ephesians 2, 21, 22. You are the dwelling of his presence. Revelation chapter seven, verse fifteen. I saw there in heaven God with his people, and he spread his tent over them. Same word. Revelation 21, 3. There was God in the New Jerusalem And the dwelling of God was with men, his tent, no epi, fullness, the presence of God with his people. That's the hope we have, you see, the the fullness of God upon us But right now, in this time, before Jesus comes, in weakness he comes to dwell in power Not yet fully, but in a way that you and I will never know if we're always in denial of the weakness Now, brothers and sisters, I I want to tell you, as we think about whatever you're engaging on, we think about our ministries and our lives, that's a profound principle that has really affected my life. Because I am consumed with impressing you with my competence. We live in a culture that is obsessed with comparisons. Aren't we? You know? I mean I I had somebody come out after the first service. And he said, you know, we um We are just constantly comparing. I'll walk out of the service and I'm still comparing myself with everybody else. He says I can tell you the first time I came to this to this worship He said I heard you preach. He said I was comparing with the last preacher I heard. And frankly, you didn't do too hot. He said I came back anyway. Thank you, Lord. You know, well all you know, I was teaching in Westminster last week, you know, with those guys and and and and I find myself in my heart wanting to impress them with what I know or who I know or what I've accomplished or all the rest. We live in denial of our weakness We hate our weakness. And Jesus says, your power is brought to an end in weakness. That's how my power rests on you. Isn't it crazy? The one thing that will give us the fullness, more fullness, not full, but will give us more of the power of Christ in our lives Is the one thing we're constantly doing everything to eliminate. Admitting our weakness, admitting our incompetence. So, what Paul does is then in the fourth point, he comes back to this and he restates the principle in verse 10. Now just in case you're wondering, you're saying, well, you know, I don't have the problem with some physical affliction like uh partial blindness or full blindness or the rest of these things. What does this mean for me? Look what he says in verse 10. That's why, for Christ's sake, I delight in. Now here's the application. In weaknesses. In other words, whether physical weaknesses, intellectual weaknesses, I'm not as smart as other people, I can't communicate, I can't put ideas, I I'll never make the promotion that I would love to have. Uh I lack accomplishments. I don't have the things to brag about that other people here have. He says, I delight in insults. I uh feel despised, I feel like I'm not taken seriously, people put me down, I don't fit with my friends, I don't fit in the world, I don't fit in the organization God, I don't fit in his church, whatever. I delight in hardships, those things which are more than I can handle. I feel inadequate. To try and handle them. I delight in persecutions. I feel left out. I feel passed over. I feel like, you know, because I'm a Christian It hurts at times. My family, others that I wish would accept me, and I don't. I delight in difficulties Anything that is too hard for me, for you to handle. I delight in these things. Why? For when I am weak, see, when I realize my weakness. Then I'm strong. What's your authority? What's the thing that you've cried out to God? God, take this away. God, please take it. God, why do you leave this in my life? Do you hear him saying to you so gently, so that your power will be brought to an end in seeing your weakness Because it is then that my power can tabernacle, revealing something of my glory in you and through you. So, that's a principle of Scripture. You know, back to Ephesians 6:10. That's why Paul says, be strong in the Lord. And in his mighty power, see, it's when you realize your weakness. God from Genesis to Revelation picks the weakness To reveal his power. When he looks for a king, he passes over every one of Jesse's sons until they say, Oh yeah, we forgot there's another one, David, out there in the field That's the land. And again and again and again. He picks the prostitute to worship Jesus. And Jesus says, that's worship. He takes Jesus, his own son, and he's born of Galilean peasants, despised. And when he conquers Satan's kingdom In all of his mighty host, he does it not through victorious armies, he does it through crucifixion on a cross, the most despised, shameful death That culture had to offer. For the principle of Scripture is that God's power is displayed in weakness. So that He alone gets the glory. So what's the lesson? Quite simple. Number one, God will use you far more in your weaknesses when you can admit. Then it then he will in your strength. You know, I like to think of myself as a fairly mature Christian who's reasonably competent and secure as a person. I want you to respect me and I want to feel like I sit in because this is a pretty aggressive high-powered culture that we live here in Howard County, isn't it? And some of us feel like we're always scrapping to try to fit in. We feel like as Christians, we're always trying to show beyond where we are. Uh when I was preparing for my course at Westminster a couple of weeks ago, it just so happened that at that time I was looking back in my journal And I look back to the time I came on New Staff with Inner Varsity with Kathy. We were out at the New Staff Orientation in Madison, Wisconsin, and I I looked through and saw some of the uh conversations and some of the things I was having, my thoughts. And I was appalled, appalled, at what, you know, if I was looking at this guy, what he was like, only it was me. Um dominating conversations, bragging, displaying myself, arrogant Then we went out to do evangelism one day, and um I had a rotten time. I didn't even care for the non-Christians that I was speaking to. I was too interested in displaying myself Came back feeling powerless. A couple of occasions I reduced my wife to tears for my obnoxious insensitivity It was just one tiny glimpse of that whole time that God showed me out praying. And just a tiny glimpse in retrospect of how wretched I was. Then we went to Washington, D. C. where my first assignment was we came into DC and um needed to find a place to stay, an apartment Laid out six criteria before God of what we both needed and wanted. And um first couple of days after looking at apartments Um it was absolutely hopeless. It was no way. I mean we're not even close And then the fourth day, God provided us the whole second floor of a house in a very nice neighborhood , fit every one of the six criteria for $90 a month. And even back in 1968, that was a good deal. And looking back, I thought, why would God be so kind to such an arrogant loser? And I have seen again and again in my life, continuing to this present moment, when I seek to display and want myself Christ is not honored to my life, and people's lives are not drawn to him. Ministry comes out of weakness. Spirit -owned ministry comes out of weakness. Comes out of the refusal to compete and compare and to impress and to say, look at me. I sit, but to be able to communicate, what a wonderful Savior for such pathetic sinners like you and me. And so I wonder as I look at Howard County, and I see our congregation and all the things that we do We try to do them excellently, there's nothing wrong with that, that's perfectly right. We want to have an a a worship service that draw itself into tension to itself by things like brooms up there on the wall, you know. You know, we try to do the best we can because we love the Lord Jesus, you know. Why is upwards uh becoming very rapidly filled? You know, because it's a program that is put together with some excellence. And so people come to it. That honors the Lord. No problem. But when it comes to my denying, trying to communicate something I'm not, dishonesty, then spiritual power is undercut. And Christ's power does not rest upon me or upon you. And I wonder, you know, I look in my own life and I think this is the major cause of the lack of more power of Christ. through my ministry. I have to be honest. It is that addiction To my impression and need to look confident before you I was talking with somebody who is brilliant PhD candidate. This quality is so competent. That he will probably be invited to be the head of the department at his university the day he gets his doctorate. And he shared with me last week, I have this nagging fear that I'm really stupid and one day I'm going to be exposed. You know, we have that sense. I I I'm really weak and I'm afraid of that Paul said, I came to see it, and I came to delight. In those ways I realized I was incompetent, so that Christ's power would be displayed. Patricia Heaton plays on Everybody Loves Raymond, you know. She's a Christian. And in an interview recently, this is how she put it, and I thought it was insightful She said, This business tests you constantly, the materialism, the pride, the ambition. The Apostle Paul says, I have died to myself, and it's no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. We're supposed to die to ourselves, and I'm paying a publicist three thousand dollars a month to make sure everybody knows who I am? You know? I mean isn't that the conflict that we live in? You know, here I am dying to myself And I do everything to promote myself. And she said, how do I live with that as a Christian? You know? Marva Dorn in her book says Uh personally, she stops and just shares herself for a moment. She says, some days I'm thoroughly exhausted from all the strain of trying to manage with arthritic hands, a crippled leg, a blind eye, a deaf ear, kidneys functioning around 17 %. Dead intestinal and stomach nerves resulting in no peristalsis, pain left over from cancer and jaw surgeries, the imminent possibility of losing vision in my remaining eye And now the possibility that the bone dropping from the fusion of my foot will continue generating sores that will eventually necessitate amputation. And that isn't the whole list. Does God really need me to be this weak? And she says Yes, he decides. How does he display his glory, his power To people who so want to be competent in Howard County. And it is that he chooses those ways that get your attention and my attention. You know, maybe the best illustration, conclusion of all this to show, this principle that God is most glorified in our weakness. So that his display of power is obviously of him and not of us So that lives can be changed. I mean, this person that talked about my preaching and all this after the first service said, but you know, I've been here for some years now And I have grown as a Christian in this congregation because I see lives changed. That's what glorifies Jesus. You know, it's not the spectacular, it's lives that are changed. Sometimes it is spectacular. But sometimes it's that simple work of grace that continues over the long haul. Back in nineteen ninety-five, in um Avery Fisher Hall, November 18th at the Lincoln Center, New York City. Violinist Ithoc Perlman was giving a concert. This person writing about this says, if you ever been to a Pearlman concert, you know there's kind of a ritual. Pearlman had polio. So he comes out with two leg braces and two crutches. and comes out very slowly onto the stage, gets to his chair, puts aside the braces, puts them down, picks up his violin, and gets ready and signals the conductor And so at that usual ritual, he did that on this particular evening, and he began to play. After just a few bars of music One of his violin strings busted. So it sounded like a gunshot. Everybody knew it and they knew what he'd have to do. He's going to have to stop, put down the violin, put on his leg braces, take his crutches, go off the stage, either get another string or another violin, and come back to play But in this case, he didn't. He paused for a moment, and then let me read what happened Instead, he waited a moment, closed his eyes, and then signaled the conductor to begin. The orchestra began, and he played from where he left off. And he played with such passion and such power and such purity as we had never heard before. Of course, anyone knows it's impossible to play a symphonic work with just three strings. I know that. You know that. But that night, it's our permanent refused to acknowledge that. You could see him modulating, changing, recomposing the piece in his head. At one point it sounded like he was detuning the strings to get new sounds from them that they had never made before. When he finished, there was an awesome silence in the room. And then people rose and cheered. There was an extraordinary outburst of applause from every corner of the auditorium. We were all on our feet screaming and cheering, doing everything we could to show how much we appreciated what he had done. Now, let me tell you, when God plays his music through violins that he has created, the lives of us, his people, he is glorified. Because the music is spectacular. But when God chooses to play with three-string violins, broken In a way that you hear it and you say, Only a genius could do that God is infinitely more glorified. Let's pray Oh Lord our God , we see the principle and we know it. We can hear it. It makes sense to us. Your power Is displayed in weakness as it never could be displayed in our power and strength and competence And yet, Holy Spirit, unless you come and apply this right now, this moment, to those thorns in our flesh, to those ways that our flesh and our hearts grasp to be noticed Then all this will be in vain. And we can continue as a church and I, as a pastor, to do things that are right and good and wonder why there is not more power. Oh Lord, show us. Show us what you're trying to say to us. Not to fake humility. But simply to be in an honest way, communicating, I am in over my head in this life. There are things I am utterly inadequate to handle. My sin and my flesh and my bondage sometimes seem to overwhelm me. And it's right then that the power of Christ comes and enters. Lord, would you do that in us so that you will be uniquely and distinctly glorified through Jesus Christ. Amen.