In First Timothy chapter four, verse thirteen Timothy is told to devote himself to the public reading of Scripture as well as preaching and teaching Public reading of Scripture was an important part of the worship of God's people in the Old Testament as well as in the early church in New Testament times. Around 150 Justin Martyr wrote that in the worship service of that time there was the custom of reading scripture as long as time permits Probably just a as in our own day, there would be a lot of difference among various people on how long time permitted to read scripture, but it was an important part of the service You've heard some scripture read so far. Again, this morning the text is going to be longer than usual. And so I want to call to your attention the fact that God tells us that the public reading of Scripture in itself, even apart from preaching or teaching, is a blessing. Because it's God's word that we're hearing. And so let us therefore give our best attention to the Lord's word as we follow through this passage from Psalm Solomon chapter 3 verse 6 Which gives us the picture of the wedding celebration on through chapter 5, verse 1, which gives us not only the wedding, but the scene of the wedding night In the flow of the verses from three six to five one. Let's now hear God's word. For some of you, it may be better to close your eyes and picture this. Others of you may find your mind wanders more with that. But let's picture with our imagination and with our heart to see what's before us. Who is this coming up from the desert like a column of smoke, perfumed with married and incense made from all the spices of the merchant? Look, it is Solomon's carriage, escorted by sixty warriors, the noblest of Israel, all of them wearing the sword, all experienced in battle. Each with his sword at his side, prepared for the terrors of the night. King Solomon made it for himself, the carriage. He made it of wood from Lebanon. Its posts he made of silver, its base of gold. Its seat was upholstered with purple, its interior lovingly inlaid by the daughters of Jerusalem. Come out, you daughters of Zion, and look at King Solomon wearing the crown, the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, the day his heart rejoiced. How beautiful you are, my darling. Oh, how beautiful. Your eyes behind your veil are dumb 's. Your hair is like a flock of goats descending from Mount Gilead. Your teeth are like a flock of sheep just chore, coming up from the washi. Each has its twin. Not one of them is a woman. Your lips are like a scarlet ribbon. Your mouth is lovely. Your temples behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate. Your neck is like the Tower of David, built with elegance When it hangs a thousand shields, all of them shields of warriors. Your two breasts are like two thawns, like twin thorns of a gazelle that growls among the woods. Until the day breaks and the shadows flee, I will go to the mountain of merit and to the hill of incense. All beautiful you are, my darling. There is no flaw in you. Come with me from Lebanon, my bride. Come with me from Lebanon, descend from the crest of Amana, from the top of Sinur, the summit of Fermon, and the lion's dens, and the mountain haunts of the leopards. You have stolen my heart, my sister, my bride. You have stolen my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace. How delightful is your love, my sister, my bride. How much more pleasing is your love than wine, and the fragrance of your perfume than any spice Your lips drop sweetness as the honeycomb, my bride. Milk and honey are under your tongue. The fragrance of your garments is like that of Lebanon. You are a garden locked up, my sister and my bride. You are a spring enclosed, a sealed fountain. Your plants are an orchard of pomegranate with choice fruits, with henna and nard, nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon. With every kind of incense tree with married and autos and all the finest spices, you are a garden fountain, a well of flowing water streaming down from Motherland Awake for a breath, and come, South Group, blow on my garment. That its fragrance may spread abroad. And let my lover come into his garden and taste its choice fruits. I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride. I have gathered my myrrh with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey. I have drunk my wine and my milk. Eat, O friends, and drink. Drink your fill, O lovers. So far, God's word. Alice considered this fantastic portion of his work. It's a tremendous passage. And in my own observation of this, I have not seen this anywhere else, but it seems to me That this passage is an unfolding flower of the bud of Genesis 2. 24, in which God defines marriage. That passage, that verse is quoted at least four times in the scripture, and so it's a very definitive statement about marriage In Genesis chapter 2, verse 24, we read that a man will leave his mother and father, his father and mother, and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh. As often stated simply in terms of the three parts of marriage being leaving, cleaving, and becoming one flesh. The leading of the father and mother to establish a new household, the cleaving of two lives united together in the becoming one flesh, in the consummation of that marriage. And I believe that we see in this passage an unfolding of those three steps and three elements of marriage. And so let's notice them now as they unfold. Again, as the last time we considered this, it's important for us to notice who is speaking in this passage. There are three or four speakers involved here The first one is an observer of the marriage. It's neither Solomon nor Shulem. It's not the daughters of Jerusalem, probably. It is some observer of the wedding. And look what a wedding it is. The wedding is the public statement, the leaving of Solomon and Ashulat from their various households, their mothers and their fathers. to form a new unit in society now. And look at that red. First of all, the observer says, Who is this coming up from the desert? And many people wonder who that is, and I'll speculate on is that Solomon, is that her, is that What is that referring to? What is clear from the Hebrew hood is it's the bride because the Hebrew pronoun this is a feminine pronoun And so it is referring to the bride. It's a picture of Shulaman. Solomon has sent his limmo to get her. And he's bringing her down to Jerusalem from Lebanon for the big wedding ceremony. And this is not just any old reddit memo, you notice. It's one that's been custom-built for the occasion. And so the observer begins to focus on that. And he looks at this, and even before he notices all the characteristics. of this conveyance, you notice the escort. Yeah, you know, you might have heard of a motorcycle or two going before, but look what this guy does. He's got 60 warriors armed to the teeth to bring his bride to the wedding. Now what's he doing? Is this a display of macho? You know, he's just sort of showing off, you know? Oh, I show you how I can bring you in style. No, I think Solomon just captured something very important here That I have found many husbands to miss. I believe that the warriors here are a symbol of this protection of her. Whenever I do premarital counseling, one of the first things that I do, and I paused before I shared this, but I thought it fit the passage so well it was worth it, because I'm going to give it away now, and now it's going to blow on my premarital counseling. I asked this question. of the prospective groom and the bride. I say, what does the role of leadership mean to you? And I'll ask that first To the fellow. What does that mean to him? And he'll describe what it means to him to be the leader of the home and all the various things that that involves. And then I'll ask the woman What does his leadership mean to you? In most cases, he will not mention anything about protection. He'll talk about all kinds of things of being the spiritual head, the initiator, this and this and this. But he doesn't know his protection. Almost always she does. She mentioned, yes, it means that he's going to protect and watch out for me. This is something I must confess to you that I learned only late on and am still learning. It was a great failure in my own life. But I think Solomon has captured it here. He realizes that to become a husband means that he is going to protect this woman. And he wants right from the outset to display that You're secure in my love. I'm going to protect you. And so that scene, right at the very beginning of this ceremony. And notice also the lavishness of this. He brings her in verses 9 and 10. You see the description. of this uh carriage, this coming. And it's one that Solomon has not only expended a lot of money for, but very thoughtfully. The wood is the wood from Lebanon. That's her home And so we brought something when she's coming back from her home to his place now to remind her of her home, the wood of Lebanon, that would have been so precious in its smell and its sight to her And then there's the silver and the gold and all of these things. And you see here a very lavish display. Why? Because verse 11 says this is a great day of rejoicing. It's a celebration. And we can't lose that. We have to always remember in our weddings that they're primarily a celebration, a rejoicing A worship is not primarily a worship service. A wedding is a day of and a time of celebration of two people coming together. Now these verses raise a number of questions about weddings, God's view of weddings, and uh it's certainly true that although when I planned this series I didn't plan all the weddings, but there's enough weddings going on around during the next few months that would justify preaching on weddings. But let me just point out a couple of things that we see all the people involved all smiling and all the rest of you and I think you know, you know. But um Notice a few things about God's perspective on weddings from these verses. Notice first of all that there's no command in Scripture anywhere that says that there must be a wedding. Uh does that mean that uh two people go out and are married by a justice of the peace or are really married? Yes, absolutely. There's no question. They're married. You don't need a church wedding to make it official, to make it real or somehow, you know. Father, there is no command in scripture even to have no explicit command to have any particular kind of sermon Well then does that mean that there isn't any ceremony required? No, it does not mean that. The verse that I just read, Genesis 2. 24, man shall leave before cleaving and then coming together with his wife. is implicitly stating that that leaving is a public statement. You see, it's the forming of a new unit in society. The two are coming from different families, and they are forming now something that never before existed, a public unit of society She no longer is available to anyone else. Neither is he. There is now a new structure with a new head in society. That must be done publicly, or else it can't be existent really And so there has to be that public statement. But when we look at Scripture, you don't see anything that says this is the way it has to be done. And there's only four or five pictures of weddings in Scripture. Interesting, all those pictures just sort of assume it's going to happen. You have Psalm 45, which is a picture of an Oriental wedding. And which pictures also like Song of Solomon, the analogy of Christ and his people in that. You have the wedding at the Cana of Galilee, where the Lord Jesus turned the water to wine. There are a couple of parables in which the Lord refers to wedding feasts. There's the passage in Revelation that you just read, describing the wedding feast coming in heaven. The thing that interests me as I look at those is that every one of them are rather sumptuous and lavish. Well that strikes me because you see, uh not only were there people like Solomon getting married in Scripture, but you have the people in Cana. who couldn't afford to have enough wine on hand. But they tried their level best. And you see that in Scripture there is such an emphasis on rejoicing in this lady, I think we need to realize Is there are always poor people and needs and we can never be wasteful. On the other hand, there is a place for rejoicing and spending a little extra in order to rejoice, not to impress people. That's never the motive. But to simply rejoice because it's such a day of celebration. I think some Christians feel like any kind of extra expenditure like that would have to be ruthlessly justified by its practicality. You know, somehow you're going to be able to uh put the flowers in wax and be able to you know save them or you can resell them or something, you know, all these other things. Rather than just simply saying, look, these are some things that are simply for the rejoicing of it. And you see that in the scripture Then, once the spreading has taken place, the scene changes. And we move from the leaving to the cleaving. In chapter 4, verses 1 through verse 15 The wedding is over. We're now in the bedroom of the bride and the groom. The whole tone changes. It now becomes one of softness, tenderness, quietness. You picture the group taking her in his arms. He's standing very close to her. Notice that throughout this whole scene, he is the only speaker. He is drawing her to himself. He's taking the initiative to woo her, to make her feel secure, to make her be able to respond to him. in his love. We picture him gazing at her, holding her tenderly, and he begins to describe her, not describe her Physically, describe her literally, but to describe the effect of her charms on you. Notice that he describes seven charms In verses in chapter 4, verses 1 to 7. He describes seven charms. Is that because he couldn't think of any more? Maybe she didn't have any more? No. It's because seven in itself in that culture was the number of perfection. The number which communicates that it has accomplished all of God's purpose. And so even in the number of the charms, he's saying, you are without law, which is what he finally sums up and says. You're beautiful, you're perfect to me. He begins from her top and he begins to work his way down, focusing on her face. He begins with her eyes, and he describes her eyes, likening them to the large, soft eyes of a Syrian dove. He then speaks of her hair, and that's often misunderstood. It's sort of like the uh mare, you know, in the uh other chapter, you sort of picture brain. He had a good start there, but he really blew it when he came to that one. Well again you need to understand something of the culture to see how How insightful he really is. He's not describing the kind of goats we see around here, but rather the Middle Eastern Angora goats that have dark, silky hair, black hair, silky fine and long. And those birds, as they would graze along the slopes of Mount Gilead , from what I read, that presented an absolutely spectacular sight, a very peaceful sight. Long black flowing hair of these goats coming up and down the mountain. That Mount Gilead, a mountain that was green, beautiful large trees, brooks rippling down along the rocks And you see these boots in the afternoon with the sun slanting on them. And what is it that you want to do? You want to touch it. It's so soft. It's like a kitten. You want to stroke it and you want to touch it because the whole thing communicates peace and softness. And that's what he's saying about her here. Its softness and its peace makes him just want to touch it and want to find himself enraped in its softness. He speaks of her teeth and basically he's saying, you don't need any orthodontist. They're full, they're complete, haven't lost any. uh shortness that they're smooth, uh there's no lack, that they're evenly matched. Beautiful teeth. They're lips And her mouth are lovely. Her temples, as he speaks in verse 3, perhaps referring to her cheeks, he says, or Excitingly colored, the pomegranate is red, and he's speaking of it as uh as something which is delectable, it's delicious, it's uh it's exciting. And yet The Tower of David was made of white marble, high and elegant. And so it's saying your posture, you hold your head high, you're elegant And those shields you see are picturing of the necklace that she's wearing. And he's saying the whole all everything about you radiates elegance and majesty. And then he speaks of her breasts as soft and appealing like the little deers that ran around at that time. Beauty, pictured, in all its perfection. He then speaks of her delights But he goes on from her charms to speak of how she delights him. He speaks of the fact that her eyes have captivated him. And you notice that. He says in verse 9, that you still thy heart with one glance of your eyes, one jewel of your necklace, the parallel you see in the Hebrew is saying, But the sparkle of your eyes is like the facets of a diamond. And it dazzles me, it captures me, it hypnotizes me I I have to turn away from your eyes. He'll say that later on, you see. He can't even stand or gaze. He just gets him so excited, you know. And you see that as someone that you love. You know, it's just hard. Sometimes you just you just get dazzled by just looking at the person and And it's hard to just be quiet that life. And so he speaks of her, notice as his sister and his bride Four times in the end of chapter four, in the beginning of the first verse of chapter five, he speaks of her as his sister and his bride. He must make clear to her he doesn't simply see her as a sexual partner. She's not simply a lover. But she's a companion. She's a person who he values for all of her companionship and friendship, as well as her lovers. as his lover at this point. And so he's communicating that by the repetition of that. And he's giving one thing after another to pile on her how perfect she is to him. I think that we husbands can learn a fair amount from this kind of thing. And yet I find that there are husbands who would say, you know, I just couldn't do that. That's nice to read that. Yeah, my wife is great, but uh Uh she she's not like that. I mean y you you picture that and well, you know, I mean, she doesn't have orange and you know she could have gone to an orthodontist. those things I'd be lying. I I can't say there's no flawing. I've lived with you for fifteen years. What do you mean there's no flawing? And and besides that It it'd even worse because I'd be I'd be ministering to her pride. I mean I tell her she's perfect. Imagine it's gonna have to live with and you know and how can I just do this? It's not honest and it's not helpful. It's not what God wants me to do. He wants me to help her to have a right view. of itself. I need to help her to get a balanced picture to see it. You know, it's interesting to me that that that's not what God says here. Josh Billings once said, he said uh They say that love is blind. But lots of fellows that I know can see twice as much good in their wives as I can. You see, the point is The beauty really is in the eye of the beholder. And if if we set out to be critical and to set ourselves up in some sort of a competitive comparison, we'll find plenty of laws But if you set your heart on a person, and that person becomes the object of the adoration of your heart You begin to look for all those good things more and more and more. And the more you look, the more you find. And the more you find, and the more you communicate that, the more the person begins to radiate in response to that. But he actually do become more beautiful. He actually does become more of the man that you wish that he was. The focus here, however, is on the man for the woman And I think that's because God's intention is that the man takes the initiative in this kind of thing so that she can respond. And his whole declaration to her shows how he cherishes her and how he can really say, In my eyes, there's no flaw. I accept you exactly as you are. And it's in that kind of security that she then can spine. And notice what is the most ravishing part of her appeal to him. It's her purity. He says in verse twelve, after speaking about her kisses, which he then uh focuses on for a moment, he says in verse twelve You're a garden, locked up, my sister, my bride. You're a spring of clothes, a sealed belton. So again, the image of a garden in that culture is a very erotic image It speaks of all the delectable fruits and all those succulent sweets. It speaks of the aromatic spices and scents All those things which are associated with sexual imagery are encompassed in this idea of garden. It appears many times in Eastern love poetry. likening the woman as a lover to a garden. And so there's no question what he's talking about here. But notice she is locked. You have her garden that has been locked And there is no one that has ever come into this garden. No one has ever unsealed this fountain, this spring water which is pure and clean. And to me, this is one of the strongest passages in Scripture as an answer to those that say, well, yeah, the Bible says that there should be no sex before marriage. But it doesn't talk about petting and about other things. But do you see what God's saying here? He's saying the whole garden has been locked. Everything that's surrounded, the scents, the spices, the trees, the spray, everything, it's been locked. It's been kept It's been preserved. And so he's not speaking simply of sex, but everything which leads up to it has been locked and kept and preserved. And he finds that among the most ravishing appeals. Young people, singles, hear that. Today we read that it is experience which makes us appealing. God's word says it's our innocence and our purity which makes us most ravishing to that one that God may have for us. It is that which God wants to use That's the most delectable of our offerings that we bring to that person so that they find peace and delight in our presence. And then she responds. She responds in verse 16 after all that he has said. Finally, she just can't wait anymore. And so she picks up that image of the garden and she says, away from South Men, the time has come now. All this waiting has now been worthless. Blow on my garden that his braveries may spread abroad, till now I've kept it locked, till now I've kept it something as off limits. But now I come and in that freedom and that security of a love that has pledged, that he is cleaving to me, that he has pledged to me for life, that he sets his heart on me, now that freedom I come. And I say to him, Let my lover come into his garden and taste its choice fruits. Well notice that uh he doesn't have to be called twice. And so in verse 1 of chapter 5, his immediate response It is, I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride. I've gathered my moon. Now notice all the mice. She has said in verse 16, Blow my garden. But now as he comes to possess her, she becomes his. And that's the point of the union, the joining together of two lives, is that she now is his and he is hers. Paul says, you belong one to another. Your bodies are not your own. And so you notice again and again, my garden, my sister, my bride, my marrow, my spice, my honeycomb, my honey, I drink my wine and my milk. I possessed it. And then don't miss the climax of it. The last part of verse 1. Now, before you notice what's said, notice who's saying it. It's not him. It's not her. And who else is present? He can believe there's nobody else. The daughters of Jerusalem aren't there. There's no course. There's nobody here that's ready to comment on this and say, could we get your thoughts on this now? We'd just like to drop down to you from the unity. No one else is present except the Lord Himself. And he can be the only one who's addressing them at this point. And so you have here a very precious insight into what God thinks of sex. And as they come together, the Lord Himself says, Eat, O friends, and drink. Drink your fill, O lovers. A few years ago there was an evangelical magazine that put on its cover a picture of a man and his pregnant wife walking down a beach After that issue, a number of people wrote in and canceled their subscriptions because of the suggestive and disgusting cover. Is that how God looks at sex? As something that he turns his head from it and he says, well, you know, it's kind of a necessary evil, as Augustine said. But it's really not a very spiritual activity. And if God turns from that, God is somehow embarrassed or disgusted or he puts up with it. That's not what the scripture says. God's word himself says that God says, eat and drink your fill, O lovers. Hebrews 13 says that the marriage bed, literally the Greek word means coitus, is undefiled. In Proverbs chapter 5, God had said, picking up the same kind of image through Solomon. In chapter 5, verse 18 and 19, may your fountain be blessed May you rejoice in the life of your youth, a loving doll, graceful to you. May her breast satisfy you always. May you ever be captivated by her love. You know what that word captivated means? The word captivated there is a word which means to reel and stagger from drunkenness. It's a word used in Isaiah and other passages to speak of drunkenness. God is saying, may you get dead drunk on her love. Interesting, you know, there's only two comparisons and contrasts to drunkenness in Scripture that are advocated. What is in Ephesians 5, instead of being drunk with wine, be filled with the Holy Spirit? The other one is sex God was exalted it to that level that he says, I myself commend to you get dead drunk on each other's bodies That's God's view. And I believe that the church has played right into Satan's hands when we refuse to discuss this or to talk about it, as if it's something that should be kept from the discussion of Christians. As if it's something we should be sort of embarrassed now that I'm preaching on it, as if somehow it's inconsistent with worship. When a Song of Solomon lifts that up. To become something so beautiful and so pure that we want to preserve and protect it. Because who would want to take something so precious as this and throw it away for a few cheap thrones? That's God's view. It's a lovely, beautiful, wholesome, exalted view of what is happening here. It's his own invitation. But now, you may be saying, I haven't kept my garden locked. I see not how stupid I think. I've gone along with the lies of our culture. I haven't waited, or I didn't wait before marriage. And I see now how tragic that's been. I see the scars of it in my own life. What can I do? And the answer is very simple. You come to the Lord Jesus. We come to the Lord Jesus for forgiveness and for cleansing. But as Hebrews 10 said, he will not only cleanse your conscience, but he will wash your body with pure water. You will then build a wall, the wall that's been broken down around your garden. And you will build that gate and you will put a lock on that gate. And you will build that garden to cultivate its flowers and its scents and its spices in the way that God had intended. And you will do that as a redeemed person. Because you've tasted of the forgiveness and of the cleansing of Jesus. But you say, but how can some man love me? I'm not pure, I'm guilty. How can a man love me the way I am? That gets right to the heart of this message. You see, when this one Solomon came to her, she was a lot gone. And he set his love on her. But Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that our love has come to us who were not like gods. The Bible teaches that you and I, none of us, are pure and innocent. We are all guilty. We've all kept our garden unlocked We are all guilty of spiritual adultery. And so when you read in Ephesians chapter 5, that Paul says husbands should have loved your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. What's the purpose? To make her holy, that he might cleanse her by the washing with water through the word. That he would present this bride to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. You see, love always communicates grace. Whenever a person gives themself to us in love, it's always unmerited favor. How can Kathy live with me all the years she has and know me as thoroughly as she has, and yet give to me her love and give herself to me as one who is glad to be joined to me. It's only by grace. It's only by grace that I can receive that kind of love. And so if that's so true with us, you see the picture. It's a picture of the gospel. We come as unlocked gardens, that the Lord Jesus would take us, that He would forgive us, that He would cleanse us, that He would bring us to Himself as one who speaks those words That you see in the first 15 verses, but particularly the first 11 verses, where he describes her delights and her charms. Those are not simply statements of Solomon to Shulemah. That's a picture of Jesus to us. Jesus looks at us and he finds us delightful to him and beautiful to him. In those personal and intimate terms as he holds us in his arm, preciously holding us tenderly and saying, I love you. You're beautiful in my sight. Even as despicable and as dirty and as degraded as we've been He exalts us. He cleanses us. And he gathers us to himself. And in this picture of joy Can set our heart beating. Every time I read this passage, it makes my heart beat faster. You see the increasing tempo. Do you come? That's why we couldn't break it up. It builds, you see, all the way there from 3-6 to 5-1 in a tremendous climax. If we can have our hearts race and that scene between some of them and children. What will it be when we come? When the bridegroom will come back and he'll take us to himself As we read in Revelation 19 and 21, a bride, a dooring for her husband. And he comes and he takes us and gathers us to himself and says all those things that we've long to hear. God Himself, Almighty. Waving, majestic, taking us sinners to himself and saying, there is no law in you. And we shall celebrate and consummate that marriage with you for eternity. Let's pray Oh Lord our God. So To think that you, Lord Jesus, would take sinners like us who speak the kind of words that Solomon spoke to someone who we must think she must have been so special and so different from anyone else See that Lord, you have taken those same words to communicate to us sinners, the very passion of your soul for us. Oh Lord, how unworthy we are to receive such love. How unworthy to be cleansed and forgiven, to be possessed in the way that you possess. Lord, how we look forward to that time. We will not only believe this by faith, but we shall experience it in the fullness. When you take us into your arms, and you wipe away every tear, and you protect us through all eternity. Lord God, help us to see. Help each one of us here. We find it so hard to believe that you could love us like that. To see the offer of Jesus if they've never accepted it To run to it and not be like one of the foolish virgins who got locked out of the way. To come and to believe that you really believe this and say this about us And that we might rest in the protection and the tenderness of your love. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's sing together about this love and this union in 713. We'll sing the first and second verse.