We come again to the passage in Ezekiel chapter 16, verses 48 to 50. As we walk together through this word from the prophet Ezekiel to the city of Jerusalem in the midst of their exile. And he is explaining their exile. As those who were chosen by God, beloved by Him, and given many things by the Lord, but they themselves have found their own trust in themselves. and fail to see how their pride and condescension has caused them to be puffed up with self-righteousness. And so he delivers to them a hard word, and this is a part of that hard word, as he compares them to the nation of Sodom, a favorite target. Of Israel, those who were wicked, those who did detestable things And yet Ezekiel uses the wickedness of Sodom to bring the sins of Jerusalem, the sins of Judah, into bold relief. In doing so, he says some surprising things, and those surprising things is that he uncovers what was underneath Sodom's wickedness. And so as we look at this this morning, as we've gone through looking at pride and gluttony and prosperous ease. Today we turn to what all of those things will lead to, and that is a disregard for the poor and needy. And then we will hear the counsel of Jesus from the Gospel of Luke. As he gives us the call to welcoming, welcoming those who cannot repay. Indeed, what both I think Ezekiel is driving to and what Jesus and his life represents. Is that it is the grace of the gospel that says to us, welcome. And what difference should that make in how we relate to others? And care for those who have need, those who are poor, in different ways that are in our midst and in the world around us. But before I go any further, I don't believe it would be possible to talk about this subject without some, if not many, of your minds, perhaps floating to the geopolitical debates of what we should do with Refugees from Syria. There is much that could be said about that And it would be tempting to ask that these passages carry the freight of all of that debate. But I do not intend to go there this morning. Because on the one hand, much of what I may say in regard to that, I believe could be grounded in the scriptures. But for some, it might provide you comfort that perhaps you find agreement with me or that the scriptures agree with your position. For others, you might be offended at what I might say, or you might reject that the scriptures perhaps confront what you believe in regard to how we should respond to refugees. But regardless of whether you would agree with what I would have to say or disagree, we could still completely miss what this passage has to say to us. For the answer does not begin by finding our positions politically. Our work begins by asking the question: what does the gospel have to say to me? And how should it change how I respond in my immediate environment? Yes, there is a place, and we ought to discuss these things, but of course we must remember that the nation-state is not the church And the church is not the government. So we are called to welcome. Welcome all because that is what the Lord has done for us. And so with that in mind, I want this to be directed to how the Lord would apply this to our immediate life as individuals and our immediate life as a congregation. And allow the Lord to work that out in you and what they may look like as the ripple effects of your life goes beyond this congregation. But let's hear God's word now. Ezekiel chapter 16 and then Luke 14. Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom. She and her daughters had pride. Excess of food and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy. They were haughty and did an abomination before me. So I removed them when I saw it. He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return. And you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed Because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Now, Lord, by your Holy Spirit, open our hearts That we might discover wondrous things in your word as your Spirit applies this word to our lives individually and corporately as a congregation. that you may make us a congregation transformed by the grace of the gospel, and that our posture would be one of welcome Help us we pray. And now help the teacher in Jesus' name. Amen. The natural outcome of pride, excess food And prosperous ease is a disregard for those who have need, those who are poor. And what Ezekiel is calling and at least exposing to the city of Jerusalem and the nation of Judah. is also uncovering that which was going on in Sodom. Indeed, one of the things that Ezekiel says is that the sins of Judah were worse than those of Sodom. In fact, we will see in a couple of weeks how what he says just a few verses on, that indeed your unrighteousness makes Sodom look righteous. And what he's calling, interestingly, the nation of Judah to, who is now in exile, is that they should be having they should have a posture of an openness to all. The reason for that is deeply ingrained within the story of who they are as the nation of Israel. That the scriptures demonstrate to us and recall to us the relationship between Israel and God was never based on Israel's success or position in the world. Indeed, they were a nation that was in very small, incredibly poor, enslaved. They were a people who were from nowhere and were largely going nowhere. And yet the Lord, in his grace, welcomed them by drawing them and began with Abraham. He began with Abraham and Sarah. And from Abraham and Sarah came forth a nation. And from that nation they became precious in the sight of God, not because of who they were, but because of his grace. being poured out on them in the great doctrine of electing a people who had nothing on their own. They did not deserve it. They only could receive the love and grace of God. And so they were meant to be a city on a hill. They were meant to be a people who were to be a shining example of God's grace and mercy in the world. Their lives together were to be a reflection of the character of God. God's holiness, God's goodness. God's goodness and holiness was poured out on them despite the fact that they were unholy. And they were not good. They had nothing in themselves. And God, in his grace, was open to them in drawing them to himself. And so they were to be a blessing to the nations. It wasn't that somehow God suddenly decided in the New Testament to do a work of salvation among the Gentiles to bring them into the covenant of grace. Rather, the nation of Israel was always to be a place that was open to Gentiles. It was embodied in their architecture. This is why Jesus gets mad when he goes into the court of the Gentiles and turns over the tables of those who are trying to sell sacrifices. Why? Because the courts of the Gentiles was on the outside of the temple. It was open to all the nations to be a place where they would come in. And at Passover it was open to all the nations, and they would come into the court of the Gentiles, and they would hear of the covenant-keeping God of Israel. And through hearing about this covenant-keeping God of Israel, full of grace and goodness and holiness. They would see the nation of Israel and their worship of this God. Remember we've talked about in the worship series of how they had some 4,000 paid musicians? Their worship was loud. And at that worship, they would praise God in loud voice. There would be singing, there would be dancing, there would be the reading of God's word from the psalms of God's God's faithfulness, God's love, God's forgiveness. And when they sinned, God gave them a way to make a sacrifice for sin. All of that was to be on display to the nations. That was the purpose of the Court of the Gentiles. Always to be a nation welcoming and an openness to all, so that they might see God at work. So fast forward to Jesus when he goes into the court of the Gentiles at Passover, he sees that the Gentiles and the nations can't fit in because they've turned it into a place of commerce. People can't come and worship to hear about the God of Israel because they're too busy selling doves and trying to make money on those who are poor. You see, if you couldn't afford your own, to bring your own animals, you had to come and you had to purchase animals for sacrifice to make an atonement for sin. But they were using the court of the Gentiles as a way to make money. They knew people had need, they could have the resources, so why not charge a little extra? to take advantage of the poor and needy. Do you see? So Jesus said this will not be a place of commerce. This will be a place Of prayer, I have a zeal and a passion for my father's house. And so in righteous, holy anger, Jesus overturned the tables. All of that is an expression. That Israel was to be and Judah was to be open to all. And that's just the broad brush marks of biblical history. From architecture to the call of God's people to worship, not that they might be seen as righteous, but that God may be seen as glorious and righteous. The next part is this, is that they were called to be generously hospitable. Generously Hospitality was always to characterize the people of Judah, the people of Israel Not just broad brushes of biblical history of the story of a God who was welcomed in a people that did not deserve anything but show them grace, but something quite particular. In the heart of the law of God. Is embedded generous hospitality. Let's look first at the book of Deuteronomy. Just a couple of quick passages. Deuteronomy chapter 14 In the midst of describing how the people of God are to give their tithes, this is what God says through Moses. At the end of every three years, bring all the tithes of that year's produce and store it in your towns. So that the Levites, that were the priesthood, who have no allotment or inheritance of their own And the aliens, the fatherless and the widows, who live in your towns, may come and eat and be satisfied, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. So on that third year, the entire tithe of the people of God were to be brought in and then stored up. So that it could be distributed to those who were aliens and sojourners, the fatherless and the widows in their midst. So beyond the tithes, then comes their festival. So it wasn't just that they were to set money aside after giving and giving to the Lord. They were also to be uh acknowledging and recognizing the poor and needy even when they celebrated together. In one of the descriptions in the Law of God, for one of these feasts called the Feast of Weeks, as well as the Feast of Tabernacles, this is what God says. And rejoice before the Lord your God at the place he will choose as a dwelling for his name. You, your sons and daughters, your men servants, maidservants, the Levites in your towns, and the aliens, the fatherless, and the widows living among you. Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and follow carefully these decrees. Celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days after you have gathered the produce. Of your threshing floor and your winepress. Be joyful at your feast, you, your sons and daughters, your menservants and maidservants. And the Levites, the aliens and the fatherless, and the widows who live in your towns. So they were to be recipients of our offerings. They were to be the recipients and participants in our celebration. But then finally, just one more passage from the book of Deuteronomy is how they were to understand all that they had as a first fruit, an offering to the Lord. In Deuteronomy chapter 26, the Lord says this. through Moses. And you and the Levites and the aliens among you shall rejoice in all the good things the Lord your God has given to you and your household. When you have finished setting aside a tenth of all your produce the third year, the year of your tithe, you shall give it to the Levite, the alien, the fatherless, and the widow. so that they may eat in your towns and be satisfied. Then say to the Lord your God, I have removed from my house the sacred portion and have given it to the Levites. the alien, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all you have commanded, I have not turned aside from your commands, nor have I forgotten any of them. And so this was to be the whole way in which the nation of Israel, the nation of Judah, was to live. Now was that something for the Old Testament? Was that when the nation of Israel had God as their king. Is that how they were to live? Well apparently, according to the Gospel of Luke and what Jesus teaches, indeed, it was not. For Jesus is challenging in this parallel in this teaching for the parable of the great banquet He says to them, And you, when you have a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or the rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid. You see, by the time of Jesus' ministry, there had been developed a culture of patronage. That is, you only networked with those whose networks benefited you. And generally, how patronage worked, I invite you to my house and you meet all my rich friends, and I will come to your house and I get to meet yours. And then we set up a network. A network of patronage. I do for you, you do for me. And so this was what Jesus was confronting. And in fact, when Jesus was teaching this, they were asking, who will be able to have the place of honor when your kingdom comes? So Jesus is demonstrating this isn't just Old Testament law. This is the nature of what it means to be in relationship With the biblical God and with me, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that is to be a people who are ready to be open to all and to have be filled with generous hospitality. To give to those who cannot give in return, who can do nothing for you or inflate your place of importance. The openness to all, the generous hospitality, confronting the culture of patronage. And while we don't necessarily have a formal culture of patronage, in many ways hospitality is seen that way in our own culture. In many ways, and our magazines, our cooking shows. All of these things seem to uphold that. While I don't call it patronage, they paint a picture that we all want to be a part of. Of clinking glasses, the smell of food, and sharing it with the best of friends. It is not the norm, but the rarity that you hear stories like what happened just a few weeks ago. When a thousands upon thousands of dollars of a wedding reception went to nothing because the groom left the bride to be at the altar. They had spent upwards of $50,000 on this reception. But it was at the attention for a brief moment in our news media. Because that family, and I have no idea whether they know the Lord or not, but that family said, we will not enjoy this, and they gave instruction to the venue. to go to the local shelter, to provide for those who had need and everybody who came. were a part of those who generally would have been going to a food pantry or a soup kitchen or a shelter. It was a beautiful picture of a rich banquet that could have easily, they could have just swallowed the money and gone off into anonymity But rather they opened up the doors why to those who had need. That is the rare thing in our day But what we learn here is that the scriptures describe that generous hospitality should be a part of the framework, the very nature, the very lifeblood of the people of God. So here's a question. Who then is the poor and needy? And when we begin to ask this question, most likely what many of us begin to think of, or at least creeps up in our minds, is: how do we deal with those who take advantage? Of those who are showing hospitality or giving. We begin to figure out ways, how do we define in a way that we can understand in a way that makes us feel comfortable who are the poor and needy? On the one hand , if we're honest, on the one hand, those who need to go to a shelter to find rest, or those who need to go to a soup kitchen to find food That is a much easier thing to enter into, at least to understand. But without getting into all of the politics of it, when we begin to think of what does it mean to receive refugees? That becomes uncomfortable. What about the family down at the local Costco who've Put themselves and position themselves with a cardboard sign and has their family sitting there next to them that says, please help me. I'm in need. I do not have a job. And there are particular intersections throughout our community where people who are pretty smart know exactly where to place themselves. Put them, put themselves in the place where they know that very likely we're going to be taking money out of our pockets to exchange in commerce. Now that's a difficult question. How should we seek to provide for those who have need? And we begin to think, do they have real need? Is it real? Is it a sham? We as a church deal with this on not so irregular a basis. Where two years ago I had someone call me from West Virginia, posing as a police officer, trying to convince us that what we needed to do was to wire money to this couple who had need, and they knew me by name. They had gone on the website, studied enough, and they had been able to worm their way all the way to convincing me. I don't I don't even remember how they got to my phone number, but they found me and they came up with this elaborate story. So I went into the office with Eric Johnson and our administrative staff and we tried to trace it down. We got all the way to the point where we had to call the State Highway Patrol of West Virginia to even check out the name that we were being given. And of course it was a sham. And if you've been burned once or twice, then our normal posture is not one of generous hospitality. We begin to think, mm-hmm, I've been here before. And it happens over and over again. There are no easy answers in this regard. There was common practice in the Old Testament that when you had a guest for one or two days, all good. By the third day, they needed to pick up a shovel Not because you stop helping them, but at some point they need to be able to show that they are willing to help you as well. It's not to say that we just give generously without wisdom or discernment. The question is, is our posture one of first hospitality and generosity, or is it first trying to go, well let's make sure we get all our ducks in a row? I struggle with that question. And I bet some of you do as well. And I found this quote from Calvin that I found quite helpful. In this regard. Not that it gives us answers, because I will tell you, I I can't give you any answers this morning. Because each of us have to do the hard work of asking the Lord how How should we learn to be more generously hospitable? Lord, who are the poor and needy that I might be able to be used of you? I don't know that answer for you. But I did find this at least helpful. Calvin, in speaking about these matters, recognized that we needed to have appropriate inquiries regarding the circumstances of those who were in need. He essentially, without some scrutiny and discernment, Calvin worried that the boldest poor would take everything. However, Calvin further warned and spoke powerfully to every discussion about deserving and undeserving strangers when he said the following. Let us beware that we seek not cover for our stinginess under the shadow of prudence. Inquiry should never be too exacting. It should be done with a humane heart, inclined toward pity and compassion, not a condescending pity. But a desire to be empathetic. So I recognize in my own heart that oftentimes I want to talk about discernment Because I recognize that perhaps what's being asked of me is pressing in on my stinginess. I don't want to be displaced. I don't want to be dislocated from my comfort. So here's a question. What ought we to do? Well, Jesus says in this gospel passage that indeed, he says, when you give a dinner or a banquet, do not just invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors. Lest they also invite you in return. It's not saying you can't have dinner with your friends. It's not saying you can't have a wonderful dinner with your family. Or your relatives or your friends of success. The question is, what is our attitude in regard to that? What is our motive? But another question is this. What ought we to do? How do we define poor and needy? It would be easy to see that there is an ethical response that I think we should have at some point to what Jesus is teaching here and what Ezekiel is pointing at. There is something we should do as a result of hearing Jesus' counsel to invite those who cannot reciprocate. But as we've discussed in previous weeks, that beginning at the beginning of getting the gospel is not first to find what we ought to do. Because it is possible and likely that we could follow Jesus' command and do all of these things, providing for those and being welcoming to all and provide for those who have need and also still avoid Jesus. The answer to the question, I believe, of who is the poor and needy begins by confronting the mindset and the heart frame that places us often in these stories. in the position of the host. When we hear Jesus' teaching or the parable of the banquet, isn't it interesting, I wonder if Maybe it's just me, that when you hear these parables of this teaching, do we imagine in our mind's eye that we're in the position of the host? The beginning, I think, of getting the gospel in this regard is confronting why is it that many of us perceive ourselves as the hosts? But maybe the subtle answer is that we see that indeed we are not the hosts, first and foremost. But that Jesus is. And we are the poor and the needy. That is, we are the poor and needy, and Jesus is the host. If we cannot or refuse to see our poverty and the generosity of God in opening his heart, to redeem his enemies through the work of Christ, then I and us, we , we will miss the grace of the gospel. If we see how we have been given something that cannot be repaid and cannot be deserved, if we begin to see that, then we begin to enter into the heart of the gospel. And here I wrote this and I want to make sure I can't improve on it because there you go. If we see Christ inviting us in our poverty, then that changes the frame of reference If we see how we have been given something that cannot be repaid or cannot be deserved, then we enter into the heart of the gospel where we find that all of our doing and striving, our worldly wealth and our access is not enough. It begins with the truth that we are the poor who have been made rich through the redemption by his grace. who then in turn give to the other. You see, the finish of our of our service this morning will be singing of a hymn. The title of that hymn is, Come Ye Sinners. Some of you who are musical will recognize that title and hear these words that we will sing in just a few moments. Come ye sinners, poor and wretched, weak, wounded, sick. And sore. Jesus stands ready to save us. At the heart of the gospel Is that we are naked in our poverty. We are thirsty beyond belief And are emaciated by our hunger. But Jesus in his grace Came to us to make a community and to make a table that feeds those who were once his enemies. Not only can we not come to God in all of our access, all of our success in striving and winning. All of it is nothing before him. But in our sin Our wickedness and poverty, Jesus welcomed us in He is the host. We are the poor and needy. And if we begin there. and how we have been made rich by his grace. Then how, Lord, can I begin With one step to begin to see those who have need around me. Miroslav Wolf Professor at Yale University wrote in his book, Exclusion and Embrace , these words. Grace is always primary The will to give to others, and to give ourselves to others, and welcome them. To readjust our identities to make space for them is prior to any judgment about others. except that of identifying them in their humanity. You see, the gospel takes us one step further It's not I was poor and now I've been made rich. Once I was naked and now I have been clothed Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. Yes, now I have been made rich by the grace of Jesus, and now, empowered by that grace, I will look out and see the poor and the needy. No, what Bolt is saying. If grace is primary, then we will not first differentiate people by poor and needy. White or black, access or no access. No, we will begin with the a priori position of saying, I was a human. In my poverty. And with no favoritism of my position, one iota. God's grace came to me. Therefore, I now look out and see human beings, human lives By the grace of God, I can begin to give. Indeed Comey sinners, poor and wretched, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Your Savior stands ready to save you so that we can save Welcome, welcome all poor and needy, rich Asian, Indian, Black and White, welcome for our God Is full of grace. Let's pray Lord, we have to hear the work and the power of the gospel that it might move us. But Lord, we confess, and I confess, Lord, I don't know all that this means even for me. But the gospel calls us to s to be ready to receive But Lord, we want to thank you this morning that you have welcomed us in. Not because of our degrees or our background or our intellect. But you have welcomed us. And you invite us into the gospel of grace that covers not just our sin and gives us forgiveness, but makes us a new people. That enables us to echo our Father. Welcome. Come unto me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Help us, O Lord. And we give you thanks in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.