It's good to be with you. Um we're going to be f rounding out um this series that we've been doing uh in Romans uh fourteen one through fifteen seven Let me just briefly remind you where we are. Um we started this. Uh this has been a rather long tangent. We started this because we were thinking about God's graciousness and that his nature is to be gracious and to be gracious to us. And we'll actually end up reviewing that just a little bit today. So if God's gracious and there's no more condemnation for me or for you as you're trusting in Christ and turning from your sins, Romans 8. 1, um God's no longer judging me. And so what that means is that I have the freedom to not judge myself. I also have the freedom to not judge those outside the body of Christ, nor do I have to feel the need to judge those within the body of Christ. My fellow brothers and sisters here at CPC. It's that topic that brought us over to Romans 14. 1 through 15. 7. And so let me read that text now. And then we'll ask the Lord to bless our meditation and the very end of it. So Romans 14, starting in verse 1. Let's hear God's word As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he made anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteem all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own minds. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains abstains. In honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats. Because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance, through the encouragement of the Scriptures, we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord with Christ Jesus. That together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, there was most definitely an issue in the church in Rome People were not getting along with each other. Despising passing judgment And you call them and you call us to something radically different than that. Radically other-centered, radically focused on glorifying you radically focused on welcoming one another gladly because it's what you've done with us We admit we've not done this well. We may well not be doing it well right now. And yet you desire to grant this to us. And so, Holy Spirit, work. Work through your word. Convince us this is good. Moving us that we would want to do this and rely on you for it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So let me review where we've been through this long passage. In 14, 1 through 4, you'll remember that we talked about the fact that I can put off despising and passing judgment no matter the disputable issue. That's the call to me to do that. In 14, 5 through 19, so we can put off despising and passing on judgment. We can put on pursuing, running after, chasing what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. That would be really good. And in 1420 through 1504, what we did is we honed in on this radical other-centeredness. And how a proper view of Jesus and how he acted toward us for our good can motivate us to put off pleasing ourselves. For motivated in that way, this provides the possibility at least that we could be laser focused on pleasing our neighbor in the body for his or her good But that comes, of course, only as we radically depend upon Holy Spirit to enable us to do that because it is so different than the self-centered way that I tend to live, and perhaps you're tempted to live. Today, we're going to look at chapter 15 and verses 5 through 7, and we're going to learn how a right view of God, having the right picture of who God is and how he acts towards me. How he extends welcome to me enables me to extend welcome to others in our congregation. That's what we're called to. So let's first think about that accurate vision of God that could move you. Let an accurate vision of God move you. Look with me at verse 5. So this is kind of an out loud prayer, even a benediction. That's the way I've been using it in this little series that we've been doing. So starting in verse 5, may the God of endurance and encouragement. May the God of endurance and encouragement. As I've been meditating on this longer passage over these weeks that we've been working through it, this phrase has really struck me. As I've reflected even this week I was at um the PCA has an annual meeting we call General Assembly and I was at it this past week uh in Memphis. And I was talking to people about this passage and just saying, um, the Lord brought me from death to life into his glorious kingdom almost um 34 years ago. And I've had a lot of opportunity to teach and preach and meditate and read through the Bible a number of times, and I have never had the privilege of giving sustained meditation. to this phrase before these weeks that we've been together. May the God of endurance and encouragement This is very striking, friends. This is very striking. Here, God is described as being and thus acting with endurance and encouragement. This is how he's described. These are attributes, if you will. that he has endurance and encouragement inside of him, and so he acts with them. They're part of his being, so they're part of his So let's look at those in turn. Think about endurance, God being the God of endurance. Perhaps you've heard about these crazy, I call them crazy ultramarathoners. My son a couple of years ago actually trained for an Iron Man. Maybe you've heard about some of the training, the Special Forces do uh people who do these crazy things they are extremely enduring human beings these ultra marathoners um will run uh a hundred miles or more in one race Now, as I think about the Lord, that's the little enduring that creatures can do that amazes us. That's the little enduring creatures can do. What's God's endurance? What's his enduring like? Well, is that part of the Lord and is acting just towards me that reveals his being. We always our our doing always comes out of our being. Same with God. So it it has to be that way. It just isn't is. Right? The mouth speaks out of the overflow of the right. Speaks out of the overflow of the heart. Your being always shows itself in your doing So as I ponder the Lord and is acting towards me, which reveals his being, he is quite obviously enduring. He endures. Towards me. He's patient and kind with me. I think I've said here before that one of the privileges of getting older is seeing how much of a sinner you are Because one of the things that can happen as you better grasp how radically sinful you are is that you have the opportunity To see that grace was a much bigger thing than you thought it was. That the mercy and kindness and patience of God is a lot bigger than you thought it was. Because it takes a lot to put up with me. Amazingly, God knew what he was getting into. When he bought me and sought me and he drew me into his family by the working of Holy Spirit some 34 years ago. Think about that God knew what he was getting into when he grabbed a hold of you. And he did it anyways. He adopts projects. This is mind blowing to me This is absolutely mind-blowing to me that God receives sinners like me into his family. Is that mind-blowing to you? That he receives you? As you ponder the Lord, as you think of the Lord, as you meditate on the Lord and his character, do you Think, do you imagine that the Lord is patient and enduring with you? That he knew what he was doing when he got into relationship with you, when he got into relationship with the mess that is me and you. Do you see him that way Patiently enduring with you, committed, not going away. Yes, perhaps, rolling his eyes at times at my foolishness and yours. But never dismissing us, never leaving us, but persisting graciously with us. Is that how you see God acting towards you? Do you see him as the God of endurance? It is critical that you do. Let me tell you why. We quite automatically treat others as we believe God treats us. We quite automatically treat others as we believe God treats us. us. All you have to do is read 1 John 4. 19 to realize this. We love because. Okay. There it is. The way that we believe that God has acted towards us and is acting towards us is the way that we automatically act towards other people. The whole of the Christian life is a response to the gospel, to the love that we've been given, to the grace that we have received from God. God endures with us kindly, graciously. I never had this thought until I wrote these words, patiently bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Towards me, towards you. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. He bears that towards me and towards you. Why? So that having understood that, we would do that with others. God's enduring, but he's not just enduring. He's also encouraging. He's the God of endurance and encouragement. Maybe you've pondered a little bit the command we're going to think about in a second, that you would encourage one another. Well, if you don't have encouragement from God, if He's not the God of encouragement, you don't have anything to give because you don't sense encouragement from God. So you don't have any encouragement to give. But he is the God of endurance and encouragement. Let's think about that about encouragement. I I mentioned that I had the privilege of being at PCA General Assembly this past week, and I was able to spend significant chunks of time with a couple of men who were incredibly significant in my own life in terms of encouragement. I was able to bump into a couple of men that I served on a ministry board years ago with twenty years ago we served on a ministry board together and they have stayed friends and they encouraged me along the way to even do what I do now. I spent time at rooms with this week The man that you can, well, you can lay it at his feet that Matt does what he does, because I never would have unless he said, Matt, this is part of what how God wants to use you. I just spent time with with the man that I consider my best friend this week, and another one that I I hope that we remain vital friends for years and years and years. I got an immense amount of encouragement this week from these friends I spent time with. I would do nearly anything to be around them. Why? It is obvious to me that these friends are for me. They're for me Remember we thought about Romans 8. 31, it was quite a while ago. What then shall we say to these things if God is for us? Who can be against us? Expect an answer? No one. This the clear implication, remember, of this is that God is for us, that He's for you. He's tearing you on. He's seeking to encourage you by His presence and His being for you Now, hopefully you it's clear you can see why this is important. If you see God this way, cheering you on, encouraging you, then there's a chance that instead of being critical of those around you, right? That's the that's what's going on in this in it the church in Rome, right? Is that they're they're being critical. They're biting each other. You shouldn't do that. You shouldn't be like that. You shouldn't do this. You should and it's this this They're being critical. So instead of being critical of those around you in the body of Christ, there's a chance if you sense that God is encouragement, He's the God of encouragement towards you, that you'll be encouraging to the people around you. By demonstrating that you are for them. And of course, that's your calling, by the way. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11, therefore encourage one another and build one another up. For them, Paul says, just as you are doing. It was something that was going on in Thessalonica. Is it going on here? That we're for each other, that when we interact and we try to have an opportunity to be with people in the body of Christ here at CPC. Do I go in with the mindset, how can I encourage and build this person up? Or is it, wow, it's they should have been doing it. Hebrews 10, 24 to 25, let us consider how to stir one another up to loving good deeds. Not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of sun, but encouraging one another. And all the more as you see the day drawing near, encouraging one another. So this is our calling. But it's it's not lost on the Lord that this is hard for us. It's hard for Rome. It's hard for us. The context of these words here at the end of this passage, but in the larger passage, 141 to 15 and 7, the context shows that this is that this is hard, but it's also a priority of the Lord. He wants this to be the case for us here. And he wants To grant us, to gift us, to give us this heart disposition as the Holy Spirit would work within us. So let's see that secondly then. And these other two points are much shorter, I promise. So see what God desires to grant to you. Look with me at the end of verse 5 and into verse 6. So may the God of endurance and encouragement, this is like an out loud-spoken prayer, if benediction, if you will. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you. I run a nonprofit Grants are great things. We got started five years ago when I started doing this full-time. The only way that we could do it is we were given a large grant. I didn't do anything to get that grant. I was glad to receive it. But a grant is a gift. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you. This isn't something that you pull yourself up by the bootstraps to do. It's not within us to do this. This is opposite of the sin that we struggle with. So may God, may the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in what? Such harmony Such harmony. A demonstrable, visible, visceral, you can feel it, you can see it, you can taste it. Would God grant to us to live in such harmony with one another in accord with Christ Jesus This is interesting. The best way I think I can help you ponder this a little bit is that Jesus isn't divided. Jesus isn't divided. And so if we live in accord with him, then we're not either. So that instead, together you may with one voice. Glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We exercise that one voice and Worship as we magnify God, but also as we serve and love and we live in a visible gospel unity. That when outsiders look in on CPC, they see something that is uncommon, that is odd. Not odd because we're odd people or because we're weird, but it's odd because what the world could never put together, the gospel by the Spirit can And the world looks in and they go, What is this? And all of this to the praise of the Father. One voice, uh an acquaintance of mine is Planting a multilingual congregation in Northern Virginia, and the name of that congregation is One Voice Fellowship as they try to embody this concept that's here. One voice. This reminds us of the overall goal of our Christian living. It's with one voice as the body of Christ that we would glorify God. In the macro, of course, that's what we're called to, right? So the first answer to Westminster Charter Catechism, right? Glorify God and enjoy Him together. Chief end of man. Echoing 1 Corinthians 10 31. So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So that should be our focus. But how do we get there? How does this one voice Come out. What's it look like for us to receive this grant? Because of course somebody can offer you a grant and you can go, no thanks. We turn down gifts that people want to give us all the time. Sometimes they want to encourage us and we turn down that gift, which is a big mistake. How's this become ours? Dependence? Weakness? Prayer We ask, Holy Spirit, grant me what God yearns to give me. I receive this. But that takes dependence. That displays my weakness. I will never do this by myself. I need you, Holy Spirit, to enable this in me. A mentor early in my Christian life I think understood that for me at least this matter of dependence was going to be difficult Um this friend sticky and sticky that I remember from 30 plus years ago and prescient quote to me, here's this quote. I should hit him up on Facebook and tell him I use this quote. He would say something like this, Matt, God is more willing to give you grace than you're willing to ask. God is more willing to give you grace for the Holy Spirit to empower me via dependent prayer. God is more willing to give you grace than you are willing to ask. Sticky and pressant, at least for my right for my life. He was right. And and this continues to be a matter of growth for me. My problem I've discovered is not that I'm not strong enough. I see I think we make this mistake that we're like, oh, I just need to be stronger. No. No, I think I've discovered that actually that's a dead end. It's not about getting stronger. My problem is that I'm not weak enough. How about you? Well, what does it look like when the body of Christ is acting with this kind of Christian maturity that we're called to here? It's when , the very end of this, third point, we would welcome one another as you've been welcomed by God. This Christian maturity looks like us welcoming one another as we've been welcomed by God. Look at me at verse 7. Therefore, here's the summary, and uh this passage begins um in 14. 1, uh I'm sorry, um In 14. 3, we get the first instance of welcome, and so this is sort of the book ends here. What's it look like to welcome? Okay. So here's the summary. Therefore, given everything that we've looked at. Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. This is how we glorify God. We welcome one another. So this is very tight, right? The mirror here, the mirroring of these two sides is very, very important. You will welcome, here's the diagnostic, you will welcome others in the body of Christ, and particularly your fellow congregants here at CPC, exactly Like you perceive the welcome of God to you. These will mirror Okay, does that make sense? These will be mirrors of each other. If you have difficulty welcoming others in the body of Christ, it is because you have nagging doubts about the welcome of God for you, towards you. So understanding the extraordinarily wonderful welcome of God to sinners. That's we're going to go to the Lord's table today. And that's what's here. The welcome of God to you. The reminder of how it's possible that God can welcome you because of the work of his son. But this is the welcome of God to you. So understanding that extraordinarily wonderful welcome of God to sinners that's secured by what symbolized here on the table. Jesus' perfect living, his horrendous dying, his victorious rising, his glorious ascension, even his merciful and gracious intercession right now, his prayers for you as an individual child of his. Understanding that, receiving it, enjoying it. That's of critical importance. We talked before about the danger of being allergic to grace. About barely putting up with the gospel. You see, if you're barely putting up with the fact that grace is the only way you can be accepted by God, kind of like Uh Okay. It's gotta be that way. I'd rather make it in on my own, but Guess I can't. I guess I need grace. And it's begrudging. Instead of rejoicing. If you're barely putting up with the fact that grace is the only way you can be accepted by God, you'll evidence that And you'll evidence that by proudly barely putting up with others And only if you have to. As if you are unfortunately like me, you're critiquing them left and right in your mind. How do you what does this look like if you think God's if you think the welcome of God is kind of like kinda cracks the door open in the house and he kinda goes, oh All right. Come on in. What's it what's it look like if you think God is just barely putting up with you? If you imagine that that's what grace is like, if that that's what the welcome of God is like. He's barely putting up with you. He's on the edge of ejecting you from the family. Sure, maybe he loves me, but I I'm really betting that he doesn't like me. He's impatient with me. You're wearing on his patience. That he rolls his eyes, but he rolls his eyes like a couple does when they're on the edge of divorce. Instead of rolling his eyes like your best friend does with a wink and a smile. That is friends, if you misunderstand the gospel, if you won't receive the gospel, that's gracious good news. If you don't understand the extraordinary nature of grace, that you freely and fully received warts and all by God because of Jesus and what he's done, you're going to find this thing we've been talking about impossible. Because your heart won't be melted by grace. And the people around you will feel your hardness. People will find you impossible instead of welcoming. What does welcome look like? What's it feel like? The calling here is welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. Surely I hope you've experienced this on a human level. For most of us, this has happened when we've been welcomed into someone's home, usually somebody who's quite gifted at hospitality, and they open the door wide open and they say, welcome, come on in. Join us. Be with us. We're so glad you're here. I hope you've experienced that Being received as friends, even when there isn't some kind of human-level commonality that might predict it. My wife I miss a lot of things traveling for work and one of the joys of the place that we live in Court d'Alene is that we uh like most of the people that we live around are imports. We're not locals, we're not from there. We've moved from other places, which is a great opportunity to build new relationships. And so one of the neighbors a couple over called my wife this week and said, Hey, um, we're gonna do a happy hour at our house. Would you come? And she went and she had a great time. These people are all pagans. But they flung the door open and they said, welcome. We're so glad you're here. The only commonality among us is that we're all imports. There's a wide variety. of um worldview perspective, shall we say, among the group. But there was welcome. This is less common than it ought to be among us. That's an understatement, but I'm trying to be gentle and direct. Why is it less common than it ought to be among us? If we're honest, it's a chosen busyness. It's a chosen busyness. You've chosen to be busy. You follow the culture around you. You don't have to be. You can choose to be less busy. You can choose to make different choices and extend the welcome of God to your brothers and sisters in the body of Christ. As well as those outside who desperately need someone to love and welcome them. Not judgment. Why is it this less common? A lot of it if we're honest is that we prefer to associate even in the body of Christ with those that we don't have to exercise any patience with. We tend to congregate with those who largely agree with us, those with for whom it doesn't take much of any effort or forbearance or dependence To love. But recognize that anyone without the Holy Spirit living within them can do that. My wife just experienced it this week. So then how are we any different than the world? If we're honest, we're sometimes not. But when we do that, we miss out on one of the most significant group forms of witness that Jesus highlights, maybe the most. Important group witness that Jesus highlights. Remember John 13, 35? By this all people think outsiders will know that you are my disciples if you have Love for one another, a visible, demonstrable, something they can see, a world changing, a very different that people could not conjure among themselves kind of love. A community that only the gospel could form. The reason I wanted to do this series is not just to look back, but to look at the present and the future. This is critical. That what CPC would be known for is being insanely loving Incredibly othercensored, wonderfully welcoming. Wouldn't that be a great reputation for a church? God is glorified, the gospel is witness to as real and life-changing when we extend God's welcome to one another, just as we have been welcomed by God. And so out of thankfulness for God's abundant grace, won't you welcome one another just as God has welcomed you? Let's pray together. Father, you Found it needful to be rather direct with the church in Rome and you've given it to us here in your word for our reflection, for our pondering, for our meditating, for us receiving as from you and laying out our calling. And so I pray that we'd embrace our calling. That we would not resist grace or put up with it But receive it thankfully, even anew, as we come to the table this morning, that we would receive your grace anew and be thankful that you extend it and give it as a gift. That we would believe that you actually welcome us, warts and all. And that having our hearts melted by that truth. That we would extend your welcome to others. Here and in the world where we live, work, and play Help us to that end, Holy Spirit, in Jesus' name. Amen.