Our text this morning comes from the Gospel of Luke, chapter fifteen. A familiar text to many of you. Beginning in verse eleven through the end of the chapter through thirty-two. I'll be looking, uh I'll be reading verses one through three and then to our text in verses eleven through thirty-two So if you have your Bibles with you, I ask that you would turn with me to to Luke chapter fifteen. So we consider God's word. But before we turn to God's word, let us again go to Him in prayer. Father, we thank you that all we have is Christ. Father, we thank you that you are a God who is not silent, but that you've revealed yourself to us that we might know who you are, that we might know your son, and that we might have salvation in his name. Father, I ask that you would send your spirits to rest upon us, to work in our hearts right now as we look at your word, that we might have greater insight and understanding in who you are and how you work. We 're bless your word. It's in Christ's name alone we pray. Amen. Luke chapter 15, I'll be reading 1 through 3 and then skipping to verse 11 and reading through the end of the chapter. People of God, hear God's true and living word for you today. Then all the tax collectors and the sinners drew near to him to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes complained, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he spoke this parable to them, saying, Now verse eleven. A certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of good that falls to me. So he divided to them his livelihood Not many days after the younger son gathered all together, journeyed to a far country, and there wasted his possessions with prodigal living. But when he had spent all, there arose a severe famine in the in that land, and he began to be in once Then he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine, and he would have gladly have filled his stomach with the pods that the swine ate And no one gave him anything. But when he had came when but when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have bread enough and despair, and I perish with hunger. I will arise and go to my father and will say to him, Father I have sinned against heaven and before you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants. And he arose and came to his father, but when he was still a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion. And ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight, and am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and the sandals on his feet, and bring the ca a fatted calf here. And kill it. And let us eat and be merry, for the Son was dead and is alive. He was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. Now his older son was in the field, and he came and drew near to the house. He heard music and dancing. So he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and because he has received him safe and sound, your father has killed the fatted calf. But he was angry, and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and pleaded with him. So he answered and said to his father, Lo, these many years I have been serving you I never transgressed your commandment at any time, and yet you never gave me a young goat that I might make merry with my friends. But as soon as this son of yours came who has devoured your livelihood with harlots, you killed the fatted calf for him. And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours. It was right that we should make merry and be glad, for your brother was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. May God bless the reading and the hearing of his word. Perhaps you can remember a significant welcome during your lifetime. Maybe your favorite sports team won their championship and they are ushered back into the city with a grand parade with rabid fans. Or maybe you can remember an astronaut or a well-known explorer coming back home and being greeted with a celebration. But maybe the welcoming that you can remember, that the welcoming that calls the that comes to mind is not so famous, but still just as meaningful and important to you. Your father was away at work for a long time and he's finally come back home. Or maybe some of you have children in the military who have been off at war for a long time and they finally have come back home. And maybe that welcome home was for you, and you were greeted by those who loved and cared for you. Well, one of the stories here that Jesus tells gives us a picture of a great welcoming, a great celebration. with a grand banner tied over the gates of heaven saying, Welcome, home sinner. So this familiar story in our text is often called the parable of the prodigal son. But it doesn't seem proper to simply single out one of the sons here. The text begins in verse 11 with the phrase. A certain man had two sons. So the story focuses just as much on the father as it does about the two sons. And Jesus tells this story so that we might understand the Heavenly Father's welcome to sinners. God the Father welcomes you home today. So what does that welcome look like? How does the Father welcome home sinners? What does that look like to us? Well that's what I want us to consider as we look at our text today. What does the Father's welcome look like to sinners? And first, we see that it's a gracious welcome. The story begins with the younger of the two brothers. And this son is at home, and he's hating every minute of it. But there's one thing he actually does like about his father, and that's his money. In verse 12, we have this short but very shocking statement. It says Father, give me the portion of goods that falls to me. And this division of property and of wealth would have only have occurred when the father died So to ask why the father was still alive was the same as wishing he was dead. He wanted the father's things, but not the father. See, his relationship with the father had only been a means to his own wealth and pleasure. And now he's tired of that. So the son requests his portion of what the father's life would leave him. And if you put yourself in the shoes of the Father at that point , you would maybe expect anger from the Father. You would maybe expect him to even expel his son out of the family for such disrespect, or at least a rebuke. So it's actually quite shocking when we see that the father heeds to the son's requests and divines the property up. The father endures a tremendous amount of uh a loss of honor and also the pain of a a very son rejecting him, wishing he was dead so he can simply have his belongings. So then we're told that the son liquefies his assets, he he makes it in the cash, and he travels to a faraway land. And there we're told squanders everything through an out-of-control lifestyle through prodigal living. And we aren't giving uh any details uh about how uh the prodigal spent his money or or even how long it took him before he had to start scaling back his lifestyle But the question would soon become, not what was simply the cheapest wine or the cheapest women, the question would soon become whether he could even get a piece of bread So he wasted his inheritance and the friends he has are obviously not the kind who would take him in to feed him or give him anything. So he has to get a job. And uh so he doesn't starve, and the only job that he he finds in this family struck economy is that of feeding pigs for a swine herder. And the point of this sun feeding pigs is not simply that it's a messy and lowly occupation, which it is Um but the point is that pigs are unclean to the Jewish people. So in a very uh in in very few verses, just in a few verses We see this younger brother, this younger son 's fall. He's now an alien. He's far from home. He's estranged, he's lost, and now he's even unclean. And his meager earnings can't even afford him enough to get bread on the table. So in verse seventeen, we come to the prodigal 's uh process of repentance And uh it's not glamorized here in the parable, and it probably began in the depths of his stomach rather than the depths of his heart. And in verse 17 he says How many of my father's hired men have food to spare? And here I am starving to death. So it his mind reflects back upon the meals he had at home, the the meals he had with his father. And in verse 17 still he says, when he came to himself, that is, when he came to his senses, he makes a plan. He's going to return to his father. He's going to admit that he was wrong. And he's going to say, you know, Father, I've I've forfeited my right to even be your son And he intends to ask the father there, make me like one of your hired hands. Because maybe if he comes back to the family, he can work as a hired hand, maybe to pay back uh s some of what he owed to the family. So he puts his plan into action, and we're told he arose and he went. So the younger son now makes his journey back home. And as he comes within sight of the house, in sight of home, after all the humiliation, after all the disgrace and the pain that he's caused his family, He really can't anticipate the response that awaits him. But his father sees him, uh, we're told, why he's still afar off, and he runs at him And distinguished men did not run, but the father runs to him, showing a great amount of emotion and passion, and embraces his son and kisses his dirty and stinky face. Amazing grace of the Father, so full and free to welcome back his Son. And notice how the father doesn't respond. Put yourself in the father's shoes of how you might be tempted to respond to your son. But notice how he doesn't respond. He doesn't say, oh. It's you. Well, you can stay for a little while, but you better go out and start looking for a job. It's not like that at all. He doesn't say that at all. In fact, the son begins to speak, but the father interrupts him, not ignoring his speech, but but purposely contradicting it. He says, quick. Bring the best robe and put it on put it on him. A sign of restored standing back into the family. The father's telling the son, you're not going to earn your way back into the family. I'm going to simply take you back. I will cover your nakedness, your poverty, your rags with the glory of my riches and my wealth. In fact, we're told he he kills the fatted calf, which was reserved for special occasions and parties So now we have this full-fledged uh feast going on with music and dancing, all to celebrate the restoration of the younger son back into the family. And the father is not ashamed of his son either. In fact, he he calls all the neighbors in to come celebrate with him. There's no delay In restoring the Son and welcoming him back home. The penitent son is received readily Pardoned freely and completely accepted by the Father. So it is with the repentant sinner who comes to God. And I suppose there are some of you younger brother types among us today, and maybe you're not the prodigal today, but maybe it's in your near future. Maybe some of you who are younger and and under your your parent supervision and you y you're hating every minute of it? Maybe maybe the prodigal lifestyle is in your near future. Is that where you are? Is that where you have been? Have you lived a life full of shame and regret? Well, come to your senses and come home. God 's love and forgiveness can pardon and restore every kind of sin and wrongdoing. There is no evil that the Father's love cannot forgive and cover. There is no sin that is a match for his grace. God graciously welcomes you home. But now our attention turns to the elder brother. Who from this point dominates the story with the Father. So while the younger son shows us the freedness, the greatness of God 's welcome. The elder brother shows us the costliness of that welcome. Look in verse 25, we come to the the elder brother. And the elder brother hears from the servants that his younger brother has returned and has been brought back into the family with a feast. And the elder brother is furious. He's angry. You see, now it's the elder brother's turn to disgrace and to dishonor his father. He refuses to go in to what is perhaps the biggest feast, the biggest public event his father has put on And he remains outside publicly disapproving of what the father is doing. And the father comes out to speak to his son. Which is a demeaning thing to do if you're the host of a party and you have to come out and speak to your son who's complaining and whining. It's a demeaning thing to do if you're the host of the party. And how does the father respond to his son who is now showing him public disrespect and humiliation? Oh, he pleads with him. He pleads with his older son to swallow his pride and to come There's an irony here in this text. There's a great irony that's that's happening right now in this text. You see, the perceived insider of the family is shown to be an outsider. Though the older son stayed home, he is actually more distant and alienated from his father than his younger brother. Because he was blind by his true condition. He does not see that he is in fact truly lost. He too is estranged from his father. Well how? You know, I always thought the the younger brother You know, never did anything wrong. So so what is what is the elder brother's condition? How is he too estranged from his father? Well, why does the elder brother get so angry? Why does he get so furious at what the father is doing? Well, in verse 29 he tells us. He says, I've never disobeyed you. You see, it's not his reckless sins. It's not his prodigal living or his wayward lifestyle that is creating a barrier between him and his father. It's his pride. It's his pride and his moral record and his moral uprightness. It's not his wrongdoing But it's its self-righteousness that is keeping him from sharing in the feast of the Father. So younger the the younger and the older brother both have the same goals. Uh the bo the younger and the older brother both have the same desire of the heart, but they are simply going about it in different ways. They they both have the same goals, they both have the the same want, but both of them going about it in different ways. Because what did the younger brother want in life? What did the the younger brother want in life? But he wanted the family's riches apart from the father's supervision and care. He wanted to make his own decisions and have complete control of his father's wealth. Well what did the older son want? What was his desire? What did the older brother want? Well, if we think about it, we come to realize that he wanted the same thing. He was just as resentful and bitter of the father as was the younger son. He too wanted the Father's goods rather than the Father himself. But he's simply going about it in a different way. So while the younger brother seeks what he wants by outright defiance and rebellion, the older brother gets control by never disobeying. The elder brother is furious now because he feels his obedience demands certain rights and privileges. His unspoken demand is, I've never disobeyed you. Now you have to do things in my life the way I want them to be done. I've obeyed you. And now, Father, you must do what I want you to do. You see, both are using the Father just in different ways to get the things that are really on their heart, which is wealth. Pleasure. But they don't love the father. The elder brother's resent shows that the father's love and pleasure had never really been his goal. So if you, like the elder brother, you believe that God owes you answered prayers and a and a good and pleasant and comfortable life because you've worked so hard to obey him and be a good person. Well Jesus might be your example or your friend, but Jesus isn't your savior. You're serving as your own savior If you seek to control and manipulate God through your obedience, then all your morality is just a way to use God to make him give the things, the make him give you the things in life you really want. Do you feel that God owes you a better life? After all you've done for him? After how faithful you are to come to to Sunday services and to go to youth group and to go to home fellowship meetings, that God owes you something, owes you a good life. Are you obeying God simply just to get things? Or do you obey God because you love Him? Or do you obey God because you know Him? You delight Him in. You delight in Him and what He's done for you And when your life doesn't go as you want, do you get more than than simply sorrowful, but but you become bitter and angry? Well, if you think goodness and morality is a way to merit a good life from God, you're simply going to be eaten up with anger. Because life, as many of you know, never goes the way we want it to. You see, religious and moral people can avoid Jesus as Savior just as much as the younger brother prodigal types. Here we are in Luke chapter 15. And Luke tells us that Jesus told three parables actually at that time. So uh he and he tells these parables to Pharisees who were complaining about uh his interactions with sinners. And the first parable that Jesus tells is the parable of the lost sheep And the the the lost sheep, uh one goes out, and the shepherd goes out to to find the lost sheep, and he finds them and he brings them back home, and there's rejoicing. The second parable is the parable of the lost coin. A woman had silver coins, she loses one She goes and she flips up the house till she finds a coin and she finds it and then there's a great celebration when she's found uh her her lost silver coin And then we come to this third parable, and you can already see the similarities in the parable, uh in in the parables that something's lost in each, um th and the one who loses something gets it back. And then there's a great celebration. But something is strikingly missing in this third parable that Jesus tells. Something is clearly missing that the other two have, but that the third parable is missing No one goes out to search for the younger brother. No one goes out to find the younger brother, like the other two parables. But suppose the older brother had actually loved his father. Suppose the older brother actually wasn't simply trying to manipulate the father. to give him the things he wants. But suppose the older brother actually took pleasure in his father. What would he have done? Well, surely he would have come running into the house when he heard his younger brother had come home. And perhaps Uh perhaps maybe even uh he would have been looking for his brother, like his father was looking, and when he saw his brother coming home, he would have he would have ran out first to meet his brother and welcome him back in But perhaps, maybe, even perhaps, if he had really loved his father, he might have said, I will go look for him. I will look for him and bring him home. And if he's spent his inheritance, Father, if I suppose he has, I'll bring him back at my own expense. Because it's only at the elder brother's expense that the younger brother can be brought back in. The younger brother had gotten his one-third of the inheritance, and it was completely gone. And so when the father says to the older brother, my son, everything I have is yours, the father's telling the truth. Everything that was left in the family was the elder brother's son by right. Every penny that remained of the family's estate belonged to the elder brother. Every robe, every ring, every fatted calf was the elder son 's by right But the younger brother's restoration came at an enormous cost to the elder brother. Because the father could not reinstate the younger brother except at the expense of the elder brother. There was no other way. So what do we need as lost sons, both both younger and and elder brother types? What do we need as a strange sons to be brought back in to the family to the festival feast of the father's salvation. But we need a true elder brother. We need the type of brother who is willing to pay any cost to seek and to save that which is lost. And by leaving Astana a true and good elder brother in this story we have before us, Jesus is inviting us to imagine and to yearn for one. And we have him. His name is Jesus. And think of the true elder brother that we have We don't need simply a brother who will go to the next county or the next country to bring us home. We needed the type of brother who would come all the way from heaven to earth to take on flesh for us. We needed the type of brother who is not simply willing to pay a finite amount of money, but we needed an elder brother who would pay an infinite cost of his own life To bring us back to the Father. You see, we have rebelled against God the Father, and we deserve alienation, isolation , rejection And our true elder brother Jesus paid our debt on the cross, and in our place that we might so freely and graciously now accept the Father's welcome. Jesus is in fact the true heir of all things. It's Jesus who has the only sole right to all things To all the rings, all the robes, all the riches, all the world belong to Jesus And he doesn't simply say as the elder brother in this story, it's all mine, but he gives it away. On the cross, Jesus was treated as that outcast so that we could be brought back into God's family. He was stripped of his robe, of his dignity, so that we could be clothed with a dignity and standing we don't deserve. Jesus drank the cup of God's eternal justice so that we can enter the festival to drink the cup of God's eternal joy. There was no other way for the Heavenly Father to bring us back in, except at the expense of our older brother. Jesus seeks and he finds us. And he cleanses us, he closes , he clothes us, and he makes us an heir with him of all things. You see, heaven is not prepared by a fatted calf. Heaven's feast is prepared by the broken body and the spilt blood of Jesus. The welcome of the Father that the Father extends to us is costly. Forgiveness is costly For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. At the cost of his life, he paid our debt, purchasing for us life and peace and acceptance back into God's family. He came to bring us home, and he calls you home today. And for those who put their trust and believe in Jesus, well, a joyous welcome awaits you. And notice finally the the father's welcome, how joyous it is. The father doesn't arraign his his son with questions. He doesn't say, how dare you He welcomes him with joy. His son was dead, he's now alive, was lost, and is found. And we see he welcomes both of his lost sons into his feast. At the end of this story, there's this feast of homecoming where no expense is spared. And at the end of the book of Revelation, at the end of history, we're told there too is a feast. A celebration to those who have come to the Father, but death and misery to those who don't. Isaiah 35 tells us, Your God will come. He will come to save you. Then will the eyes of the blind be opened, and the ears of the deaf be unstopped. Then will the lame leap like a deer, and the mute tongue shout for joy. The ransom of the Lord will return. They will enter Zion with singing, everlasting joy will crown their heads, gladness and joy will overtake them, and sorrow and sighing will flee away. You see, Jesus comes to bring us to the ultimate party. In verse ten, uh the tet the verse right before our text It tells us that angels rejoice in heaven when a sinner returns home to the Father. Well, if angels rejoice in heaven when a sinner returns home, it ought to be the same with us We too also must rejoice. But some of you might say, maybe some of you older brother types might say What if those who are converted were the vilest of vilest? You know what if they were the the most based? What if they were the most perverted. What if they were the most wicked person and they have wasted their life for so many years? And they're they're they've wasted their body and their material with wicked living Well it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Those are in fact the wrong questions to be asking. But rather, has grace come to their hearts? Are they truly penitent? Have they come back to the Father's house? Are the dead made alive and the lost found? You see, those are are the questions we we have the right to ask And we ought to rejoice and be glad when anyone turns and comes back to the Father to come home. You see, Jesus tells this story to the Pharisees, who were doing just as the elder brother in our story was doing, refusing to associate with sinners. And Jesus shows them, both younger and older brother types, that both are separated from God and both are invited into the feast. And if you're a believer today, you know the Father's joy over you. You know how he rejoices over you with singing. But what does the Father's love over you mean to you? What does it mean of the Father's love over lost sinners? Well doesn't it also mean that we too must be welcoming to the lost? Welcome the lost to our tables and not simply only welcome them, but go and find them, to go to go at any cost to seek and to save that which is lost. To rejoice over them. But let me end this sermon as the parable ends with a decision to be made. The parable ends in verse 32. The father uh is pleading with his son to come, and we're left as readers waiting for the brothers final answer. Will he or will he not accept the father's invitation? So the story places that decision in your laps and forces you to choose this day whom you will serve. What will you do? Will you come home to the Father? Or will you stay outside? And I plead with you to come. The Father welcomes you so graciously at such an enormous cost and is waiting with open arms with joy. Let today be the most memorable welcome that you remember. Let today be the day when you remember you casting off your guilt and shame. When the chains fell off and your heart was finally free, when anxiety and fear melted from your heart, and for the first time you trusted and believed in Jesus Christ. Let today be the day when you come running home to the Father who awaits with open arms Jesus holds the door open for you. Jesus comes to the pig pen and he puts his arms around you and says, come. Are you a prodigal far from the gates of heaven? Jesus comes now to lift you up. Are you a Pharisee? Are you a smug Pharisee flaunting your self-righteousness? Repent and come No matter where you are, cast all away and hold fast to Jesus. For those who will have faith in Jesus, for those who will believe in him. Welcome home. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you that we can call you our Father, the one who spoke and it was. We thank you, we can call you Father. Lord, we thank you for giving us a true and good elder brother, Jesus Christ, who would give his life for us. Father, we we thank you for graciously welcoming us home. Jesus, we we thank you for the great cost. Of your life, of your inheritance, that we might be welcomed. In Spirit, we pray that you truly would rest upon us That we would too rejoice over sinners as they come home. Lord, we do thank you for Jesus. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.