Now let's hear again the Christmas story from God's Word as Matthew tells it to us. Matthew's account of this from Matthew Chapter 1, beginning with verse 18, going to chapter 2, verse 12. I know it doesn't feel like Christmas in here. I feel like taking my jacket off. It's kind of warm. like summer. But uh let's maybe that's good because you know it wasn't any snow back there in uh Jerusalem on that first Christmas. Uh it was a little chilly, kinda high, about uh eight hundred or so feet up in the air. But it was chilly, but it wasn't uh wasn't with the snow on the ground that you often hear. But let's hear God's word and put ourselves back in that situation. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin shall be with child, and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, what he did, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and he took Mary home as his wife, but he had no union with her till she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, During the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, Where is the one who has been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the East and have come to worship him. When Herod, King Herod, heard this, he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him. When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them, Where the Christ, the Messiah, was to be born. In Bethlehem in Judea, they replied, For this is what the prophet is written. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah. are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people Israel. Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and make a careful search for the child, and as soon as you find him, report to me so that I too may go and worship him. After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen to the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. And when they saw the star, they were overjoyed. And coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshipped him. Then they opened their treasures, and they presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route. In our own household, one of our traditions growing up was uh that our kids would uh sometimes have uh their friends go with us through the neighborhood and we would have Carol sings and then we would have the kids come back to our place and have hot chocolate and cookies and I would do a kind of a Christmas trivia quiz with the kids that I would then gradually lead to the meaning of the message of Christmas and use that as an opportunity to share the gospel. A couple of my favorite questions that I would ask them would be one, uh true or false? The Magi presented gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh to Jesus in the stable. And of course, uh, if you're sharp, you pick up that that's false, right? Because the Magi did not visit Jesus in the stable. All the Christmas cards that you have ever received, notwithstanding The Magi saw Jesus in a house. Remember verse 11, we just read it. When coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother, and they bowed down and they worshipped him. This was not uh sometime around the time of the shepherds, it was over a year later, sometime between one and two years, and by that time Joseph and Mary had found a house. They still weren't living in the stable after a year or two Then another of the questions that I would ask them is, how many Magi were there? And of course people would uh often say three, that's easy. Uh you know, we all know we three kings of Orient are, right? But of course, the true answer is that the Bible doesn't tell us how many kings or magi there were. We have no idea The tradition that there were three grew from the fact that they gave three gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And so from that it was concluded that there probably were three, one gift per king, you know But we really don't know. Uh and so it's probably based on the fact that we three kings of Orion R sounds better than we two kings of Orion R or We seven kings of Orion are, or we a certain number of kings of Orion are, or whatever else you could do to try and be more faithful to Scripture. But the fact is that we really don't know. In fact, when you think about it, we know very, very little about these magi. Not only do we not know how many We simply know that they came from the East, that they were Gentiles, and that they know very little of the Old Testament because they had to consult Herod to find out where the Messiah was to be born. Very little is known of them. The whole emphasis is on their worshiping as Gentiles. They are the first fruits of the Gentiles to come to worship Messiah. And they come, as I said, when Jesus is not a baby in a manger, but is rather a toddler. In fact, I picture the scene as they come to the house with little Jesus standing there. Between one and two, he can walk at this point, probably can talk some, and he's conscious of their worship. That's important to realize. He's not unaware of what's going on. He's probably standing there between Joseph and Mary, and they prostrate themselves before him. Isn't it interesting to imagine what was Jesus thinking as these three royal figures come in, or four or five or whatever? See, I slip into it myself, you know. However many there were there. As they all come in and they prostrate themselves before him and put the three gifts there before his feet, you know. Then you you picture what would it have been like Here's Jesus. He's not trying to get attention. He's not trying to manipulate the situation. He's not trying to get away. He's not rude. He's not impatient. He's a one-year-old at its best. Playful, innocent, probably picks up the gold articles and starts to play with them. Enjoys the aroma of the frankincense and the myrrh. He received their worship. Now we don't know what he was thinking, but the focus, as I say again, in the scripture is on what the gifts were. Now did you ever ask yourself why did they give him these three gifts? Why gold, frankincense, and myrrh? I would like to suggest that um you and I, when we think about giving gifts, uh try to give something appropriate, probably One of the things that's uh bothered you in the last uh few weeks is uh what do you give to Aunt Sally and Uncle Joe? And you know, what do you give to your family and your friends? What's appropriate? But what do you give to a Messiah? Now there's no precedent for that. So what are they going to give to him? I would like to suggest that the gifts were highly meaningful and symbolic, or else the scripture wouldn't have bothered to tell us what they were And so I would like to suggest further that the gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh were given because they tell us something about the nature of the person and the work of Jesus as Messiah. That they're highly instructive to us, and in fact it helps us, almost on Christmas Eve of this year, to reflect on the meaning of those gifts in order to dispel from our minds some of the sentimental nonsense that we often hear at this time of year about what Christmas is all about. So as we look at these gifts, let's find in them the meaning of Jesus coming. First of all, they gave him gold. Why gold? Look at your bulletin outline there. You see it's gold because he is king. Gold because he is king. Gold is the medal of kings. It says that they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold and incense and myrrh. This is Matthew 2, 11. Gold. Gold, the medal of kings. In the Old Testament, gold is the sign of royalty from the gold that was given to by Pharaoh to Joseph, indicating his favor before Pharaoh, a gold chain in Genesis 41, to the gold that was given by Belshazzar to Daniel for interpreting his dream. Throughout the Old Testament, gold speaks of royalty. Crowns are made of gold. Solomon's wealth is depicted particularly by the amount of gold that he had. In 1 Kings chapter 10 in verses 14 to 22. Solomon's gold is mentioned ten times, and I told you in a message just a few weeks ago that Solomon's mines produced, remember how much? Twenty-five tons of gold a year. Can you imagine that? That was the degree of his wealth. For gold is the medal of kings. Gold is dazzlingly brilliant. It never rusts or decays. Gold lasts for centuries. I never got to see the display of King Tut's gold as it passed through this country. But I've heard from my friends who did get to see it, those gold articles, they said there's something about pure gold that's different. It's dazzling. And after thousands of years, there was no sign of decay, corrosion on it. Gold is incorruptible relatively. Gold is dazzlingly brilliant. It's the medal of kings. And so in Psalm 72, the psalmist tells us that the gifts that will be given to Messiah As king are gifts of gold from the Gentiles, and that's fulfilled here in the gifts from the Magi. And so what the Magi are doing is they're paying tribute to Jesus as king. They're giving what costs them a great deal, cost them a great deal in terms of their time to make the trip It cost them a great deal in terms of giving up of their wealth to give this to Jesus. But why do they do it? Because in their minds, as little as they know of him, in their minds, he's worth it. Let me ask you this morning. How much is Jesus worth to you? Is He worth giving the representation of your time? And of your money, of that which is precious to you, giving what costs in your life to Jesus because you acknowledge him as King with a right to rule your life If you're a Christian celebrating Christmas this year, then you are indicating that Jesus is worth your praise. He is worth your service And Jesus has a right to rule your life because he's king. He has a right to set your priorities. Where your work fits into your life and why you work, your motives for working, and all the things that you do. Jesus is the one who rules you in how you treat other people Especially when they hurt you or use you and abuse you. He's your master. You treat them in the way that he dictates. And Jesus is the one who determines how you respond to frustrating circumstances, to problems and adversities in your health, job insecurity, bad marriage. All kinds of pressures that come unexpected upon you. If Jesus is your king, he's worth your worship, and you bow to his rule I'd like to take just a moment right now for us to bow, close our eyes, and before we go on, let's just pause and give to Jesus our worship. Worship him in your heart now. Confess to him that area that you've been resisting his rule. Acknowledge the worthwhile of him as a person to receive your best. So we might need to push the fruit. I believe we don't see the poison. I can't believe you are I said praise because that's what the wall is. Prophets for us for all of his grace. So So he's Smallest such as all the soul So Lord Jesus, you are worthy of our worship because you are King. Lord, dispel from our hearts those foolish notions that we can in some glib and superficial way celebrate your birth while resisting your rule in our lives Lord, in the hectic pace of so many things in these last days and weeks, we've drifted. Some of us, Lord, found that this time has more separated us from you than to bring us closer. We want again right now to recommit ourselves to you as the king of our lives in every area. For you are our Lord. Amen The second gift that they gave to him was that of frankincense. You see there in verse 12, they opened their treasures, presented him with gifts of gold. Incense, which is frankincense and myrrh. Now frankincense is simply pure incense It's from a root meaning white, because it's derived from the milky-colored substance, a juice that is gained from cutting the bark of a certain tree in South Arabia and East Africa You see it pictured there in your bulletin outline what the plant looks like. The Old Testament refers to it almost always in terms of holy service to the Lord. Incense, frankincense, is an important material, the important ingredient used in the holy oil in the temple. Used in the meal offerings, used in the holy incense to the Lord. That incense, you remember, was sprinkled on the coals. And then the incense was a fragrant aroma burning on those coals that wafted up in the temple and pictured the prayers and the thanks of God's people ascending to God as a fragrant aroma. So incense was that which was fragrant to God and to man, used in the service to the Lord. Incense was never mixed with sin offerings. It was always simply in terms of pure worship. And so we see that by this the Magi are acknowledging that Jesus is holy and without sin, that he is the perfect high priest who's come to offer not a lamb. But Himself is the only sacrifice acceptable to God for your sin. He alone is eligible Because his life alone was a perfect offering of worship to God. His whole life was pictured as incense, pleasing to God This little child that they come to worship of between one and two years has never sinned, never been disobedient or selfish or mean or spiteful. And he never would. At the age of thirty, his father declared from heaven, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. His life was a perfect life. And so he alone is able to take your sin and to pay for it before God at the awful price that your sin and mine deserves. And because he is holy, they are declaring also that his holiness, secondly you see there, shows that he is divine in nature. His sacrifice is sufficient because his holiness is ultimate holiness. He is God incarnate, utterly separate from sinners. His very nature is a unique divine human nature. And so Jesus is the holy one that you and I need. He's the one who's undefiled, who's able to offer his record in your place before God. And when God looks at your life, he sees Jesus' record He sees that pleasing frankincense that is delightful to him. And you and I are acceptable to him. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Think about in Christmas. All the things that you've done, the things you've tried to control, the things you just confessed to him about as Lord, to know that because he is frankincense, those things are forgiven. Let's pause again just for a moment and thank God, worship him, for the fact that his perfect life on your behalf is acceptable to God. Let's pause in prayer for just a moment Anyone who wants to, feel free to lead us aloud now in thanksgiving and praise. Or at least it's probably always Lord, how we thank you for this picture of frankincense, a pure and pleasing aroma. That was used in pure worship to you. Lord, how we thank you That that was a picture of Jesus. And so because of that, our lives, this Christmas season Are pleasing and acceptable to you because his record has been presented to you on behalf of each of us who have trusted him, not ourselves, not our own record. But exchange that by faith in Jesus and the record that He offers. Thank you that every one of us can know that our lives are acceptable to you. When we have trusted Him and forsaken our own ways and given our lives to you by faith. Thank you for that assurance. We praise and worship you. With joy and thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen. Finally, the third gift that the Magi offered was the gift of myrrh. Gifts of gold and incense and of myrrh. Myrrh, because he was born to die. Gold because he's king. Frankincense because he's holy. Mare because he was born to die. Mara is obtained by piercing the skin or the bark of a small balsam tree, which you see pictured there in the bulletin outline. That's what it looks like. You pierce the skin of that little tree, balsam tree, and an amazing thing would happen The plant would bleed a milky white gum, which as soon as it turned outside of the plant, it turned blood red. So mere was a picture of suffering. Myr was used to drug pain in Jesus' day. It was also used to purify the dead Nicodemus used a hundred pounds of myrrh for the body of Jesus when he was taken from the cross. Myrrh is fragrant, a beautiful fragrance. It was one of the best -selling colognes of the day. The Song of Solomon refers to Myr ten times as that which was uh A very fragrant aroma used by men and women. Uh didn't shower quite as much as we do. They probably had to pour on a lot of that myrrh. Jusman, the Song of Solomon, more than all the rest of the Old Testament put together. In fact, it's almost never mentioned in terms of worship or anything of service to God. Mirror is used by man for suffering and to make life more pleasant. So mirror, by this gift the magi are acknowledging that Jesus is going to suffer. That he's going to die. That this playful little one-year-old who stands before them, toying with their gifts, has come to be a human sacrifice. Because of his love for you and for me. I was reading just this week about a pastor evangelist who is at the Moscow Conference for Evangelism in October. His name was Peter He had pastored a church there for a number of years when it was illegal. And some time ago the communist had closed his church, and so he and his flock had a meet outside or under a tent. Often in sub-zero weather for worship. So if you feel a little bit uncomfortable here this morning, not only is it the opposite direction, but it's far less than those brothers and sisters ever had to contend with. One time Peter went on a visit to some friends in Finland. And his friends in Finland said, Peter, we would like for you to have a warm pair of boots made from camel hide. And so he tried them on and they felt so good. Then he took them off and he gave them back to them. And he said, Thanks, but I can't accept these because if I did I wouldn't understand what my people feel, for their feet are cold. And then he smiled and he said, Besides, if I wore these boots, I wouldn't know when to stop preaching. Probably some of you wish that sometimes Harris would get cold feet. But I thought of his sacrifice and was very moved by what he did to identify with his people. And I thought of Jesus, who left glory, so that he would come and sacrifice himself for you and for me. You remember when Jesus hung on the cross, they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, and he refused it. Because he wanted to taste fully the suffering on behalf of his people. Jesus wanted to taste to the full every final bit to the dregs. of the cup of suffering, so that your s your salvation and mine would be a perfect salvation. That there would be no suffering left for us to have to endure when our redemption is completed. Isaiah chapter 60 speaks of the coming of Messiah. Speaks of him coming in his glory and in his fullness in that last day when we shall see him as he really is. It's interesting that Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 6, two gifts are given to Messiah there, not three. The two gifts are gold and frankincense No merr. Why? Because in that day his suffering will have ended He died once for all to put away sins. And Jesus never has to die again. And you and I, when we see him , We'll remember that his death was complete and sufficient for us, and there's no more need for mirror. And so as you and I think of him this Christmas time, we come to remember That at his second coming there will be no suffering as there was at the first. And so finally, again, in conclusion, bow with me. Close your eyes and worship Jesus. whose work was typified by Myrrh and the offering of himself as a sacrifice on your behalf And on mine. And as we think of that time when he came the first time as a sin offering to die. Think of how we look forward for him coming the second time, when there will be no suffering for him or for you or for me. But only that rest and that delight in the salvation that he's purchased