Second Corinthians chapter five, reading verses one to fifteen Now we note that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven not built by human hands. Meanwhile, we grow longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling, because when we are clothed we will not be found naked. For while we are in this tent, we groan and are burdened, because we do not wish to be unclothed, but to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling. So that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. Now it is God who has made us for this very purpose, and has given us the Spirit as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. Therefore, we are always confident. And know that as long as we are firm in the body, we are away from the Lord. We live by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and unhold it the Lord. So we make it our goal to please Him, whether we are at home in the body or away from Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And each one may receive what is due to him for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad. Since when we know what it is to fear the Lord, we try to persuade them. That we are as plain to God, and I hope it is also plain to your conscience. We are not trying to commend ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity to take pride in it so that you can answer those who take pride in what is seen rather than what is in the heart. If we are out of our mind, it is for the sake of God. If we are in our right mind, it is for you For Christ's love compels us, because we are convinced to point out for all, and therefore all die. And he died for all that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. So far, God's Word. Now let's seek to understand. By and large, I do not enjoy rushing through the scripture. Uh to me it's sort of like jogging through Longwood Gardens or the National Arboretum in May Just this past week I came across hundreds of daffodils that were arrayed along a woodside. And uh the sight was kind of overwhelming until I stooped and took into my hand one daffodil. And as I looked at that golden trumpet set upon clean, pure, fringed pebbles, I saw in that one daffodil the essence of the beauty of the hundreds that were before me. And I could look at that, I could be Begin to take that in. And so then it is that when we talk about the love of Christ, we can skip from passage to passage and we can discuss a point here and an insight boom there, and we can put it all together and we can say now we have We have a doctrine of the love of Christ and its effect upon us. But what I would rather do with you is that I would like to take a look at the love of Christ and its effect upon us as believers by looking at two verses. And I'd like to spend some time looking at these two verses. Perhaps five weeks, five messages, looking at 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 14 and 15, in order to get some answers to some very basic questions that we have as Christians, as followers of Jesus Christ. I would like to look at these two verses that break down into three basic questions. The three basic questions that these two verses have to deal with are, number one, what is it that motivates you to do what you do? The question of motivation. And the answer given by the verse is simply the love of Christ. Whatever else may motivate you to do what you do, the biblical motivation, bottom line. Is the love of Christ. That's the most basic answer for a Christian. But then the second question is: how is that love seen? How is the love of Christ seen? And here again these two verses answered by his death and his resurrection for you and for me. That's how this love is seen. That's the most basic way it is seen. Of whatever notion you have about seeing it, that is the most basic And it's the most inclusive. And then the third question that these verses have to deal with, then, are why did he do this? What was his purpose in dying and rising forth? Why did he die for them? Why did he rise? And the most simple, basic answer given in these verses is that he has a new life for need to live for him. He has a new life for me to live for him. That's the most basic answer you can give to that question. And so we're going to take a look at these two verses. And these verses, as we look at them, will also deal with many other things. Questions that have to do with the Christian life. For instance, they touch on in these verses: what's the relationship between the emotions and the mind in the Christian life? You know these verses touch on that? Well they do in their context. What is the relationship between my emotions as I consider the love of Christ and my mind as I consider the love of Christ and how that affects me? And how does the will relate to the emotions? and the mind and the Christian life. What did Christ's death actually accomplish for me? Is another question that we'll take up. For whom did Christ die? If he died breathing them , why isn't everybody saved? These verses speak to that too. What does it mean to die with Christ? We speak about that often as Christians. Did died with Christ. We died in Christ. We died when he died. What does that mean? What exactly is that talking about? And what does it have to do with how I live the Christian life? Take up that question too. What about the power to live the Christian life? What if I don't feel like I have the power to overcome sin? What's the problem if I feel that kind of dilemma? These verses speak to that also. But this morning I want to give just that first question. And I don't want to rush, I just want to look at it so that we can take this verse. as a precious blossom of God's Word, and let it examine closely to see something about the love of Christ and its effect on us. So the first question I want to deal with this morning is simply that question. What is it that drives me as a Christian? What is it that motivates me? And the answer in this verse is the love of Christ. And so the question that I want to deal with is: what effect is it that the love of Christ is to have on me as a believer? How is it to do that? What is the effect of the love of Christ? When one of his disciples, what should be the effect of that love? Talk about the love of Christ from time to time. But what about the effect of that love? And we're given here one of the simplest Most basic, straightforward answers in all scripture. And it's simply there at the beginning of verse 14. The love of Christ compels us. Or, if you have a new American standard, the love of Christ controls us. It compels us. It controls us. Now, it's clear that this love of Christ is not talking about love for Christ, but it's talking about Christ's love for the need. That's what the verse is speaking about. It's his love. Because that's what Paul goes on to describe in the rest of verse 14 and 15. So when I consider the love of Christ, what does it do? Paul says it compels me. And what does that mean? Think about that. The Greek word that's used there is a very colorful word. In fact, it's so colorful that I'm going to spend the rest of this message just trying to get a handle on what that word means so that we can understand this morning simply what it means for the love of Christ to come. Basically, that Greek word means to hold something together so it doesn't fall apart. That's what I do. Basically, word in its root means for hold something together so it doesn't fall apart. It was the word used in Atlas So he's holding together the world. He's holding together all things in the Greek view of the universe, you know, so it didn't fall apart. And that word is used with Atlas holding together the world It's the word also that the Greeks use concerning your skin. You ever think about it that way? Your skin holds your body together so it doesn't fall apart. Well, you know, your bones have something to do with that too. But you take all the skin away and things are going to sort of fall apart. They're going to fall out. This is the word that's To talk about what skin does to the body. It keeps it together so it doesn't all fall apart. It compels it, it controls it, it hemms it in, it surrounds it And that's the word that Paul uses here about the love of Christ. It's a motivation word. It's a word that when you talk about something that that compels, constrains, heads in, closes up, so there's no alternatives but one. This is the word that you use. And so we want to look at it and how it affects our being in three different ways. The love of Christ compels or controls me by, number one, compelling my actions. That's referring to my will. And it compels my actions because, secondly, it consumes my passions, my emotions. And it does that, it consumes my passions because thirdly it controls my thinking, my mind. So it compels me, it consumes me, and it controls me. Each of those are shades of meaning of what this word here in the beginning of verse 14, the love of Christ, compels or controls, or consumes me. So let's break it down and take a look at what that means now in its various parts. First of all, then it compels my actions. When I think of the love of Christ, Paul says it compels my actions. The word is to hold me prison, to surround me, to give me no choice, to head me in. Luke 8, verse 45. And you have that situation. Remember when the woman touched Jesus, the head of his plate? And the disciples marveled that he was saying, Who touched me? Because Luke says, everyone was pressing in upon him But the word there to press in upon them is a crowd is the same word as we have here to compel, to compel my actions, to press in upon my actions. To give me no choice where to go. But I'm pressed in by the love of Christ. The same word is used in Luke 12, 50, where Jesus speaks of the baptism that he has. Remember, we talked about that a couple of weeks ago. Of the baptism of suffering that he has. has that compels him to go to the cross. And that's the same word that's used there. It's the word that's used in Luke 22, 63, where you leave it in bars. We're holding Jesus prisoner And when you read it, then guarding Jesus, holding him prisoner, it's the same word that we have here for compelling me. The love of Christ holds me prisoner, it guards me, it hemms me in, it gives me no choice where to go. What did Paul mean by this? What he's basically saying is, you want to know why I act as I do, it's the love of Christ. Now look at the context to understand what he's talking about. The problem you see is back in verse 12, Paul's talking about certain Super saints. Now these were super spiritual Christians who said that Paul isn't very spiritual. Because in public meetings he doesn't demonstrate ecstasy. He's clearly not a spirit-filled believer. He doesn't speak in tongues and public prayer. He doesn't go into ecstasy. He doesn't do dancing in the spirit. He doesn't roll in the eyes. He clearly doesn't really love the Lord sufficiently And so Paul's dealing with that question, that problem of the dead-day church. What he says in verse 12 is, we're not time to commit ourselves again, but it's time to give you an opportunity to take this It's a kind of a backward way of saying, so you won't be ashamed of us. So you don't say, well, you know, I'm trying to follow what Paul says on the ways of Jesus Christ. And and Paul's saying, but they're saying, you know, you're following a pretty unspiritual leader. And Paul says I don't want you to be ashamed of me as an apostle. So he says, I'm writing to you so you can take pride in me, so you don't have to be ashamed of me. So you can answer this who take pride rather than what's seen to to measure spirituality, rather than what's in the heart. Then he says you've got these people, all they look at is what you do. You know the people go around every time you say something to them, they ask you, Praise the Lord. And you ask them what time it is, and they tell you, Praise the Lord. And he says, everything that they do, they always have spiritual talk and spiritual jargon to impress you with their spirituality. But they're not very concerned with what's in the heart. Then he says in verse 13, now he says, If I'm out of my mind, And he says I am, he says I have at other places. In other words, the Greek believes in an ecstatic state. We'll talk about that more leftly. So if I'm out of my mind, it's for the sake of God Like brace to him. Ah, notice. If I'm in my right mind, it's for you. Paul says, when I'm ministering to you, I want to stay in my right mind because that's more beneficial to you. Paul says, What determines how I act for you? the way I act in a public meeting and the way I treat you in my ministry. I'm going to do it right on four, you see. Well the law principle, whenever you see a four, find out what it's there for. Verse 14, 4 Christ's love compels me. Also, do you want to know how I decide how I'm going to act, whether I'm going to be in ecstasy or whether I'm going to be in my lifeline? It's the love of Christ that controls that decision. When I want to decide how I'm going to treat my brother and sister Tell I'm going to minister, whatever decision I make, it's the love of Christ that hands me in. I see there wasn't some verse that Paul could appeal to here. That's important. Because what it's saying is for you and for me But we decide in some area of our life how to live, what decision to take, or what course of action to take And we don't have some precise scripture to uh direct us in one way or the other, or if we do have a scripture, the love of Christ compels me to take that position, that scripture. Even if I don't have a clear scripture, it's the love of Christ that controls and compels me to do what is loving according to his principles, according to what Jesus would have done in his love. Because I think of his love and it gives me no alternative. I can't just please myself. I can't just impress you with my spirituality. I can't do what will exalt me. Although Christ doesn't let me do that. There 's some people who go around their whole lives trying to avoid critics and to please people. But you ask them how they decide what they do. And what it really comes down to is I want to stay out of trouble. If I do this, somebody's going to criticize me. If I do that, somebody's going to be upset And so that's what runs my life. Paul says that's not what runs my life. When I consider what I do, it's the love of Christ that compels me. These people are criticizing me. They're saying I don't act right, I don't act spiritually love. Paul says, I can't bow to that, because it's not loving for you. It's the love of Christ that compels me, constrains me, hangs me in, holds me prisoner to what is loving for you. When you consider temptation. And there's something that you're about to do, and you've just about rationalized it in your mind, but the Bible doesn't really clearly speak to this, you know. And there's a number of reasons why you think you could do it and still get away with it, and why God is not necessarily going to be displeased with it, and you're just ready to give in. Maybe you've even gone beyond that and said, I don't care what the Bible says, this is what I'm going to do now. What is it that holds you back? It's the love of Christ at that point that compels you. It's the love of Christ at that point that says, I can't blow that route I'll grieve my Lord, who died for me, who gave his life so that I could live in his and be raised from the dead. To walk with him and live with him for eternity. How can I ignore the love of Christ? That's the bottom line, brother and sister When you and I are faced with temptation, when we're faced with decisions, and what's going to control our actions, it's the love of Christ that's going to make the difference. Why is he? Is it a cold rational process? No. Notice he goes. He says in another facet of the meaning of this word But it really ignores his emotions. This is an extremely emoji word. It is not a word that talks about controlling and hemming in in some simply cognitive, rationalistic way. This word is a word that It means to overpower someone, for it to be ruled by a fever or overwhelming emotions. Jeremiah 23. 9 uses it as being drunk. Jeremiah 23. 9 talks about a guy who's overcome with his drink. So that he uh isn't into control of himself. This is the word in the Greek translation of us there, Luke 4. 38. Uses this word concerning Peter's mother-in-law. You remember they went to see her and she was suffering from a fever? And Luke tells us as a doctor that she was consumed by the fever This is the word that's used. The love of Christ compels me. It consumes me. Like with a theme. It controls my emotions. I'm under its influence so powerfully that I can't escape it. I can't feel other things. In Malika 837 You remember the story of Jesus where he uh healed the demoniac, the Gerizens, and he cast that demon into a hole, or the hordes of demons into a a herd of swine. And as all the pigs rushed over the uh cliff, you remember the people from the Gozines from that area. Uh, all they could think of was what they were losing. And Luke 8. 37 says that they were overcome with fear. As they look at all their pockets going off the cliff. They're overcome with fear to see this man in their midst. The word overcome there is the same word that's used here, compelled. They're controlled, they're gripped by that fear. It's consuming them. It's firing them up, and they tell them, leave, get away from here. You can't handle you. It's the same way that Paul uses in Philippians chapter 1. Do you remember where Paul there is talking about his conflict? He talks about, he says in chapter 1, verse 21 to me, the Lord is Christ and divide. So if I'm the one living in the body, this is this will mean fruitful labor for me. And yet what shall I choose? I don't know. I'd love to go to be with Christ and live with him rather than stay on earth. But if I stay on earth I can use me a little longer and I can minister and His name and so on. One hand I want to go to heaven, the other hand wants to stay in earth. But he says in verse 23, I'm twow between these two desires. In the word, they're torn between the desires. This is the same word that we have here in 2 Corinthians 5. 14. To be torn, to be consumed by desires. uh to be under the influence of those so strongly that that their feelings are dominated by it. First is the right of Christ Deeply affects my emotions. This consoles me. But I stop and I think about the love of Christ. Then Paul says, my heart becomes so full , my emotions become so overwhelmed, filled up. So I think of what it means for the Son of God to have come, to have become a man, to endure spinning, cursing, and mocking, to die on a cross. So that I could live. Paul says, Wanna know why sometimes I'm out of my mind for God? It's because the love of Christ compels me, consumes my emotions, controls me. That's what that word means. It means that I can hardly contain my feelings. As I think of his love for me. But you notice it's as I think of his love for me. And so the third idea that's involved here is that the love of Christ controls my thinking. Because I think of that love that my feelings become overwhelmed with the passion of a love for Christ that will control my actions. It controls my thinking. It means that it dominates. It holds my thinking prisoner. Again, remember Late 837. The Garazines were gripped with fear because they were thinking about what it was going to mean. to have this Jesus in their midst. This one who could cast demons into all their swine and send them off a cliff. And as a winner of the land because of profit and loss determination makes it uh very undesirable to have a man like that. And so they're thinking about this. They think about it, can't think of anything else. They can't think of what it makes for him to put this man who is dealing possessed in his right mind. They don't think about the good that he could accomplish. They don't think about what it means to have the Son of God on them. All they can think about, their thinking is controlled by the fear of their losses. That's the word that's used. In Acts 18. 5, when you have Paul, just as a believer in his missionary journey and calling , Luke tells us that in Acts 18. 5, Paul devoted himself totally to the preaching of the cross according. But that word there to devote himself totally, exclusively, being controlled by the drive of preaching Christ is the same word we have here. He controlled his thinking. It It was all that Paul could think about to do while I was in Florida, was to preach Christ, to talk about that. He said, all I knew about you was Christ, the Him crucified. The word they're totally devoted is this word to compel, to control. All saying here, why is it that I think so much about Jesus Christ? Why is he always in the back of my mind? He says, because of the love of Christ. That's why I think of him so much. Because when I think of him, I think of what he did for me. I think of the love of Christ. And I think of the fact that I was dead. I think of the fact that I was under God's curse and under God's judgment. And because I was under his curse and his judgment, there was no hope for me. Life had no meaning and purpose. And I had nowhere on the turn. Nowhere to go for forgiveness. Nowhere to go for a clear conscience. And Jesus Christ in his love came and he died for me. He gave his life for me, and he rose again. And in him I rose, because he rose for me, and he gave me a new life. And Paul says, when I think about that, I can barely think of anything else. Everything I do, he says, now, becomes seen in the light of the love of Christ for me. It controls my thinking. When I look at politics, I think it would In terms of the love of Christ and his sacrifice and what he's doing in renewing the world by his death and resurrection. When I think of art, I think of it in the light of the love of Christ that controls my thinking as I think of it to praise him and to glorify and to honor him. But I think of how I relate to people. The love of Christ and his death and resurrection and his purpose for me and his purpose for others His purpose for all human, the whole human race, the process controls how I relate to people. It controls my thinking. The Paul says it's impossible for you to say, I want you to consider this now apart from the love of threats. He says I can't do it. Everything I feel, I do, think is controlled, it's hemmed in, it's closed in, it's compelled by the love of Christ. Now you see on the back side of this bullet windsurf. Simple question. It's an exercise I'd like you to involve yourself in. What is the effect of the love of Christ on you or on me? They seem to have scale. And what I'd like you to do is uh sometime today, perhaps uh do it right now with a uh Tiny little dot, you know, so it's a person sitting next to you can't see where you're putting the dot and you can do it honestly. Uh itch it in with your fingernails and somebody won't see it or something. In some ways you can be totally honest, but then you can think about it seriously. What it is. The effect of the love of Christ on you. What has been the effect of the love of Christ on you this past week? What you're thinking All the way from over on the left saying, I said didn't affect my what I did this week at all. Everything I did this week, you know, I can't think of the love of Christ, his death, his resurrection, his purpose for me, me and being involved in my decisions this week. Or it was involved in some of them. Or it was involved in most of them in some way. But put where you think the love of Christ affected your thinking. this week. Did I put where the love of Christ affected your feelings this week? Where was it? How much do you and I feel the love of Christ? I've shared with some of you. I'm a person who wish I could express my feelings more. When I'm preaching the word of God to you, I feel constrained in my feelings, sometimes afraid to not belong with Christ, really hurt my feelings and show that uh to you as I preach in here uh before you publicly. But I think for many of us, we may be afraid of really feeling the love of Jesus Christ, thinking about what that means, to the point where it really gets a hold of us To where it glimpses, to where we weep, weep with joy and weep as we think of how undeserving we are And what the love of Christ has made in laying hold of a sinner like me , and taking me, not simply just to declare me forgiven. But to take me, God, as his son, to take me into his family, because he cursed his son in my place How much does the love of Christ affect our feelings? It needs to affect our feelings more, I think, in order to truly affect our actions more. But the root for this is not for us to simply bypass our thinking. We see the direction. I believe the direction in the scripture is for us to think about the love of Christ. And as the love of Christ controls our thinking, it begins to consume our feelings. And then as a result of that, feeling that love. It then begins to work through in our actions. Now, if you've got a bypass of feelings and say, well, I want it to control my thinking, and I want it to determine my actions, but I don't want it to get involved in my feelings. Then it's not going to really control our actions the way it controls Paul's. If we say, I want to start with the feelings, I don't want to feel the love of Christ, so control my actions, but I don't want to think about it. I don't want to have to meditate on scripture, I don't want to have to consider The love of Christ with any death. I just want to think about the love of Christ and exact. All of a sudden my feelings glow. It's not going to work. I must think about the love of Christ. So I don't get a hold of my feelings. But as it gets a hold of my feelings, we begin to direct my actions. I had an experience of that just a couple days ago. You know, it's kind of funny. I had to drive up to Philadelphia, up and back in one day for a meeting. And so I thought, well, I'll go up and I'll get a handle on this message and I'll be able to think about it in the car as I drive up and as I drive back And so from time to time I would seek to think about the love of Christ as I was driving. On the way back, I was approaching driving eight hours, can you imagine, to Philadelphia back eight hours It was like a hurricane driving on Friday from good parts of it, you know, and every time a tractor trailer passes you nearly blows you off the road and the windshield wipers have to flip on to fast so you can just see where the road is and the sprays all over and The tires had fifty thousand miles on them and they're pumping along and I don't know what they're doing and the engine's sort of running rough. And I'm driving for eight hours now coming back. I'm getting awful tired. My daughter's having a birthday party and I'm already a half hour late for that, beyond what I thought I was going to be, which was an hour after it started. And I pulled off the parts built about one hour of gas where it was so rough I almost used up a whole tank of gas that was going to Philadelphia and back. And I pulled off there's one exit where I know there's a cheapy gas station to get some gas and we guessed that the gas station's closed. So then I figure, well, at least I can make a phone call to let the people know that I'm going to be late there. So I go to a phone and I call five times and a phone doesn't work And I finally have to get a hold of an operator. And I get back in the car and finally things are minimally under control. And they're sort of falling apart inside and I'm thinking, well at least I'm going to take this last forty five, fifty minutes to think about the love of Christ so I can think about that message. And at least use the time Someone. And all the time inside I'm trailing. And I'm thinking this is ridiculous. In fact, I finally laughed out loud in the car. The love of Christ is not controlling me. It seems totally irrelevant to my frustrations now. Why? Because the circumstances were controlling me. That's what was controlling me. That's all I could see. All I could see were the frustrations and the irritations of my current situation. The God that I finally just stopped me. And he said, Don't you see the ludicrousness of this? Then you are thinking about how the love of Christ controls you, and all you can think about is how you're in irritating. And you're irritated because you can't think about it so much. And I had it just stop and I had to say, Lord, apply this to my life And began to think about the love of praise. Don't think about what I was going to say about the Lord of Christ. But think about the love of praise. As he began to think about what it meant for Jesus, with all of his beauty and his preciousness, and his kindness and gentleness to love me. I began to get my life back in perspective. And it began to find that the Lord of Christ did, in fact, begin to control my thinking It did, in fact, begin to quiet my emotions. I did begin to see things in perspective. That could begin to defect affected decisions. What I do when I get home. And how I would act. Don 't you see what I'm saying? All over the place. Tem it , practical in your day-to-day living You and I need to be thinking, controlled by thoughts and feelings of the Lord of Christ. But you know if you put yourself down on this chart, you may be like I am and you'll be more aware of lamenting how little it controls your thinking, your feelings, and your actions rather than by how much it does. But if you do that, the effect of an exercise like this can be simply to look at that and then to say, Yeah, boy, I'm a really guilty, crummy Christian. And I don't think about the love of Christ nearly as much as I ought to. It doesn't compel my actions. It doesn't control my thinking so that it consumes my passions. As you begin to think about that The more you think about it, , the less you think about the love of Christ, and the more you think about how right you are. Let me tell you something. To grow in the love of Christ, controlling your thinking, your feelings, and your actions. You 'll never dwell at that by thinking about how it doesn't. God 's root was for you to not dwell on your failure, but on the love of Christ. To not point on how little it controls you now, but to get your mind off of yourself. But I hope as a result of this message as many of you goes home and says, Well, I've got to spend the afternoon thinking about how little the love of Christ controls my thinkings, my thinking, my feelings. Because you'll have missed the whole point. Paul says it's the love of Christ that compels me, not by feeling guilty about how little I appreciate the love of Christ that compels me. It's his love. That compels you. You want to increase? You want to move that little X on your Y toward the right? Don't think about yourself. Think about the love of Christ. Think about that this afternoon. Look at it word, to see what it meant for Jesus Christ to come knowing you a hundred percent. Throw him through. Give us life because you are so precious to him. And to die for you. So that he could take you with him to heaven. So that right now he could give to you his righteousness, and you'd be perfectly acceptable in his sight Think of the love of Christ. Do you know that love personally this morning? Let's pray. All are done As we see the simple phrase, the love of Christ compels us, controls us, our first response, Lord, is. I think for many of us, I know for me to look and to simply say, Lord, I don't identify with that. The love of Christ doesn't control me or compel me. I think of the love of Christ and I think of something that I would like to compel me or to control me. But I'm so controlled by my circumstances and by my irritations. by the things that I see and feel. And O Lord, we pray that you would give to us the grace to think about the love of Christ. To think of that laugh in the way that it does begin to fill us. It does begin to overwhelm us. It does begin to hem us in and to determine the courses that we take. Because we're controlled, not by thinking of our failures, but by thinking of Jesus. Focusing on him with a steady, fixed, ritual gaze. To think of his love. And to think Of what it means to have life, because you know Jesus God, to be alive with you. Because you've loved it so much. Lord, if there's anyone here who doesn't know that love, we pray that you would lay hold of them to see that they'll never get it by their own efforts. Simply by giving up on themselves and coming to you. Confessing their guilt and their need to receive your love. Lord, we all come on that same basis. And we come seeking to be filled. For Jesus' name, Amen