Praise be to God indeed as we've been ushered again to worship God as a community, a community of faith. But that faith received by a community does not mean that it stays within community is to be shared. And it is my delight this morning to share God's word with you. So I would ask that you turn in your Bibles if you have them. If not, it will be provided for you on the screens, which you can see up front. It is Jeremiah 31 through 34. This continues, this is the second part in the series of Renew Our Vision, Renewing Our Purpose as a Church. Thirty-four years ago, now this church began with a purpose drawn from Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 to 23. It was summarized in this way. To know God, to know our hope, and to know his power. To know God for this congregation as it began was to realize to know the one true God Personally and in an ever-increasingly intimate way. To know God personally and in an ever-increasingly intimate way Secondly, that our hope is in our identity linked to the person and work of Jesus Christ. And a sure hope of heaven. Again, that our hope is and our identity, who we are, is greater and greater to be understood through who Christ says we are because of his work and a sure hope that through him we might enjoy the promise of heaven. And thirdly, to know his power. And his power is the power of his resurrection available to anyone by faith on a daily basis. That our power as a Christian, if you are a Christian, that to understand that your power is in and through the resurrected Christ, and it is attained, received, experienced by faith. And to be seen and realized every day. To know our hope, to know our to know him, to know our hope, and to know his power. So what I wanted to do as we began to as we moved back into this building last week was to begin a six-week series as we take each one of these three points to know, to know our hope, to know his power, and to look at each one Twice through a different way. This week I want you to see what it means to know God is to know Him as a covenant God What greater place to turn than to the most classic expression of who our God is. And who he's declared himself to be as a covenant God, then Jeremiah chapter 31, particularly verses 31 through 34. Hear now God's word The time is coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. It will not be like the covenant I made with their forefathers when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt, because they broke my covenant, though I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after that time, declares the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people. No longer will a man teach his neighbor or a man his brother, saying Know the Lord, because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their wickedness. And will remember their sins no more. This is the word of God Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Father Were we to take a lifetime of Sundays together, we would not fully be able to unpack all that this passage tells us. And even what we take away from your word, Lord, it will not be fully lived out in this life. So we come to you. I come to you on behalf of everyone here as a beggar before your table. Will you give us a feast from your word? Because you desire that we know you personally and in an ever-increasingly intimate way. Lord, make yourself known as a covenant God and feed us For I am convinced, Lord, regardless of where everyone is here this morning, I believe we are hungry. And we need to be satisfied. Will you, Lord, satisfy us through your word this morning? In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're not here last week I have a paragraph to share with you. If you were, you're going to think, well, we could have missed and just heard the paragraph. But here's a paragraph summary of what I was wanting to communicate last week. A postlude, if you will What does it mean to know God? I was describing from God's Word last week. At the reality that God is known personally, because on the foundation of it all, God has revealed Himself personally. He invites everyone in this room to know him personally because that is how he has made himself known. We see it. Through David's expression, crying out to God, remembering his faithfulness, telling us, all those who would hear and read of the Psalm in Psalm 34 In the midst of his distress and being pursued by his king, King Saul, that God is not only a God who can be known personally, he is a God who is known personally because he is a good God And he said, Taste and see that the Lord is good. What a remarkable thing I said last week that David would be able to say this because he was in the midst of distress and trouble. He was being pursued by his king, and then he was in the homeland of Goliath. And so that he might escape death he had to humiliate himself. to being a madman that they might let him go. And in fact they did. But we learn that David's humiliation David's inviting us to taste, to see that the Lord is good, is ultimately realized that God's goodness is most seen because He's made Himself known, particularly in the person of Jesus Christ. Who humiliated himself, made himself a servant to die on a cross, the most humiliating death that anyone could experience in that time. Particularly for the Son of God. God is to be known personally because that is how He has revealed Himself. And I I wanted to share but ran out of time last week this quote from J. I. Packer, which you will see on the screens in front of you. He says, the quality and extent of our knowledge of other people depends more on them than on us. Our knowing them is more directly the result of their allowing us to know them than our attempting to get to know them. Let me put that in your brains. I want you here want you to hear this. Our knowing them is more directly the result of their allowing us to know them. than our attempting to get to know them. God has made himself If I am to get to know you, no matter how hard I try, I will not know you until you are willing to open yourself up to me. And vice versa. God, no matter how hard we try, will never know Him Unless we know that he has first made himself known through this, the Bible And we believe in this church that the Bible is more than just black ink on a white page. This word says that God is a living God, and this word is a living word And if I'm to get to know you and you reveal yourself to me and say, this is how you get to know me, this is my history, this is my personality, these are the ones that I'm in relationship to, these are my hobbies, these are my likes and dislikes. Where I just simply look at that and say, nah, I don't think I can know you that way. I want to know you this way. I want to know you through what I like, what I don't like What my friends say about you. Not what you say about you, but what my friends say about you. Would that be fair to you? It would be absurd. So why do we apply that logic to God? If we're going to be honest, then we must allow God and receive Him on His own terms, not on our terms. And God is revealed personally by his word and in his word. We learned last week he is a good God and that is how we can know him. But secondly this week we want I want you to see that he is a God who is made known because he is a covenant God. You'll see in your outline before you, covenant, what is it? Secondly, new covenant characteristics, what makes it new? Thirdly, participation. How do we get into it? What is a covenant? Why is it new? And how do we participate in it What is a covenant? You'll see, and you remember from the text when he says, The time is coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant. Well now there's a word covenant that we don't use very often. But we have a children's catechism which defines it. Even more simply than our Westminster Confession of Faith, there's a catechism that has been written for the youngest in our myths, Children's Catechism. And it simply says this, what it what is a catechism? Sorry, what is a catechism? You may not want to know what that is, but that's a good point. Okay, what is a catechism? A catechism is a way that we learn. And we learn by someone asking us a question and we learn the answer. And a children's catechism defined a covenant this way. It's hard. A relationship between two persons But when God uses the word covenant, he means it in the same way. It is a relationship. Between himself and the people that he has created. It works very much like a marriage relationship. In fact We often now speak of an a marriage as a marriage covenant, ratified through the vows of two people, a commitment to faithfulness To love, to care, to share In this word covenant, however, it is not between two equals In fact, the scriptures would describe this idea of covenant as a suzerain covenant, meaning between someone who is a superior and someone who is an inferior. This is the kind of covenant, however, that you, if you were to have been living in biblical times, would not have been one that you would have wanted to enter into very lightly. Because the breaking of that kind of covenant would mean the ratification of that covenant. And oftentimes the way that a covenant or an agreement was ratified is this An animal were would be split in two, and the half would be laid on one side of the road and the other half on on the other. And the way in which two people ratified a covenant, an agreement would be that you both walk through those halves because the breaking of that covenant would mean that you deserve to happen to you what just happened to that animal. That's not a covenant I want to enter into because I know my own heart But what's amazing is God does in fact establish that kind of covenant. But here's the difference. He never asks us to walk through those two halves. If you're familiar at all with the Bible, go back this afternoon to Genesis chapter 15, where you will learn that God's covenant with Abraham was exactly that kind of covenant. But Abram did not walk through the halves, but an image of God, a smoldering pot, it says came through representing God and his presence, came through and went through those halves. What God was saying, I covenant myself to you. I will be your God and you will be my people. And if I fail to do so This is what will happen to me. So this covenant that God has said is one that He has initiated. It is one that He establishes, and it is one that He holds together. But something more than that, it is an everlasting covenant. That when God establishes something, it is according to his character And isn't that what he tells us in verse 32? It will not be like the covenant I made with your forefathers when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt, because they broke my covenant, though I was a husband to them God calls himself a husband to his people. What does a good husband do? He shows his love before it is asked for. He knows the needs of his spouse. He cares for her. He provides for her. He listens to her. He watches out for her, protects her. This is the way God's character works and this is his covenant. This has always been the way in which God has established his covenants Covenant is also, if you'll notice what I just said, covenants, because a new covenant implies an old covenant, does it not? See, we could use the word covenant and actually see how the Bible can be organized through a series of covenants We can go back and look from the beginning all the way where God has been saying that I will be your God and you will be my people. And how he has revealed his covenant character is progressively throughout these covenants. What's interesting is we go all the way back to the Garden of Eden, where Adam and Eve sinned against God, God saved them by kicking them out. He saved them by kicking them out. Had they stayed, they would have wanted more of that fruit. They would have wanted to be more like God, but to save them, he kicks them out. He punishes them. But do you know what he says in Genesis chapter 3, fifth verse 15? He says The one who is behind the sin which you have grasped will be defeated Through the heel of a son. He will crush his head. This son will, the son of the woman. But he, the serpent, will bruise his heel. Do you know what that's pointing towards? It's what theologians call the first evangelical message, the proto -evangelion. God was establishing from the very beginning, at the midst of our disobedience and our first parents of Adam and Eve, God said, Yes, but I will show you the solution. My son will come and he will crush the head of Satan, even though his heal will be bruised. And we just were pointing towards the cross. It would not be a fatal blow. And then God continually unpacks what this covenant looks like. He does it with Noah, He does it with Abram, He does it with Moses, He does it with David, and now here we see yet this phrase, new covenant. God is everlasting in his character. He loves, he cares for, and he looks at his people who are in the midst of their sin and says, I am about to do a new thing. What makes it new? Well, here's what makes it new First, it is final Now here's what I want to be careful in establishing. When you see the word new, we love the idea of newness, do we not? New and improved, right? But I don't want you to see this newness as something that God just kind of fought up in response to the sin of the people. It is new in the sense of its expression, not in the newness in the sense of its idea. Because remember, this new covenant is actually established to what God promised back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. But now it's coming into full expression through the prophet of Jeremiah, and he says, I am going to what? Make this a new covenant. with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. And then he says, It will not be like the covenant I made with their forefathers when I took them by the hand and led them out of Egypt. Now notice this, because they broke my covenant This is a final covenant. It is new, but it is final. And it's going to find its full expression in Jesus Christ. We know this because of what we read in Hebrews chapter 8. Hebrews chapter 8, in pointing to Jesus and in pointing to God's work through Christ as the ultimate expression of the new covenant, is the final expression of what God was going to do. And in fact, in Hebrews chapter 8, it quotes this entire set of verses, verses 31 through 34. It is the longest quote of the Old Testament in all of the New. He's saying, This new covenant is replacing the old. This is the final. But what also makes it new is not just its finality, it's that it does this. It deals with the heart. Isn't that what the text says when it says uh it is not like the covenant I made with their forefathers when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt. Notice this, because they broke my covenant You see, the problem is not with God's character. The problem isn't that the old covenant was broken. It's that we're broken. Finally, we'll deal with the heart because what does it say? I will write my law on their mind and on their hearts. Which leads me to the third reason why it's new. No condemnation. Because you see, because the law was written on tablets of stone It could not change a human heart. All it could do is I could look at it and say, Thou shalt not covet. It doesn't change and deal with the problem of the fact that I am by nature a coveting being. I want what other people have. All it does is tell me that I shouldn't. So what does it do? It merely announces my condemnation. It could not change my heart, it couldn't deal with it. But here the text says that I will write the word, not the law, not on tablets of stone, but on minds and on hearts. Which is why Paul would write in chapter 8, verse 1 of Romans, it says this, in Christ there is now no condemnation for those who are what? In Christ Jesus. So what the writers in the New Testament are doing are linking to what this is saying, that when it says, I will write my law on their minds and on their hearts As a new covenant, as a final thing, as what Hebrews pointed to Christ, so does Paul And when you have this relationship with the living covenant God who has sent forth His Son as the full expression of this covenant. If your trust in him, there is now no condemnation. But there is a final point. Not only is this covenant new because it is final, there will not be one to replace it, not only does it deal with the heart, not only is there no condemnation, there is a fourth. Once and forever. What do I mean by that? Here I want to link it directly to the words of Jesus. On the night before Jesus Christ was crucified, he gathered together his disciples in a room and he gave them what we call the Last Supper. And what he did was he took bread and he said, This is my body, which is for you. They didn't fully understand what he was going to do, but he was saying, What I'm about to do on the cross is my body in your place. Now receive it. Secondly, after the supper, he took the cup. And what does he say? He says, This is the cup of the new covenant. In my blood for the forgiveness of sins Do you see what Jesus does in just a few words? Jesus is saying, I am the new covenant. This is my body which is for you in your place. This is my blood. Take and drink, for if you trust in what I am doing, you will have the forgiveness of God. of sins. And this is what the writer of Hebrews was saying. He, Christ , as the great high priest Offered a once and forever sacrifice. Now, folks, that may not electrify you. But if you're asleep, wake up. Because here's what I want to tell you. Because of what Jesus declared in that word, because of what God has declared in Jeremiah. We no longer have to buy animals to sacrifice them to God once a year for our sins. Before this covenant, on the Day of Atonement, year after year after year after year. after year, they had to offer the blood of animals as a sacrifice to God because of their sin. Once a year I need God's grace. I need the work of Christ every day because I sin every day. I would thank God that I don't have to do it once a year Do you see that in Christ the finality of what God was doing would find its expression? That it would finally deal with the heart, Christ in my place, his body for me, his blood for my blood. And no condemnation once and forever. You see, the new covenants, ladies and gentlemen, the scriptures would say God is saying to know me personally is to know my new covenant, and my new covenant is not an idea, it is a person, Jesus Christ. Because the old, though reflecting the eternality, the beautiful character of who God was Had within it a built-in obsolescence. showed how it was not as good as the new by announcing here, this is what I will do But knowing those facts Knowing what the scriptures teach in regard to this covenant God does not mean we participate in it. God is known personally because he has revealed himself personally. And what you see here is that he intends for us to participate in it. Look again if you have your Bibles and if not, I'll read it again where he says this. Verse 33 This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after that time, declares the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people. The first thing I want you to see before we get to those three application points of exchange, hearing, and loving is this. There is an immediacy to it. There is an immediacy to it. No longer will God Be able just to be known at a particular mountain or particular place, he says here, that I will do this in their hearts and in their minds. There is an immediacy to it. That immediacy is ultimately find its expression in the person and work of the Holy Spirit, which we will get to in a few weeks. But this immediacy is something that can be accessed even this morning. And the key to the knowledge of God is fully realized. Because it is through relationship, a relationship that you can know this morning. And what makes for a good relationship What makes for a good relationship, here for just a moment, if you look at those three application points, exchange, hearing, and loving. The best of relationships, whether they be marriage or whether they be friendship, is this. That what there is an exchange, there is a sharing, there is a give and take. You speak into their life and they speak into yours. There is a hearing where you not only hear them, they hear you. But there's also a loving aspect to every good relationship. That there is a love being shared not just through words but through deeds as well and then there is a a giving back. These are just three things that establish what a good relationship is all about. And what I want to show you from this text is that all these, all three of these are here. And I want to go back to verse 33, and then we'll work our way through verse 34. First, the exchange. What I want you to see here when it says, No longer will a man teach his neighbor, or a man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. Because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more. First thing I want to show you here is because God has made his relationship, his covenant, something that can be immediately accessed. It is this that there is an exchange. When he says that I will put my law in their hearts, in their minds, I want to show you that what God what Jeremiah is declaring there through God is He is going to tell you the truth about who you are. There's the exchange. He speaks into your life. He speaks into your life that this is what is true of you and why you need me. But as well, as he does so, there's an exchange when he says, I will forgive their sins and remember their sins no more. That the implication I but I will forgive their sins is this, that there's been a confession as well. That if this is what God has done, ultimately expressed through Jesus Christ, that that woos me to confession. That there's a in exchange God giving his grace And our responding with our confession of our need of Him. There is also a hearing Buried within the words, for I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more. Is this reality that God hears our cry for mercy? Have if you've never read the Psalms before, or if you spent little time in them, you could simply take your finger and flip to any psalm and see how the psalmists and the writers cry out to God. And over and over they testify to the reality that not they're not just crying to and it's just bouncing off the ceiling, but rather that God hears their cry And hears their cry for mercy. And God forgives. But it also implies that not only does God hear us, we hear Him. And here I want to tell you just a quick context of what's happening here. Israel at this point is a northern country and a southern country. Israel to the north, Judah to the south. Israel at this point in biblical history has been in exile for a hundred years. Judah, in which Jerusalem is its capital, has not yet gone into exile. Do you know what that means? That means that God is promising them and reminding them that He is doing a new thing because when they go into exile, they're going to forget. And they're going to be tempted to forget what God has said. And Jerusalem will be destroyed. And they need to hear, and the best of hearing is remembering, is that God has said, I will hear your cries for mercy. Do you remember my loving kindness? They will need this in their moment of trouble. If you are in a moment of trouble this morning, I want you to know if this is what is written to God's people before they go into exile. Before their capital is destroyed, before they see their promised land wasted away, then what oh what do you think God can say to you in the midst of your trouble? If the fruition of this promise would be seen in Jesus Christ and His provision, His righteousness. His body, his blood, that we might be saved. Out of the midst of our trouble, I say to you, There is no trouble that you bring into these doors this morning that God does not say to you, I will be your God and you will be mine. I will forgive you your sins and remember them no more. I will heal you of your brokenness. I will meet you in the midst of your trouble. In the best of relationships, not only are we heard, but we hear as well. I was reminded of this so eloquently and so beautifully this week as the part of the pastoral team. We were able to go to Rockbridge Academy. where we were presented with examples of senior students preach or not preaching, but rather teaching, giving a speech as a as an example of rhetoric. And one senior named Rachel shared of this exact kind of hearing, and I asked her permission if I could quote from it. As a part between their junior and senior years, uh students at Rockbridge Academy have the opportunity to travel to Italy for two weeks. I want to go. So they go and they get to find what they're interested in, then they have to come back and they have to write about it. Then these two students, and first it was Rachel who had to deliver it to a room full of pastors. That can be intimidating But she did it powerfully. And I want to read to you just a brief part of what she shared with us, of what she experienced. She found herself in a chapel in one of the tours. This chapel was incredibly ornate Different confessionals to on both sides of the chapel, but it led ultimately to the to the altar and in this altar was looked completely different than the rest of the building The walls were a different color, it was not as ornate, and in the front there was a the Lord's table. And there were pews where she could sit and it just the way in which the the chapel was painted it is Drew her to the front and she sat down. And as she sat, monks came in and they began playing the organ. And I want you to hear what she wrote. The symbolism of the room struck me more than anything else, and I immediately sat down in the nearest pew to write out my thoughts. As I was sitting there, a few monks walked in and made their way to the front of the church. Suddenly the organ began to play a song, and everything inside me started fading away. As the monks sang and the organ grew louder, my worries, my fears, my surroundings grew smaller, until all that was left was the sound of the music. So I closed my eyes and I prayed. I prayed for anyone that I could think of, going through a list in my head I prayed for my classmates, our senior year, for our for everyone in my family. I also had personal prayers for forgiveness for some things I knew I had done wrong, especially recently. for the strength to forgive others when they had wronged me. Mostly, though, I prayed for wisdom and understanding in all aspects of my life, for as long as I lived As I was praying, I felt an unw overwhelming sense that everything was right, everything was balanced, everything that I considered a problem or trial was gone. It was literally out of my head As I reflected on this day later, the lyrics of the hymn, It Is Well With My Soul, kept returning to me. It was as if those words were written specifically for this moment. Senior high student, not expecting to hear from God, heard from her Savior. And do you see what she did? She cried out. And he heard her. There is also a loving, a loving component to this covenant, this new covenant which God is inviting us into. You see, there is a very strange thing in these verses And it may not seem like it's a part of the loving part, but here's what I want you to hear. Verse 34. If you can find verse 34, if you could put it up there for me, please. Thank you. It says, no longer will a man teach his neighbor, or teach his neighbor, or a man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, because they will all know me. From the least of them to the greatest declares the Lord. For I will forgive their wickedness and I will remember their sins no more. Many commentators have debated What in the world does that phrase mean? No longer will a man teach his neighbor or a man his brother saying, Know the Lord, because they will all know me. I'm so thankful for the Old Testament commentator and Professor uh Don Carson as he reflects and teaches on this particular verse, he said, what it is pointing to is this reality that in this context, if you wanted to hear about God. If you wanted to learn about who He is, if you wanted to be taught about who how to know God, you would have had to go to a prophet or a priest. So when Jeremiah is saying the words of the Lord, there no longer will a man teach his neighbor, or a man his brother know the Lord, meaning, no longer will there be many prophets. No longer will there be many priests. And if you wanted to hear what God was doing in the nation, you had to go to the king. You see Priests mediated for the people, the prophets announced what God's will was, and the king was to see and lead the people in the midst of it. What he is saying here through the prophet Jeremiah is no longer will there be the man, the king, or the priest, or the prophet. There will be only one And that is Christ, prophet, priest, and king. And here's even more so. You see, there are people when I announce, when they ask me what I do No matter the walk of life, to watch their change in attitude after you tell them you're a pastor. So I tried to trip them up when I used to be a church planter and say I'm an ecclesiastical farmer But when you say you're a pastor or a reverend, immediately they think you're a priest. They don't know what to do with it They have a Catholic background. See, the neighbors in our neighborhood, by the way, heard that there was a somebody moving onto the street. They heard that it was a priest with a ten year old daughter. They didn't know what to do with that. People don't know what to do with pastors. And when you say you're a pastor, I've had so many times people say to me, Could you pray for this? You have the inside track How many of you believe that? If you do, you're completely wrong. My office, as one of calling and one given by God, is not a special class of Christian. We are all here. I am simply here to declare that I am not a prophet, I am not a priest, and I am not a king. We are all here to remind each other there is only one. The reason why there will no longer be a need for what? For a priest or prophet or a king say know the Lord is because God has said, Know me through his son, and I'm simply a mouthpiece. Because his word has already said it. It's not that we'll stop evangelizing or still telling people that you need to know Jesus, and if you don't, you need to. That doesn't stop me from doing that. It's that I don't have to point you to a a a separate class of prophets or priests or kings, rather only one, Jesus Christ. That is loving. Because God is pointing you to the most loving thing he could ever do, don't walk into the pulpit, is his son, Jesus. And my final question for you this morning is: do you know this Savior? God does not forget, he just actively chooses not to remember because in Christ Jesus. In Christ, there is no condemnation. His death and resurrection has defeated our enemy death. It is final. And in him we have forgiveness. The question is: do you really believe that? Some of you this morning know this grace. Some of you do not Some of you do not know him at all and wonder what does it mean to know God. I want to invite you to say To know him is to know him personally as he is revealed. How do you participate in it? By asking him, Lord, forgive me. I need you. Lord, speak to me. Lord, I am listening. Lord, I do not know your love. I am scared of you. Show me your mercy. The reason why I know that's the way to know God is because of a Jewish French intellectual. Named Simone Vey. I first read of this woman in college She was French and Jewish and a philosopher. She did not grow up in a Christian family. She grew up in a Jewish heritage. But what she found herself doing in the midst of her physical ailments and her biography as she writes about it is that she often suffered severe migraines And someone had showed her, while she was also very much into reading, someone had told her about a particular poet. He was a 17th-century British poet named George Herbert. And so she began reading his poetry. And she began reading it and reading it and reading it. Until one day, while in the midst of a severity very severe migraine It went she went from reading it to praying it. And she went from not knowing him to being known. And I want to read you this poem this morning. It is between a guest and God. You'll see it on the screens here. Love bade me welcome. Yet my soul drew back, guilty of dust and sin. But quick-eyed love, observing me grow slack From my first entrance in, drew nearer to me, sweetly questioning if I lacked anything. A guest I answered, worthy to be here, love said, You shall be he. I, the unkind, ungrateful, Ah, my dear, I cannot look on thee. Love took my hand, and smiling did reply. Who made the eyes but I? Truth, Lord, but I have marred them. Let my shame go where it doth deserve. And know you not, says love, who bore the blame? My dear, then I will serve You must sit down, says love, and taste my meat. So I did sit and eat. Truth is, I have spent so many days doubting his grace. Doubting that God can be known personally, even while a Christian. If you're a Christian and you're doubting His grace, remember. This is a new covenant. Give your wickedness and remember your sins no more. Who bore the blame? Christ Jesus. If you do not know him, he can be known by you personally this morning. Come drink of his grace. If you think you are not worthy to come, welcome to the crowd. You do not have to get your life in order. You do not have to change anything before you come to Him. Because here's the reality. The new covenant tells us you can't anyway. Only by this grace, only by this love, only by this God, only through this Savior, can you truly know What grace and change looks like. Let's pray. We will not perfectly know these things really until you return again. But Lord, in this moment Hear the cries of hearts this morning. Some are asking you for renewed grace, who've known of this grace Some here who've never known this grace want to know it. And they want to know the covenant keeping God. Lord, I pray, by your Son, who held the cup of the new covenant And served it to us. By your grace, help us to remember Him. In Jesus' name. Amen.