In each issue of Pentecostal Evangel magazine, there is a statement that reads like this. We believe that the baptism of the Holy Spirit according to Acts 2. 4 is Give it to believers who ask for it. Glenn Reed has written in his writing, Pentecostal Truths , these words, the Holy Spirit does not automatically fill Unless they meet certain definite conditions and definitely seek to be filled And so there are conditions necessary for the believer to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, to have the original Pentecostal experience, as it's sometimes stated, the experience of Acts chapter two in our own lives. Conditions such as obedience, full, uncompromising obedience, absolute yielding to the direction of the Holy Spirit, and emptying of oneself, a praying for the baptism of the Holy Spirit to come into our lives. The day of Pentecost is seen as a pattern for our own experience spiritually. to enter into the fullness of what God would have for us in His Holy Spirit. Have you ever had someone say to you something like this, do you feel defeated in your Christian life? Do you feel powerless? Do you feel Do you feel like there's more to the Christian life than you're now experiencing? Now, who's going to be so bold as to say, nah, I've got it all? Of course, that question has great weight to us. And then comes the answer. What you need to do is to seek for the experience that's described in Acts chapter 2, the Pentecostal experience. I don't know about you whether you've ever heard that kind of thing, but I heard that a number of times in my early Christian life, and I was always very confused. Confused about how I should go about seeking for this and what it is that I should. seek after. And then, as I studied, I came to a realization of something that has put the thing in focus for me, at least in terms of Acts chapter 2, ever since. And it's simply this. If you look at Acts chapter 2, you see that the Pentecostal experience, as it's sometimes called, came on the disciples not because of anything that they did, not because of some conditions that they did. fulfilled, but because of what day it was. Look at Acts chapter two, verse one. When the day of Pentecost came. Now that is the only immediate condition that's mentioned. We're not told what the disciples were doing. We're not told that they were praying, yielding, anything else. There is nothing mentioned about what the disciples were doing. The The only thing that's mentioned as the reason why the Holy Spirit came together then was that they were all together when the day of Pentecost came. You remember the scene? Around forty five or fifty. days before that, Jesus, who had been crucified just before that, was raised from the dead. Jesus came back alive. And he came to his disciples. And he walked with them And he taught them for about forty days. And just about a week or so before we come to Acts chapter two, Jesus has ascended back into heaven. And before he went back, he said, I want you to wait for the power that's coming. On high, that transforming power that's going to constitute you a witnessing church to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. And so they're waiting. They're waiting, and they have uh elected someone or chosen Someone by Lot to replace Judas. They have been in prayer, and they're simply waiting expectantly when we come to Acts chapter 2. With that background, let's take a look now at Acts chapter 2, verses 1 to 4. To see what happened on that day. When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where the They were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. Then you remember the story of how people question this. Peter preaches his great sermon of Pentecost, and that's the beginning of the witnessing New Testament church. What were they doing? Were they seeking? Were they yielding? Were they praying? Were they fasting? We're not told. All we're told that happened was when the day of Pentecost came. That's when the Lord chose to send his holy. Holy Spirit. Now why Pentecost? That's what I want to look at this year as we celebrate this morning. And I hope there's a sense of celebration that the Holy Spirit has come and He has come to apply that work. And to apply to us all of those things that the Lord Jesus gave his life and died for and rose again that we might have? As we celebrate this day, I want to ask ourselves and look at the scripture to see why Pentecost. Well, remember that Pentecost is one of the three major Jewish feasts of the year, of each year, three annual feasts. And Pentecost is related to Passover. Passover is fifty days before Pentecost. Pentecost. And so fifty, and by the way you should note that in your bulletin, it should be seven weeks there, not five weeks. It's fifty days, seven weeks. Pentecost is seven weeks after Passover. Now, why these feasts? Passover was the first fruits of the barley harvest. Pentecost was the completion of the barley harvest, and the first fruits of the wheat harvest. Now, what's God trying to do? The fact that he sent the Holy Spirit on the first fruits of the wheat harvest and at the completion of the barley harvest. I think he's trying to tell us something very significant, and something that really helps us to understand the meaning of the world. of the coming of the Holy Spirit, if in fact we fathom why the Holy Spirit came on Pentecost. First of all, I think he's trying to tell us that the coming of the Holy Spirit is the beginning Of the exaltation of Messiah. The exaltation of Messiah has begun. Remember, firstfruits means the beginning of something. You give the first fruits of a harvest that's come in because you're giving the very first. of what you have. Well the reason we take we call our offering on Sunday mornings the first fruits of our labor is because God has commanded us to set that aside first. We don't budget everything else and then give him what's left over. It's set aside first. And first fruits were the first of the harvests that were given. Now, why was why do we have what's the significance of the exaltation of Messiah as the first fruits of the wheat harvest? You need to understand something about the thing. about barley and wheat. Barley is a very common cheap grain. In fact, uh barley was such a cheap food that not only was it used as the food for the poor, but the king fed it to his horses in first Kings four twenty eight. We see that it's combined with straw to feed the horses. In Ezekiel chapter four in verses nine to thirteen, Ezekiel is told to eat barley cakes that are baked with human dung, human excrements. That's how how humble God wanted to make this. He said they're gonna worse these cakes over human dog used as fuel in a fire as a sign of God's judgment on the people. That's a pretty cheap meal. So God wanted to emphasize this as a sign of the judgment that was going to come on the people. Not a sign of blessing, but of judgment. It's interesting, you remember when when Gideon was called by God as a humble servant in order for him to go against the Midianites? And he wanted to encourage Gideon's heart. Remember, we had him listen to the dream of the Midianite soldiers? What did the Midianite soldiers dream of? They saw barley cake rolling down into the tent. I just always think there's a little bit of humor there that God is saying, Gideon, I'm going to use your But just remember you're just a barley cake. Just a common coarse, humble piece of cake of cereal that God is going to mold together and going to use. Barley was a very cheap food. It was planted in the fall. And the hedge ripened about the beginning of April. And so at the time of Passover, it was time to offer the first fruits of the barley harvest. And those were brought at the feast of Passover. Then that harvest took place for about seven weeks. And so by the time of Pentecost, there would be the end of the barley harvest and the beginning of the wheat harvest. Now what about wheat? Well, because of its physical and chemical properties, wheat is the best of all sorts. Cereals. It's the best tasting, it's the finest, it makes better bread than any other cereal. And so you go and you find various kinds of wheat, but the bread that you'll eat generally will be wheat bread. It will not be barley bread. I haven't seen barley bread. barley bread at any of the safe ways or giants around here at any time that I know. You just wouldn't use barley for that here. Wheat is a fine cereal. In fact in the Bible wheat is described as a symbol of luxury. In uh Psalm eighty one. In verse 16, when God describes, he's talking to his people about their disobedience, and he says, Now if you would be obedient to me, I would bless you richly. And how does he describe the blessing? He says, You would be fed with the finest of wheat, and with the honey I would satisfy them. Well it's Psalm 147, verse 14. He's talking about how he is going to bring peace to his people. And he's going to bless them with that peace. And he describes it by saying that he will grant peace to your borders and satisfy you with the finest of wheat. And so wheat is a sign of God's blessing, it's a sign of exaltation, it's a sign of luxury. And God uses this picture to describe it. Now what does that have to do with Jesus? But in order for us to be brought into that kingdom of God's blessing, Jesus, the Son of God, had to be humbled. If Gideon was made of barley cake, Jesus was brought much lower than that. Jesus, the very Son of God, was humbled. humble and humiliating in his nature, in order for him to become like us and become uh in the form of a servant, and even to go to a death, the death on the cross, so that you and I would be able to have our sins forgiven. And Jesus as a barley tape, Jesus symbolized in the barley, in the humiliation of his death, accomplished our salvation. But now God is saying that humiliation is over. Jesus is risen and he's gone back to heaven. And so Pentecost is the first fruits of his exaltation. The first fruits of the wheat harvest now. Jesus has lifted up. And if you think I'm reading into that, look at what Peter says in Acts chapter 2. In verse 32 to 36. Describing Jesus, he says, God has raised this Jesus to life, and we're all witnesses of this fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out which you now see and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore let all Israel be assured of this, that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified. Both Lord and Christ. He's exalted. The first fruits of his exaltation are upon us this morning. But only the first fruits. Don't miss that. We still live in that age before Jesus comes again. To destroy all his enemies. And so Jesus, who has ascended on the throne this morning, is simply giving to us the first fruits of that exaltation. You see what that means? In your life this morning, as you see that Jesus seems like he hasn't exercised the power in all the sin that we see around us that sometimes terrifies us and its power in our culture. We realize that Jesus is exalted in the first roots. He is Lord but his exaltation. He hasn't destroyed his enemies yet. The full harvest of that exaltation is still to come when every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess in that great harvest that Jesus is Lord in Christ. Secondly, you see, the sign of the first Fruits of the wheat, showing us the enjoyment of our salvation. This shows us that the enjoyment of our salvation has come. In Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 5, we read concerning God's relationship. relationship to his people. But the Lord's portion, that is his inheritance, is his people. Jacob is his allotted inheritance. And so what does God give to us because we're so precious to him? Well at verse four. fourteen. Among other things, we read in verse fourteen that the Lord is going to feed us with curds and with wolf on the herd and the flock, with fatted lambs and with goats, with choice rams of Bashin. And with the finest kernels of wheat. You drank the red blood of the grape. So God says, Among all the blessings that He gives us, there is this picture in His salvation, in our preciousness to Him, of His feeding us with wheat. Wheat. And that's a picture of kingdom blessing. And so you see in Acts two, after the Holy Spirit comes, you see the first fruits of this blessing described in verses forty-two to forty-six. And here you have a community of people who are pro- Praising God, enjoying favor with the people. The word is going forth in power. They're experiencing God's blessing in their community as a body of His people. God says, that's just the first fruits of my blessing. I've adopted you, I've justified you. You righteous. You have the very righteousness of Jesus. And you have my Holy Spirit in you. But you just have the first fruits of that. The whole wheat harvest isn't in yet. And so what does that say for you and me this morning? It's a reminder. I think very often as Christians, we're so interested in looking at our deficiencies, in our weaknesses, in all those things that we're not that we ought to be as Christians, that we sometimes forget that God has given us the first fruit. Of our salvation. That He has given us the Holy Spirit. That He has given us not simply justification, the righteousness of Christ as a legal verdict, but He's working out that righteousness in our experience. And He's giving us victory over sin. How many Christians I talk to who would be lamenting their defeat in sin? And I look and I sort of scratch my head and I say, Man, I've known you for four or five years and I've seen tremendous changes in your life. Do you remember when you were struggling with this habit and with This sin and this priority. And look what God has done in that. Look at the victory He's given you in this and this area. And sometimes the person will just shake their heads and say, you know what, I never even noticed it. I couldn't see it. Because all I'm looking at is what I'm not. What I need to be doing. Brothers and sisters in Christ, let me encourage you this morning. You and I have the first fruits of the wheat harvest, the first fruits of God's blessing and salvation. That's why the Holy Spirit came on Pentecost. So that it would be clear to us that we have the first fruits of his richest blessing. Not fully. The harvest won't be in. You and I still yearn, don't we? We long for the power of Jesus Christ, the power of his spirit over sin, for that full victory. To praise him with unsinning heart, without the distractions, to be able to love one another without the tension, without the misunderstanding. We long for those things. We yearn for them, as Romans 8 describes. But don't miss the fact that we have to be able to do that. Have the first fruits. Enjoy it. Don't just be sitting there talking about, boy, I sure wish the harvest was in. Well, when the rest of that wheat comes in, things will be pretty good. Enjoy the wheat he's given to you. Enjoy that harvest now. Enjoy the first fruits. fruits of his blessing while still yearning for the fullness of it. But the third thing, the third point of significance of why this was at Pentecost, is perhaps the one that we most need to see right now. That is that the evangelism of the world has begun. You see, when Jesus spoke about salvation, he would often use, remember in his parables, the symbolism of wheat. John talked about those who would be saved as wheat gathered into his barn, with chads being burned with unquenchable fire. Jesus talks about separating the weeds and the tares as those who are his own collected for his own. people. And so you have this imagery running through the scripture of wheat as those who are saved from the fire of judgment. The wheat is that which is precious to God, as we saw in Deuteronomy 32. It's that which he brings to himself and his precious to it. And so when you come to Acts chapter two, you realize, as the disciples knew, but we miss perhaps, that what they're doing is they're waiting for Jesus. They're coming to Pentecost. And as they come to Pentecost, they realize this is the time to offer the first fruits of the wheat harvest. And because it's Pentecost, who's there? Well chapter 2, verse 5 tells us, no, they're staying in Jerusalem, God hearing Jews from every nation under heaven. Isn't it interesting? The Holy Spirit has now designed it. And don't miss this. It's fantastic. Over a thousand years before this, God established these three harvests. Three annual feasts, he said. And he set the times for those. Who could Naturally understood what connection there would be between the humility of the first fruits of the barley harvest at Passover and the exaltation of the first fruits of the wheat harvest coming at Pentecost. And to see that one day there's going to be 120 disciples and they're going to be sitting in the This room. And they're going to be just having seen Jesus ascended into heaven, and there's going to be all the people, all the Jews from all the nations of the earth that are going to be gathered there, and that's when the Holy Spirit will choose to come. Why? It's just because Peter, in fulfilling the prophecy that Joel gave that we heard earlier, quotes that same prophecy from Joel chapter two. And he says, as you heard before, only now in chapter two of Acts, verse 17, in the last days God says, I'm going to pour out my spirit on all people. And so he says then, verse 21, so everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. The Holy Spirit then enables the disciples to speak in other languages. Why? Do you see what he's doing? He's reversing the curse of Abel. In Genesis chapter 10, you have all the nations. They're one. And they all speak one language. And they are arrogant, they arrayed against the Lord. And so God confuses their language. And he divides them and he separates them. But now the gospel 's come. The gospel has come where Jesus has come in order to reconcile us with the Father, having our sins forgiven and to reconcile us to one another. And so at this beginning the word First fruits of this new age that he's bringing upon us. He reverses the curse of Abel. And the gospel 's now preached in all languages. The gospel's preached to all nations supernaturally in one day. Of first fruits of what would then take place. two thousand years to unravel in works like Wicclip Translators and others, so that the gospel would be preached in every tongue. But here you had the first fruits of it. The gospel preached and everybody can understand the good news of Jesus without having A person that who ever learned a language. It says supernaturally, God is showing that what He's going to do is bring in a great worldwide harvest of people who are going to come to Jesus Christ. And that's guaranteed. Because the Holy Spirit has come. Do you see that? It's guaranteed. What does that mean for you and for me? Do you expect that because the Holy Spirit has come, because the Holy When Peter preached that first sermon, and he says, Now I call for you to repent and to believe the gospel, but they're cut to the heart, and 3,000 of them respond to Jesus Christ in one single day. The first fruits of that harvest, the first fruits of the wheat harvest, the wheat that are brought into his garden, into his barn, is precious to him. Do you believe that because that happened, that it historically happened? That there really were those tones of fire, those people really did speak in languages that they had never learned. Do you believe that that same spirit is going to work for you this week? Do you believe that when you get into conversations this week with people, that You can expect there will be spiritual interest? Or do you expect the people to be hardened? Do you look at all the people that you work with and live next to as clearly part of the non-elect? They're clearly part of the electric. You don't know my I I hear all these stories about other people who are interested in the gospel, but not the people I work with. If I tell them anything about a man it turns them off and there's tension and nobody likes to talk, you know. and it creates tension with my people clearly don't have any spiritual things. They want to talk about ball games, they want to talk about material things, they want to talk about all kinds of other superficial stuff. But they don't want to talk about spiritual things. Not my people. Do you believe that? Or do you believe that because the Holy Spirit has come, that there is a spiritual home, and that God is creating that in order to bring in a harvest to himself. Do you know the Gallup home recently? Survey Americans and discovered that in according to the results of that poll, six out of every ten Americans Surveyed this year saying that they are more interested in religious answers to their lies than they were five years ago. Interesting, isn't it? Americans are seeking more for religious answers. So they're questions rather than technological answers or simply psychological answers. Six out of ten say, I'm interested more in hearing about spiritual answers and religious answers to the questions of my life than I was five years ago. And God has presented. Are we going to be part of it? We're only going to be part of it if we expect that because the Holy Spirit came on Pentecost, because He came and He brought this Where is that record? The first fruits of the weed ox. That he in fact intends to bring in a whole harvest First roots are simply the taste of it. And he's saying 3,000 is just the taste of it. You believe that I'm at work in Columbia today. Tito Padea is going to South Africa because he believes that the Holy Spirit is bringing in a world hard. He wants to be part of that. Carolyn Timberlake is going to Taiwan because she believes that the Holy Spirit is bringing in a world harvest. And she wants to be part of that. Do you and I believe that that same Holy Spirit is bringing in a harvest in commercial? Columbia and in Howard County. And do we want to be part of it? A friend of mine, by the name of Paul Bricker, is an Orthodox Presbyterian pastor in Philadelphia. Paul has a very keen sense of expectation. that when the gospel is proclaimed, he can expect the Holy Spirit to work. I was talking to a friend of mine just last week. Paul wasn't there, but he told me this story that it just happened recently. He said, I had some plumbing problems and so I asked Paul if he could help me. He came over, and the guy standing next to him he said looked like a junior, slightly junior sized version of Mr. T. It was a big black boxer. And he said, This guy shook my hand, and I knew that there was no way I was going to get my hand back until I was. He decided that I was going to have my hand on him. He said, I never felt so much in control, in absolute power, of a person that I have met in my life And I said, how did you get linked up with Paul? And he says, I can't believe it myself. He says, just a few weeks ago he says, I was sitting on a Philadelphia subway. And he said that entire car had nothing but black people in it. And there were no seats. He said but I'm so big I took up two seats. So he says, There I am sitting on the two seats and he says his wife comes into the car. And he started looking around to see if he can find himself a seat, and there's no seats except the half a seat that I left. And so this guy he comes in he looks over at me and he says, can I sit there? Says okay. He says, I'll sort of slide it over a little bit and I'll let him sit down there. Then he sits down and starts pulling out these pictures. And this is Paul. And he says, he starts looking at these pictures and this picture of the baby and Paul's just looking at it. He's smiling and a grinning says, the guy's grinning so much I couldn't help noticing. So he says, I sort of look over at him and I say, uh, what are you grinning out there? He says, that's my baby. His wife had had four or five uh The word just blipped. Four or five uh miscarriages. Thank you. We're with me. They write that in my notes, so that's nice. Four or five miscarriages. And they had had this baby, and the baby was born. and was healthy and everything and he says, Look at that baby. He says, Isn't that tremendous what God has made? And this black fella looked at her and said, Yeah, it looks like a baby all right. He says, Oh, that's tremendous. And he says, uh hey he says, You got a funny accent, Paul says to this fellow. He says, He says, Where are you from? He says, Well, he says I was born in Africa. He said, I've lived in London for a while and I've moved around different parts of the country. He says, Really? What do you do? He says, Well, I'm a professional boxer. He says, Really? You must be and he gave a name which I don't even remember what the name was, but he gave his name. He says, You must be sold. So he says, that's right, that's me. How do you know? And he said, Man, I've been looking all over for you. I want to tell you about Jesus. The guy looked over and he says, You want to tell me about Jesus? And he says, by this time, the whole post. was looking at us he says this guy isn't too solemn about it and he says yeah he says you know he says I know some of your friends they said you've been kind of down lately and they said that I should find you and talk to you about Jesus he says I've looked all over for you but I couldn't get an answer. God's brought us together and let me tell you what Jesus has done for you. Then we told that with a confidence. And God changed that fellow's heart. And he responded and he gave his life to Jesus Christ. And my friend said, now Paul takes his into the hardest parts of Philadelphia when he goes calm because he knows he's perfectly safe. But God worked in him. And I believe that part of what God used was Paul's simple expectation. He's like that. I could give you numbers of stories of this guy. Where he goes all kinds of places. People come to Jesus Christ. I believe there is a gift of evangelism. But I believe that God wants us as a body to believe that when the Holy Spirit He came to give the first fruits of the harvest that he intends to use us in. You and I want to be part of that harvest because we expect it'll work. Let's pray again. Oh Lord our God, how we thank you that the Holy Spirit has come because Jesus has been exalted. And Jesus has been made both Lord and Christ. And he's seated upon his throne, waiting till his enemies be made his footstool. And Lord, we confess to you that there's lots of times when it seems to us that Satan is in more control of things. Lord, help us. us to realize that Jesus was exalted at Pentecost. Because we have here only the first fruits of his exaltation, but a true exaltation. Lord, we want to worship you, Lord Jesus. We want to worship you now because you Lord and King, and you're above every rule and authority and every power that's been made, both in this age and in the one to come. And one day every knee shall bow before you and confess that you're Lord. Lord, how we thank you for the first fruits of that wheat harvest of our salvation. And they will never be more acceptable to you than we are right now because we have that righteous burden upon our lives, the very righteousness of Jesus Christ. Himself. That we were made your children, that we're part of your family, and nothing can ever change that. Lord, we pray that you would give to us eyes that will see that. Not just what we lack. But also what we have for that harvest. And Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes that we might see that worldwide harvest, a people brought to Jesus Christ, that wheat which is being gathered into your Lord , enable us to cast off the doubt that we have that when we talk to people we can't expect them to be interested. That when we talk to people, all we can expect is a bit of embarrassment and some snoring. Oh Lord, how we thank you. But that's not what we can expect. That we can expect that while that will happen at certain times. But Lord, you are doing the work in people. But there is a hunger even in our Sated culture. Lord, how we pray that you would give us eyes to see that that same Holy Spirit which turned 3,000 Jews from all over the nations to yourself on that day of Pentecost is the same Spirit who accompanied your word. As we speak it here in Columbia, in Howard County, in the offices, in our neighborhoods, in the shops, in the various places where we work. Lord, give us eyes to see as you gave Paul Bricker, eyes to believe that the The gospel has power, life-transforming power. Lord, we pray if there's anyone here this morning who has never experienced that life-transforming power, that you will speak to their hearts of all that there is in Jesus' life. Christ. They'll not be able to hold back any longer until they give their lives to you. Lord, we pray these things in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.