Think about your own heart and just expressing that to him. Jesus, you are my life. I love you That's what it's about, isn't it? That's why we come here to worship. To express that for him to hear and to savor our heart's devotion Well, my meditation for this new year is from the words of Jesus as he speaks to us, from John chapter 10, verse 10. I want to focus on those words and put them in context. Let's pick it up in John chapter 10, verse 7, as we uh I just want to offer to you some thoughts to begin a new year. Jesus said again, I tell you the truth, I am the gate for the sheep. All whoever came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. He will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and destroy. I have come that they may have life. And have it to the full. The Old King James says, have it more abundantly. The New English Standard Version says, have life and have it abundantly. I wonder how many of you sitting there this morning are saying, boy, I would sure love to experience a more abundant life in 2002. When you think back on your life in 2001, would you characterize it as abundant? Or would you say it was a life that be more characterized by certain joys and certain disappointments and some confusion about what God was doing, perhaps The events of September 11th produced not only disorientation, anxiety, some fears, but uh disheartenment and I don't know what your experience personally was in 2001, but if you come to the threshold of this year perhaps a little cynical saying, why should I expect I'm going to experience the abundant life in 2002 When I've been trying for all of 2001 and as long as I know as a Christian, I've been trying to serve the Lord, been trying to do what I believe is what He'd have me to do as a Christian. Yet I wouldn't really characterize my life as abundant. Somehow it's not what I thought it would be when I first became a Christian. You know, don't have us put up our hands, but disappointed, you wonder what it is? Uh keep feeling like you missed the class when how to get the abundant life was explained. You missed that session. Still trying to catch up. Well, maybe part of a problem is understanding what the abundant life is. So I want uh the first point here is for us to consider what our notions of the abundant life are and for us to try and get a handle on what Jesus means when he says, I've come that they may have life and have it abundantly, or have it to the full. Now let me be honest with you and tell you uh right up front that um this sermon uh uh is uh was prompted by an article by Jeff Imbach in Discipleship Journal back in 1998 called Whatever Happened to the Abundant Life. And uh even though I'm not going to follow his line of thought in that article He begins by three examples of our notions of the abundant life, which I think are very helpful, so let me share those with you. I'll quote from his article. Himbach says we all cherish a special picture of the abundant life. Beth thinks that it will bring tranquility to her troubled life, you know, the peace which transcends all understanding. Philippians 4 7 Addicted to control, she believes that getting her spiritual life together will bring the peace and predictability that she craves. Carol equates abundant living with a surge of devotional intensity. She loves those flooding moments when worship sweeps her away with love for Jesus. Perhaps something you experienced in the last few minutes in our singing. If only it would last. But by Sunday bedtime, the devotion wilts or just gets lost in the jumble of mothering. Jim is into power, a dynamic ministry. He wants to trust God for great things. He envies the shimmering faith of others' prayers. Jim views power as the sure sign of God's presence that would usher him in to spiritual fulfillment. Anything wrong with those? They're all good desires, right? Are they the abundant life? Or are they effects of abundant living, which are belongings of certain kinds of temperaments and personalities It's dangerous to confuse those because if we think of the abundant life in terms of tranquility, devotional intensity, power and praying and action, then we may be rather threatened By thinking I'm just not there. What's the matter with me? I'm discouraged. May produce a competitive spirit You know, whose prayers are answered more? Hear the testimonies tonight of what God has done in people's lives in the last year and you hear somebody talks about prayer answered and you think, why wasn't my prayer answered like that? Or, gee, my prayers were answered better than that person's. And we get into this fleshly competition because we think of the abundant life as something that is the effects the way we are can be a real burden, can produce dishonesty. We try to pretend that we're something that we're not or that we have something that we don't that we're living where we really aren't And dishonesty about where we're really living is the plague for Christian growth and understanding the abundant life. So, as we look at our desires for 2002 I'd like to ask, secondly, what is God's notion of the abundant life? What is God's notion of the abundant life? That's the second blank there. The first thing is I want to observe that God is a God of abundance. That's absolutely clear from Scripture, it's clear from creation. Just look around you at creation. For instance, just take one little thing, this little snail called a moon snail , produces Uh something for its eggs called a moon snail collar. I don't know if anybody's ever seen those on the shore. They look like toilet plungers. You know, it's that kind of plunger around thing Um actually another name for him is clergyman's collars. I love that. You know, Paul says that we're the off-scouring of the world, and I think, you know, clergyman's collar is a gelatinous mass of snail excretion. Kinda humbling. Well, you know, you look at those little things. There's a little, you know, it's Excr you know the snail's only about two inches long and the collar is about two to four inches in circumference, so it's not very big. Now, how many larvae are produced How many eggs and larvae are produced from that one little collar? Half a million. That's a lot of little snails coming out of one little collar. You know, or you or you take uh the Virginia oyster. A good healthy Virginia oyster produces a lot of eggs in one season. How many eggs from one little oyster? Five thousand? No. Fifty thousand? Nah. How about five hundred thousand eggs? Nah. Five million eggs? Nah. Fifty million eggs. You're getting close How about 500 million eggs from one oyster in one season? Bingo, you got it. 500 million eggs. And those slimy little things who live for ten years. So that means one oyster can produce in its lifetime five billion eggs Potential little oysters, larvae running around. We talk about oyster shortage? Holy cow. God is a God of abundance But take particles, you know, those crusty little things that cling to rocks and the bottoms of ship holes. Somebody once looked along a thousand yards of shoreline, of rocky shoreline. And uh counted, I don't know how many they counted before they extrapolated, but along 1,000 yards of shoreline covered with rocks, you will find one billion barnacles. So if you ever wonder what a billion is, think about 300 feet of rocky shoreline and all the barnacles that are all over there, and that's a billion barnacles How many larvae will a billion barnacles produce in one year? How about one million million eggs in one year? God is a God of abundance. When Jesus says, I've come that they have life abundantly, he understands abundance. And of course we've talked about the stars As the ultimate mind-blowing example of abundance. We live in just one solar system, one star of one galaxy. And if you were to look up into the sky on the darkest night in a desert with no buildings around and nothing to mar your horizon and you looked at the scope of those stars, the most stars you'd be able to see would be ten thousand stars. What proportion of our galaxy would that be? It would be about one ten millionth of one percent of our galaxy. All the possible stars you could see with the naked eye on the darkest night. Ten to a hundred billion stars, and that's one galaxy. There are ten to a hundred billion galaxies. Galaxies. God is a God of abundance The Bible speaks of death and life in terms of separation and union. Simple definition of death. in the Bible is that death is separation. Physical death is separation of the soul from the body. Spiritual death is separation of the soul from God. So life is union. The union, physical life is the union of our soul and body, and spiritual life is the union of our soul with God. The God of abundance. And so Jesus refers a number of times in the book of John to abundance. And he links that abundance to life. For instance, if you were here in the middle hour, do you remember the example of Jesus talking to the woman at the well? And he says, if you knew who it was talking to you now, you would ask him to give you the water. That I have to give, which is living water. That water would spring up in you to eternal life. Have you ever seen a mountain spring coming up out of the ground? They're fascinating things, you know, up through the rocks or through some part along a stream. Uh you you can't cap it. You know, you try to push it down and you know it the flood of it, the wholeness of it is irrepressible um because it's abundant And Jesus says that's the way your life is when you're connected to me. There is in that connection, in that union. Not in something about you, but in the union with me, something which produces abundance of life Do you remember message back in Thanksgiving about Jesus at the feast of booths, mean twos? Where they bring water up on the last day of that feast and they bring it to God and they celebrate that Jesus takes that opportunity to say, basically, no guys, you got it backwards. You don't come to bring me water, you come to me thirsty, and I provide the water. That's what life's about. Come to me if you're thirsty, he says, and I will produce such an abundance of living water in you. That your life will become like overflowing streams. John Piper picks up on that idea in his excellent book, The Pleasures of God. And this is what he says. God has no needs that I should ever be ever required to satisfy. God has no deficiencies that I might be required to supply. He is complete in himself. He is overflowing with happiness in the fellowship of the Trinity. The upshot of this is that God is a mountain spring, not a watering trout, watering trough. I said trowel, I think, the first. That's always, you know, the second service, you always get things right. Not trowel, it's a trough. Yeah, you're right. Not a watering trough. A mountain spring is self-replenishing It constantly overflows and supplies others. But a watering trough needs to be filled with a pump for a bucket brigade. And so if you want to glorify the worth of watering trough, you work hard to keep it full and useful. But if you want to glorify the worth of a spring You do it by getting down on your hands and knees and drinking to your heart's satisfaction until you have the refreshment and strength to go down into the valley and tell people what you have found. You do not glorify a mountain spring by dutifully hauling water up the path from the river below and dumping it in the spring. What we have seen is that God is like a mountain spring, not a watering trough. And since that is the way God is, we are not surprised to learn from Scripture and our faith is strengthened to hold fast that the way to please God is to come to him to get and not to give, to drink and not to water He is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him. Amen? My hope then as a desperate sinner who lives in a death valley desert of unrighteousness hangs on this biblical truth. that God is the kind of God who will be pleased with the one thing I have to offer, my thirst. Because God is a God of abundance. Jesus says, I have come That you might have life and that you might have it abundantly. And the word abundantly is the word parason in the Greek, which means, as you see in your bulletin outline there, to be abundant, excessive, overflowing, more than enough. It's the word that's used in Matthew chapter 14, whereafter Jesus had fed 5,000 men, plus all the women and children, from five loaves and two fishes. They gathered up all that were the leftovers, twelve baskets full. And the word leftovers Which means more than could be used, the abundance of it. It's the same word you have in John 10:10. The abundance, the overflow. And of course uh an important word like that's gonna have to be found in Ephesians, right? And so if you look in Ephesians chapter three, after Paul talks about what it means to discover the depth and the height, the length and the breadth of the love of Christ, he goes on to speak about how we can come to him who is able to do exceeding abundantly beyond all we ask or think. And the word is that same word, parasite. Only Paul puts two prefixes before it He says abundantly, and then he puts a kind of a super before it, a hyper, hyper literally, abundantly, ek overflowing out of So Paul says that God wants to do for you more than you can imagine abundantly And now obviously this isn't talking about material abundance. In fact that's quite clear from a passage like Luke twelve where You read that somebody in a crowd says to Jesus, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. And Jesus replied, Man, who appointed me as a judge or an arbiter between you? Then he said to them, Watch out, be on guard against all kinds of greed. A man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions What John is speaking, what Jesus is speaking about in John 10 is of course gospel abundance. Now is that a cop-out? Is that theoretical, hypothetical abundance? You know, it's not something real Maybe the best way to understand gospel abundance is to go back to the Exodus, as I've done many times in what I consider to be One of the best passages for a statement of the gospel for us to understand, Exodus chapter 6. Now, remember that this is addressed to people who are in slavery and uh they're not living the abundant life. What was it like to be a slave in Egypt? Well, you know, it was hard work. But beyond that, you didn't have very many choices and you didn't have vacation and you didn't have sick leave. You didn't um have any means of uh progressing up the ladder, you know, bricklayer, super bricklayer, brickmaker. You just made more and more bricks And if you got sick, too bad. You just kept making bricks. There was a quota that had to be filled. No sense of progress, purpose, accomplishment Just day after day in bondage to bricks. No hope of ever escaping from that Of ever improving in your life more and more bricks. So you think the drudgery and the monotony, the dehumanization of that will drive you crazy And the only release is death. And you hear about this God who was the God of your forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and you say, Where is that God? He's abandoned us. There's no hope in earth or in heaven. I'm alone, utterly alone. That's death. And into that situation, God comes. And he says, I've heard the cry of my people. And in Exodus chapter 6, in verses 6 to 8 He gives three promises, three words in three verses that in my mind sum up the gospel, and they sum up the abundant life. For what he says there is that I am going to redeem you into a relationship with a reward. And we've talked about that before. That sums up the gospel, being redeemed into a relationship with a reward. And you remember that uh you see that in your bulletin outline, a couple blanks under there, to be redeemed is to be brought out of bondage and to be forgiven. That's the blank. Do you remember that the night that they left, God said to have a Passover. I'm going to judge the Egyptians for their sin. But if you put the blood of the Lamb over your doorpost, that blood will be the means of your forgiveness and deliverance. And I will pass over, the angel of death will pass over your house. And the next day you will be free. That's the blank under it. You'll be forgiven and you'll be freed. But it's not simply a matter of changing your circumstances. He says, I'm going to bring you into a relationship with myself. I'm going to adopt you as my own people. I'm going to love you. Bring you into a relationship where you're precious to me. And then he says, as if that's not enough, I'm going to bring you into a land, a land that's flowing with milk and honey, a land of prosperity and peace. And that's your hope. That's the reward that is set before you, not by anything you've done, but simply by my grace and promise. And so you're going to enter into that Under Hope the blank is first fruits, you're going to begin to experience the delight of that now. And so the picture of the abundant life has to do with my not feeling trapped. Am I not feeling like I'm full of shame and guilt and locked into the consequences of all the things I've messed up in my life? And there's no hope to escape from them. I'm in bondage to the dysfunction of my family. I'm in bondage to the habits of my life that enslave me. God says in Exodus chapter 6, in verse 6, Therefore say to the Israelites, I am Yahweh, the Lord, I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. And I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you. That is, I will buy you, purchase you with an outstretched arm, and with mighty acts of judgment. And so you're going to be freed. What difference does Jesus make in your life? Without Jesus, you're in bondage. With Jesus, there is abundance of freedom and forgiveness, clear conscience. Brings you into a relationship. An abundant life has to do with not feeling alone. Not feeling like you're on your own and there really isn't anyone who cares for you. Or who wants to know you, or to be intimate with you. And the more this person knows you, the more this person shows you their delight in you. And against all expectation, the more they want to be intimate with you, the more they want to shower their love upon you and take care of you and provide for you. The more they want to treasure you. And so in Exodus chapter 6, God goes on to say, I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God. And then you will know that I, the Lord, your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians, I am your God. That relationship that changes everything. Without that, you're ultimately alone in the universe. And with Jesus, you never alive. You have the abundance of his presence. And then thirdly, he says, I'm going to give you that reward. That means the abundant life is Not feeling hopeless. Not feeling that there's nothing that's ever going to be better than what is. Kind of like Angela's ashes without any hope of change or escape. My marriage, my family, my job, my health All the disappointments that I have will never change. They'll never get better. The abundant life Is to say, there's a day coming when Jesus comes back and all the pain will be erased And all the first fruits of any sense of abundance that you have now is like how many stars you can see in the sky compared to how many there are One ten millionth of one percent you can experience now of abundance. But that day is coming when the fullness of it will be revealed. And so Jesus says, I have life for you. And it's an abundant life that is connected to our relationship. Not to the circumstances, but to our relationship. And the the thing that caps it off is that ultimately, you see, this isn't about you and me It's not about what my experience is and what is centered on me, but rather this life of abundance centers on him. It centers on the God of abundance, to experiencing Him, to have my small world that centers on me enlarged. To enter into his world. Billy Graham once said, the smallest package I ever saw was a man all wrapped up in himself. The abundant life frees you from the death of self-worship and gives you the life of abandoning yourself to the glory of Jesus Christ. That in 2002, you can ask God to enlarge your world. Lord, help me to see that ultimately it's not whether my marriage makes me happy It's whether our marriage honors you. It is not whether my wealth brings me pleasure and amusements and delights and security. It's how my wealth honors you. Till I begin to enter into your agenda for the nations, that the nations will be delivered from their gloom to gladness and delight in you, and so you have An intern who was with us 1984-85 and after 15 years Dan Iverson in Japan, place where the gospel hadn't been preached and is so hard to labor in You say, why would a guy give up all the things he has here? All the promise he had here in the career that was before him, and all these things, to go to Japan , work and labor. Misunderstandings of the culture and so far away from family and home. And after 15 years, he writes last week and says, we are so thrilled to be here. We're so thrilled with what God has done in the last 15 years, we realize we made a 15-year commitment to be in Japan. And we can't wait to renew it and go back and experience more of His fullness and abundance. And so whatever it is, for you or for me, 2002 abundant living is not about easy living. It's not about things going without problems and having all my prayers answered. Hey, for goodness sake, I printed this, I did this sermon and I finished the sermon and I push print And only half of it comes out. And I say, God, you've abandoned me. All I want to do is get this sermon to feed your people with your word, and what do you do? You let me down. And fortunately, Kathy Laws was there to rescue me some and we got two-thirds of the sermon. I never could get the other third of the sermon. I said that's okay. I remember when I was in Ireland Did a whole sermon, finished it eleven o'clock Saturday night, the whole thing disappeared right in front of my eyes, right off the screen. What do you do? You say, ah, what is this abundant living business It's at that point that you have to realize, God, we're partners in this. Hey, if that's how you want to spend my time, all right. So I guess you want me to improve that thing. Go back over it But in the big picture of things, there'll be something to say. You know, the things that you sweat through this year, you will get through them It's a question of whether you believe that that's in union with a God of abundance, who is sufficient for all things, who is in fact your Heavenly Father, who wants to take you through these things. With his sufficiency or whether you're going to do it alone. And so what does the year 2002 hold for you? What can I promise you? Can't promise it'll be easier Just read Romans 8. It's harder and harder, Paul says. But we're more than conquerors through him who loved us. The abundant living, I believe, comes down to simply being passionately alive by union with Christ. That's what he's talking about. Being united to me, the God of abundance, and to live fully and passionately the way God intended you to, in all the troubles and the longings, and the heartaches There's the thrill of satisfactions. And there is, with all the struggles, a deeper sense of peace. Simply because of the relationship. The meditating on the three hours of the gospel, I have been redeemed into a relationship with a reward that's my hope. I 'm united to the God who became flesh, who was born in the manger and announced it to shepherds because he's the shepherd who feeds his sheep with himself in the manger. Jesus goes on in the next verse to say, I am the good shepherd who lays down my life for the sheep. He loves you enough to give his life for you. And he wants you to know him more intimately in this next year. So, a couple final suggestions. I mentioned to you last year about my ten sacred minutes that have come to mean so much to me, so much that this past year I extended it to 15 sacred minutes. So whatever I'm doing, whatever the day holds At least to get those 15 minutes in. Say, well you're paid to do that stuff. Holy cow, that's the best you can do is fifteen minutes? I got news for you, it's not easy to get that sometimes I'm talking about fifteen undistracted minutes with nothing else but after having looked at Scripture to say, now I want to meet with my God. And I'll tell you I do that mostly in my office, sometimes home. Wherever I am, when I get to that point I have found that I will get up and I will trot across the room. And I'm imagining that someone is saying, you may now enter into the presence of your Heavenly Father. Or you may now enter into the presence of your Savior, the Lord Jesus. Or you may now enter into your The advocate, the helper, the counselor, the spirit of power , gentleness, who's here for you. And I come and I'd I trot across the room and I come down on my knees at the chair and I say, Lord, it's so good to be here with you again. Everything else is blotted out. Just to bask in his presence. Pour out your heart to him. Tell them how you love them. Tell them your needs, your longings. Get as perspective in those few minutes. Now this year I've added that using a hymn, generally, unless I I'm so full of whatever is on my mind with the Lord that I don't get to the hymn, but generally to Be able to just pray and worship with a hymn lifts my heart. Brothers and sisters, I can't I can't encourage you to try your own version of that enough at the beginning of this year. In order to connect with his abundance and to experience that in your own thirst and emptiness. And then as you do that, you realize that abundance is experienced in community. So be part of a community, a cells, small group. where you can see the gifts of the body that are ministering the manifold grace of God extended to you. Experience that and be honest in that group So that in honesty you can have the gospel come to meet you where you're really living. And then perhaps step out on faith this year in some new endeavor, something where you're going to try to experience God's faithfulness and Maybe tithing when you've never experienced that. You're gonna trust him to tithe. You're gonna trust him in serving him. Maybe to give a testimony at upward basketball. Never done that before. Half time to stand before a group and Talk about what Jesus has meant in your life, even to do it tonight. To begin to do something that's out of the comfort zone you've lived in in this last year, to see God meet you in his faithfulness Maybe to talk to your neighbors about a Bible study. Oh boy, imagine ever doing that. They're not going to kill you. I promise See what God will do. And even in those longings, to express them passionately before the Lord. Don't just bury them and hide them to disappointment. Say God like Abraham. How could you do that to Sodom Like Job to his friends, I don't know what God's doing, but I cry out to him, God, I lay my arguments before you. As David in the desert, God, where are you? You see, even belonging is an expression of the abundance because it shows that your heart has been lifted above what is satisfied by the amusements of this world. Is distraction us. Come to him. Hold Jesus to his promise of John 10 We're going to do that? I challenge you. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we want, we take this promise that you have come to give us life and to give it to us abundantly, to be people who are passionately alive. Even in our disappointments, in our longings, in our confusions, to come this year and to say, Lord Jesus, we want to experience the union with you that produces living water. That produces an abundance of life, the abundance of the sense of our being redeemed and in a relationship with a hope that sustains us day by day. And produces the delight of thirsty people coming to the mountain spring to be refreshed. Teach us more, each one of us, what that means. In this year to come, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.