And we w and I have always wondered whatever happened to the pilgrims? Because uh as I was saying, it's like a stream that you drive along, you know, you cross the stream along this little country road, and you you notice it how pretty it is, but One day you ask yourself, that thing's got to come from somewhere, and it's got to go somewhere. Have you ever wondered that you drive along the stream, you think, you know, streams don't just appear in one spot. There's a continuity to them Now, we're all aware of the pilgrims in terms of landing at Plymouth Rock in 1620. Of course, in public schools, you may not even be aware of that anymore, but you know, for most of us that are into Christian tradition, you know that they landed in sixteen twenty at Plymouth Rock, and then that uh after a very severe winter in which forty-seven out of the original hundred and two died out of hardship. The next season, 1621, was a fairly good harvest, and so out of gratitude, thanksgiving to God, they called a three-day feast with the Indians, and they all celebrated God's goodness. All right. But then what happened to them? Now, when you think about it, that's particularly interesting that we have very little information for most of us what happened to them. when you realize how profoundly they influenced American culture. The Mayflower Compact is regarded by many to be the definitive first statement of self-government by a free people that is a model for the free world. And a number of other ways in terms of their values, they deeply influenced American culture. They came over with a commitment to establish themselves as a covenant community, a people who would live by the Bible, no matter what the cost of that. And yet, by the early 1700s, that blazing light of that vision and the glory of the gospel had become simply the faint glow of some dying embers. What happened to them? Is it that it's an embarrassing question because God wasn't faithful? He abandoned them. They just sort of petered out? Or is there some lesson that's instructive to us that we can learn from, in fact, what did happen to them? Well, obviously I think it's the second, or I wouldn't have brought it up, right? I think that the pilgrims are a classic illustration of the truth of Deuteronomy 8, verse 19. That's what I want to look at. Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 19. For God says, if you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and worship and bow down to them, I testify against you today that you will surely be. destroyed. Strong words. And then he goes on to say in verse 20: like the nations the Lord destroyed before you, so you will be destroyed for not obeying the Lord your God. I want to look at this text from three points in history. Look at it as God's word to Israel in their time. Secondly, to see it as God's word to the pilgrims. And then thirdly, that's the one that should have a little third mark there. God's word to us, what it means in contemporary America. First of all, then God's word to Israel. You remember that this word was given, Deuteronomy chapter 8 is all Deuteronomy, at the eve of Israel's going out of the wilderness into the land that God had promised, a rich land With a tremendous inheritance of material resources. They're about to become rich. And God is saying, I intend for you to be rich. Riches are good. They're not something that we should uh swear off and say that uh we should feel ashamed or embarrassed uh that God has prospered us either as a nation or as a family. However, riches always carry inherent dangers Now riches tend towards spiritual softness. So God is saying, I need to remind you, I need to warn you very clearly as you come into the land that I am giving to you. Of a number of things, but in particular, that you not forget your God. Riches cause us to forget Riches cause us to think that we are self-sufficient and that somehow we have earned or gained or merited what we have and others that don't have that Don't merit it. It's probably somehow their fault. The key word in the book of Deuteronomy is the word remember. It's a key word. Sometime you want to go through the book of Deuteronomy to get some insights on it. Underline or highlight every time you see that word, remember. It's the key to the book. In particular, here in Deuteronomy chapter 8, God is saying, I want you to, I want to warn you about the sin of forgetting three things. First of all, the sin of forgetting. And that's the A, the sin of forgetting. Verse 19, you see, if you ever forget the Lord your God, follow other gods. In particular, he wants them to not forget who redeemed them. First thing is, he says, beware of the sin of forgetting that I redeemed you. Deuteronomy chapter 8 is a great chapter for Thanksgiving week. It reminds us of the danger of an ungrateful heart, because we forget or take for granted what God has done for us. And the first thing that God wants us to always recall is not our material comfort. Go around Thanksgiving time. What are we thankful for? First thing, you know, well I got a place to live and for various things that God has given to us. But the very first thing God says, the basis, the foundation of all Is that God has delivered us from slavery? God delivered you from slavery. Verse 14. Look what he says Then your heart will become proud and you will forget the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. First thing that he wants you to remember this week is that you are in bondage to sin. You are dreading God You had habits that enslaved you. And God said, I have freed you from the power and from the penalty of sin. Sin is a vicious task, Master. God says that through Jesus Christ, in his taking upon himself our sin on the cross to pay its penalty, And in his resurrection, giving to us power that we might not be enslaved to sin, he has made us a free people. He says, don't ever forget that I have redeemed you. Stop this week. At some point, I'd encourage you to make a little list. How is my life different because of Jesus? How would my life be different if Jesus wasn't in my life? Because when I do that, I am always amazed as I look back at where my life would have been headed without Christ. I do not come from a Christian home. But where my life was headed without Christ is a terrible thing for me to contemplate. But to think in your own life, whether you're from a Christian home or not, what difference has he made to you and to give thanks? To remember that before you met Jesus, God was against you. And now he's for you. Jesus is near you. In whatever your circumstance, God is for you. You have Christ's record. You have the hope of heaven. He has surprised you with his love instead of his wrath, which you deserved. Don't ever forget, God says That I brought you out of Egypt. I brought you out of slavery. And I have set my love upon you for all eternity. Don't forget, secondly, he says that I've provided for you. Not only have I given to you Jesus as the point in your life that has made all the difference. But I provided for you day by day. And this goes through all of chapter 8, from particularly verses 3 to 18. But again and again and again, this chapter is filled with this. For instance, verses 3 and 4. Where he says he humbled you, causing you to hunger, and then feeding you with manna, which neither you nor your fathers had known, to teach you that man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord Your clothes did not wear out. One of the lesser-known miracles of the time in the desert, they had the same clothes for 40 years and they never wore out. A little boring, maybe the same thing never changed your clothes, but they never wore out at least, and they didn't have to worry about that. Your feet didn't swell during these forty years God has provided. He provided for you. And so you would have died in the desert without his provision. It's the same for you and me. He provides for you. He provides for you to have the ability to earn money, to do the things that you do, to provide for your family, for yourself. It's interesting that in this chapter he makes the connection between the provision that he makes for you as well as the hardship to show you that it is he who is providing for you. one family was was talking to this week, uh have found that their severance pay, all their uh regular source of income has dried up in the last week or so And they say it means a great deal more to pray now, Lord, give us our daily bread. Look what he says about that. Third thing is he's taught you to trust and obey his word through testing and humbling. Again, look what he says in verse 2. Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way in the desert these 40 years to humble you and to test you. In order to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commands, he humbled you, causing you to hunger, and then feeding you with manna. Dramatically provided, which neither you nor your fathers have known, to teach you that man does not live by bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. He's provided for you. Verse 5. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so the Lord your God disciplines you. This is part of his provision. It's not part of taking away the provision. This is God's provision for you. Look at verse 16. Verse 16 he says, He gave you manna to eat in the desert, something your fathers had never known, to humble and to test you. So that in the end it might go well with you. Affliction gets our attention, doesn't it? And so when you're coasting along and tending to forget who's provided for you. The Lord afflicts us in order to remind us. That what he's most concerned for is our hearts. And so in that affliction, our attention is arrested from all the trivia. We turn back to the Lord. It's always a painful thing for me to remember that it's been the most difficult times in my life that I was closest to the Lord Jesus. You found that It's not those times of ease generally. It's the time when he humbled you and afflicted you To test you to see whether you would live by physical bread alone or whether you would learn that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from God's mouth that becomes precious. In those times when you desperately need to hear from him, he's redeemed you. He's provided for you. He's taught you through various circumstances in your life to trust him and to obey his word. Now the point of this chapter is that Moses is saying, if you forget these things, it will inevitably lead to spiritual adultery. That's the point B. Well, it leads to spiritual adultery, is the blank. That is, forsaking his word. Verse 11. Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God, failing to observe his commands, his laws, and his decrees that I'm giving to you this day. And you notice that that forgetting his word is closely connected to forgetting him. Because God is revealed by his word, and when we forget his word, we are really forgetting him. When you ignore the Bible and let it sit there and gather dust and don't read it, you are ignoring God. It is not simply that you're not getting time to read the Bible. Verse 11. Notice again, be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God for failing to observe his commands. The connection you see, his laws and his decrees that I'm giving to you this day Well look at verse 14. Then your heart will become proud and you will forget the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slaveries. Not just if you forget the redemption, you forget the Lord who redeemed you, the person himself. That's his concern. He wants your heart. He doesn't want you to forget him. Verse 16, he gave you man to eat in the desert, something your father's never known, to humble and test you so it in the end would go well with you Excuse me, verse 19. If you ever forget then the Lord your God and follow other gods See, that's the essence of spiritual adultery. It's forgetting the Lord and therefore finding our satisfaction in other gods, whatever they be. You're too busy making money, getting ahead. Thanksgiving calls us back to sanity. Thanksgiving is a time for us to come back and say, Lord. Maybe I've forgotten you a bit in my life. And I want to come back now and I I want to remember what you've made me for. Why you gave me Jesus, why you provided the things that you've given to me, and the intention of the difficulties in my life, that I might come back to you and be thankful Lack of thankfulness inevitably leads to spiritual adultery. And spiritual adultery inevitably leads to destruction. Look what he says. Verse 19. Destruction is the blanket sea, by the way, if you're following along. If you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and worship and bow down to them, I testify to you against you this day. That you will surely be destroyed. Like the nations the Lord destroyed before you, so you will be destroyed for not obeying the Lord your God. And that was fulfilled to the ten northern tribes through Assyria in 721 BC when they were carried away to destruction. It was fulfilled in 586 and 7 To the two southern tribes of Judah. And that same principle, the principle that a people cannot continue to be blessed. Particularly when they are allied with God, when they are distinctively and uniquely lifting up his name as the one who has redeemed them, who has provided for them, who has called them together in covenant. They cannot forget that with immunity. You are unique, God says, but you're not immune. And so Israel suffered in learning that lesson. And it's the same principle that continues down through the years. And so we move to the 1600s and back to the pilgrims. This word was a word that was preached to the pilgrims. Deuteronomy chapter 8 was one of the favorite texts of many of the pastors in those days after that Thanksgiving time. Because of their sin of forgetting. You've heard of the severity of the first winter and the harvest of 1621. It was a fairly meager harvest, particularly in comparison to the harvests of the days ahead. And yet they were extremely thankful for that harvest. Three days, I mean, not just you know a couple of hours in a football game, but it was three days of feasting. I mean, they really got into it, you know. These people were so thankful. They were celebrating the goodness of their God, and some of their writings are very moving in how they bless God for what seems to us so little. One man, Cotton Nather , wrote in the years ahead a book by the name of Magnalia Christi Americana, which basically is a record of God's goodness to the pilgrims Hundreds of examples of God's providential goodness to them. How they lived by faith day by day in dependence on Him. For instance, a carpenter who was at work up in a a ceiling and had a heavy timber and there were some kids playing below him. And he wasn't careful and he dropped the timber and by the time it from the time it left to when it fell, he screamed out, Lord direct it And then the timber fell straight on its end, right between the kids, and then went down between two of the kids, not touching any of them. You may say, well, yeah, some do, some don't, but it was the conscious sense. God is our refuge. We cry out to Him in our need, and He protects us. Where he tells the story of two ships. One was a ship that had sprung a leak, and they couldn't fix the leak, and they finally had to abandon the ship, and they were able to take plenty of bread and food, meat along with them in the lifeboat, but they didn't have any water or very little. And after a few days we're down to one teaspoon per person. There was another ship that spotted them on the horizon. That ship had plenty of water, but it had no food. Now what would you do if you were in that ship and you saw this lifeboat? The first mate said, We can't pick 'em up. We don't have any w we don't have enough food for ourselves. But the captain was a believer and he said, I trust God. In principle, we've got to pick these brothers up. We can't abandon them here. Whatever happens to us, we trust to God. He picked up the lifeboat and found that they had all the food that the ship needed, and they had all the water that the people in the lifeboat needed. And so both safely got to port. The fellow that said, don't pick him up, sometime shortly after that, was also in peril and nobody saved him and he died of hunger. These are recorded to remind God's people of his faithfulness. And so it went through the years ahead after the pilgrims had landed and celebrated that first Thanksgiving. But then, very shortly after, in the second generation, even in the years, the short years, and the decades right after, even the 1630s, they began to become more self-sufficient. Governor Winthrop and others noticed the change in the attitude of the community, that self-sufficiency, that forgetting of God. And so God began to initiate some disciplines within the community. One man, a murderer, John Morgan. was sent to the scaffold and on the scaffold cotton mather actually shared the gospel with him and led Morgan to Christ And then standing a few days later on that scaffold, John Morgan preached the gospel, warning the community, we've been turning away from God. Be careful that you do not forget the Lord who saved you. And he warned them. He said, I'm coming in a few minutes to stand before the Lord of glory. What are you going to do? And then he was hanged. And some people were deeply moved, but they soon forgot, and they continued in their self-sufficiency. Deuteronomy chapter 8 was preached again and again, the same passage. If you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and worship and bow down to them, I testify against you this day that you will surely be destroyed. Many times they preached that, and the people continued to drift and say that they understood, but had other things to attend to. Fathers were more concerned to pass on the skills of carpentry. and farming than the vision that had united them in the beginning of that community. And so their humility turned to Yankee self-reliance and independence Spiritual adultery. Religious functions became more and more simply perfunctory. The pastors got more desperate. Jeremiah became their favorite book. In fact, we have a word that's come down from that Zaya, Jeremiad. Which means a stinging rebuke and warning because they preached from Jeremiah so often. But the people continued to ignore it. Governor Bradford had written as early as 1632 in a quote from the letter that he wrote. No man now thought that he could live except that he had cattle and a great deal of ground to keep them. All were striving to increase their stocks by which means they were scattered all over the bay quickly, and the town in which they lived compactly, that's Plymouth, now was left very thin and a short time almost desolate And if this had been all, it would have been less, though too much, but the church must also be divided. And those that had lived so long together in Christian comfort and fellowship must now part and suffer many divisions. This I fear will be the ruin of New England, at least of the churches of God there, and will provoke the Lord's displeasure against them. Bradford's words were prophetic. The people continued to simply separate and had very little concern for any sense of covenant community that had drawn them together in the first place. The original leaders were brokenhearted. Cotton Mather was more blunt when he wrote years later, Religion begat prosperity, and the daughter devoured the mother. But God continued to warn them. The blessings of God had been turned into an idol, and they had forgotten their God. God sent droughts. He sent plagues. He sent epidemics. One of the most famous was the reign of caterpillars, where one summer Uh there were no caterpillars around and then when there'd be a thunder shower there would be thousands and tens of thousands of these little black caterpillars would be all over the landscape, devouring everything. Some droughts came that were so bad that in August the trees were stripped bare as in winter. And some churches called days of fasting and humiliation and prayed, and God took away the caterpillars as suddenly as they had come. And the people were called back for a short time to thank God, but then gradually forgot again into a deeper self-sufficiency. The leaders continued to warn, and greater judgments came until at last their troubles mounted to the point that in 1670 the government of Massachusetts conducted a special investigation to determine why God was so afflicting the people with sickness, poor crops, and shipping losses. But nothing came of it. The settlers followed their accustomed ways, and their hearts grew ever more hardened to the voices of the pastors. In fact, one fellow wrote a poem, 33 stanzas, called God's Controversy with New England, giving the same point of Deuteronomy chapter 8. We've forgotten our God. He's displeased with us. and were suffering for it. They were attacked from without. The Indians turned against them in King Philip's war. They were attacked from within. Occultism grew up within their own midst. And so you have the famous and infamous Salem witch trials. What happened to the pilgrims? They simply scattered, were dissipated, lost the vision, and were absorbed into the general culture. And so by the 1700s, they had lost all vision. They had forgotten God as a community. And it was in the 1730s that God raised up Jonathan Edwards for the first great awakening What does that mean for us? Look finally then at God's word to us, to America, to the church in America. For I must always make clear when I say something like this that America is not equivalent to Israel. We are not the new Israel. And so when God gives a word in Scripture to Israel, we must never take that as simply to America. There is a particular application because America has been founded by the pilgrims and in most of its founding documents specifically references its purpose as being to honor and glorify Jesus Christ. But it's particularly to the church in America that a passage like this is addressed. That we as God's people, not as only as a nation, As a nation, as a whole, and as a people in particular, we have to ask how much we have continued in our thankfulness to God, but particularly as we think of our culture. People like Pearl Buck and Ed Ray Guest were people who wrote religiously, spoke of themselves as Christians, but took away all cross and gospel out of the message of self-reliance and goodwill. That deeply affected the thinking of the last couple of generations. We've forgotten that we are sinners in need of a savior as a culture. We have forgotten verse 18. Remember the Lord your God, it is he who gives you the ability to produce wealth. And so confirms his covenant, which he swore to your forefathers as it is today. We become arrogant about our abilities and about our resources. The first Thanksgiving proclamation was made in 1789 by George Washington. He wrote in that as the President of the United States, one of the first things that he did, whereas it is the duty of all nations to acknowledge the providence of Almighty God. To obey his will and to be grateful for his benefits and humbly to implore his protection and favor. And then he goes on for a number of paragraphs talking about all the things that the nation was thankful to God for. in terms of the freedom that they had just gained, the peaceful establishment of a government, and all the rest of these things, and then calls upon the people on the 26th of November, that Thursday, the next Thursday, to set aside a time to give thanks to God. In 1863, Abraham Lincoln institutionalized this as a national holiday to give thanks to God for what he had done. And that same nation Today, Thanksgiving has become an embarrassment. Take a quote from an article recently by Charles Colson. He talks about one grade school teacher who taught her class at Thanksgiving was a time in which the pilgrims got together and gave thanks to the Indians. There's a switch. The young boy came home and told his mother what he had been taught in school. When the mother confronted the principal with inaccuracy, reminding him that Thanksgiving was a time in which thanks was given to God, the principal replied that her position was simply her opinion and not documented fact And that they could only teach what was contained in the history books. Of course, the history books don't say a whole lot about it. The history books speak of Thanksgiving as simply a time now for us to rue the fact that we Practice genocide upon Native Americans. The Thanksgiving should be a time in which we simply look at the multidiversity culturally within our land and celebrate that Now there's nothing wrong with celebrating multicultural diversity and there's certainly nothing wrong with repenting what we have done to the Native Americans. The point is that's not what Thanksgiving is about. Thanksgiving is Thanksgiving to God. It is not remembering some historical occasion Thanksgiving was established that we might remember and be thankful to God because Deuteronomy says if you ever forget God, then you will be destroyed. Now before we come too hard on the nation and say, yeah, boy, things are bad, we have to look at ourselves. How thankful are we? Do we really believe that it is He who has given us the ability to produce wealth? If we do, it will affect our giving. That we give the first fruits, trusting God. He's the one who's going to take care of us. We're thankful to Him. And so when we take up the offering a few minutes from now, that will be an offering of thanksgiving to God. Thank you, Lord, for providing for me. Here is something I want to give to you. Is a celebration of that, an expression of my gratitude. Or in terms of priorities of my time, when you're down to the issue of priorities and you're going to serve the boss to get ahead, are you going to say enough is enough? I've got to draw the line somewhere. I'm trusting God to provide for me. He's the one who takes care of me. I don't have to be anxious that God is going to somehow abandon me to this person who's going to eat me alive. We express our thanksgiving through trust. We express it through spending time cultivating our relationship with the Lord Jesus each morning. And if you're too busy to be cultivating that relationship and worshiping in his word, then you're busier than God intends you to be. And if you're busier than God intends you to be, how's he going to bless that? If you ever forget the Lord, you will follow other gods. And if you and I follow other gods, God cannot bless us. Maasai tribe in Western Africa, when they express thanksgiving, a person comes and puts their head in the dirt, and he says, My head is in the dirt to you. Because they recognize that in its essence thanksgiving is an act of humility. Brothers and sisters, may this week be for us Time to humble ourselves and celebrate the goodness of the Lord Jesus for us to not forget Him. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we can be so critical for our culture that wants to ignore Thanksgiving and forget and even purposely blot out its very origins. twist and distort them while we ourselves so often have forgotten it is you who have redeemed us, who have provided the means to produce wealth And that with that wealth you have called us therefore to be a generous people, not only for the church, but for the needy, to come before you and trust you that you will take care of us And offer our lives to you as living sacrifices of gratitude. Lord, we pray use this week. The Thanksgiving would call us back to sanity. That we would remember you, and that you would be in the forefront of our thinking. Thank you, Lord God, for what you have done for us in Jesus Christ. Amen.