Well just four more days after the day for Christmas already? Silly questions for people I 've got, huh? Well, uh I'm ready. I got my Christmas tie on here and I already was asked a couple times by people to make sure that this was the one that played the music. So if anybody wants to check out the tune Whether the battery's still working, you'll see me afterwards. But uh it's good to be able to hear Christmas music and to sing the carols. Uh if you're feeling like you haven't got enough of that. Remember there will be a Christmas Eve service right here, seven o'clock on Thursday evening. For us to be able to sing and just worship together, focus on Praising the Lord through Christmas music and a brief meditation on a Christmas carol for a beautiful specimen. So uh the time is drawing very close If we think about what it is that we have doing from doing all this bustling and rushing around for these last couple of weeks. And if we think about Christmas music, one of the most common popular Christmas Carol is the one that you heard played instrumentally by Craig and Janice. Uh three things and twos and Christmas Carol, What Child Is This? When you think about it, that Carol, what child is this? Asks a very profound question, doesn't he? What child is this? He laid to rest in Mary's laugh and sleeping. When you think about that question, a very searching question, who is this Jesus? It's so easy for us, even as Christians, as we come to the Who is this Jesus who was born in a manger in Bethlehem? First century Palestine. Some people say, and it's helpful for us to realize who he is, perhaps by realizing what many other people say A fellow like Professor John Hicks wrote a book called The Myth of God Incarnate. And in that book he said Jesus was a very good man who never intended to be worshipped. But the church, in its misguided devotion, over the years gradually deified him and made him into something that he never was nor intended to be. Now, apart from the whole question of the resurrection and all the rest of this uh at least what Professor Hicks has done is to focus on a very central question in the gospel. Who is this Jesus? Not who he is say that he is, but who is he? Do you remember Jesus focused that question in Matthew chapter sixteen? Mark uh his gospel and it basically two sections, Mark 1 to 8 and Esa 16. And this question, which is in Matthew 16, is right at the very central pivotal point in Mark's gospel and it's pivotal also in Matthew. But do you remember when Jesus was had ministered for a couple of years that uh when he came to the region of Caesarea Philippi he asked us for some In Matthew 15, verse 13, who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they replied, Well, some say John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, and still others say Jeremiah, one of the prophets. Then Jesus points straight to them and he says, What about you? Who do you say about? That's a very searching question for every one of us here this moment, isn't it? Who do you honestly say Jesus is? Not just in some good confession But with your whole heart, with everything that's in you and how you live toward him, who is it that you say Jesus is in your life this morning? Well, people have all kinds of opinions. But what's very interesting if you read the Christmas story is that if The Bible is accurate and there is lots of evidence to say that the Bible is a reliable authority. The Bible tells us there was a very significant group of people very significant group of individuals who had inside information on who Jesus is. And they stated it at his first And that group of individuals is angels. When we start to think about it, that's very significant. Because the word angel means messenger You see, angels don't give their opinions. Never have an angel saying, It seems to me, I think that, well, I've been thinking about this and it It seems like angels are messengers. All an angel does is he declares what God has said. And angels are sinful. They're not forgetful. They'll mess things up. So when an angel says, this is who the And what the Bible's saying to us is If in fact what the angel says, and if you look at the Christmas story, you'll find that the angel spoke on four occasions, right in that Christmas. And of those four occasions that the angel spoke, three of them are specifically about the identity of Jesus. this child is who's in the manger. Three of them are about his identity. The one, the fourth one, is to John as is to Zacharias concerning the birth of John the Baptist. So you have three statements by people who have inside information from the most infallible source of information in the universe, God Himself. And they say, let us tell you who this baby is in the manger. And for you and me to understand what we're worshiping and what this time means, I'll like for us to take a look for a few minutes at who this state is according to the angels. Because if the angels are correct, then our world is in for a big surprise. The people that you work with who look at Christmas as simply as a time perhaps a party. The people that you pass in the shop So many of them that if you ask them, what are we worshiping this week? Why are we having all this celebration? Would have only the vaguest notions. We know that last year there was an urban ministry in a high rise development, and they discovered that the kids living in that high rise, only one out of five knew that Christmas was to celebrate the birth of Jesus as recorded in the Bible. One out of five our culture, this is not a mission field in some foreign country. own culture. So increasingly more and more people in our own culture don't even know who Jesus is. They don't understand the vegetables Data about his identity. And that reminds me of a sign that you see when you go through Maryland Park. Have you ever driven to a Maryland State Park and you see right at the entrance there's a sign that says You are responsible to know the rules of this part. Yeah, you you don't just drive through and say, Well, you know, I know there's a sign there, it tells me what I'm supposed to do here, what I'm not supposed to do. But If I get caught I'll say, Well, I didn't know that I wasn't supposed to do that. I didn't know that I couldn't take my cougar in here and not have him on a leash. You see, I thought it was a parking just sort of, you know, a place for animals to Have some fun. So they say, well no, you're responsible to read that sign. It's posted there for you to understand what you can do and what you can't do in the spark. We see it's sort of like that with Jesus. God has divided history through the birth of Jesus. Every one of us Have uh every one of the people that we relate to, they date their cars and everything that they do nineteen ninety-two based on the fact that Supposedly Jesus was born one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two years ago, probably one thousand nine hundred and ninety-seven years ago. But the fact is that he divides history. And so everyone knows that this is a very significant individual. But who is he? And so for you and for me who see people who don't really care or know If we discern the slightest interest, it's up to us to be able to take that opportunity and say, Let me tell you who it is that we're celebrating. And a way of doing that is what the angels said. Three things that they stated. Three incidents. And you see them on your bulletin outline there. I've divided them this time so that you can see the three basic identities of Jesus on the left side, the three scripture passages that where angels speak during the Christmas story, and basically what are the the messages that they give. The first one's in Luke chapter 1. In verses 26 to 38, you have the angel Gabriel who came to the village of Neb Nazareth to announce to Mary the identity of the baby that she was to conceive as a virgin. Now let me just uh put in a pitch here for the fact that uh during the middle hour You know, every Christmas season we have the Sunday before Christmas a special kind of Christmas uh background series in which we go in our imaginations to understand something of the background of Christmas. And this morning for this year, I'm going to do uh the middle hour on the cities of Christmas. And so we're going to look at the cities of Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem. What were those cities like? What was it like to live there? And what were the significance of those cities and why Jesus uh lived in Nazareth? born in Bethlehem and what that tells us about who he is and some of the things in the background. Give you a little handout on that, take a look at that and have some fun to be able to kind of get our imagination Go back to visit those cities. Now Jesus came to Nazareth. You got a hold off a little bit to find out why it was Nazareth and the rest of that. But Jesus came to this village of Nazareth. Oh excuse me, if you ain't real. And he says, You're to have a son. And pick up what he says in Luke chapter 1 in verse 31. Gabriel says , beginning in verse 30, don't be afraid, Mary. You 'll found favor with God. You will be with child , will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called The Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom. Will never end. How will this be, Mary? asked the angel, since I'm a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you The power of the Most High will overshadow you, for the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going To have a child in herald age, and she who is said to be barren is in her sixth month. So nothing is impossible with God. I am going to Service Mary answered. May it be to me, as you have said, and the angel left me. A really rather shocking incident when you think about it. Again, it's hard for us to picture what's going on here because we've so glamorized it and romanticized it some Christmas pageants and Christmas cards and the rest of the This but to understand that an angel of God is coming to say that the Son of God is going to be born, announcing this to an A rustic, poor, unsophisticated, uneducated female to get the first announcement of this was such a kind of I mean he is saying Messiah is going to be born to you, to a young girl who shops at I mean that's really the best cultural equivalent you can put on it. A great place. But it's not exactly the center of culture in the East Coast. And that's the way Nazareth was. And Mary didn't have any particular education. She was an unsophisticated person. She was poor, and so she probably was a bit crude. It wasn't that she was refined. She wasn't sophisticated. He says, You, I'm come from God to tell you you're going to have a baby boy. Now, I think it's probably safe to say that most mothers think that it would be appropriate for an angel Angel to come to announce to them their first child was going to be born rather than to hear it through an EPT, an angel would be an appropriate way to get the news, wouldn't it? But the circumstances of this birth are so unusual that it requires that God sends an angel in order to prepare Mary for what's going to happen because in a Few weeks she's gonna find herself pregnant. You guys say, How'd this happen? I've never had sexual relations. How am I pregnant? And she'll never understand it and she won't believe it. And so the gay angel Gabriel tells her that's because of the unique identity of this one. And then he tells her, notice a couple of things that he says about who this is she's going to have. He says, you're going to have this child without any human father, because the Holy Spirit himself will be the father Now don't miss the implications of that. Verse 35. The Holy Spirit's going to come upon you. And this is an answer to saying, How am I going to have a child without a human father? Because the Holy Spirit will come upon you. The power of the Most High will overshadow you. And then he draws the conclusion so you and I don't Therefore, because of this, because the Holy Spirit is Father, the Holy One to be born will be called the very Son of God. Now you see that shows you and me when we have all these theological debates about why is Jesus called the Son of God. Well maybe that meant that in some special way he was God's son and he was, you know, kind of on a more No, no, no, no. You got an angel. And an angel says, Look, I'm not giving you my opinion. The reason he's called the Son of God is because Quite literally, the Holy Spirit is his Father. And the Holy Spirit came upon a human being, so that Jesus is literally In his nature, God with human beings join two natures in one person. He is the very Son of God and the Son of Mary. Joined Together. Literally, Emmanuel, God with us in the flesh. Now that's the statement of the angel. And when you and I understand what is it that we're making all this I have to think again of the mystery of the incarnation. The Holy Spirit threw upon a woman And made her pregnant. So then the angel goes on and he says, Not only is this one Lord, the very Son of God. But he is the King, He is the Messiah. And so he says in verse thirty-three, but he is going to reign. He's going to give the whole the uh the son is one who's going to be grazen, the son of the most high. The Lord God is going to give to him, verse thirty-two, the throne of his father David. And he's going to reign over the high Now again, something very significant there is that the implication of the fact that he is going to reign Over a kingdom forever means that he's going to live forever. This king's never gonna die. And no other government is ever going to take his throne from him This one's going to establish a kingdom that will endure age after age after age, and you and I would long for someone to be able to come into a government and take control to establish a government that would be good and just and peaceful, wouldn't it? And as we look around in the events today we look and we say if there could only be someone with enough wisdom and power to get control of things. The angel Gabriel says this one's not going to only have infinite power and infinite Infinite justice and infinite mercy, to rule with infinite wisdom. power But that government will never be overthrown by evil again That's the nature of the power of this Messiah who comes. So he's Messiah. He's king. He's going to have a kingdom that You and I to be in that kingdom is to be in the very best place that you and I could ever be in forever and ever. And whether you're in that kingdom or not If you know that you're in that kingdom, then you can celebrate and look forward to Jesus establishing that kingdom to overthrow all human beings government. If you're not in that field, and none of this is good news for you, because all those outside of that field, all of those who are not part of that are utterly alienated from God and under His judgment and grass presence. That leads us to the second message. The second message is The angel was an unidentified angel. And he came to Joseph. You see that recorded in Matthew chapter one Remember that Mary was Joseph's fiance. And Joseph, having heard the news from Mary, I'm pregnant. And Joseph Joseph, I know it's gonna be hard for you to believe this, but the Holy Spirit's the Father. said Imagine Joseph's reaction. Poor Joseph. I mean now Now he's not only convinced that his fiancee has been unfaithful and unchaste and lying. He also thinks she's out of her mind I mean not only will this woman not admit her guilt and her shame, and be able to at least be honest about it But she has the gall to blaspheme God and blame the pregnancy on him. You know, something like an inquirer magazine on the racks as you go out of the stores, you know, in the checkout line. Pregnant by the Holy Spirit. And can you imagine the turmoil that Joseph must have been in? There's no choice. It's not just a matter that my wife's been unfaced. For my fiance. We don't know how he would have responded to that. But you see, that's compounded by her refusal to acknowledge That she's fornicate. And to blaspheme and blame it on God. And so Joseph says, I don't know this woman anymore. And he's ready to put her aside and to divorce her We separate, we divide the engagement. And an angel comes to Joseph in his dream. Now it's very interesting, you know, it's one of the few times you have an a have you had an angel come to a person that doesn't start off with fear not? You know why? Because in a dream. See? That's in Matthew 126. After he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. gonna you know jump up and down because dream it was sort of a a more indirect, less threatening way of coming, but to impress upon him a very comforting message. So the angel The angel appeared in a dream and said, Joseph, son of Eve, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what's conceived in her is Put the emphasis, underlining, is from the Holy Spirit. She's not lying, Joseph. She really is pregnant by the Holy Spirit. And she will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Why? Because he will save his people from their sins The name Jesus means Savior. And if the first message focused on Jesus as King, the second message focuses on Jesus as priest Because the focus of this message is that he is Jesus, Yeshua, Savior, Deliverer. He's the one who's going to save his people. From their sins. He's the one who is going to give his life to atone for the sins of his people to bring them into that kingdom that the angel Gabriel told Mary about. By the way, By the way, this could be Gabriel also, we don't know. I think probably it was. But this Jesus is going to give his life so that his people will be brought into John three verse three says, You can't see or be in that kingdom unless you're born again. And acknowledge your need. For Jesus has your yeshua, your savior. So if you don't know Jesus as Savior , This morning you really can't celebrate Christmas. Because Christmas is about the fact that Jesus is Satan. That's what this message is all about. The angel said, He is of the Holy Spirit, because that was necessary for him to not have Adam sin upon. So that he'd be eligible. And then we come to the third angel, the third message. The message of the angels and that famous appearance to the shepherds the night after the birth. Again, we look at Bethlehem during the middle hour also. Notice this familiar scene in Luke chapter 2 Luke chapter 2. After Jesus has been born , Mary's put him in a manger, because there's no room in the inn. You pick up a The story of the angels. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared Appeared to them a third time. And the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ. Messiah the Lord. This will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Now let's just stop there because we always go on, you know to the s what we call the song of the angels, the glory and all that. But if you just stop there, that focuses was on I on his identity. That's what he's been talking about so far. Now you notice the First, if you look at that little chart in the bulletin outline there, the first emphasizes Jesus' Messiah, King. The second emphasizes Emphasizes Jesus as Savior, priest. All three of them speak of His Lordship. But you notice in this message, you have all three put together. The angel says, Who is it that's been born? He's a savior, doesn't even use his name, he's explicit. It's a Savior who's been born to you, who is Messiah the Lord. Now very significantly, verse eleven says he is Messiah the Lord. The Greek is very significant there. Because the Greek is he is Christus Curiu. It's excuse me, it's not Christus Curiyu. That would be he is the Lord's Messiah What it says is he is Christus Curios. He is Messiah, the Lord. Messiah who is Lord. That's what the Greek is very clear to say. This is not God having sent someone who is Messiah, some human being born and raised to the position of Messiah. The angel Very clearly saying, This is the Lord who is the Messiah. This is the Lord who has come in the flesh, whose Father is the Holy Spirit Spirit, so that he can be eligible to be the Savior, to bring his people into the kingdom that he's establishing. And so you see, all three of these identities go through Together, don't they? In order to be Messiah and establish his kingdom with his people brought into that kingdom, he needs to be the Savior who is the Lord. Now why is it that you and I don't appreciate that so much? I think it's because, in large part, whether it's because of our busyness or whatever it is, we get out of touch touch with the needs in our lives that Jesus' identity particularly needs. And so what I want you to do is to look for a moment. See Think about those three identities in your own life. Isn't it true that you and I, it's on the backside of your bullet in here now, who isn't it true that you and I are not in touch with our hearts. And so we don't see our daily need of a Savior. We're not in touch with our hearts. That's nice that Jesus came as a Savior in some vague general sense. And you and I walk around with a sense of pretty consistent deficiency probably, never feeling that we're good enough as Christians. And yet we measure that often by our own standards. I wish that I I was able to do this. I wish I was better in this area. And I'm not, and so I don't feel good about myself. But rarely do we feel utterly undone And radically rotten humans. I mean, rarely do we feel that we are so hopelessly undone that we need a savior. Totally outside of ourselves, who's our only hope. And it's when you and I get in touch with our hearts and see the radical nature of our evil. That we say, I am so glad of Christmas that a Savior has come to take my son. That's very meaningful to me this Christmas with my mom as I mentioned to you, living with us with brain cancer and utterly helpless. She can't stand, she can't do anything. And I've seen again and again as my wife has tried to minister to her and as primarily the one who is taking leadership and being able to care for and do so much for. And it's come to me again and again how impossible it is for me to consider Consistently put other people first. How my life centers around my needs and my desires and my concerns. And to put someone else Really first, when I don't get back what I think I need to get back in terms of my own needs, is something so utterly fine. And again and again Again, as I've come and I've had to confess, whether to Kathy or to the Lord, that I haven't done here, what I could have done, or I haven't anticipated that need, or whatever it is, again and again I I have found myself in this these last days saying, Lord Jesus, I'm so glad for my Savior. I'm so glad that you utterly and freely forgive. You came to be my Savior. And the more I'm in touch with my heart, the more precious He is to me. Not only is he as a savior, but as Messiah. And I think that we don't appreciate that because we're not sufficiently in touch with our word The more we're in touch with our world, the more we see its need of a messiah. The more we see that this rottenness and My own heart is pervasive throughout the world. You just read the daily news to see such a need for a messiah. The atrocities in Samaland. The greed that's caused them, the need to go in there to try and get food to the people here. Serbians slaughtering the Cruits. The utter it it's difficult for us to understand such features of destruction So we look at our hearts and we see this is the nature of our world. We see the IRA bombing shopping malls at Christmas time. Do you know the police Say that the highest time of crime rate for mugging, burglaries, and domestic murders is Christmas. This is so much for peace on earth So much for thinking that we can somehow sing some songs of goodwill and think some positive thoughts and get some energy that's sort of, you know, in tune with the universe and we're gonna be able to The world needs a Messiah. And the more you and I feel the pain of our world, and like the Avers Say there's people that are outside of my own immediate community who are hurting. And I'm in touch with that pain. The more you and I are in touch with that in our own situations, the more We long for a Messiah. And then you read the Christmas story and you see, God has provided a Messiah. This pain is going to end someday. And Jesus is going to come back. And he's going to establish that kingdom, and he's going to reign over it, and it will never end, because he will never die or be overthrown. Amen. That is a hope of Christmas for you and for me. The last thing is that you and I need to see is because we are not in touch with the transcender , we miss the fact Jesus is Lord or Master. You and I tend not to be in touch with the transcendent. And so we don't see our need of a Lord and of a master. As Neil Postman has said, TV has anesthetized and trivialized our thinking for the transcender. And so you and I uh have lost our sense of wonder when we in our imaginations go to Bethlehem. We've almost lost our sense of understanding that it's Shekinah glory who's laying in that manger. That's the one who is Lord. The one who has made the universe and who has made the galaxies that we've looked at this past fall. And the one who looks down at our dot on a dot within a dot of a galaxy. And a God of all the universe, and has reduced himself to flesh, but has remained Lord, because he has come in that flesh. To be worshipped and adored. And that Lord is calling the nations to himself, and that Lord will triumph. I just had a call this morning from Dan Iverson. Christmas service over in Oyamina Chapel this morning. They're thirteen hours ahead of us, so we can already report what's happened there. Congregation there this morning, seven by profession of faith and baptism just this morning. To Chiba, Japan This one is Lord and He will triumph. And we worship Him this morning, but only as we are in touch with our sins Pain of our world , the transcendent Lord of glory, that we do. Let's pause and get in touch with you. Let's go. Lord, we recognize this morning now that We tend so easily to generalize Christmas and make it superficial because we don't want to be in touch. With our need of a Savior. Because that puts us in touch with our own sin and our radically evil natures. Our utter hopelessness is Tom Broad led us in that prayer so meaningfully a few minutes ago, Lord, to see our bondage to sin and our hopelessness of delivering our sins Lord, we want to be in touch with that not because we're masochistic and want to dwell on our sin, but because we want to be in touch with reality and see what our hearts are like so that we see the joy of understanding that you came to Jesus, yes, you Savior. You came to give yourself Eligible as a human being who's kept the law to die for our sin, to bring us into that kingdom that you have established as Messiah. A kingdom from the throne of David that will never end. A kingdom that will eradicate all evil, insurrection. And all that destroys and maimes and kills, that kingdom will be established for you are Lord. We want to know and worship you as Lord this week. Lord, give us grace and sanity to put aside in our schedules the time. To worship him. To rejoice that unto us has been born this day a Savior, who is Messiah.