We're going through these three weeks covenantal parenting between Mother's Day and Father's Day. Hit neither, hit both, whatever you may consider it. We are considering from Psalm 78 what God says about covenantal parenting, particularly focusing on the beginning of that Second vow that we take whenever we baptize our children here, do you promise to pray with and for your child to instruct him or them in the truths of the Christian faith, acquainting them with their need of a savior and teaching them the plan of salvation and the principles of the Christian life Psalm 78 speaks of the failure of Israel to do this, the rebellion, the consequences that they suffered. Because they ignored this principle, they did not pass on the faith, and they were not loyal to God or to his covenant, though he continued to be merciful and loyal to them. Once again, let us read now from a simple old American accent, but God's word From Psalm 78, those first eight verses which Sandy's poem so beautifully reflected. O my people, hear my teaching. Listen to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter hidden things, things from of old. What we have heard and known, what our fathers have told us, we will not hide them from their children or our children. We will tell the next generation. The praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and the wonders that he has done. He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel Which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children, so the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born, and they in turn would tell their children. then they would put their trust in God and would not forget his deeds, but would keep his commands. They would not be like their forefathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, whose hearts were not loyal to God. whose spirits were not faithful to him. And then we've talked about how that psalm goes on to speak of God's faithfulness from Zoan, that is the region of Egypt, to Zion, where he established his throne in his presence. Last week we focused on that first part of this. We will tell our children the determination to set our priorities, to take the time, to do what is necessary, to pass on the faith and the vision. of the kingdom of God and of his ways. We talked about the need to take time to do that, not simply to have time with the family and kids, but To also guard ourselves so that emotionally we still have energy to be able to do that. Things that God had been convicting me about with that. We talked about also the need to uh set models to experiment. Maybe our fathers didn't tell us those things, many of us first-generation Christians, but the need to seek to set new models, new patterns within our families of passing on God's word and how to apply that into lives. And then to also see our deficiencies, to recognize that this psalm focuses on God being a God of mercy. He's merciful to those who mess up in many ways, but we recognize that we model to our kids repentance. And the grace of God, as it comes to us in our own failings, that they see that as part of what it means to follow Jesus Christ. Let me just mention that some of you uh astute sermon outline followers would have noticed that I didn't cover the three F's that were there on parenting. I will do that next week. You will not be cheated. That will come. And also in case anybody was wondering uh about that mother that I quoted uh and uh wondered, you know, uh if I ever say something to Al, is he gonna use my words against me in a message in some future time? I did check with her. I've talked about that with her before I did that Don't worry, if I ever did that to you, I would check with you also. Before we go on to talk about the second part, however, I've asked Pete Brofe if he would share just a word of testimony about this first thing that we covered this last week. I think we need to see this in terms of our own struggles, but some people among us that are trying this and what God is doing, and so just as a kind of a word of testimony, I've asked Pete if he'd come on up and share with you a little bit of what he And Susan are trying to do in their family in terms of the principles we talked about last week. Pete, go ahead and do it. Well when Alan uh asked me to come up and say a couple of words, I thought there's so much I could say and Where do I start and what do I include and what do I leave out? I could probably fill up a good uh twenty minutes if I needed to and and talking to you about what we're doing and what we have done But then I've decided to fall back on one of the postulates and creeds I live on in my life at work is that never engage in original thought unless you absolutely have to. So what I decided to do was to take Alan's points from last week and uh just go over those and tell you how we've uh addressed those challenges. One of the things Alan talked about was how do we take the time? Sue and I became parents later on in life. Colleen, uh when she was born, I was 35. And kinda given us some advanced prep during that time on uh on parenting, uh through reading his his word, through reading good books on parenting And by watching friends who were faithful in parenting and who were following God's model for parenting, we had uh God had given us the knowledge, it put on my heart that I will not teach my children their values. My children will absorb my values. So Sue and I had already decided on several things that we wanted to do. And it was much less an issue of how are we going to make the time, it was how are we going to use the time effectively that God had given us We decided that we had to hold each other accountable to doing these things. One of the things that that comes to mind is that one of the things that we do is we will read Bible stories and from the children's Bibles in the evening before bedtime. And if it looks like I'm not going to get around to it that evening, or if for whatever reason we haven't done that in a couple of evenings, Sue will give Colleen one of the books and she'll crawl up onto my lap and start to open it up. And at that point I usually get the message. But accountability within the family is often just a a a concept. It's not something you can always work out One of the things that I've had the benefit of over the years, and one thing that I have now is that I'm meeting with men who are going to hold me accountable to doing what I know is right for me and my family, and I'm going to hold them accountable as well And with the skill with which we teach our children, is another thing that Alan talked about. I'm the kind of guy who says if I can't find the perfect curricula, the perfect materials For leading family devotions. I just can't do it all. I just can't do it. Forget about it. I as I was on vacation last week I came across a quote in the newspaper which just fits me perfectly, and I think many of you as well. A cardinal rule in making progress is not to allow the impossible perfect be the enemy of the feasible good. Again, a cardinal rule in making progress is not to allow the impossible perfect be the entire to be the enemy of the feasible good. As Alan and I were talking yesterday, he gave me a a different spin on that, which says anything that's worth doing is worth doing poorly. But then get better at it. And it's something I came up with came up with on my own that's even simpler than that. Just do it There there's a lot of things out there and I could spend twenty minutes just talking about the materials that we've used and the different books. Let me just put in a plug for the Catechism for Young Children, which is a book of questions and answers about the great truth of God's Word. If you have trouble getting started, if you have trouble finding something you can work with, questions and answers in the language of young children Language that they can understand is a marvelous tool, and I commend that to you. God wants our obedience. He'll give us what we need to succeed. He will make us better if we seek to do his will In dealing with my guilt, apart from my marvelous capacity to ignore my own sin, what I do is when I pray with my children, I will confess My weaknesses and my sin in front of them. Let them know that I'm just a man as well. And I ask them to pray for me. Ask them to pray that I would be a good daddy, that I would be a good leader for the family. And then I must realize that I'm going to fail, I'm going to fall short a lot of times. But as I seek to do his will, I've seen that he has used me to train my children and to bring glory to himself. Thanks. time, the energy to think about that and prepare that. I think it's important that you see not simply what I share as a model, but that we see a number of models within the congregation. So watch out if I'm in a conversation with you and you seem to have something to offer, then your fair game to also share those things with the congregation. Let's take a moment just now before we continue for each of us to pray about what Pete has said. Think about what that means in our own situation. Yeah, that's a good thing. Lord, deliver us from simply thinking, those are good ideas. Sometime I ought to do them. If we're parents. Lord, to think about what are you speaking to us about now and how can we begin this week. Lord, we pray that you will raise up within our midst, in our congregation, kids who love you and trust you And that's in part because they see in us moms and dads who while failing do love you, are trusting you And are committed to investing ourselves in them. Show us how. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now we go on to the second point this morning. What do we tell our kids? What is it that we tell them? Lots of Things that we can talk about that we tell them, things like the children's catechism that Pete mentioned, lots of other things, but I'm going to focus on just two main ideas. From Psalm 78 this morning. And so this is not in any way meant to be exhaustive, but it's simply focusing on what I think we may sometimes miss in what we tell our kids. In Psalm 78 In verses 4 and 5, there are two things that are stated that we are to speak. Let me again say as I did last week, I realized that not all of you are parents. Many of you are not parents, a number of you are not married. But particularly this morning, I hope you will see that the things that we're talking about are things to examine our own lives in and simply are these things that we talk with anyone about that we're seeking to influence. First of all, then, what is it that we tell, particularly focusing on parents and kids? The first of the two main ideas that the psalmist Asaph seems to have in mind is his power and his wonders. His power and his wonders. Verse 4, we will not hide them, these things, these words of wisdom from their father's children, our children. We will tell the next generation the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, namely his power and the wonders he has done. So his power and his wonders from verse 4. In the light of the rest of the Psalm, Asaph seems to have three things in mind about his powers and his wonders. The first is his salvation, the fact that he saved us. You see in verses 12 and 13 and verses 42 to 55 the speaking of the redemption of Israel out of Egypt. God brought them from bondage to freedom. In verses twelve and thirteen he did miracles in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt in the region of Zoan. He divided the sea and he led them through. He made the water stand firm like a wall And then verses 42 to 45 detail that a bit more. You want the full story? You go back to Exodus chapter 6 to verse to uh Exodus 6 to 15 to be able to see how God did that. The people who lived through it never forgot it. To the next generation, it was a story. But God intended that every generation would relive that through the Passover. They knew it was important That the people saw that God had redeemed us. He had brought us out of that bondage. A number of us are first generation Christians. We're more aware of the bondage out of which God has delivered us than our kids are. They hear that, and to them it is You know, I think sometimes our kids in Christian homes see our flaws more readily than the things God has done. You know, it's kind of like Well, you say you're Christians, why aren't you perfect? Rather than, you know, my parents don't claim to be anything, and I know that they're far from perfect. And so I think we can suffer a bit from that. And one of the things that I think can help is if we from time to time are honest with our kids about the bondage out of which we've been redeemed, to tell them the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and the wonders he has done. You don't realize, you know, mom and dad may not seem like we do everything perfect, and we sure agree with that. But let me tell you, you don't know what we were like before Jesus He's made a big difference. And all of us should be able to see something of our own natures without Christ and our natures with Christ. I look back at my own life and I've lamented to you guys maybe more than you want to hear about how deficient uh I am in certain areas God's still working with me. But when I look back at my own home and I look what I came out of. I realized how gracious God has been and what He's done. Alcohol was a pretty big problem in our home, and I have some very painful memories about the effects of that in my own home. There were lots of secrets, lots of shame. We never had people into our home. Our home was a closed place. When my mom died and I was selling our home, I remember opening the windows and thinking, this is the first time these windows have ever been opened. This a whole different way of living. When I came to Jesus Christ as a teenager and understood forgiveness of sin, it was like Jesus was opening the windows in my life. It was as if he was taking my life that was filled with shame and secrets and a skewed way of viewing the world, and Jesus was now coming in. to bring fresh air and openness to relationships and openness in our home. I tell you, I know without Jesus Christ, I would have been through at least a couple of marriages if I had bothered to continue. Jesus Christ has made a radical difference in how I relate to people, in my hope, the clear conscience. As I look at the things in my life that are so shameful, I see what Jesus has done, I understand his forgiveness and his grace, and my kids need to hear that. They need not to simply hear how they're messing up, but how God has been gracious to us as mom and dad. Amen? So that they see that, they understand the power and the wonders of God, the praiseworthy deeds of what it means, the difference, what we would be like without Jesus. And that they can appreciate that. We need to tell them not only how he has made a difference in saving us, but how he's also provided for us. That's the second thing I think he has in mind about the praiseworthy deeds. He talks in verses 14 to 16. about how he led them through the desert, how he provided water for them out of the rock. He talks about how he then provided manna, the m the food of angels, he calls it. And how God took care of them every day to provide for them what they needed. You and I need to be able to recount as families what has God done to provide for us? How's God provided for us in a way that we've seen was in answer to prayer? How have we seen him as a shepherd lead us and take care of us? We need to be able to have those those stones of Ebenezer, you know, the stones of help whereby we can look back and we can say, as a family, we celebrate certain landmarks. One that is particularly meaningful to me was back in 1972. It was back in 1970 that at the bidding of Ken and Maybeth Williams, we moved from an apartment to a mobile home. Uh they lived in Pister 's Mobile Home Park back then. Carrie had just been born. My first picture of Carrie, who I had the privilege of participating in marrying yesterday, was when she was three weeks old in Ken's arms over at the fire hall out of which the church that started this church was in first meeting. They said, why don't you move out of the apartment and get a mobile home? So we did. We moved into Pisters Mobile Home Park, different mobile home from the Williams 's, but a couple blocks over, and we were very glad. 1972 Intervarsity transferred us to Syracuse, New York. So we needed to sell our mobile home. We were delighted we sold it in a very brief period of time for a profit of $100 And we were just about ready to go to camp. We had a month camp before we were going to take off to Syracuse. And just a few days before I notified Mrs. Pister about that. And then I found out that there was a clause in the contract when you r you live in a mobile home. You own the mobile home, but you rent the land. I found out there was a clause in the contract that said that she could expel our mobile home from the land because she owned it. I found out that morning on May the 8th, May the 25th, 1972, we were out. She said, I'm sorry, you need to take your mobile home and move it out of that lot when you leave. I didn't know she could do that. I found out she had the right to do that. I asked her if she would reconsider. She said, I'll talk to my son, but she said, um, I don't see any reason to change my mind. Come back in five days and I'll tell you my answer Five days was when we were to leave for the camp that morning and then come back and the next day move to Syracuse. Well that those five days I remember, and I'll to save time, combine this with point three there, you see the C about um his uh being faithful to his promises. I had been reading in Psalm 50 And I looked at Psalm 50, verse 15, and it seemed rather appropriate to me. God's promise there is, he says, Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver you, and you will honor me. And I claimed that promise that day and I said, Lord, there's nothing I can do. I can intimidate her, I can threaten her, I could badge her, I can do all kinds of things. But Lord, there's nothing I can do, really. All I can do is ask you She has the right to do this. I don't know why she's doing it, uh, but it's her property, it's her place, she can do what she wants with it. So for five days we simply prayed that God would somehow change her mind, or that he would allow us, because And if you ever lived in a mobile home, mobile homes are great places to live, but if they stick you out on Route 1, it's not worth much. You gotta have a place to put the mobile home, and those are very restricted in this area. So there was no other place that place that mobile home could have gone. If she did not go back, if she said, you've got to move this thing out, we were in major trouble. We simply couldn't move. The mobile home would have been worthless and we would not have been able to go anywhere. So we prayed for five days. I went back to her, and interestingly enough, I looked in my journal. It was on May 30th, 1972. I wrote this on Friday, exactly to the day, 25 years later. And I looked at what that conversation was. On 8. 30 in the morning, just before we were to leave, I went to her home, knocked on the door, said, Mrs. Pister. You can still see this place down there. It's still there. Down on Whiskey Bottom Road in Route 1 in Laurel. Went down and said, Mrs. Fister, I'm back. What is your answer? She didn't answer me. She said, let me tell you something. She said, I have a couple, a retired couple with no kids. She didn't like kids in a mobile home park. She said, I got a retired couple, no kids, they're going to give me $500 simply for the privilege of getting in your spot and paying me the land rent. Now $500 in 1972 is about $3,000 today, roughly. So somebody's going to give me about $3,000 to just simply get your spot. Then she said, what would you do? I gulped and I said, well, I guess I'd be really tempted to take that, but I would hope that I would feel that I should keep my word because she had indicated we could stay, you know, when we had moved in. And she thought about it and she said, Well, said I don't know why I'm going to do this, but I'm going to let you stay. I'll tell you, those five days of sweat We're far more than outweighed by the sense that God had fulfilled his promise. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you. And you will answer me. You will honor me. And I want to honor him this morning in the fact that he did that. He did it in a way that I had nothing to do, that I could not twist her arm, persuade her, anything else, than simply that God worked in answer to prayer. Now, what if God had not done that? Would He have still been God? Yes. Many of other things that we have prayed have not worked the way that we had intended. You know that Dan and Lynn Nicholas have prayed about their condominium, they sold that, and then after it was sold, it was taken right out from under them Let me share with you that this morning I tell you that yesterday somebody signed a contract for the Nicholas condominium and gave them the down payment, and it is sealed for their asking price. God has worked in response to them too. Praise him for that. God may answer sometimes in some ways that we pray, in other times not. But we ought to see a record Something that enables us as a family to pass on to our kids. He has led us, he has provided in the desert, he has taken care of us, he's been faithful to his promises, and those are not just theoretical ideas. Here's how he's done it in our lives and our families. If you don't see that, if you say, man, I'd really be scratching to look for any examples of that. Then maybe what you need to do is to begin as a family, to confess that. What has God done for us? What have we seen him do? Gee, I don't know. Let's start keeping a record Let's start praying. Faith's like a muscle. You have to exercise it. And if it's weak, you exercise it with little things. And then as it grows into bigger things But we need to start somewhere to keep a record of God's faithfulness because it's that as our kids hear, the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, the powers and the wonders that He has done, that they say, this is not a God I can turn my back on. It is not simply a God my parents have talked about. When Pete and I were talking about this, he said that he was thinking about the difference between faith as a component in our lives and living by faith. That's an important distinction. I need to learn more about that. We need to learn more about that together. Our kids need to see that in ways that they can understand. And finally, the second thing that he talks about here is to pass on his precepts and his word. To pass on his precepts and his word. That's verse 5. He's decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children. So the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born, and they in turn would tell their children. To testify to our kids the importance personally, experientially, the importance of obeying his commands. How you've suffered when you ignored them. He speaks in verses 9 to 11 of Ephraim being turned back and defeated by their enemies because they had compromised and they had not obeyed God's word. The regret That they had because of that. Verses 17 to 22 and verses 27 to 32. He speaks of their stubborn cravings. the insistence, the demand for meat in the desert. Manna wasn't good enough. And so he speaks of how he provided the meat, more meat than they wanted, meat till it came out their ears and how there was leanness for their souls as well as the provision of what they demanded. You and I can probably identify with that in certain ways. Here's times when we demanded from the Lord and it wasn't the best thing for us. And here's what we learned from that. Times when we compromised our integrity and we suffered for that. To be able to then speak to them of the shame and and to be able to say, God taught us, He was gracious, He taught us about those things. There's times when I've had to apologize to my kids for being too protective of our money and not enabling them to feel that they had a father to whom they could go for anything. The things that we do that we realize this is not God's way. We're learning. And our kids see us learning. They see us learning how to obey his commands. Not only the the difficulty when we don't, but the blessings when we do. To be able to share those times when you refuse to lie. And God took care of you anyway. When you thought that you had to twist something in order to be able to uh simply play it safe, but on faith You decided that you would do what you knew was right to honor Jesus Christ and how he took care of you. There's times when you resisted, as with sons and moms with daughters, sexual temptation. And how you're glad for those times that you resisted that. The times when perhaps you did the right thing and it was still a cost. You lost the job. You didn't get the promotion. There was a cost to pay for that, but that you can still say to them, it was worth it and I'd do it again, to see the blessings of obeying God and His Word and the fact that He will take care of us. to share his correction and his mercies to us. To see how in verse 34 he speaks But when God, whenever God slew them, they would seek him, and they would eagerly turn to him again. They remembered that he was their rock, that God most high was their Redeemer. And then they would flatter him with their mouths. They would lie to him with their tongues. Their hearts were not loyal to them. They were not faithful to his covenant. Yet he was merciful. He forgave their iniquities, and he did not destroy them. Time after time he restrained his anger and did not stir up his full wrath. He remembered that they were but flesh A passing breeze that does not return. Your awareness of God's tender correction in your life His patience in teaching you again and again and again. Those things that you're so slow to learn. The things that I feel I'm so slow to learn. I feel sometimes that wisdom comes to me like algebra or something, you know? It's just Higher calculus to me. Just, you know, I think I get a principle, and then I'm back at a couple steps, and even this week, some couple really dumb things that I've done. And see God's tenderness. is still coming to meet me, to forgive me, to teach me, to show again how my own innate ways are so foolish But that how in his correction and his tenderness his ways are so trustworthy, so wise. You share that. Experientially with your kids, with people that you're seeking to influence in any way , that they will see that God is a merciful God, but that his mercy is for today If you hear what I'm saying this morning and recognize how much you need his mercy, let me assure you that Jesus Christ stands here a merciful Savior for you right now. I cannot promise you his mercy tomorrow. He may take you. He may come. I can promise you his mercy for this moment And we need to warn our kids, don't play with the law of God. Don't play and presume God will forgive. That's his nature. That's his job. He's supposed to. And so if I, you know, want to test the ways of the world for a while, that's okay. I can always come back and he'll forgive me just like he's always done. But you show to your kids as this psalm says again and again about how God paid there were consequences For Israel's sin, but that his mercy was held out to them at the point when they would come back and they would seek him. But that is never something to presume on. For even one day And so if you're in that situation this morning, I bid you, I urge you, I command you, and I invite you in the name of Jesus, come to Him for forgiveness now. Come to him to transform your life and to bring that power to show his provision, his faithfulness. To show you the wisdom of his ways in contrast to the foolishness of your own, as you come to him now, confessing your own foolishness, your own waywardness. I cannot promise you his mercy tomorrow. And so we teach our kids both the holiness The absolutely righteous standards, the infinite wisdom, the immediate mercy, but the foolishness of presuming upon that mercy in any way in the future. We come and we bring these things to them out of our experience. Christianity is not theoretical stuff. It's stuff that you and I are to share as we have experienced to be able to speak the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and his wonders. the law which he gave to Jacob, and the precepts which he gave to his people to live by, so that they would be blessed, and so that they would have life. Let me ask you, have you experienced these things in your own life? Again, I invite you to come to Jesus. If there's a sense of need of his power. And of his forgiveness. And if you have any questions about that, put it on the gray slip before you turn them in at the offering. So that Steve and or I can talk to you about your own need to make clear your relationship with the Savior who forgives and transforms And as he's done it for me, he can do it for you. And if you're a parent this morning, have you passed those things on to your kids? Maybe this week's a good time to begin to review those five points and use the meditation that you see there to help you to go through those points, point by point, with your kids this week. That they might see the power and the wonders of God in your life and in your own family and understand the wisdom of his ways. And the foolishness, the utter foolishness, kids, of going any other way. Let's pray together. Oh Lord our God, we sense I sense that uh you're speaking different things to different people now. Some of us may be still thinking of some of the ideas that Pete shared. Some of us are thinking of our own backgrounds and how you have redeemed us from bondage. into the light of life. Some of us are thinking how we have taken that for granted. And we've kind of forgotten how different our lives are because of Jesus. Need to review that again. We need to remember your provisions for us, when as a shepherd you have led us as your sheep. and cared for us and provided for us. Some of us, Lord, are wondering if we had to tell of this, what examples we'd use. And we're ashamed that we've exercised our faith so little. We want to see you begin to show your reality in simple ways. That we can track, that we can remember. Lord, I still remember the thrill of that morning of May the 30th, 1972. And how real, how very personal and powerful you were to me and to Kathy on that morning. Lord, none of us choose the stresses. Those times of testing and trial. But we want to be available to you that we would see how you show your faithfulness to us. We don't need to go to Japan like the Iversons. But you are calling us to step out beyond our comfort zones, to be available to you, to see you show your power. To show that you are God who's faithful to your promises, help us, Lord, to be willing to do that, to keep track, and to see what you'll do in our own families. Lord, if some of us are thinking of the foolishness of ways that we have stubbornly gone, in contrast to what we know we should have done Maybe we haven't cleared all those things up with you. We want to do that now. Lord, we want to see more of the blessings of following you by faith and obedience. That as a family to be able to track those and to know for each one of us, the kids as well as the adults. That our kids, in order to grow to be great disciples, will be great kids where they are now in the temptations and the opportunities they have for faith right now. Teach us, Lord, how to follow you day by day. We commit ourselves to you to experience your reality this week in Jesus' name.