As we turn to God's Word to hear from the Gospel of Luke chapter seven, just I want to offer you two uh two advertisements at the front end. As some of you know I arrived on an airplane this morning at 5 a. m. So if I fall asleep in my own sermon, I hope you'll be gracious. I was there conducting the funeral for a very, very dear friend of mine. And uh I was reminded of the triumph of God in the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. We serve a great God. And even things like the death of a friend. Are really pointers to the living Christ. Amen. And on a perhaps lighter note At the banquet today, you want to greatly avoid the mistake that I made last year at this time. I was a little late in arriving and I got no hot dog. I ended up getting just a bun with ketchup on it. Hey, don't be like Bob. Get there earlier. Whoever you're having a conversation with, drag them over there and be sure you get yourself one of those uh wonderful hot dogs. If you have your Bible with you today, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 7. And today I'll be reading for us the third and the last of three uh short Events, conversations connected to John the Baptist's interaction through his messengers with the Lord Jesus Christ. These are things that happen while John is in prison. He is doubting whether or not Jesus is the one to be expected. He sends his disciples to ask him. Jesus performs miracles. He tells them to go and tell John in prison what they've seen and heard. All of the miracles with that wonderful capstone, the gospel is preached to the poor. And then after that, Jesus turns after those disciples leave to go see John the Baptist again, and he tells the crowds watching, you know, what did you go out to see? And he reminds him that John the Baptist, whom they're probably at this point thinking, I guess he's not all that. No, he was all that. The greatest man born of woman. And yet, he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. And what a reminder for us of the high and holy privileges of living on this side of the cross. And this third Paragraph, this third conversation Jesus has shines a spotlight into the hearts of men and women just like you and me. Please join me in prayer before we read it. Almighty God, we ask your blessings on the reading of your word. Lord, help us to exalt your word the scriptures rightly. Lord, they are the one text we can count upon in a world of misinformation and spin, Lord. You are a rock and your word is true. Lord, we ask humbly that you would bless the reading of your word to us. And Lord, in the preaching that will follow, inasmuch as it is a faithful echo of what you have said, Lord, we ask your blessing on that as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. John chapter 7, beginning with verse 31, the Word of God. To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another. We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not weep. For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine. And you say he has a demon. The Son of Man has come, eating and drinking, and you say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by all her children. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, if you have your bulletin outlines, I put in there a box, and in that box there is a figure that is called in Bible studies a chiasm. from the letter X. And if you can imagine an X going through that, you see the heart of it in this kind of figure, this pattern that is in the Old Testament and New Testament alike very frequently. The middle section is what is always most important in these chiasms. And this chiasm bridges the second and the third parts of this event of John the Baptist's interaction with Jesus. And you'll see I mark it out there with A, B, B prime, and A prime. A is those who declare God just. Look at verse 29. When all the people heard this And the tax collectors, too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John. They declared that God was right and true, and they submitted themselves to a baptism of repentance. And those folks who declare God just are mirrored, if you will, by those at the very end. Wisdom is justified, declared just. By all her children. So you've got a connection there between those who submit themselves to the baptism of John for repentance and agree with God's declaration through the prophet, repent. for the kingdom of God is near. Essentially the very message, in fact, verbatim, the message Jesus offers. Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. And in the middle you've got this Twofold perspective on people who reject God. We read in verse 30 The Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him. They reject God's great redemptive plan. And refuse to repent and submit themselves to the terms of this new kingdom God is erecting newly in this covenant fulfillment. And here's where Jesus asks the question, to what shall I compare the people of this generation? Now in looking at this, I want to look at these three things, the illustration, the evidence, and the invitation, all with a goal to seeing that Jesus is interested in pulling out of our hearts. the truth regarding where we stand with him. So let's consider first this illustration. Jesus says, To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? Think about how engaging that question is. When people say things like, people. I just can't believe people. There's this native impulse in the hearts of most men and women I know to say, right? And we immediately think about the people that cut us off on the interstate or or almost ran us off the road on Route 29, or the people that took credit for our work in our career office or people who uh are are always right and never wrong or w we think about we can easily think of all these things when you ask an open question like this, what what is the deal with this generation which is Essentially what Jesus is saying here, you automatically sympathetically engage the crowd with all these sauce. Yeah, right, like like John the Baptist. What was he thinking? I would never have doubted you, Jesus. I I saw you heal a blind man. That was enough for me Or maybe, you know, yeah, I certainly would have uh wanted to go along and get baptized because, you know, after all, I'm I'm a pretty clever guy. You know, you ask a question like, what is the deal with blank And suddenly you're bringing your auditors, those who are listening, along with your concern. Jesus does that, and he does it regularly. And I don't think it's so much entrapment as it is leading people into a place of agreement so that they can see their own hearts. You know who else did that? The prophet Nathan. By telling a wonderful story, a parable to King David after he sinned with Bathsheba about a sheep. And he caused David to burn with indignation on behalf of that fictive character. And then Nathan says, you are the one, and suddenly King David is brought to repentance. Well, what does Jesus compare the generation to? He compares them to children in the marketplace. And for those of us who are interested in taking the things of God and bringing them to the hearts of people as best we're able, Whether we are parents or grandparents, uncles or aunts, whether we are uh trying to evangelize our neighbors or instruct in Sunday school classes, pay attention to the illustrations that Jesus uses. His illustrations are always of the most common, universally experienced type. He refers to birds that everyone saw, grass that everyone walked on, whitewashed tombs that were a feature in every ancient town. And he refers to children in the marketplace. Back then, in that day and age, we are assured, and I have this wonderful book. It cost me, I'm going to tell you the honest truth, it was $120. And I bought it years ago, and it was worth every penny. It's called Children in the Ancient Near East. And it talks about the role of children in ancient, all the way from Akkadian culture through Neo-Babylonian to even the time of the Israelites. And something about children in the ancient Near East is that they were always with their parents. 24 -7. There was no such thing as a babysitter. There were nursemaids if you were that 0. 001% pharaoh type person. But your kids were with you in the field when you worked, they were with you in the marketplace when you went to the marketplace. And as you can imagine, when you went to the marketplace, and remember, you went to the marketplace every day, you had no refrigerator, you had perishables that had to be gotten daily. You go there, and your kids are running off, playing while you do your business, and then when it's time for you to go, you gather your kids together and off back to your house you go. And so every time you went through town or saw the marketplace, you would see what? You would see children. You would see children in the marketplace, and sometimes you would see them playing together well, I'm sure of it. And sometimes you'd see them not playing well at all And this is what Jesus alludes to. He says, to what shall I compare this generation? He says they are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another. Now notice calling to one another. Jesus is saying all of these kids are like this generation. This generation is like both sides of this equation. Too much effort is spent trying to figure out in this illustration who is Jesus and who are the kids Uh the kids of this generation. They're all the kids of this generation. The kids of this generation, the people of this generation, the adults of this generation, the elderly people of this generation are like children sitt Sitting in the marketplace, calling to one another We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not weep. Well, when we were kids And I'm going to betray my wonderful, glorious age of 56 years old. When I was a child, we didn't even have Nintendo. I'm not talking about the Switch. I'm talking about Nintendo. There was no such thing. The word wasn't in the vocabulary. And so when we got together as kids, nobody had a little cell phone to pull out and play whatever kind of act games you can do on that. You had to come up with something to do. And it was regularly the case, especially at things like prayer meetings, where all the kids of the church would get together in the basement of the Williams House. when it was usually me and my brothers, uh my wife Carrie and her sisters and little brother Keenan and a couple other kids depending on the attendance back in the early days of this church. It depended on who outnumbered who. Did the girls outnumber the boys? Then we were playing house If the boys outnumbered the girls, we were playing cops and robbers. And those games where you act out various scenarios or settings of the adult life Very much what the kids of the ancient world did. If you want to look into this ancient book of mine on children in the ancient Near East, It was definitely not all at all uncommon to have kids acting out those great public events that they would have seen in the marketplace, in the town gate, weddings and funerals. These great events which involved childlike parades, only one was marked by celebration and dancing, and one was marked by mourning. And so you would have had kids playing games, pretending to do one thing or the other. And imagine you had an even number of boys and girls down in the Williams basement on Hound Hill Court. And you had the girls over there selling and pouting, because they sure weren't gonna play cops and robbers, and you had the Birkis boys over here thinking, well, we're not playing house. And all we got is a bunch of grumpy, sour kids, none of whom are content with not getting their way, none of whom are willing to cooperate or compromise. And Jesus compares people like that. We are so literally hell-bent on getting our own way of having our perspectives and our needs fulfilled that we reject the offer to engage with our Creator. Who offers us forgiveness of sins, we will not, we will not play, we will not repent. And even up to that point I can imagine all of the people there, the crowds listening to Jesus thinking, yeah, I see that. Yeah, preach, preach, preach. And then Jesus does something remarkable. He goes from speaking in the third person, what should I talk about this generation like? Co-opting the imagination of his audience. Then he switches gears and he goes to second person. For you. Suddenly he brings it home. John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say he has a demon. The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Look at him, a glutton and a drunkard. Friend of tax collectors and sinners. So think about this for a moment, the evidence that the illustration is true of them. They cannot be pleased. They are like the kids who, when they say, let's play house, say no. And they say, okay then, well let's play cops and robbers. No You know, they're critical of John the Baptist because he's coming wearing uh camel hair garment and eating locusts and being weird. And they think he's insane, he has a demon. And then Jesus comes along and he's first miracle. Wine at the wedding of Cana. And he's feasting. Throughout the Gospel of Luke, we see him feasting more than in any other gospel, eating in people's houses, dinner parties. And he's a glutton. How easy it is to be like those French intellectuals sitting in their salons at the end of the 18th century finding fault with everything. But when they're finally empowered to do something because of the French Revolution, what do they do? All they can do is kill, burn, and destroy. Ultimately Taking each other to the guillotine. It is easy to deconstruct and reject everything, and at the end you see nothing at all, as C. S. Lewis points out. It is easy to sit there and critique, critique, critique, reject, reject, reject. And at the end, if that goes all the way to your attitude towards God Himself Towards the Son of Man who came, you are to be pitied greatly, because in your false wisdom you have lost your life for eternity. Jesus takes the evidence of their own resistance to the ministry God has instituted in John the Baptist and in Jesus himself. And he points out that we are like those children who will not and cannot be pleased and ultimately sit out the greatest opportunity a human could ever imagine. We miss out on forgiveness. We miss out on reconciliation with the Heavenly Father. We miss out on the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. We miss out on that great, exciting life of having your heart set free to run in the path of God's commands. Instead, we like children sit in the dust, hating everything, rejecting all The illustration is that we cannot and will not be pleased. The evidence is in our attitude towards the prophets and the ministers whom Jesus sends and our attitude towards Jesus himself. The invitation is glorious. One of the things I've had Edward Rees do in his internship with me, and I've also been his seminary mentor, and he also is a graduate. We're going to recognize him at the hot dog banquet. He's gotten reading assignments, and one of the reading assignments I gave him was an old classic by J. I. Packer. Um God has spoken. Has anybody ever heard of that book? Some of the old timers. That is honestly one of my top fifty books. That's a great book. And we were discussing it briefly. Edward was reporting on it this past uh Thursday when we we meet. And he said, you know, one of the things that Packer says that really resonated with me is that Scripture has a preaching quality to it. It kind of preaches itself. And Packer makes that point. And that is absolutely valid, and we see that here. I want you to imagine with me that you're in that first audience And you have been kind of brought along, like the hook got set with the what's this generation like? And you're like, yeah, this is a kind of messed up generation. Yeah, I can see we're a lot like children. And all of a sudden, you and the hook is set. Yeah, yeah, goodness, you're right. But whatever should I do? Wisdom is justified by all her children. We don't perhaps read that as an invitation, and yet it is. You see, for those who have rejected Jesus, the point is just made that in their rejection they understand that He feasts, He banquets with sinners and tax collectors, the worst of the worst. And that means there's room for you. That means that you can at this hour, at this moment, in this instant of your life You can say, I'm going to grow up. I'm going to cease my childish resistance to and rebellion against the God who seeks me through prophet. And Messiah alike. And I'm going to stop being critical of the greatest man of the Old Testament and the greatest man who was God in flesh and all of the universe's history. I'm going to accept and embrace and follow. I'm going to repent. I'm going to be baptized. I'm going to walk in newness of life. I I'm going to justify wisdom. I'm going to declare right that which is good. At my friend's funeral yesterday morning, I preached from Isaiah, chapter one. Come now. Let us reason together, says the Lord your God. Though your sins be as scarlet, I will wash them whiter than snow. Though they are crimson, they will be like wool. And I interacted with that text using two statements that my friend Jerry said all the time. He was an immigrant from Persia. He'd fought in the Iranian first war with Iraq, and when the second one broke out, he said, no, I'm not fighting this battle I'm an Armenian, I'm a Persian, I'm not getting involved in this. So he legally went to uh Europe and from there emigrated to America. He was an Armenian Christian, so he knew the gospel and he knew Christ. I knew him for 15, 16 years. He was my facility manager in California and a very dear friend. And in in fact these shoes I'm wearing today, remembering him, he brought me back from uh Iran once, but um he would always say of course. You would say, you'd say anything, and you'd say, hey, did did you check the uh the the the the park behind the church for rattlesnakes before the VBS kids show up? We don't have to do that here But you d twice we had to kill a snake right before the kids arrived. Uh he'd say, of course. And the other thing he'd always say is, why not? I'd say, hey, we should go camping one time, get some fishing and why why not? Sure, why not? Those two things he said all the time And I want to invite you to consider how those two questions, statements, of course, and sure, why not? Are in some respects a declaration that wisdom is just. Because you're saying it is right to do that which is good and true. Of course. Of course, we want to acknowledge that God has spoken, and that he spoke through John the Baptist, and that he has spoken most clearly and eternally through Jesus Christ his Son Of course, it makes sense to be baptized for the forgiveness of my sins because I know I'm a sinner, and there's not a one of us in this room that doesn't know that's true. And I'm not talking about that you know it's true that I'm a sinner You know that also, but you know that you are a sinner. What are you going to do about it? Of course it makes sense to repent and be baptized, but here's where the sticky wicked is. Why not? You see, some of us lack that simple faith my friend Jerry had. Some of us say, well, I can think of a couple reasons I don't want to. Number one is I love my sin. I don't want to follow the man from Nazareth. I don't want to obey the God who made me. I don't want to have to listen to what he says about my money, about my sex, about my gender, about my attitudes, about how I look at my enemies, about how I interact with my parents. We say, why not? Well, I'll give you a list of why nots. There's things I still want to do. There's places I want to go that Jesus would not approve of. Why not? Do you have why nots? I'm quite certain that you recognize the wisdom of the of course. It makes great sense for you to do something about your sin and be baptized. I think you need to pay attention to the why nots. And ask yourself very candidly, does it make sense for you to sit on the sidelines of eternity? and refuse to engage with the God who has sought you through the preaching of his word Does it make any sense for you to consider those earthly, worldly pleasures that you consider greater than eternal peace with your Maker, especially against the backdrop of a hell that is insufferable? Why not? Why not declare wisdom to be just? And be one of those many, many children who dances when the Lord Jesus pipes. And who mourns when the Holy Spirit is grieved? Why not be one of those children who justifies God by submitting to Him In every way. After the benediction today There will be an opportunity for any of you who would like prayer for any matter, including this most important issue. Of responding to God as a child who will play and engage and live with your maker We'll have people here in front of the sanctuary who would love to pray with and for you. And I would encourage you, dear friends. To always be listening, to take your cue from the living God. Listen to his music. Follow his rhythm. Read scriptures sufficiently to recognize his voice Be careful to live a life as becomes a follower of Jesus Christ. Because he has done everything for you. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the life that you give us. Lord Jesus, how much I am grateful to you. Because you persistently invited me as a stubborn, rebellious child, to engage and to come and to play and to live and to have fellowship with you To get up off of the dusty ground where I'm sitting with a pout, trying to live my best life, destroying myself Lord, how you so powerfully convicted and called, and yet in another sense tenderly encouraged and beckoned. Father, thank you for the gift of salvation. And Father, we pray that all who hear your gospel would be moved by your Spirit to say, yes, Lord. Of course, I will listen to you and repent and be baptized. And there is nothing that could prevent Hear our prayers, O living God. We offer them up in the name of Jesus, our Savior. Amen.