This is from a news service. Israeli newspapers recently carried an advertisement stating that the Messianic Age was about to begin. The ad which created quite a stir Was placed by the powerful ultra-orthodox Lubavitch sect of Judaism. It proclaimed that the Messiah's coming is imminent and urged all Jews to prepare for it. The statement cited recent world events such as the fall of the Iron Curtain, the influx of Ethiopian and Soviet Jews into Israel, and the Gulf War as evidence that the Messiah's arrival cannot be far off. The headline read, We are at the dawn of the messianic era. The Messiah is coming. We have a lot in common with Lubovich Jews, don't we? I mean when you stop to think of it, how many people in the world think that the answer to the world's problems and our own personal problems is the coming of a personal Messiah? Not a whole lot of people. And there is a Lubavitch congregation of Judaism that meets in a synagogue right off of 29 here in Columbia. So we have a lot in common with these folks. But of course, there's one radical difference. We believe and celebrate this morning that the Messiah already has come. That he was born 2,000 years ago, and we can celebrate the fact that he is here, that he's arrived, and that he's doing his work. Amen? I've got to give you a chance to be able to voice that, you see, early in the service because we're celebrating. And even though every Sunday we celebrate the Lord's Day, there's a special sense of celebration this morning, isn't it? As we are aware that we all together are concentrating on the fact that Jesus has come. You see, to us, the one thing that this article points out that I think is helpful for us to grasp is that the incarnation is not an idea But it's an event that happened in newspaper type history. It's something that people were waiting for and happened. The problem is that the story is so fascinating, so wonderful, and the details so appeal to our imagination that there are times when you and I can Lose the significance of it because of all the glamorization and the romantization of the story itself. The business about the shepherds is especially colorful, isn't it? And certainly has been the subject of innumerable depictions. on Christmas cards and in other ways. How many shepherds have you seen this season? Well, lots of ways that we look at that. But the danger is for us as Christians, as we see all these shepherds all over these cards and all over everywhere, is to forget That the shepherds were real people who were in history the very first recipients of the announcement of the birth of Messiah. And so let's read again that story from Luke chapter 2. And I want for us especially to pay attention To how the shepherds responded to what they heard and what they saw. We might see in them this morning an example of how we are to respond to the glory. Let's read this and understand its history as the Lord speaks to our hearts again from that wonderful story. Luke chapter 2. I'll read verses 1 to 20 Hear God's word. In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census that took place while Quirinius was governor of Syria. And everyone went to his own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and the line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born. And she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today, in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ the Lord. This will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Suddenly A great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests. When the angels had left him and had gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about. So they hurried off. And they found Mary and Joseph and the baby, who was lying in the manger. When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child. And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherd said to them. But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen. Which were just as they had been told. Numbers of times that I've told you before that shepherds were not the most highly respected people in the culture of their time. In fact, in the Judean list of professions, Shepherds ranked there just a couple of notches above drug dealers and televangelists. In a recent survey, by the way, in the United States, drug dealers and televangelists were right there at the bottom of respected professions. Shepherds were just a couple of notches above them And I've told you in the past how a shepherd was so assumed to be dishonest that his word wasn't even admissible into a court of law. You just knew you could never trust a shepherd. They were kind of the bikers of their day in terms of stereotypes, but like stereotypes, there were many individuals who contrasted with the stereotype, but nevertheless, they were looked at as lowlife. Shepherds were people that you didn't associate with. And yet, the Bible tells us that very significantly it was shepherds That God chose to give the privilege of the very first announcement of His Son born in the flesh. Shepherds received the announcement. But what I want you to notice, in case you didn't notice it as we were reading through it this morning, is that it was simply that. It was an announcement What were the shepherds told to do? Nothing. Look what it says. Verse 10. Do not be afraid, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Now, interesting in that verse 10 there, you see they are simply given good news. In fact, that word is the word from which we get gospel. In fact, literally, the Greek says, I evangelize you a great joy. Evangelizo is the Greek word from which we get our word evangelize to tell good news, to declare good news. And that's simply what they're doing. They are sharing good news. The shepherds are being evangelized. I give you good news that will be for all the people, not just for you, but all the people in Howard County, not just for us, to enjoy. Now, what is this great news? He goes on to say in verse 11: Today, in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ or Messiah, the Lord. Wow. This is great news. This is what they've been waiting for. The Messiah has been born. Where is he And there you see, and it 's so common to us, we're so familiar with it, don't miss the tremendous irony, the super juxtaposition of verses 11 and 12. The Savior, Messiah, Messiah Curios, the one who is Lord, has been born. Verse 12, and here's the sign. You'll find a baby wrapped in claws lying in a manger. The transcendent Lord of glory has been born. And you'll find him in the back of a garage beside the penzoil. You know, that's basically the cultural equivalent of what they're saying. Do you catch that? The Lord of glory is there. If you want to see him, that's where he is. What are they told to do? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. That's it. No command. Simply gospel. No law. Nothing to do. The shepherds would not have been at all disobedient to God if, after having heard that, they had simply waited for the angels to disappear back into heaven and then gone back to shepherding sheep. They weren't told to do anything. One could have said to the other, Man, what a sight! Did you catch that? Yeah, boy, that was really something. Boy, what do you think it meant? Well, I don't know. But I sure felt good seeing all that power and the glory and hearing about how I didn't have to be afraid and man did you catch the sound of those warrior angels as they declare. Man, that was a first-class religious experience No, I once saw a card. Kathy actually saw it and showed it to me. It was in a card store. It said though, when you came into my life You were an answer to my prayers. Then you open up the inside of the car and said, if you had come into Mercedes-Benz, it would have been a first-class religious experience. Well you see, that's not the way it was with the angels. I mean with the shepherds. They didn't simply see this as a first-class religious experience to kind of enjoy and then move on back to the sheep. The message itself compelled them to do something. By the very nature of the message, they couldn't just sit there. So what happens? Well, afterwards, the shepherds respond in doing three things. And I'd like to suggest to you and to me these couple days before Christmas that these three things serve as a very helpful example for me and for you in terms of how we can respond to that message. And so let's look at the three things that they did. First of all, they went to Jesus the Messiah. That's number one there. They went to Jesus the Messiah. Verses 15 and 16. After they heard this hymn of praise and the angels disappeared, then the Bible tells us That when the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let's go to Bethlehem. Let's see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about. And so they hurried off, and they found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. Now, perhaps they left one or two, still watching the sheep, but the rest of them all took off, went into Bethlehem looking for the Khan where they would find a stable where the animals were quartered, the place where they knew there would be a manger, because that's where animals were kept for travelers. And so you can imagine them, picture them in your mind, bursting into this cave or whatever it was. We'll talk a little bit more about the second hour. It's like give you some of the historical background to Christmas. Hope you can all stay for that as we kind of get some feel. We'll be looking in the second hour what life was like as a Jew in Palestine. on the eve of the birth of Messiah, and that's one of the things we'll look at is the circumstances of probably what the birth was like. But anyway, they burst in on this scene, find Mary and Joseph and the little baby there And you see the whole thing is a spontaneous response to the joy of the message. They don't have to be there. They just can't not be there. They have to come to him. And so they saw, when they came, what did they see? Well, they saw just a normal baby. And that's important for us to realize. I think we can miss that at Christmas time. They didn't see a religious idea, they didn't see a legend They didn't see anything but a real crying, sucking, sleeping baby. A normal-looking Jewish baby. There was no glow emanating from his body. He didn't have a little halo around his head. There were no radiant beams from thy holy face coming out. There was none of this business of no crying he makes, the little Lord Jesus. He could have been crying his head off. We don't know. But he was a normal-looking Jewish baby. Looking with physical eyes upon that scene, there would have been absolutely nothing supernatural that you would have noticed about it. They would have seen a normal Jewish baby. It was a custom many centuries ago for artists who knew that Jesus didn't have little glows emanating from his body or halos around his head. They knew that. They weren't stupid. But they did that to symbolically portray glory. And the artist figured people were smart enough to know that that was just a way of depicting the glory so that you would be drawn to that. The problem is that through the centuries we've gotten so used to that that we forget the normalcy of it. And so we lose the sense of what they actually saw. And the fact that what they saw as a savior was only with the eyes of faith. And so they saw a savior, but they saw him with the eyes of their faith. Why? Simply because they had inside information. They had the message of the angels. Verse 11, today in the town of David, it's not just a little baby that's born to you. But it's a Savior who is Messiah Curios, Christ Lord. And so the angels, I mean the shepherds, when they come , And they see this, they understand that here is not a normal baby. They don't understand the virgin birth, they don't understand all these other things about this. But what they do know is that God has told us that this baby is the Savior. He's the long-awaited Messiah. And so for you and for me, that same message compels us to come to Jesus, doesn't it? It compels you because you have inside information here from the Bible about Jesus' identity. You know that the Bible tells you that you and I are in serious danger without Jesus. The Bible tells you that you are in terrific danger because all your life long you have disobeyed God. You and I have set ourselves up as the center of our universe. And God has been kind of a corner thing for us to enjoy at times or to feel warm or to pray to when we're in trouble. But the Bible says that because he hasn't been the sinner, and because we've run our lives the way that pleased us, that God, being just and holy, must judge that sin. And we're in very serious trouble. In fact, that trouble is so serious that the only way out of that trouble is for God Himself to take on the form of human flesh, to become man And to then live a life that was so perfect that there was no accusation against him, and to then be able to substitute himself. As the one to bear that tremendous load of guilt that you and I have for our own sin, to bear that load and to be sacrificed and cursed. So that you and I, by coming to Jesus, coming to the one who looks normal, who's scorned and mocked in today's culture Who's written off as a nice idea that makes you feel warm at Christmas time, but has no historical reference? Someone who's not to be taken seriously in his offers and his claims and his lordship That you and I have inside information and we come, we're drawn to Jesus because of our need. And I pray that every one of you here this morning Whether you're regular, whether you're a member, whether you help to establish this church, or whether this is your first time, or whether you're here because somebody else has invited you because it's Christmas time. And perhaps in some sense you find yourself drawn to Jesus. I pray that you will not simply be drawn to him as an idea, but as to the only possible savior for your sin. The only one who can make you right with God and enable God to forgive you and transform you and give you a whole new life this Christmas. If like the shepherds, you and I go to Jesus. How do you go to him? Opening your Bible, reading about him Then looking and saying, Lord, without just looking at this now, I want to direct my thoughts and attention to you. Lord Jesus, save me. Save me, please. I don't deserve it, but save me from my sin. Forgive me for those things that I've done wrong. Forgive me for ignoring you. And you alone are my only hope of a savior. Please, Lord, save me. You know what? He'll do it. He's promised to do it. That's what he came for. And to hear your prayer this afternoon or this morning or sitting right in your seat as you are right now. And he will save you. Because like the shepherds, Jesus is waiting for you to come. That's good news, isn't it? In fact, that's good news that's so good that it's worth shouting about. It's worth something that you just can't keep to yourself. And so the second thing that the shepherds did is that they told about Jesus the Messiah. They told about him. Look at verses 17 to 19. When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child. And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherd said to them. But Mary treasured up all these things, and she pondered them in her heart. So you see, again, there's no command. The shepherds weren't told, now I want to give you the greatest message, the best news that there's ever been on earth And if you guys are going to be any kind of decent disciples, you're going to go out and you're going to share this message at least once a week with everybody who will bother to listen to you about it. And so they went out compelled, because they'd feel guilty if they didn't, to go share the news throughout all Judea. Don't say that. You see, the message itself compelled them. Being filled with the presence of Jesus, seeing that and understanding who he was and what that meant for him to come in fulfillment of all the Old Testament prophecies and promises. They couldn't do anything else but to go out and to share that message. They were not compelled by law. They were compelled by the gospel. I remember hearing of a fellow once when I was working on campus. A student who was considering the claims of Jesus Christ and got to the point where the person who was working with him, sharing Christ with him, that this person actually saw that he really needed Jesus. In fact, he was so close that there was only one thing that was keeping him from coming to Jesus Christ, and that was that he hated evangelists. He hated the kind of people who, as he put it, shoved Jesus down your throat. He couldn't stand those pushy Christians who went around all the time looking for opportunities to impose their thoughts and their experience on other people. So this person, the Christian who was witnessing to him with great insight and skill, said, What is it that's really keeping you from Jesus? And he shared how he had this abhorrence for pushy evangelistic types. And the Christian said, Well, I got good news for you. What? He said, Listen, you come to Jesus Christ, and you will never have to evangelize. What? He said, Yes. Coming to Jesus Christ, your forgiveness of sin is not based on your evangelizing. Come to Jesus, and you'll never have to talk about Jesus. And God will forgive you and you'll love you because it depends on what Jesus did, not what you do. Succumb to Jesus and don't worry, you'll never have to evangelize. I promise you. He was so excited, he right there prayed to receive Christ. He says, This is tremendous. Lord, I need you. I need you in my life. And he came to Jesus Christ that day. They started discipling together and so the Christian met with him a week later. He asked him how his walk was going. He says, Oh, tremendous. The Lord has given me this peace now and I you know and I don't have this the burden of the sins that I was talking about He said, you know, I was sitting in class the other day and this guy said, Boy, uh, you seem different. What's happening? So I talked to him about how Jesus had changed my life. I began to share about all the good things that God had done to me. And I went home, you know, and my parents said, you know, well What is the stuff you're into now? And so I began to talk to him about how I was reading the Bible in the morning and what thing things that I was doing. And I began to share with him what Jesus was doing in my life. And I told him, you know, the best part is I don't have to evangelize. He said, that's interesting. And they went on and he met a week or two later. He'd begun to evangelize the whole class in discussions. And by the end of the semester, he'd led two or three people to Jesus. He was so excited that he didn't have to evangelize. You see the point? The shepherds were not told to evangelize. They were compelled by the message itself because it was good news. I really believe that Columbia Presbyterian Church needs to be more excited about Jesus. We need to be more excited and freed up, don't we? As people who can share Jesus because we're compelled By the fullness of Jesus Himself. We don't get that. By telling each other, have you shared Jesus this week? I'm going to count the number of times between now and Easter that every one of you are going to do it. We get it because we spend time with Jesus and our hearts are filled with the treasure of the gospel. Now that doesn't mean we may not hold each other accountable to help each other to do what we want to do. But we don't motivate each other through the law. The motivation is from the gospel. The motivation is the good news of Jesus. The motivation is from the content. It's from the message that they understood. And you see, that means be there, that the shepherds they were clear on the content about Jesus What they shared was not their experience. They didn't talk about how great it felt to have angels come on the hills of where the sheep were. Look at verse 17. When they had seen him, they spread what? The word concerning what had been told them about this child They spread the message. They told about Jesus. They gave content. They gave theology. They gave doctrine. They gave the message about Jesus. And that message was verse eleven, that there has been born a Savior who is Messiah, the Lord. And they gave content to that, I'm sure. For those that maybe didn't understand fully of all of what that meant, and they described what it meant for God to send his Son, or at least to send the Messiah, who was the Savior and the Lord. This is something we need to remind ourselves of today, because I think we're losing it. This last uh December U. S. News and World Report ran an article on the New Testament. It was the cover article, cover story for that issue. It was uh for the December 24th, 1990 issue of U. S. News and World Report. And I save The response, excuse me, was the week before, the December 24th issue. There were a number of letters in response. The article basically was talking about the nature And the interpretation of the New Testament according to contemporary scholarship, evangelical, liberal, and everybody. And then a number of people wrote in responses as letters. And this one I thought was a classic to Illustrate the point that I'm trying to make about our need for the understanding of the message. This fellow Stanley Teterman from Claremont, California, wrote This season that is now upon us is supposed to be joyous and heartlifting. Your articles definitely do not contribute to that atmosphere. What does it actually matter who wrote, copied, or interpreted the New Testament, as long as anyone reading it has his heart warmed and spirit renewed within him, and his faith in Christ Jesus bolstered and renewed? You get his point? Who cares whether it's true or what it says, so long as when you read it, you feel good? My answer to that would be, Stanley, what is the nature of your faith? What's the nature of your hope? What's the content of that hope? Who is this Jesus that makes you feel good? Is he simply a Jesus who's the figment of your imagination, the projection of your own needs? Or is he the Jesus who was born in history as Messiah? Who has come to declare to us who he is, that we might come to him, that he would fulfill our needs in his way. We would come to him as he really is, as Savior and Lord. The shepherds were transformed by the message of who Jesus really was. And it was that message they shared, it was that message that warmed their hearts. Not some first-class religious experience, but it was the message of the Messiah, the message of who he was and what he had come to do. And so for you and to me, for me, if Columbia Presbyterians to be more excited about Jesus, it's going to be because we know our Bibles better It's because we spend time in our Bibles meeting with Jesus and understanding who He is and the tremendous things that He has come to do, the prophecies He fulfills, you see the flow of the Old and New Testament put together. And you and I have our hearts warmed and our minds filled with the glory of who Jesus is. That excites us. That's the message that compels us to share out of the spontaneous response to joy. rather than the guilty response to duty. The final thing that they did, that's an illustration for us, is that they then worshipped the God who sent Jesus the Messiah. They worshipped the God who sent Jesus the Messiah. Verse 20, the end. Shepherds returned, glorifying. Praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. Again, you notice there's no command. There's simply the response, the spontaneous response compelled by the message itself. They glorified and they praised God for the things they had heard and that had been seen by them. You notice that praise here is the climax of the story. Praise also is the beginning of the story. The story of the shepherds begins and ends with praise and worship. Notice that their praise, which they give, is in response to what the angels give, but it begins, the story begins with the praise of the angels, it ends with the praise of the shepherds. Now, if you were to ask the question, which was more glorious? The praise of an innumerable host of warrior angels? Singing and praising glory to God in the highest, in the magnificent articulation of his praise that they would give him in the heavenly realms Were the stammering, half-formed, half-understood praise of a group of low-life shepherds. Which was more glorious? But of course, the shepherds, hands down, why? Because the angels can never experience redemption. The angels can never praise God as those who understand what it means for Messiah to be a Savior. They can cognitively declare the message. But they can never have their hearts warned as a sinner who has come with all the baggage and the guilt to the cross of Jesus Christ. And then seeing Jesus take that burden, as it's depicted in Pilgrim's Progress, an old burden rolls off his back, down into the cross and disappears, like you and I can experience. Only a sinner can give that kind of praise, and only a sinner can glorify God in that capacity I understand that when Labris Fellowship in its early days, they would find someone that's the ministry of uh Francis and Edith Schaefer over in Switzerland, it brought so many people to Jesus Christ. And in the early days of Labris, when a person would come after hours and sometimes days and weeks of discussion about the gospel, when they would come to that point where they would finally pray to receive Jesus as Messiah. That they would then go over and they would put on the hallelujah chorus on the stereo in order to fill the room with the glory of the angels declaring the wonder that had just taken place. They ceased that after a few years because it become mechanical. But the idea was still there. There has to be the wonder and the rejoicing of God transforming a sinner's heart. And so the angels, uh, keep saying the angels, the shepherds praise was more glorious than the angels. And what was it they were praising him for? Their praise focused on his faithfulness. You see that in verse 20? The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. Told hell, not just in verse 11 and 12, but told in their understanding of the Old Testament scriptures, in all the messianic prophecies and promises, the hope of Israel, for certainly these were Jewish shepherds. And all that hope of Israel that had been passed down from the fathers to the sons, from the mothers to the daughters, generation after generation, they said, God has fulfilled it just as we've been told. And then more immediately they're saying, just what the angels told us, God was reliable. That word was reliable. It was just like He said. There was a baby in the manger, just like He said there would be. And so you and I, when we worship God this Christmas, worship him for his faithfulness. He has fulfilled his prophecies. He's fulfilled his promises. You can trust him for every word of this book. To be made true in your life, you can rest your life on it. And when you worship and praise him in these next few days, think of his faithfulness to you The more you stand on that word , the more you trust it, the more experientially you can worship him. Because the more you'll be able to say with the shepherds , God was faithful, and I have seen and heard everything just like I read and was told. So the message compels us with the shepherds to go to Jesus. To tell about Jesus and to worship Jesus, not from the law, but from the gospel. Let's pray. Lord, our hearts are warmed as we consider the message of Jesus this morning. We want to come to you right now. And we want to examine whether this is a story that is distanced from us, or whether, in fact, we have ever come to Jesus. To fill our minds with the content of this story and of who Jesus is, but then to direct our thoughts to you and say, Lord Jesus, I believe you are who this book says you are. And I believe you can do in my life what you tell me you can do. And Lord Jesus, I need you to do that. I need you to forgive my sins because you took them I need you, Lord Jesus, to take my concerns, the stress of this holiday, those cares and those worries, those things that have separated me from you. Lord Jesus, I want to come to you right now Lord Jesus, we pray that in these next days when we're with family and friends and neighbors That you will fill our hearts with the wonder of the story so that as we have opportunities, we'll want to talk about Jesus. Not because we have to , because the message itself compels us. May we worship you as the one who is faithful to all that you have promised. Hear us now. As we come to you through Jesus, Emmanuel, God with us. Amen.