Revisit once again Ephesians chapter one, looking at God's purpose for which He has raised us up in existence as a church of His people. Last year we looked at verse 17 to see how Paul addresses God, what we learn from How he addressed him in this prayer is the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, and I'm not going to go back into that again, of all what that meant. But this year, this morning, just this one message, I would like to look at what he prays. What is it that Paul prays for the church? What is his longing? Now this prayer goes from verse 17 to 23, and I want to read that to you now. Beginning with verse 15. But then I want to focus on the foundation of that prayer in just verse 17. That's the foundation of it. So God's word to us Paul's prayer and his uh God's purpose for Columbia Presbyterian Church. Paul says in verse 15: For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, the Father of glory, may give to you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. And his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, in every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Once again I say it. Verse 17 is the foundation of that all-important prayer, God's purpose for the church, in this key letter to the churches of the New Testament. What is the essence of that prayer? That you will know him better. Paul, it's as if Paul is saying here that the most important thing that he can pray at the beginning of this academic year And, you know, this really is the beginning of the year in September. I mean, the Jews knew that. I mean, the Bible, you know, the the new year is in September. It's not in January. Actually, the New Year in January is a pagan thing. That's the solstice. But biblical New Year is in September, all right? So this is kind of the beginning of the year that we look at. And as you look at this new year, it's unfolding before you You think, what is it that God wants to accomplish in me in this year? Paul says the foundation of everything that he wants to do in your life in this year is that you will know him better. Now how do you respond to that? You say, hey, fine with me. That's great. You know, I'd be glad if God did that. Well, let me press the point a little further. Let's suppose that somehow we knew God would grant to Paul one request. And Paul chose of all the things that he could ask for God to do in your life in this next year, the one thing he asked that he knows will be granted is that request. Now, how do you respond to it? Well, perhaps some of you, your heart says, yes. There's nothing I can think of that would be better than that if only I could know him and his character and be more intimate with him and know him more fully and personally Lord, there's just so many things I don't understand about you. If you would make more sense to me because I'd understand your character and your ways and I could draw more closely to you I would see more of your goodness and your faithfulness. That would be terrific. It would stretch my life, my faith, my thinking, everything. Oh, that would be great. Things would come together Maybe on the other hand, you're thinking, one request, huh? Hmm. I'm not sure that's the one I'd choose. I think I can think of some things that might be a little more needful and practical in my life right now. I mean, isn't knowing God kind of like knowing the universe? I mean, it's great, and sure it's broadening. It's terrific to know the universe, but How practical is that really for daily living? I mean, you know, I got bills to pay and there's concerns at work and these relationships in the family and some of the things that are going on. If there's something I'd ask God to do, I think there's some immediate things that I might focus on this year. And for many of us, we don't realize that most of our troubles are due to the fact that we really don't know God Illustrate. Each Tuesday, Steve and I take what we call a half a day of prayer. We go out for a couple of hours, do some reading, thinking, reflecting on the week. And uh we do that each alone. And uh my habit is that when I go out and do that, I I read through the Psalms, one Psalm each week successively, just for my own benefit, uh not message preparation, just for God to speak to me. And so as I went out this week, I was looking forward. What is the psalm? I had some real needs in my life, some concerns and And so I was really looking forward to meeting with God. And I was looking forward to what He was going to give me through that Psalm so that I could express myself and use that Psalm to bring my needs to him and the rest of that And so I come up on Psalm 68. That was the next one. Didn't choose it, it's the next one in line. And I look at that Psalm, and as I read the Psalm, I find out the Psalm is all about God. And talk all about my needs. Just talks about him and who he is and what he's done. And I gotta confess to you, my initial response was just a tad of disappointment. Lord, this is just all about you. I wanted something about me. And all of a sudden I realized what a child of the 90s I am. Do you realize how you as congregations have been conditioned to look for and to expect me -centered sermons? I want a sermon that speaks to my needs, my feelings. And if we talk about getting our eyes off ourselves simply on to God and who He is, Our immediate kind of gut reaction is that's theoretical. That's nice, but I need something more immediate and practical, right? And we have forgotten that most of our troubles are due to the fact that we don't really know God. And because we really don't know him, we really don't trust him. And because we really don't trust him, we really don't love him. Because we really don't trust him and love him, we think that sin is better than obeying him. And so we don't really follow him wholeheartedly. And we get ourselves into all kinds of jams and convoluted thinking, discouragement, insecurity, brokenness Because we have forgotten who God is. Let me suggest to you that the very best thing that could happen to you this year Is that you would know him better. And Paul praised this for your good as well as for God's glory. As we saw last week, the dance of the lover and the beloved, he for us, so that we are freed to be centered on him As we look at this, I want to ask a couple of questions to convince you from this text that this is true, as well as to give a couple of thoughts on how. First of all, notice who it is that he's calling us to know. And that's something we've talked to through the years. Know him better. But who is the hymn actually that this is referring to? I mean, is it referring to the Trinity, God, the Godhead? Is it referring to Jesus Christ? Is it referring to the Father? And so what? Alright? Well, I think it's clear if you look at the text that what this is really referring to is God the Father You notice that he says in verse 17, I keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, that he may give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. Now that doesn't solve it. That could refer either to himself, the Father, or to the Son. But then you go on to verse 18. I pray also the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you may know the hope to which he Same pronoun, same with again, so it's gotta be the same referent, this he who calls you is of course not Jesus the Son, it's the Father who called us to Himself. That's clear in chapter one. And then he goes on to say the riches of his glorious inheritance. Romans 8 and other passages in Scripture make clear it's the Father's inheritance that we receive. We are co-heirs with Christ of the Father. And then it goes on to say in verse 19 and 20 that he, the same he that we are to know, raised Christ from the dead. So clearly, what Paul is praying here is that you and I will come to know the Father particularly better. However, you can't separate knowing the Father from knowing the Son. And so, in the first place, it is God the Father that we're to know, but it is through God the Son. You notice in verse 17 the closest identification, these the glorious God of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is the Father of glory. You see also that this one who is known in identification with Christ Is known through Christ. John 17, verse 3, the Lord Jesus had prayed, Father Now this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you've sent. You can't know one without the other. In fact, in Matthew chapter 11, in verse 27, Jesus prayed, All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father. The Father is the only one who really knows thoroughly Jesus Christ. And no one knows the Father except the Son. Only the Son really understands the full character and nature of the Father. And those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. How does he reveal him? Do you remember that when Peter said to Jesus in John 14, the night he was betrayed, Lord, show us the Father? How did Jesus respond? Come on, Peter, not uh Peter, Philip. Philip, how long have you been with me? And have you not seen me? If you have seen me, you've seen the Father. Why? Because the Son is the fullness of the revelation of the Father. So you can't really know the Father without knowing the Son. And you can't really know the Son without knowing the Father. Some people talk a lot about knowing God in a general kind of mystical sort of way, but without any reference to Jesus Christ. That's delusion. You can't know God. You can't know him as Father, except through the mediatorial work of Jesus Christ, not only revealing him, but giving us access to him. Through his sacrifice, by which our sins are forgiven, and the way it's opened for us to know God. But other people refer always to Jesus, with little of any reference to the Father. That's also imbalanced. Because if you know Jesus, he will draw you to the Father. Now you notice in this there isn't a reference to the Spirit. Well, there actually is in verse 17, because it is the Spirit of wisdom and revelation who reveals the Father and the Son. And so to know the Father and the Son is to know them through the Spirit, to know the Father as He has called to you. The Son as He has died for you, and the Spirit as He is working in you The three work in complete harmony, and so to know Him with an immediate reference to the Father is also to know the Son by means of the work of the Spirit. Now what does it mean to know him better? First of all The word, as I've mentioned so many times to you, is this word epigenosco, which means full experiential knowledge. It's a full, direct, experiential kind of knowledge. It's important for us to realize who Paul was writing this to. When he writes, I pray, I keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, he may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. Who's you? Well, first of all, it was not written to learned theologians or even to seminary students. It wasn't written to monks or to missionaries. It was written to all the Church of Jesus Christ. And those that Paul was particularly addressing in Ephesus and the circulation of that letter among the different churches. Many, if not most of them, were slaves. They were bricklayers and servants. People who were farmers. Many of these people that Paul wrote to were illiterate And so what he is speaking of here is not simply a theoretical or intellectual kind of knowledge. Now, let me hasten to say he says we know God through the spirit of wisdom and revelation. It is not simply a matter of subjective opinions and feelings. It is through Scripture which we must know. But it is not simply a matter of study and of achieving a knowledge of the original languages and reading lots of books on theology that is the primary means of knowing God. And those things are all good and they're all helpful. But it's like Reading a bunch of books on sex techniques and think that you understand marriage. To know God Is to know him in an intimate, direct, and personal way that comes through building on the revelation of Scripture The wisdom that comes only by drawing close and intimate to him. Let me illustrate As you have heard a number of times recently, I've been married 30 years to my wife, Kathy, this last month. So I can say with a reasonable amount of assurance that I know that woman. And we have come to a knowledge of each other that probably surpasses anybody else in the world. Safe to say, after thirty years. But it is not a knowledge that is simply something that I can describe about her. The real knowledge comes From experiences like when I was writing this message, at the point that I was doing it, one morning when we got up, Kathy said to me , You were the best thing that ever happened to me. I don't know why she said that. I don't remember. All I remember is that it brought tears to my eyes. I felt here's a woman who knows me. And all of a sudden there was a sense of open, naked vulnerableness. A connecting of our hearts that goes beyond any kind of intellectual cognition about what this woman is like. In fact, one of the greatest delights of passing this milestone in my life is that I think I've mentioned to some of you that I dug out her whole love letters that she wrote to me when we were engaged, and I've been reading them One a day. It kind of blurs with my quiet time. I have to make sure that I don't, you know, confuse which one I get the greatest blessing out of. Because I am finding again a tremendous movement in my spirit of who it is that I've married and what she's like. Well, there's a sense, you see, in which knowing God is like that. The Bible even uses the analogy of marriage. It is the passion of the beloved for the lover. wanting to know him fully, because my life is wrapped around who he is. Now, it's not simply intellectual or theoretical. It's also not simply a matter of knowing his blessings. I feel very pri privileged and blessed in the health that I enjoy. In the home that we live in. In the family that God has given to us, in the calling that He's given to me to preach the gospel, and you as a congregation to work with. And on and on and on. But I can be very grateful for all those blessings in a vaguely grateful way and still be distant from God. And if I don't watch even the fact that I have heaven to look forward to can put me in a mind where I focus more on the blessings than the one who's given them And if that's the case, then I will always be a little insecure about what if he takes away one of those blessings. What will that do to my relationship with him? And sometimes God takes those things away just to show us how sufficient he is that we might know him better. One of the best illustrations I know of this was from a fellow who lived last century by the name of Edward Payton Edward Payton wrote this letter to his sister on his deathbed. Let me quote from just a part of it. He said Christians might avoid much trouble and inconvenience if they would only believe what they profess, that God is able to make them happy without anything else. They imagine that if such a dear friend were to die, or if such blessings were to be removed, they would be miserable, whereas God can make them a thousand times happier without them. To mention my own case, God has been depriving me of one blessing after another. At this point, he couldn't even get out of bed. But as each one was removed, he has come in and filled its place. And now when I am a cripple and not able to move, I am happier than ever I was in my life before or ever expected to be. And if I had believed this twenty years ago, I might have been spared much anxiety. This kind of knowledge is the passionate desire of the lover for the beloved. Do you remember the time when Moses in Exodus chapter 33 Was reminded by God that he had called Moses to lead a stubborn, complaining couple of million Israelites through the wilderness into Canaan. And Moses said, Oh, woe is me. Oh, why did I ever get this job? Oh, would that anybody else had this? This is terrible. And then he received good news and bad news. God said, I'm going to send you an angel to accompany you and bring them into the land. That was the good news. Bad news is God said, I'm not going to go with you. Because my presence is too holy, and I'm afraid that I will destroy the nation in their rebellion. You remember how Moses responded when God said that? There was an immediate cry of his heart, which said basically, Lord. If you don't go with us, forget it. I don't even want to go. Unless I have your presence, it's not even worth it. And God's response to Moses is so precious at that point. He says, I will do the very thing you've asked, Moses. I will go with you. Because I am pleased with you, and I know you by name. Have you ever been in a situation where you've cried out to God, God, I can't go any further with this Unless I have the assurance that you are with me, and as we talked about last week, that you are going to equip me to do your will, that you, that I can count on your presence, Lord I don't even want to go any further. I forg I give up, I quit, that's it, I can't go on. And at that point, God's saying, that's where I've wanted to be wanting to bring you, my child, all along. If you see your utter need for me to be sufficient for you, I'll do that because I am pleased with you and I know you intimately. What would you give to hear God's voice say that to you personally And then Moses, in a rush of bold passion, says in verse 18, Lord, show me your glory. Woe! What a response. Does he know what he's asking for? I mean, remember the basic definition of glory? Glory is not fireworks. Moses is not asking, this is not a voyeuristic request. God, I want to see something really spectacular now that's going to convince me that you're really here. That's not what he's asking. Glory is the perfections of God as they can be perceived by the creature. That's basic definition of glory. It's all his perfections as they are able to be perceived by creatures. And so this is an astonishing request because you don't see God and remain unchanged. You don't behold the glory and continue to play with sin You don't perceive God in his perfections before you and continue to live half-hearted for him. You don't understand the reality of God in all of his glory before you as he says, You really want to know me? Let me show you what I'm like. And then to continue to negotiate whether you're going to follow that hard thing that he's asking you to do. And the result of God showing the after-effects of his glory as he holds Moses in the cleft of the rock and passes by, revealing to him his character. Is that Moses says, okay, I'm willing to take those people. In fact, the Bible says the result was that Moses became the meekest Most non-defensive man on earth. And that's what it took to take that crew into Canaan. Seeing God and knowing Him enables you to tenderly love that difficult spouse. Knowing him enables you to forgive that person who has hurt you so deeply. Knowing him enables you to serve your boss with a cheerful heart. Knowing God is transforming I don't have time to go into David in Psalm 42 or into Isaiah in chapter 6. Read the rest of Exodus 33 and 34 and Psalm 42. Isaiah 6 and see for yourself what was the experience of these characters and how it transformed them as a pattern for your own life. Let me conclude by simply saying, how do you gain such knowledge? It is the spirit of wisdom and revelation, verse 17 says. Revelation refers to the Bible. You cannot know God without knowing the Bible in all of its parts, which is why they're there. Can't stick to just one part and have a balanced view of Him. You need to be delving into all the different parts of Scripture in a balanced diet of those things. In a regular pattern of daily exposing yourself to and meditating on and thinking about who God is and what his ways are in the different parts of Scripture. Wisdom refers to God's perspective. It is getting God's perspective on your life, getting your eyes off of yourself, up onto Him. to see what he is like, studying his names as we've done in past years. Or spending time going verse by verse, paragraph by paragraph, through Ephesians 1 to 3. To see again what he has liked and what he has done for you. To see that he is the God of grace. As he begins in Ephesians chapter 1 verse 2, grace and peace. And then he begins to describe that grace which is given to you. You see, the only way you can really know God is on your face. It's prostrate before him, recognizing your need for his grace in your life. To see the more you see his perfections and his wonder of his holiness, you see how corrupt How self-centered and how vile are your own motives and desires So that his love for you becomes ever more amazing and astounding. And it draws you to, like Moses with a rush of passion of the lover of the beloved, say, Lord, show me more. I need to see more of what you're like. Even if it means seeing more of what I'm like, I'm willing for that because seeing my sin is a small price to pay to see more of your love toward me and your grace to me. Talking to somebody just this week about knowing God. And they say, yeah, I'd really like that. It was clear they were keeping God on the periphery of their life, kind of like a guardian angel in time of need. When we prayed together, it was clear that this person was still thinking, I can do it. God just helped me. Such a person will never really know the heart of God. You know his heart in your spiritual bankruptcy Do you want to know him? Really know him? You say, well, yes, but not right now. I'm kind of busy this week. And um You know, knowing God really doing that might take some time and in fact if I really get what you're talking about, I might lose track of time, and I sure can't afford to do that Remember last week the person that said, list of to-dos, to-dos, to-dos, but at the end of the day, wonder what I've accomplished. You look back at the life you've lived on your deathbed. Will you say all those things were more important? And taking some time, maybe trading with the kids with my spouse to go out this afternoon, just take an hour and say, Lord, I just want to know you I mean, what would God do through 500 people in this city who really knew him that way? We couldn't begin to guess. Let's pray Lord, the cry of our hearts is, we do want to know you, and yet there's an ambivalence even in that. We draw back. Lord, we know that there's times that you move us to distress, to stress, to need, to pain. In order that you might give us the greater blessing of knowing you, deliver us from that complacent self-satisfaction that we know you enough to get by. And give to us each the heart's cry of the beloved, I want to know my lover. That we would draw near to you this day and this week to know you better. Amen.