Let me pray for us as we um transition. Lord, I thank you that you are the God of the universe. Just again, Lord, humbled by the fact that you would hear our prayer, that you would hear our prayer uh because of Christ That love would motivate you to intervene in our situation as sinners and to bring us to yourself. Then Lord to not leave us, but to intimately work in and through us to bring glory to yourself. I pray, Lord, for the mission in Uganda, especially and particularly the one that uh Paul and Rick and Jennifer were able to be a part of for And uh we thank you for the blessing that you have given to their hearts, the reminder again of the need for compassion and and mercy. and the gospel. And we pray, Lord, that our hearts even would be filled with that sense of need That we would first and foremost, Lord, sense our own need for your forgiveness. And that that need would be met in the powerful message that Jesus Christ has been merciful and has given his life for us. And then Lord help us then to Cause that to flow freely to others around us. We ask for your blessing on the preaching of your word today. And we ask that you would change this church. For your glory because of it. In the name that is above every name, we pray, even Jesus. Amen. Amen. It's the you have a copy of the scripture we're going to read from First Peter chapter three. We're going to look at two verses today. First Peter three Rearrange some of the stuff here. Hear God's word. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love. A tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil, or reviling for reviling But on the contrary, bless. For to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. God's word for us. What do you think about when you see the title there and the bulletin outline? What does your church look like? You know, we recently renovated this facility. Maybe you're visiting as a result of seeing some of the construction over the last couple of years and you wanted to see what the inside looked like. Maybe you live through it Maybe you were um maybe you're not here because you left because of it. I don't know. But we renovated this building and a lot of times people ask, you know, hey w it uh what's your church look like and you're tempted the real shallow answer it's that brick building on one oh eight across from Centennial Park, you know, the south entrance to Centennial. Or you could go a little bit deeper What does your church look like? Well we're kinda I don't know a little bit racially diverse, but not really. We're more maybe age diverse, a little socioeconomic diverse, not really diverse. You know, you just like there's levels of answer, right? But I'm always tempted when people are asking about the church, what is your church to answer, I think, the way Peter wants us to answer. And that is to say It's a picture. Our church is a picture, albeit through kind of a really dirty windshield. It's a picture of who God really is It's what we're supposed to be. Yeah, there's bricks and mortar and and a lot of steel and everything and and yeah we have Age and socio economic and ethnic and all this stuff. But what our church is supposed to look like is Jesus Christ. We're supposed to look like God. Last week a uh we we were on vacation and we visited another place for worship, and there was a lady there who told us We've never seen this woman before, that her specialty was trying to figure out which one of the kids looked more like the parent. And we let her do it. And um, you know, she pointed out the ones that um by God's grace look like Dana and the other ones that sadly look like me and then But it reminded me even in that is if if that's the kind of the just in the natural then how much more should we look like the one who has given us his life? And I think that's what Peter's calling us to today. God transforms all those that He has transferred. He transforms all those that He has transformed Transferred from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of his marvelous light. He doesn't leave us where we were. That's the best news of the gospel It's part and parcel with forgiveness of sins, inheritance in the saints, and fellowship with Christ forever. It's that God is growing us up so that we're not supposed to be what we were. That's why there's a lot of past tense stuff in the Pauline epistles. When Paul writes the churches, he says, And such were some of you. It's always in the context of talking about who doesn't inherit the kingdom of God. We need to pay close attention to those things Because we may have a lot of gray, but God is a very black and white God. You only enter heaven if you have the righteousness of Christ. as your record. And we're gonna hopefully look at that a little bit today So Peter is saying, finally, all of you. And that just gives us a chance to look back again and to see Where where you at, Peter? And he says, Look, we just talked about the purpose that you were made is to proclaim the excellencies of Christ And that takes on the form what you might or might not expect in that humble submission. So then each of us are to be submissive or subject to every human institution for the sake of the Lord. First the civil magistrate was talked about, then slaves to masters, the workplace is in view, and then the family is in view, wives to husbands, husbands as to their lord, as they servant, leader, their wives, control. Considering them in all things. And then Peter says, Listen, and now for the church, for all of you, believers, for all of you who are the elect exiles of the dispersion That's who he's writing to. He says, for all of you who have placed your faith in Jesus Christ, here's instruction for you. This is what humble submission looks like for the church. Now there's other passages that speak more to our personal holiness than these two verses do. But these two verses get to The role of the community, the way we interact together as a church. These two verses give us a sense of what it means to be the church. What does your church look like? I I would love for our church to look like these two verses, among other things We have to, I think, maybe use this week as a as a preparation for the next four Sundays when Pastor Randy walks us through the vision that he wants to unpack, through those uh sermons from John 17. The the church on mission, the the church experiencing the grace of God and extending the grace of God to others. What does your church look like? I want it to look like this. Your your session wants it to look like this We want ourselves to look like this. So I want to do two things with this message. I want to take a look at Christ. And then take a look at these commands from three different perspectives. When I say take a look at Christ, we're looking at words. Aren't we doing a word study? Because every one of the commands of God reveals Jesus. That's how we see who Jesus is. The New Testament reveals This all over the place. And everywhere you read you see God calling his people to personal holiness. There's a there's a lot of talk today in the church about what what is the mission of the church? Are we to care for the poor? Yes, but not primary. Are we to be concerned about the environment? Yes, certainly, but it's not primary If you just do a cursory reading of the New Testament, you'll see that there's some caring about the poor stuff in there Not very much about the environment. But there are almost in every chapter and in sections of verses A call to personal holiness. A call to what we sang, forsake that old life And to be actually the people of God, different. Standing out. Not standing out because we're obnoxious or because we picket or whatever, but standing out because We look like something that is other. We look like something that is supernatural. We look like Jesus Christ. And I think that's what we're looking at today. Everywhere there's a call to personal holiness with regard to what we say, what we do, what we watch, how we respond, who we relate to, and how we relate to those Whom we relate to. That's what the scriptures call us to. So Peter says, listen, finally, all of you Let me give you this exhortation. There's six commands here. Five in the positive and one in the negative. Commands of Scripture simply point us to Jesus. I'd like to go through these and make comments as we go. Ready? Good. Good. Here we go. Warning, warning. There will be a whole lot of scriptural references related to this sermon. I just want you to be aware so that when you say, you know, there was a whole lot of scripture references Now you might not think that a negative thing, but I just want you to see, because I was fascinated by seeing, and there could have been a dozen more on each one of these points. But I want you to see what I was fascinated to see, and that is God's word really does speak right to our situation. And it's informative and it's impacting, but it's transformative as well. So Peter says, have unity of mind. Have a unity of mind. This is corporate. This isn't the double-minded, this isn't an admonition against the double-minded man of James. This is corporate. This is All of you have unity of mind. You remember in Jesus' priestly prayer in John 17? I think we're going to look at that in more detail the next four weeks. Jesus highlights that in one portion after he's prayed for his disciples in verse 20 of chapter 17 of the Gospel of John. Jesus says these words, that they may be all one. Just as you, Father, and I in me, just as you are in me and I in you. That they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me. Do you see the importance of unity here? Jesus is saying the unity that He has with the Father is what he wants us to have with him. And then he goes on, I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me. And love them even as you loved me. When there's unity of mind in Christ's church, the world sees that, and they see something that they don't normally see. They don't normally see a group of people that are diverse having unity of mind. When Paul encouraged the church in Ephesus to honor Christ with their lives, he wrote in chapter 4: I therefore, a prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Unity of mind in the body of Christ is paramount. I don't think anybody likes discord. Maybe. Some do. You know, they seem to always stir things up. Maybe they like it, maybe that just kind of follows them like a cloud, like Pig Pen from Charles Schultz's Peanuts comic strip. Maybe they like discord, but I don't know many people that really want conflict and strife. At least they won't admit to it. I don't believe Peter is calling everyone to the same political party here. I don't believe he's calling everyone to the same schooling choice here. I don't believe Peter is calling everyone to be on board with the the same types of instruments used in worship, if any, here. I think what Peter is calling us to to have unity of mind is those things that the Word of God is very clear on. The fellowship of God's saints is fellowship around sound, true doctrine. That's where we have fellowship. The unity here is spoken of is corporate. It's informed and impacted by the Word of God, and nothing else will do. Paul told the Romans in chapter 12 that in view of God's mercy, that first eleven chapters of sound doctrine, he said, in view of that, don't let the world press in on you. Don't let the world conform you. Don't let the world shape you, but be transformed by what? The renewing of your mind. The renewing of your mind with what, Paul? With all that sound doctrine I just taught Who we are, who God is. Minds that are studiously meditating on God's word, as if our very soul depended on it. Why? Because I'm here to tell you they do. What you believe matters, right? And we believe that Here, maybe for the next hour or so, but then the world starts to press in again. And the world's got a lot of opinions and not a lot of truth to back up those opinions. This word is our only hope. for sound doctrine and unity of mind. Healthy debate? Fine. Question and doubt? Fine. But when we debate, there's only one way to settle the difference, God's Word. When we doubt, there's only one place to go for reassurance and assurance, God's Word. When we have questions There's only one place that we need to look for answers. God's word. I mean that and yet why don't we do that? I don't know. When Peter says unity of mind, that unity of mind is informed and impacted by God's word. Sometimes we come to a place of decision. There doesn't seem to be clear direction from Scripture In those times, charity and trust and faith are necessary and required. Where the scriptures are clear, like the doctrine of God's absolute sovereignty, where the doctrine of deity of Jesus Christ is full deity, is full humanity. Where the scriptures are clear, the total radical corruption of mankind from the fall, where the scriptures are clear, we must have unity of mind. Augustine, the saint of the fourth century, is attributed with that statement that's come down through the ages. In essentials, unity. In non-essentials, liberty. But in all things, charity. Charity. When we discuss and debate amongst ourselves, charity must be the foundation. Love. Respect, honor. Peter actually is gonna he's gonna go into that later in chapter three. We're gonna look at that I hope I hope later. Not today. Respect. So the first command is to have a unity of mind. The second command Peter raises is for Christ's church to have sympathy This word carries with it the idea that we share the same feelings as. It's a picture Husbands, have you gotten over chapter 3, verse 7 yet? This is the picture of considering another. This is what it means to actually uh you know walk a mile in their shoes. This is what it means to feel what they feel. You know, uh feel your pain. It's become a punchline. We don't believe that. Nobody feels our pain. Usually when we see pain, we turn and run the other way But Peter's not calling the Church of Jesus Christ to that. In fact, quite the opposite. What he's calling the Church of Jesus Christ to is exactly what Jesus has already demonstrated, and that is he feels that deeply In John 11, at the news, at the event of his friend Lazarus' death, John uh Jesus joins Martha and Mary, and he's on his way to where they've laid him, and he comes across the sisters. And we read Jesus saying, Where have you laid him? And they said to the Lord, Come and see. And he sees the grief of those standing at the tomb. And that easiest verse to memorize, right? John 11, 36, Jesus wept. He is described by the writer of Hebrews as the great high priest who is able To sympathize with us in our weaknesses because he took on flesh. He entered into our same experience. The writer of Hebrew says that Uh we don't have a high priest who is unable to sympathize, but we have one who was tempted in every way that we are and yet never once knew sin. He's withstood all that you will ever face and he feels that pain. He feels the pull of the sin. He feels the pull of temptation. And he offers that. And that's what Peter says. Listen, if you're going to listen to these commands as you've taken a look at Christ, sympathy is being Christ-like. It's to come alongside those. Romans 12 says, we rejoice with those who rejoice, and we weep with those who weep. We find it's a lot easier to do the first part of that verse. Brand new baby, yay! Oh praise God. Diagnosis of a illness that will take your life eventually, but we don't know when. That's difficult. It's very hard. When we see pain, a lot of times we our natural tendency is to turn and run You have one of these? You don't have the version I have. I have the Hebrew version of the church directory. This one this one got in the printer wrong and I told Mayor, I said, No Mayor, I want that. That's that's a keepsake. But contained in here are the names of members and friends of CPC, those that have, you know, filled out that little thing and You're tracked now. And you could go through here and you could read just names. You could see kids and You see where they live and all that stuff and even better is if these had pictures attached, right? We've had photo directories in the past where you see that one momentary snapshot of smiling faces. You ever flip through the directory and just try to enter in? Because those pictures of smiling faces sometimes belie the fact that there's a child in rebellion in that home. Or there's a husband who just can't get the idea that he's to lovingly lead into his heart and head. Or there's a wife who struggles. All kinds of emotional distress. There's all manner of kinds of things. And what Peter calls the church to is sympathy. Enter in. We have opportunities for smaller settings than this. This is this would be hard to do it But not the home fellowship groups and the Sunday school classes that start in two weeks and the little coffee groups that get together, the momentum men's ministry and the women's ministry. They have various uh just friends that say, hey, let's get together this weekend and cook some steaks. Okay. What time? And then let that fellowship go deep. That's the second command, sympathy. See Jesus. The third command We get this. Brotherly love. Do we get it? On the night which Jesus be was betrayed, he gave that one command, remember? This command I leave with you. This is what I want you to be known for. Have the best activities in your county. Got it? Good. Now I will go to the cross and pay for that. I mean, I even hate to make a joke about that. Jesus said, listen, this command I leave with you. Love one another, even as I have loved you. For this is how all men will know you are my disciples if you have love one for the other. That's why Peter is saying, listen, I sat there in the room with him. And then I went out and denied him. He called me to love. And I couldn't do it in my own strength. Peter knows what he's writing about here. He knows he couldn't love in his own strength. He couldn't support. He couldn't stay loyal. He couldn't be faithful. He couldn't be a friend in need in his own strength. Peter knows that, and he's writing aware, fully aware of that. Let's keep that in mind as we go Paul told the Galatian Christians in chapter 6 and in verse 10 that we as we have an opportunity, he says, Let us do good to everyone. So there's love, and there's this love in action, right? But he says, especially to those who are of the household of faith. Now that's not a bias or a prejudice or some kind of like, you know, missional statement that's got us all ingrown. What Paul is saying to the church in Galatia is this. It's very important for us to love one another with a brotherly love. You see, the writer of Hebrews picks up on that. Peter in this verse. It's important for us to love one another with a brotherly love so that the world can be properly loved. It's very important. And it's important to see that this kind of love is he's calling us to is not a feeling. I don't feel love for you, and you don't feel love for me But we do what God does. God set his heart on a people and he never wavered from them. Love is not a feeling as much as it is an act of our will. And that's what we're being called to here: brotherly love, showing self-sacrificing affection and kindness. And so the fourth command comes from a tender heart. This is one of those words that when you start to look at it, you kind of get grossed out by the Greek. Because it's like from the depths of our bowels. from our intestines, from the most inner part of who we are, this tender heart It's not surfacey stuff here. And so the The uh the church is called to have a kind of heart that reflects Jesus Christ. Maybe you recall in Matthew chapter 12 when Matthew the gospel writer is quoting Isaiah 42 and he's referring to Jesus, the Uh the prophet Isaiah has prophesied about the servant who would come, and Matthew is taking that prophecy and directly applying it to Jesus Christ in his earthly ministry. And he says that These words from Isaiah, Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. This is the kind of heart that's pleasing to God This is the kind of heart that exhilarates God, that God finds great pleasure in, in whom my soul delights. And then describing the tenderness of Jesus Christ, the scripture gives these two beautiful images. A bruised reed he will not break off, and a smoldering wick he will not quench, he will not snuff out. You see that picture? This is the tender heart. It's it's of of Jesus, the um I remember a story that R. C. Sproul told of sitting with the um now uh uh the late Chuck Colson and determine trying to determine a logo for prison fellowship, a ministry that Chuck Colson headed for years And they discussed different things and a logo uh arose from their discussion, a bruised reed, uh a bent over reed, because they wanted the tenderness of Christ to be pictured in that one symbol. This is a picture of of uh one who comes along and could just easily just snap that off. But he takes it and he holds it until that reed has had a chance to heal. There's care and tenderness. We uh we bought a fire pit a while ago. We wanted to have great roaring fires in our backyard. Shh, don't tell anybody. And um we mostly burn the limbs that I cut down on Mondays when I'm doing lawn work. But fire is for us is just a you know fun sit around, make s'mores or whatever and Somebody plays the Ocarina and I get my ukulele out and the neighbors call the, you know, animal control or whatever Somebody in our neighborhood needs to call animal control. But anyway, the fire is like just social for us, but for this writing, fire was a necessity Fire was needed and if that wick started to die out, man, there might not be a way to get that going again. And so the picture here is tenderness. This wick is is smoldering. So you cup it and you make sure the wind doesn't get to it and you protect it and You you blow on it lightly so that it it has a chance to fan into flame again. That's the picture of the tender one. That's the tender heart of Christ. Bruised reed he wouldn't break off and a smoldering wick he wouldn't snuff out. And that's the heart of those in Christ's church. How do we get the tender heart? You get a tender heart. From realizing that you're nothing without Christ. And it's deep within this sense of a holy God that cannot trifle with sin. And the depth of our sin goes far beyond what we can even possibly imagine. And then you come to understand that the good news of the gospel is marvelously good news. It's amazingly good news. It's Too good almost to be true that God Himself would suffer in your place, that He would bear your sins in His body on the tree, that He would offer Himself as a substitute. And there's something that as at work deep within our hearts as we sense our need for forgiveness, and we receive by faith a forgiveness full and free, and we're clothed with his righteousness, acceptable and pleasing to God now. And from that a tender heart is produced. I'm not going to belabor that because the next point does belabor that. The fifth command is a humble mind. Humility is one of the foundational virtues of our faith. Humility precedes salvation, because unless you humble yourself before God, admitting that you are unable and unfit to come to Him Unable to do anything about the righteous requirement of God's holy law, you don't get saved unless you humble yourself. So humility is the foundation. It's the that which Isaiah 66,2 tells us draws God's attention. The prophet Isaiah says, whoever is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at his word, God looks on him. That's the attention of God drawn to them. This is what James talks about in his letter. God opposes the proud. He actively resists the proud heart, but he gives grace to the humble. You see how it all works out because Jesus was humble and lowly of spirit. He was contrite of heart, not that he had ever committed any sin, but he willingly submitted himself to the Father. And he gives us that. This is the humble mind. I wonder if today you, within the sound of my voice Have you humbled yourself before the truth of God's word? Have you come to that place where you're no longer resistant Or resisting what is very clear, and that is, as a part of Adam's race You fell from God's grace. And you need a Savior. And Jesus Christ is offered freely in the gospel for you, sinner. But it takes humility. You have to admit, confess, agree with God. You're right, God. I am a sinner, and I justly deserve your punishment. But please have mercy on me. There's actually one word here being used. It's humble-minded. It's a it's a compact uh word. It's filled with stuff. But it is also informed by God's word. You want to know how to have a humble mind? Immerse yourself in good theology. I'm not kidding. Can you imagine remaining proud and arrogant at the doctrine of election? It's not possible. It's not possible to remain proud and arrogant at the doctrine of election. I make my case this way, very simply put. If I am dead in my transgressions and sins, according to the scriptures I am, and there is nothing I can do to save myself, according to the scriptures there is not. And God, in his rich mercy, has chosen And makes me aware and draws me to himself and equips me by his grace and assures me by his spirit and plants me in the place where I can serve and see those fruits. Then there is no place for pride. There's no place for arrogance in that. The humble minded disciple As he considers himself, doesn't think highly of himself. The humble-minded disciple, as he considers others, doesn't think lowly of them. You view everybody, whether they're on the other side of the picket line or on the other side of the aisle or vehemently spitting in your face when you try to proclaim the gospel. They are a individual created in the image of the living God. They have the Imago Day and and they They actually do deserve dignity because of that place. And they will face a judge, a judge who is holy and righteous, and his wrath is never-ending. And submitting for their consideration and for the Holy Spirit to use, you lay the truth before them. You know, we we don't, a humble-minded disciple is realistic and compassionate when they view sinners. A humble-minded disciple is one who evangelizes with confidence, secure in the knowledge of a sovereign God who will never ever lose any of them that the Father has given to Christ. A humble-minded disciple is one who performs ministry tasks, realizing that only the Holy Spirit can change the human heart. Yeah, creativity has its place. Yeah, excellence and the pursuit of excellence has its place, but we don't hope in those things. A humble-minded disciple with good theology, informing their every waking decision, is one who is open to God 's work. is one who's open to receive correction and to put that correction in practice. A humble-minded disciple is one who is inclined to serve others Because they realize that the place that they have been given at the table of the king is a place that was purchased for them by the blood of another. Right? So we have those five commands. They're in the positive. And the sixth command is in the negative. We've heard this before. Wow, Peter, he just keeps hammering this. Do not repay evil for evil, nor reviling for reviling, but rather bless. Peter, what? Come on. He knows the human heart. Peter's the one remember? Sword, Malchus. Servant, ear, now either Peter was Zoro extraordinaire, or he was going for something bigger than the ear. Right? Peter was not trying to make a point. I'm gonna I'll lop his ear off and we'll see what we can do. I think Peter, in a moment of reviling against those who reviled, defense of the Lord, he just started flailing. And the guy lost his ear. And you know what Jesus did? You dude, right? He picks up the ear. Right? That's why we kept the kids in here. For these kind of illustrations. And he restores it to the guy's head. And then that guy probably put Jesus in ropes and dragged him away to be beaten. Do we even contemplate this when we are reviled? There's two words being used here. Peter says the evil is like this evil kind of badness. It's just the when you got badness coming your way, do you respond with the same kind of badness? Are you going to get them 'cause they get you? And then the reviling is a little bit more specific. It's evil, but it's a slanderous word. It's a it's a it's an insult, it's a cursing. It's like when words come reaming out of somebody's mouth and they're intended for you And even if you duck, they roll around behind you like a boomerang and smack you on the back of the head. It's that kind of setting that Peter says, listen. If we're the church of Jesus Christ, if we reflect him, if we are the body of Christ, then we don't repay evil for evil. Actually it's in the present active participial kind of thing here, and he says it's kind of it could be taken, stop returning evil for evil. Stop doing it if you're doing it. Are you doing it? You should stop. Because it doesn't reflect Christ. There's two ways to look at this. I mean we're we're kind of, you know Please hear this. I'm in the front seat with you as somebody else is up here preaching because this is our hearts are eye for an eye hearts. The vicarious vengeance that we enjoy in literature and movies reflect that we're eye-for-an eye kind of people. There's a sense in which that reflects God's justice. We were just watching Nicholas Nickleby last night, the m the 2002 version. We weren't reading the Dickens novel. It's too long according to one of our best readers in the house. We're watching Nicholas Nickleby, and I tell you, every time we've seen that film, I long for the moment when Nickleby grabs the s the rod out of uh um Squeers, what's Squeers' first name? Oh man. Wackford Squeers, the cruel private educational headmaster and Nickleby grabs that thing and he starts beat down There's something in this heart that wants to beat down somebody who reviles. Uh so I get that. I think Peter gets that. Peter remembers sword and Malchus ear and stuff. So we get that. I think we have to get it. We have to embrace it before we can actually see how God brings us and delivers us from it. Don't say, well, that's not me. I'd never do that. Don't do that. Because there's the actual there's the actual retaliation Most of us could probably say, I don't do that. I just I don't smack somebody out in the face. I was the guy this week and he said, you know, sometimes I just want to reach across and punch him. I said, okay, man, I get it. And I moved a little bit further back. But there's the virtual Retaliation as well. I think that's what we need to be aware of, even more maybe so, because our hearts are prone to this. Jesus knew that in the Sermon on the Mount. That's what he's teaching. He's taking the external and he's saying it's not just about the outside. In fact, the outside only reflects the inside. So when you've got a guy who does stand, you know, one of the qualities of uh the elder in Timothy is not pugnacious, that means He doesn't stand up with his fist ready to punch you. There's something about that quality that we enjoy in our leadership in the church. Should, anyway The virtual is harder to spot, but just as destructive. This is where most of our hearts, I think. Um go. So let me move quickly. I'm sorry. Peter says, rather On the contrary, bless. What? I can see just leaving the guy alone, Peter. I'll just turn and walk away. I'll let him be destructive and whatever. What are we being called to? On the contrary, Peter says, don't revile when reviled, don't pay evil back for evil, but bless. The word used here is where we get the word eulogy. You might be familiar with that when there's a funeral that takes place and somebody stands to give the good word about the dearly departed. The eulogy, the good word. You ever think about the idea of that? Even if the body of the most irascible, petulant, cantankerous grouch is laying in the coffin, No one would ever dream of standing up at that funeral and bad-mouthing the dearly departed. I'm going to say something that I am convicted of. Why do we wait for the time when that person can't benefit from the blessing to say the good word? I don't know. Other than we don't want this to be verses on us Peter says the good word. Bless, bless instead. I can't do it. In Sermon on the Mount, Jesus spoke about eye-for-eye reactions. Remember? It's like you always teach us in Sunday school, but you never hear it in the men's momentum ministry. Not that our men's momentum ministry is bad. You're just always here for little kids You've heard it said, eye for an eye, Jesus said, and tooth for tooth. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other cheek as well And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles as well. Give to the one who begs from you. Do not refuse the one who would borrow from you See, what Jesus was laying out there is this is what God has done for us. Right? We were at enmity with God. We were enemies of God. Rebellious. We didn't want anything to do with him. We kept slapping away. And God, who is rich in mercy, has made us alive together with Christ. Let me see if I can do this real quickly. Take a look at these commands. Three ways to look at them. From a negative perspective, from the requirements perspective, and from the gospel perspective. In the negative See the beauty of God again presented in these commands. Listen to what the church could be without Christ. Which is kind of a silly thing to say, but just listen for a moment. The church would be filled with discord and strife, not unity of mind. The church would be full of self-centered people, not sympathetic to one another. The church would be apathetic to the needs and the concerns of others, not filled with brotherly love and action. The church would have a callous heart with no possibility of seeing the needs. of others, not a tender one. The church would be filled with prideful arrogance which never recognizes a need for salvation in Christ alone. You see, who wants that? So in the negative, you see how God's commands are the way to go, right? And then look at it from the requirements perspective. See the commands again from the perspective of what's required of you and me. It's impossible. I don't know if you're hard tracks with mine and some of these things, but I don't want To love. I don't have a tender heart naturally. It's really rough and bolstro uh boy boisterous and everything about this Does not look like a resume that comes by nat by nature from Tim. And so if you look at it from a requirements perspective and you feel the weight of the law, You're ready for the third way to look at it, and that's from the gospel perspective. See the commands from the gospel perspective. Christ has fulfilled all the requirements of God's holy law. He's fulfilled that and he offers his record of righteousness to all who believe. He offers his substitutionary death as a payment for our violation of God's law, and then he enables all of the people that he is delivering from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of his marvelous light, according to first Peter two. So that you and me, ordinary men and women, might proclaim the excellencies of Him. That's our purpose. That's what the church is supposed to look like. Amen? Let me pray for us. God, please help us. Um help me, Lord, help these here with me. Um it's Lord Jesus, you're so Not like us. And we acknowledge that and we marvel at that. We praise you for the fact that you are the most beautiful You're the most beautiful. And then you want us to reflect your beauty. Lord, I pray that the Columbia Presbyterian Church in the coming weeks and months and years would be a church that is not uh known uh the people don't say they what does your church look like and they say it's got these bricks and that silver wording on the front. What does your church look like? We got this many activities and this many ethnic diversities. What does your church look like? Lord, please make our church have a unity of mind Sympathy, brotherly love, tender heart, and a humble. Make us like you, Lord Jesus. We praise you, we worship you, in Christ we pray. Amen.