He lives. And Paul says, as we just read in First Corinthians chapter fifteen, in verse fourteen , if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless. So is your faith. Verse 17: If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. You're still in your sins. Verse 20. But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. We as Americans in the 90s suffer from two maladies that rob us of much joy. First of all, we are pragmatists, and secondly, we are very feeling-oriented. Translated, that means we tend to judge truth by what works and how we feel. Therefore, um if if Job had followed that, he'd have given up by the sixth chapter. When you and I have situations where it seems like our experience and our circumstances utterly contradict The promises of the Bible concerning peace and joy and victory, and ask what you will, and it will be given to you then you and I find that those conflicts are hard to resolve. I do. I have this many times in my life, don't you? Where If the Bible's true, how come my life is like this? How come the circumstances, my feelings, uh the prayers that I'm asking God to answer, how come these things are the way they are? Doesn't seem to make sense. And it's at those times that I find I need to go back to the basics. Back to re-examining the basic of Christianity and recognize that Christianity is not proven or disproven by whether the prayers that I've asked for the last month have been answered the way I think they should be, but rather to go back to the ultimate test Did Jesus rise from the dead? That really is the ultimate question, isn't it, for Christianity So what I'd like to do this morning is to suggest for your encouragement of your faith, I would like to take a look At the historic resurrection of Christ, and by that I mean that if Jesus, when Jesus rose from the dead, if you had been there with video equipment, you could have taken a picture of it. That That fact of his historic resurrection establishes five things And I would like for us to look at those five things for your faith and for my faith in order to be encouraged. As we live in a world that often seems like it contradicts biblical reality. Now, other years I have talked about the evidence for the resurrection. So What I'm going to do is after the service, if there's anyone who wants to discuss this, wants to ask questions about this, I will be for a while back in the kitchen, that area right back there. So that we can talk about that. But what I want to do right now is for us to look at five things that are the implications of the resurrection. Five things the resurrection establishes. First point. The resurrection establishes that the God of the Bible is the true God. The God of the Bible is the true God. Paul says, again, if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. Why? Because Jesus proclaimed that when you look at the base the one of the most basic questions of your life, which is, is there a God? And what is he like? And can we know him? Jesus gave a very clear answer to that. He said, Yes, the God who is the true living God who made you and all things is the God of the Bible. He's the God of this book. He said again and again that this was the true and living God. He said to Satan when he was tempted, The Lord your God of Deuteronomy is the only one you should worship, and it's him that you serve. He said on the Sermon on the Mount, not one jotter tittle of the Old Testament can pass away. The whole earth could pass away rather than one jotter tittle of the Old Testament pass away. He said to the centurion, whose servant he healed, The kingdom of heaven is going to be made up of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all those who will be brought to sit down with him. as the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who is the true God. And so Jesus proclaimed very clearly That this God who gave the Old Testament, revealed Himself to Israel, is the true God. But then he offered a test. He said, This God is going to raise me from the dead. He said that I am going to suffer according to Old Testament prophecy and die. at the hands of the Sanhedrin, according to Old Testament prophecy. And I will be raised again on the third day. Now, if he is not speaking of the true God, God's not going to vindicate that. He offers that as something that can be seen, something that will settle the issue. And so I offer that Jesus' resurrection proves that this God is the true God. And Jesus, Paul says, if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. Tom Brokoff on Friday evening was talking about the tornadoes who had swept the south NB World News, NBC World News Tonight. They spent three or four minutes talking about this one congregation. It was a black preacher down there that on Wednesday was doing his usual rounds of visitation It said that he heard God speak to him. God told him to cancel the Wednesday evening prayer and pray service, the prayer meeting. And so uh there was no evidence of tornadoes at that point, but he was so compelled by that he called all the people in his congregation who would be coming to that meeting and told them that the meeting this evening is canceled, stay home. And they did And the camera is interviewing the pastor there in front of what used to be the church and now is only splinters. If they had been at that service, everybody would have been killed. One of the nervers neighbors said when the tornado passed by, I literally heard the building explode with the pressure Now you can say, that's pretty good evidence that that guy's talking about the true God. I mean, here's this guy said that God revealed this to him, and that's exactly what happened. You can weigh that evidence. and give it whatever weight you want. But what is that evidence compared to one who says, This is my God, the God who has revealed himself in this book, and when I die three days later, he's going to raise me up back to life. And that's exactly what happened. And so that shows us that Jesus is revealing the true living God. Second point, more than that. It establishes that Jesus is God, the Son. Not only does he reveal God, he is God God who is the Son. The second basic question in your life and mine, not only is there a God, can He be known, how do you know Him? What's He like? But how is Jesus related to God? Uh how is Jesus' relationship to God important to me? Is it important? Well It is since Jesus claimed to be God, and he did that again and again. Make no mistake about it. He didn't sort of claim deity, he claimed to be God When he asked the disciples in Matthew 16, Who do you say that I am? And Peter said, You are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. Jesus didn't say, well, you know, I'm special, but I wouldn't go that far and you know I uh shy back from that. He says, No. This wasn't revealed to you by man. My father revealed. That's exactly right, Peter. You've got it. I am the Son of God. In John chapter 5, Jesus said, You should honor me just like you honor the Father. If he isn't God, that's utter blasphemy to want to be worshipped and honored just like the Father. In John chapter 8, he said, Before Abraham was born, I am, using the most sacred name for God. In John chapter 14, he says to Philip, If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Jesus is claiming to be God. And so that's either true or false. It's not sorta true. It's not, you know, kind of like, well, you know, in a sense, either it is or it isn't You've only got two possibilities. Either it's false, and that means that Jesus is either deranged or a blasphemer, or it's true. If it's false, then option one is that he is deranged. That is, he was of good intentions, but he was a little out of touch. Now I don't know about you, but I talk to people who claim to be God. Have you ever done that? And I'll tell you something about the people that I've talked to who claim to be God I wasn't tempted very long to believe them. In fact, as the conversation progressed, I found that there were a number of things that they said that I would question. They weren't very credible. They weren't the kind of people whose sayings you would be tempted to write down and quote for a couple of thousand years, you know Their insights on human living and relationships were very profound. Now Jesus claims to be God, but the things that he says Are generally recognized as among the wisest sayings anyone has ever uttered, and even those who give no credence to his deity will quote him as being a man of utter wisdom. The two don't fit. Someone who's deranged doesn't have that kind of capacity. The other possibility is that he's a blasphemer He's with it, he understands, but he's very shrewd, and he's making these claims so that he can gain power and control The problem with that is it doesn't fit the facts either. Because, as Ken just led us, the beginning of worship reminded us that when Jesus came in to Palm Sunday, everyone was cheering and applauding. They wanted at that point to grant to him the authority of king. They would have made him king. And Jesus refused that He did not want earthly power. In fact, a few days later, he gets himself crucified as the enemy of the people. It doesn't fit for someone to claim to be deity for power and then utterly refuse the power that flows from it. The only alternative then is that it's true. He's neither deranged nor a shrewd blasphemer, but that what he says, if it's true, means That we should bow down and worship him as Lord and God of our lives. It means that he is uniquely eligible to die for your sins. As God's innocent sacrifice provided for you. It means that He is uniquely eligible to rule Your life, uniquely exalted to that position of rule of your life as Lord. There is nothing in between. Which is he? Harry Houdini claimed supernatural power. And he said, My ultimate demonstration of my power will be that after I die, I will come back. But you can still find Harry Houdini's bones. He did not come back. Father Divine claimed to be divine. He claimed that when he would die, he would demonstrate that by coming back from the dead. But you can still visit Father Divine's grave, and he's still there. His bones are there Jesus said, I am the God, the Son of God. If you've seen the Father, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Before Abraham was born, I am. You should honor me just as you honor the Father. And when I die, three days later, I will rise. The fact that Jesus in fact did rise demonstrates that his claims are true. He is in fact God. He has in fact risen from the dead. Paul says in Romans chapter 1 In verse 3, regarding his son, who as to his human nature was a descendant of David, and who through the Spirit of Holiness was declared with power to be the Son of God. Declared how? By the His resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord. His resurrection declared him to be the Son of God. It validated his claims. If Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. But he did rise. And therefore we know that he is Lord and God. Third point. The resurrection establishes That you and I, who belong to Jesus, are acquitted from all blame. We are acquitted from all blame Jesus claimed that he would give his life not as a martyr, not as an example of love. But rather as a ransom from sin. Matthew 20, verse 28, for example. And so Jesus is crucified on that Friday. And his body is laid in the tomb. And Friday night passes. Saturday morning, and Saturday afternoon, and Saturday evening. And the burning question is: did Jesus die simply as a sinner? Or has he died as a substitute for sin? The only way you'll know is whether his claim is made true So Sunday morning comes. And the women come to the tomb. And they come seeking Jesus' body. And the angel says, He's not here, but he's risen. And in stating that, and as that is verified by his appearances, they come to recognize that while the cross demonstrated his atonement made The empty tomb demonstrates his atonement accepted. It means that God accepted his sacrifice for sin. And because of that, that means that you can have a new record this morning. That when you look at your life and all of its failures, you look at all the things that you try to do that are right. You try so earnestly to live the way you think you ought to live. And every day you recognize how short you fall if you're really honest with your intentions and your conscience And you inner motivations. But you see, the resurrection means that Jesus offers to you a new record. Romans chapter 1 speaks of the implications of the resurrection on his person. In Romans chapter 4, Paul talks of the implications of the resurrection on Jesus' work. Last verse of Romans chapter 4. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Justification means acquittal. Being declared innocent. If you see that this morning, because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ You can have his record of living. That means that when God looks at your life, rather than measuring and looking at how you lived year after year, week after week and looking and saying, Well you did okay here, but that wasn't too good, and no your intention. and your motives there and you know that you ought to be ashamed of that and you and I look at all that and we are utterly ashamed and undone. Then God looks and he says, but here's how my son lived and we said, oh yeah Lord I look at how Jesus lived and it just I can't even begin to aspire to it. God says, how would you like for me to give you the credit for how Jesus lived, just as if you had lived that life You see, that's what the resurrection does. He was raised again for our justification. To demonstrate that his substitutionary death on our behalf was accepted by God. And therefore, rather than have your own record before God, you can have Jesus' record of living. It can be credited to you just as if you had lived exactly like Jesus in all your thoughts, intentions, motives, and actions. That's what the resurrection means. Because Jesus rose from the dead. Fourth point. The resurrection establishes that we are no longer under the bondage of sin. Not only do we not have the guilt of our sin Sin no longer has the power to keep us enslaved in those habits, even that could have been passed down through us generation after generation. Romans one, the resurrection's implications on Jesus person , uh Romans four The implications of the resurrection on Jesus' work in terms of our justification, but in Romans chapter six, Paul talks about the implications of the resurrection in terms of our being able to live in new power. In Romans chapter six, Paul points out That if you died with Jesus, if you were joined to him by faith in his death on the cross, recognizing that you need to have a new record that only he can supply that will be acceptable to God. That you not only have that record, but now in your daily living, you are able to come out under the bondage of that sin because you have been raised with him in new power, new life. Therefore, sin no longer has jurisdiction over you. How do I understand that? I think of it sometimes in terms of a fort. If you have a fort , over every fort flies a flag that shows who's in control of that fort. Under whose authority is that fort existing? And you and I as sports had the flag of ourselves and of Satan flying over. That's the jurisdiction under which we live. We thought it was ourselves, but ultimately it was under Satan's power. When Jesus Christ rose from the dead, if you come to faith by faith to Jesus Christ, his flag now flies over the fort of your life. Doesn't mean you don't continue to sin. It doesn't mean that you don't take a couple steps forward and a step or two back. It doesn't mean that you don't continue to have to confess your need for Jesus record day after day. What it does mean is that no particular sin is inevitable to you. There is the ability to claim his resurrection power So that in those life-dominating, enslaving habits, those things that you are utterly aware, I cannot break free from this. The resurrection power of Jesus Christ is able by faith to free you from that sin. You can be free from it. You can experience that power daily. Because Jesus has risen from the dead as the first fruits of those who slept, you and I joined with him, are joined with him in that new life. The sin and the law cannot condemn you or enslave you. And therefore, as Romans 6 tells us If we have been united with him like this in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be done away with, and that we should no longer be slaves to sin Because anyone who has died has been free from sin. Because you have died with Jesus and risen with him You have a new power in you to put off sin and to put on the nature of Christ. That's why we're going through Ephesians, see? And next week, for those of you who come back the week after Easter We'll be going through again Ephesians chapter 4 to see what it means to put off in specific ways those sins that once controlled us and to put on by faith the new nature of Jesus Christ in his life. Finally, point number five. The resurrection establishes that death is no longer the final enemy. The resurrection establishes that death is no longer the final enemy. If Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. Verse 17, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. And then those who have fallen asleep in Jesus Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. While there are many benefits of Christianity, we frankly acknowledge we live much of it by hope. We live by hope. Our joy is in our hope so often. It's the hope of what lies ahead for us. Why is it that you don't indulge in those lusts That so want to dominate your thinking and activity. Because John says in 1 John 3 that he who has this hope in him purifies himself. Why is it that you're willing to undergo mistreatment, misunderstanding, and even persecution because you're a Christian and stand for the Lord Jesus? 1 Peter tells you in chapter 1, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. His great mercy, he's given to us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. You see, hope through the resurrection Into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. You get that Sure, things aren't going the way that you would hope they go. There are difficulties, there's confusion, there's things that don't make sense But Peter says, in the midst of all of this, you have a hope through the resurrection. That hope is that death isn't the final word. That hope is that beyond that, when Jesus comes again, he'll usher you and me into a hope that can never perish, spoiler faith that's reserved for us, kept in heaven. Boy, I'll tell you, those verses are worth memorizing First Peter chapter one verses three to six because that sums up the hope that you and I have because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ So Paul, after he has said, If we in fact have hope only in this life, we are more to be pitied more than all men, says, but Christ has indeed been raised from the dead. The first fruits are those who've fallen asleep. Therefore, you and I have a sure hope of eternal life because of Jesus. In 1996, two reporters from the BBC decided to do a special story for Easter for the London Sunday Times. And so they went to the Holy Land and scouted around to find evidence that the resurrection in fact had never occurred. And they thought they'd take a new lead. They visited the ossuaries, those are bone boxes, bone collections. And lo and behold, they found in Jerusalem this box of bones And there were labels a large box in which were contained a number of other boxes. And they found in these in this box a series, a set of bones, a number of boxes, and one of them was Jesus, son of Joseph, and another one was Mary. And uh then there were a few others that were in there also. Joseph was in there. And they said, see, we found it. Here's the bones of Jesus. And we can finally put to rest the controversy of two thousand years about whether this one who claimed to be the Messiah rose again Well, that wa evidence was so overwhelming that even the Jewish archaeologists in the area laughed at it and said, that really don't prove anything It doesn't tell you anything what they found. Except this. By their search they highlighted something that's often overlooked in the resurrection. And that is the Jewish burial took place in two stages. Did you ever wonder when you read about Jesus being buried in the tomb? And think, boy, one whole cave just for Jesus? You know, I mean, all these people dying, and they all have their own caves. I mean, I know Joseph was rich, but You know, how many tombs could there be carved into caves and all these bodies laying in caves all through these cliffs up and down Palestine, you know? What you're not told is those caves were recycled. They recycled the tombs. The Jewish family after the body was laid on the ledge of that tomb for after a year, year and a half, two years, when the flesh had all rotted away, decayed, decomposed They would go back into the tomb and they would take the bones of the person and they would put them in a little box, two feet by one foot by one foot, and that's what they would then keep And the tomb would just get more bodies put in it over and over. Therefore, any body that had been buried would eventually come back to it in order to recover the bones to put them in the box Now what does this mean for Jesus? Not only was there obviously no bones for them to go back and find, because if there had, Christianity would have never gotten off the ground. It was all based on the fact that there was no body. There were no bones. But we know that they would have gone back very soon into that tomb to search that out And the only alternative that people have ever proposed to the fact that he really did rise And that there was nothing there is that somebody stole the body. Of all the different theories, that's the only one that's really persisted. But of course that holds no weight when you consider the motive of why somebody would give their life for a lie and all the rest of that So the fact is that Jesus had walked out of the tomb, that the Jews understood that he had gone out of that tomb And that that has established, for once and for all, that the God that Jesus proclaimed is the true and living God That Jesus Himself is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, Messiah, Savior of the world. That because of that, you and I, because of this Resurrection, know that his his sacrifice was accepted. Did you have a new record, Jesus record for living? Did you have his resurrection power day by day, week by week, in overcoming sin, putting off that old nature, putting on the new nature of Christ by faith And that death is not the last word. That you know that because he has been raised from the dead, he's the first fruits of those who will follow him into eternal glory, because he lives forever. And calls us to live with him. Now, brothers and sisters, I had just one last thing to say. This week, when I was driving home one day, I turned on the radio And it was set to 98 Rock. Now I don't usually listen to 98 Rock, but occasionally I'll, you know, channel surf through the radio to see what's on. And I happened to pick up this guy saying, the DJ, saying, Sean, get ready, Sean, because you're the 98th caller. And Sean had just won two tickets to the front row seat of the Metallica concert. And Sean went berserk Sean absolutely lost it. Sean started praying, oh my god, oh my god, oh my god, ah he started screaming like a lunatic on the radio I mean I was kind of getting caught up in the and what has this guy got? He's got a couple of hours to hear Metallica blast his eardrums out And you and I know the true and living God because Jesus has validated his claims Jesus is who he said he is, and we know that because he walked out of the tomb. And because of that, you and I have his record before God in our living, and our consciences have been cleared. And we have a new power in living because Jesus' Spirit is in us. And we have a hope of eternal life because Jesus has conquered death forever. And so how excited do we get? Can we say together, hallelujah, I believe he's risen. Let's say that, as if we're rejoicing in the truth together. Hallelujah. I believe he's risen. Hallelujah. I believe he's risen one more time. Hallelujah. I believe he's risen. Let's pray together. Oh O Lord deliver us From the fuzziness of thinking that looks at your resurrection and says, Well, it's nice to know that somehow God conquered, and that death doesn't have the last word. Without really thinking through, Lord, all that flows from that. What was established in truth Because you walked out of that tomb. Oh Lord, we pray for anyone here who is not sure of that. And who is only that vague sense of a relationship with you? He was not established And Jesus' sacrifice, Savior, and Lord, there are lives, the power that you can live, give for living a new life. But a conscience is free from the guilt and the penalty of sin, and the hope that there is that when we die we shall be with you in a new heaven and a new earth because Jesus has risen from the dead. Lord, give to us the kind of certainty that transcends the circumstances that cause us in our emotions to go up and down. Lord, we pray, give to us that faith that rests in the resurrection and finds our joy and our peace in that certain fact. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.