So it indeed is a very special joy and privilege that I have among my wife Robin and my two sons today to be here in the worship of God with you. And we do want to take advantage of this opportunity, first of all, to thank the for you publicly and to thank you for your support, your interest, your prayers, uh in every sense and to really praise the Lord that He has blessed in these things. Thank you so very much. We often think of the Columbian Church when we're over there in Paris and uh gives us a lot of joy just to remember you. We've had some visitors from this church come through, Leslie Hunter came through, and you're always welcome to come to Paris with us there. Um I invite you this Now to turn in the Word of God to First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians chapter one I'm going to begin reading uh in verse seventeen and uh I'm reading from a New International Version. For Christ did not say me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with words of human wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be empty of its power. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, the intelligence of the intelligent, I will celebrate. Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not leave. God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believed. Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles. But for those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. The weakness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength. Brothers, think of what you were when you were called. Not many were of noble birth. But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to save the wheel. to shame the strong. He chose the lowly things of this world, and the despised things, and the things that are not, to loopy the things that are, so that no one may boast before him. It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Therefore as it is written, let him who boast, boast in the Lord. Thus part of the reading of God's holy word. Just as thou in prayer, our Heavenly Father, we do want to acknowledge again before your presence. That this is your inerrant holy word. This miraculous book speaks to us by your Holy Spirit and your grace. And we pray, O Heavenly Father, that you would apply these things to our hearts, open our hearts to hear you and to obey you. In Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. I really like this worship room and uh nice and cozy in here. I want you to go in your mind's eye to the great cathedral of Notre Dame de Paris. Some of you have been there, I'm sure. And of course you can picture the great stained glass windows and the high rose um windows. And go there with me on uh a Sunday morning in seventeen ninety four. just five years after the Great French Revolution, to a Sunday morning worship. And if you were to come into the cathedral on that historic day in November, you would uh think that you were in the normal high mass of the medieval Catholic Church. There would be crowds of people, there would be processions going down the aisle, there would be choirs singing, and there would be orations being given from the pulpits, and of course the side chapels would be filled with activity as well. As you would come in there, you might think, well, this is uh the worship of God. But if you had listened more carefully on that Sunday morning to what was being said, you would have been horrified. Because on that day, they One of the young, beautiful wives of the new elite of the French Revolution, and they decorated her up as the goddess of reason. And she was all decked out, you know, with a train. and handmaidens and so forth, and very symbolically they worshiped human reason and rededicated that great historic church of the Middle Ages to the worship of reason. And uh the the crowd says and now pure Worship has arrived, Tamanifism is gone, and they worship and rededicated Notre Dame de Paris to the worship of reason. The cute de la raison, as they say. You can read about that in many of the different accounts of the French. Revolution. It shocks us, doesn't it? That is the basis of the revolution in France, the worship of human reason. And as we look at our text, we find that this is what men want to do. They want to deal with God in terms of human reason rather than in terms of the way he has dealt with us. Modern France or modern America is a land where humans Wisdom is worship and modern science and all the accomplishments of men. But uh what a contrast to the way God has dealt with men. Given reason reason is vain. egocentric and it is based upon ourselves rather than upon God. But even the wisdom of God is the wisdom of men is foolishness in the eyes of God. Where is the wise man, the scholar, the philosopher of this age? God has made foolish the wisdom of the world. But you know, human wisdom is very subtle. We all are are educated in this kind of wisdom that uh being Denied the Lord as the sinner. I remember standing in a doctor's office, and there was this big diploma. You know how doctors are, they have to have all the diplomas out. And there was a little picture on the bottom of this big diploma. of a pile of books, like a pyramid. And the bottom book of all things was grammar. And then came logic. And then the third book was something like philosophy. And then history. And then in there was medicine somewhere. And at the very top of this pyramid of books was theology. And I looked at that and I said, Now that I like that, I like that. You know, I have studied theology. I'd like to be on the top of the pile. That's nice. And uh as I thought of that then I said, No, wait a minute, something is desperately wrong. Theology is not just the top of the pile of human wisdom. Actually the bottom book should have been the Bible. Because all of our wisdom and all of our knowledge of the universe and all of our exercise of human reason means the flow out of this world view that God gives us, this um whole uh revelation of what it's all about that God gives us in his holy word. We know the Bible is not a science book, but it gives us the basis to do science. And um this is the the foolishness of man building upon his own foundations. And it's a disastrous thing. Modern France, after having suffered through 300 years of persecution and times of the Reformation uh became a country of the um the Enlightenment and human rationalism. And today modern France is built upon that and it's crumbling. A country of fifty four Million people. Less than one percent of France is evangelical or Bible believing. Now, according to the mystiologist, France would be an unreached people. In fact, it would be an initially reached people because it turned a mystiologist. Theologists, if if less than one percent of a country uh is Christian, then it's not really even a uh an unreached people, it's an initially reached people as they call. Now of course there is a Catholic Church and uh there are people pockets of people in the Catholic Church who are believers, I'm sure, but in general the modern Frenchman does not believe in God, does not go to church, and is very much in ignorance. And that's where God has called us to work. And that's where God has called us all to be involved. as we are involved with missions around the world. It's uh striking as you see the results of this rationalism in the human mind. Because what happens is that people get burnt out. I've had French people tell me, don't give me a book I don't read anymore. Because they honestly believe that there are no answers. And actually, this is the natural result of trusting in your own wisdom. Because if you try to figure things out, dressed in your own wisdom, you will get burnt out. And you come to the point eventually where you think there are no answers, why bother? Just live. And uh it becomes a sort of despair. A despair that leads to just seeking drills in life, whether it be drugs or being a workaholic or whatever. And that's what modern transits today, by far. It's a country where people don't believe they're really in. Their philosophy no longer uh gives them any confidence, and of course it is a land of great philosophers, and uh they are now going into what you call irrationalism. Uh in one of the great magazines of Franz L'Esprex. There was an article a about a year and a half ago called France How Have You Changed? And one of the things they pointed out in that article is that in the last ten years the French have really given up on logic and philosophy and now the cry is no longer persuade me but the cry is seduced me. Turn me on. If I get turned on I'll be interested. Well how do you do evangelism in a country like that? Where people no longer believe in their own in in the interests of philosophy or reasons, but they have really gone into a great despair. Uh we got a letter from one of the missionaries saying that last uh well a few weeks ago they had two suicide attempts on their hands and that this is science that It's a land of suicide and depression and when you hit the country you feel it. Well I'm telling you about France because you've prayed for us. And because um uh this is our concern this morning as we look at these verses. But of course very much like America, isn't it? A land where people have confidence in themselves and have rejected God. And of course there are many temptations to a missionary in that situation. Because uh we want people to uh to believe the gospel and so you're tempted you see to think that maybe our el eloquence or our wisdom or our good looks or something might persuade people to believe in Jesus, but that doesn't work. The only thing that really works is the Way God has dealt with men through the cross of Jesus Christ and through his powerful word. God has dealt with men in terms of His word. You know, uh one of the things that you see in this text is that. But um the cross uh becomes foolishness or a stumbling block. And uh a stumbling block to the Jews, and that would indeed kind of sound like uh something that's maniacal. that's really stupid, something that just doesn't make sense. How could it be that God would come into the world and die? And the the message of the cross just doesn't fit into the categories that men allow. And it just uh is uh absurd at first, but in fact it is the most wonderfully genius thing that God did for us. Uh the other word foolishness to the Gentiles sounds like our English word scandalous. Scandal on it is scandal. Scandal and you know that a scandal is not just uh some hanky panky that you read about in uh you know the newspapers. Scandal is something immoral, something that is unsupportable, something that must uh be dealt with. And in the history of France and Actually, in the history of the world, it is a scandal of the belief in the cross. People died for their faith in Jesus Christ. People were were labeled immoral because they believed in the message of the cross. And in the history of France, if you read about the Hebrew. the Protestants of the sixteenth and seventeenth century, your heart breaks as you realize that the government would say, Okay, all you Protestant marriages, they're no. They're all living in sin. And all your kids, they can't stay with you, you're not married. put them in a Catholic home where they get educated properly. And of course families were torn apart, pastors were murdered, and um churches were burnt down, and just uh over a million Protestants fled France over a period of uh three hundred hundred years. There's a um in the midst of this uh history there is a um writer in France today, Monsieur Petit, who was a member of the National Assembly and who is uh a man of letters, he wrote a book called The French Sickness. And in this book he uh discusses this identity crisis that that's going on in France today, as they have lost confidence in their philosophy, they've lost confidence in their history, uh they've been hurt in terms of their empire and their language, they have lost confidence in their Frank and many other things. And he says that uh part of the problem in France today is that the gospel was rejected back in the sixteenth century. And he says that if the Protestants had been allowed to flourish in France in those days, if the Bible believing Christians had been allowed, if Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre had not taken place when uh thirty thousand Protestants were killed in the Parents in one day. He says that um the result would have been that the Constitution of the United States of America today would be in French. A very interesting argument how the Reformation was pushed out of France And rejected it and went up into Scotland and England and Holland and came to America in in other ways and in a different language. But if the Protestants had flourished in France, we would perhaps be speaking French. Who knows? Interesting idea. But this is the kind of idea. identity crisis that is going on in France as men have rejected the truth of God. But God is dealing with men in terms of the gospel, in terms of the cross. And that's why we are there. We are there to announce and to declare and to proclaim and to live the gospel of Jesus Christ among these people. Uh where uh it is considered to be such a a great foolishness. Um you know, we live in Paris where there are twelve million people. That's a lot of people by the way. And uh we are working in a little reformed evangelical church of thirty one members, maybe thirty two. And when we meet it's in a room a little bit smaller than this About fifty people come and we're growing and we're excited and we're moving ahead. And we're healing uh there as we announce and proclaim the gospel. And God is bearing fruit, you know, even in this rationalistic, sophisticated, subtle kind of creation. culture, the Bible speaks into the heart of man and regenerates them. We are regenerated by the Word of God, the Bible says. And there are examples of this, I think of Zaya, who came to our bookstand on the street. We did a we do a Bible book stand twice a week on the street. And Zaigal uh said, Well you know, I I go to church and I even go to the mosque and I just I do everything and I believe in God. And uh we talked to her, she came to church, she came to every treat and she came to me and said that she really needed it because she felt so guilty before God and by God's grace I was able to lead her into a a knowledge of Christ through the gospel and she was baptized our last Sunday there and she's living ahead in the Lord and that was the first a real conversion off the street. that our church has. And it's a great future for us, a great encouragement as we uh announce the gospel in this the development of high-rise buildings and uh government subsidized housing. God is working in terms of the cross in terms of his grace. Has God worked in your heart in terms of the cross? Uh it's so easy to want to push God aside and be a loose the way the French philosophers would do, you know No, when you get real philosophical about something and you get analytical and you stand back and you think about it and you don't get yourself involved. But the gospel of Jesus Christ cuts right into your heart and says need a savior. You are lost in your sin, and God has provided his only Son, who died on the cross, who bore in his body our sins on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. And I wonder if Perhaps you are are listening but have not really uh responded to the call of the gospel, to the call of the cross of Jesus Christ. If not, I'm sure your pastor here and your friends would love to pray. you and encourage you to really give yourself to Jesus by faith in him. Consider your call, dear friends, in light of this wonderful message that God is dealing with people in terms of the cross. He's dealing with us on his terms instead of ours. If he was dealing with us in our terms, we would get nowhere. And of course by our own wisdom we can't find God. That's why men are men are frustrated who are trying to deal with God in terms of human wisdom. Because God in his own linen said, that doesn't work. You must come to me on my turn, and I deal with you as a holy God, dealing with his creatures, dealing with those whom he is calling to be his children. Consider your cruelty. To be identified with the cross of Jesus Christ means in this sense to be willing to be foolish before the world. The world will laugh and scorn. We had a neighbor that is on the And I'm sure he thought that these poor Americans they they believe that. And uh they're they're here, you know, studying along. They believe that uh God is really there and that He has spoken in the Bible. If only they could be enlightened and more evolved, as French people like to say, and uh really know uh about uh the the wisdom of men. And when you stand on the street and I identify with Jesus Christ in public places. It does a good thing to you, you know, because it welds you to him and our young people's group on the street very often got very excited as they stood together on the as the crowds passed by and as all these neighbors who knew who you are and Oh there 's a Jose, Madame Garcia 's son, and he's out there with them Christians. Yeah, I wouldn't tell her what I think that and uh all this kind of the dynamic that goes on in the little neighborhood. Uh but as they identify together uh they were folded and and together in prayer and in excitement that they were identifying with the cross of Jesus Christ in public. And that'll do something for you, but you've never done it. The cross is a scandal and stupid to to men. But to God and it is it's his way of dealing with us. And the cause is not neutral, it will offend people. It will turn them off. You know, uh God has called you. And because he has dealt with us in terms of the cross, there's so much hope that he will really be able to use us. His call isn't based upon what you have to offer really. Because after all, what do you really have to offer to God? Nothing. But his call is based upon what he uh his love and what he's gonna do in your life. And that's giv give such great, great hope. Uh now it it says in the text that not many noble people are called. I don't know if there's anybody here of noble birth, but in a sense, you know uh many of the people that live in Columbia, Maryland represent the intelligentsia of America, the tech the technocracy, the educated people who work in computers and government, etc. And uh the the text has not many whys, not many intelligent You know, uh I am impressed with Queen Victoria, who was so thankful for the letter M in the English alphabet. Did you ever stop to thank the Lord for the letter M in the English alphabet? Well you see she wrote verse, not many nobles. Now if little M wasn't there, it would have said, not any noble. And she knew she was of noble birth, and she knew that really before the Lord she was just equal to others. And God had called her to. And isn't it wonderful that God has called you? Not many in Columbia perhaps have been called yet, as far as we know. But God has called you. And of course, uh if you're like me, you're you're so thankful that he calls uh Weak people, people that are not, to confound the things that are. You know, none of us has an excuse to say, well, you know, I really have nothing to offer to the Lord now but I'm his because I can't speak and I can't do much. I was impressed, just to give you a little illustration. I was I used to have an old roll roll around here when I was passing down Silver Springs and uh I ruined the fender. Won't tell you how I ruined the fender, but I went to a junkyard to to find a new fender. Did you ever do that? And I went to this big junkyard and And it was just like a huge graveyard of rusty cars. And there was this man who found me as the right fender and he was taking it off at this old extra car and he was working and I was standing there chatting with him and I was looking around at this mess of cars. And uh I sort of he was chatting, he said, You know, I actually am an engineer. I used to work for Bell Telephone for years as an executive. And I said, Well what are you doing here in this junk office? You're an engineer. He said, Well, the very thing are going with more future in this junkyard. And uh you know that man had a vision for those cars. See? He he was about to charge me fifty bucks for a used sender. And this guy had a had had a vision for his beat up last ye cars and I said, there's the church. There's the church. We're all beat up and rusty and we're struggling with sin and we're weak and we have problems and we have you know, we can just make a big long list of things that seem to keep us down. It's a decision for us in Scripture. And you know God said he was us. Do you know why? Because He dealt with us in terms of the cross. Not in terms of our wisdom or our goodness or anything else. He dealt with us in terms of the cross and therefore he can use Maybe you can't do anything but sit home and pray. I want to speak to you if you do that. So I'll give you a list. But uh there's so much that needs to be done to reach Columbia to reach the world. And God uses us because He has dealt with men. In terms of the cross. Are you willing to identify with Jesus? Are you willing to identify with the foolishness of the preaching of the gospel? Christianity is not at all an irrational. on intellectual religion. It is the only true, reasonable basis for our faith, but it is established on the firm foundation of the Word of God. So as we deal in France, it does get depressing as Al said, it's tough. There's a hardness there. We also sense that the Lord is opening up new things. Uh the sociologist Jacques D. says the science is more open to the gospel now than it has been in a hundred years. And uh there's a fellow who been preaching the gospel of an evangelist named Monsieur Perrier, has nothing to do with Perrier order. He said to me, he said uh in the speech he gave to missionaries, that he believes faith has gone through some 400 years of some kind of a Babylonian When God has judged this country for its complete rejection of the gospel. But He believes that now God is lifted in judgment. And that now there's a new opening, a new uh openness to the gospel and to French people really are coming to the end of their road and are listening. And there are many people coming to the Lord. We're excited. And we believe that God is going to give up a presbytery in Paris of reformed churches, and we're working to that end. confidence is not in our eloquence, that doesn't keep us going, especially in France. It is not in our brilliance, we're far from brilliance. It is not in our personalities or in our experiences or in our gifts of music, not in our numbers or in our Yes, but PR, no, our confidence is in the cross of Jesus Christ. And God is saving people by the Spirit, by His Word, and we are there as His humble servants. Our confidence is in the grace of God and the of grace that he has given to his church. Our confidence is in the promises that are in his word. And our confidence is that God has really sent us there. And that we're there together with you as you stand with us by your prayer. As you uh pray with us and dream with us and and give and support the work in every way, what a joy it is to be identified with Jesus. Jesus who is our righteousness. We have none of our own. Jesus, who is our holiness, our sanctification, our redemption. With Jesus we can go and stand before God and be accepted. How wonderful. But we are his for eternity, he who gave himself for us. Let him who boasts. Boats in the Lord. This week and this uh these weeks and months as you think of missions, remember these verses and thank you so much for your interest in standing with us and the other missionaries and for being well. Christians as we look to the world. Shall we pray? Our Heavenly Father, how we do bless and magnify your holy name. Your name is above every name, and you are the only true and living God. How we thank you for Jesus, the Son of God. God who came into this world and who became uh the Lamb of God who took away the sin of the world. How we thank you for your Holy Spirit who has quickened us by your holy word. How we thank you that we are your people called How we thank you for missionaries in the in centuries past who brought the gospel to Europe and uh to England and in turn to the United States. Lord, we have heard because you sent missionaries. And Lord, we thank you that we are also now part of your ascending church. Lord God, fill us with this zeal, with this fire in our bones. Help us to dream and to vision as your word speaks. And Lord God, help us. to be willing to give everything for you, even our own children, if you would call them to a foreign land. We bless you, we praise you, we magnify your holy name. In Jesus we pray. Amen. Thank you, man. While I was speaking, as far as particular prayer. We'll see how God will answer it. Every year at this time when we have our conference, we uh challenge small groups to adopt the missionary. small group at least to adopt a missionary who we're supporting. A new small group perhaps that has grown up and started since the last missions conference. And I wonder if there's one or two small groups that after hearing one And tell your heart touched by thinking of the work I 've called him and Robin Sue with their two words. That you're thinking, no, I'd really like to know more. That could be a fair support and encouragement to them. In that up with your small group and then contact our office. Lenders said that if there's some small group that would like to learn more about their work in Paris, Paris , they write, and see the slide. that he has that shows you more about this work, give you a feel of it, he'd be glad to come up just for even one or two small groups to just be able to see those slides so that you can get to know them better and be able to pray for them. So I leave that pray that God would raise up at least One small group, one additional small group, would say, yeah, we want to be a particular group to adopt the Stuarts as our missionaries. Turn to hidden number five hundred and twenty-one