In 1990, a group of men led by a football coach by the name of Bill McCartney began to meet regularly for prayer, for fasting, and for mutual encouragement. At the time that they began meeting, there soon developed a corps of about 72 men. And these men decided to make seven commitments. That they would hold each other accountable for. Number one, to honor Jesus Christ through worship, prayer, and obedience to his word. Number two, to pursue vital relationships with a few other men, understanding that a man needs brothers to help him keep his promises. 3. To practice spiritual, moral, ethical, and sexual purity. 4. To build strong marriages and families. 5 To support the mission of the church by honoring and praying for one's pastor and by actively giving of one's time and resources. 6 to reach beyond racial and denominational barriers to demonstrate the power of biblical unity. And seven, to influence the world by being obedient to the Great Commandment and the Great Commission. Seventy-two men in nineteen ninety. By nineteen ninety-one, forty -two hundred men had joined with those seventy-two. By 1993, there were 52,000 men involved in this movement. In 1994, 234 ,000 men met in rallies around these seven commitments. By 1995 it had become a truly national movement, the first of the rallies of this to be held in this area at RFK Stadium. That holds, I understand, about 55 to 57,000 people. Registrations were opened in February. Within seven weeks, they were closed because it was full. And this year over 700,000 men are registered for these seven commitments in these rallies. Of course, I'm speaking about promise keepers, and we will have our first rally here in May 26-27 in the Washington, D. C. area. Clearly, this is a movement whose time has come. Anybody that could start with a group of 72 guys and within five years have nearly three-quarters of a million people involved has hit some nerve, some felt need. And it's not hard to understand why that is. Men are very confused today. There's a lot of reaction. There's more books being written. About what it means to be a male, whether it's from a secular point of view, like Robert Bly's Iron Man, Iron John, or whether it is from a Christian point of view in a proliferation of books on what it means to be a Christian man. I think that's in part understandable, a kind of a reaction to feminism and the whole Understanding of what is my role, how are men different from women, what is to be the proper relationship. There's a lot of confusion about that In addition to that, men, myself included, have come to realize that for many of us there has been an absence of much of a relationship with our own fathers And so there is what is often called a father hunger, a realization that I was never really taught by my own father what it means to be a man, and particularly as a Christian man what it means to be a spiritual head of a home, what it means to provide spiritual leadership, and men have largely abdicated that role in our society. Gordon Dalby, an author, was speaking to a men's group of 350 men, and he said to those men, how many of you felt The support, the emotional support and encouragement from your own fathers at the birth of your own children. Of 350 men, five put up their hands. And Dalby says he has found that substantiated in other surveys he has taken of that. Now why is that? Because men are evil and they want to abandon their families? No, I don't think that's it at all. We men like to do things that we feel adequate in doing. And we feel very inadequate in raising children. And so by and large we find other things to do. And the problem is that that perpetuates itself through the generations. Because for most of us as men, we say we don't have a model. I don't know how to love my wife. I don't know how to love my kids. I don't know how to transition them from childhood through the teen years into adulthood. Because I've not seen a model of that. We're longing and yearning for models. And we realize that as men we tend to want to be alone to protect ourselves from showing our inadequacies. But Promise Keepers is a movement that has said, we need one another, brothers. And because of that, we're going to commit ourselves to one another in order to try and solve some of these problems. We have also as fathers an image to contend with. It's a very negative image of a man in our society, particularly of a father. It's kind of the role that's demonstrated by the Simpsons. You know, and you see this this view of the sitcoms where the father's sort of a bumbling idiot. And so we're very much cast adrift for what it means to positively be what God has called us to be But I strongly believe that as part of our praying for God to bring renewal and revival in our land, that the Spirit of God in our day is beginning to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. And the children to the fathers, lest he smite the land with a curse. That's Malachi 4. 6, the very last verse of the Old Testament. And I believe we're beginning to see God do this in a way that is surprising and I think supernatural. It's beyond what you could explain. A movement like Promise Keepers is beyond what you could explain naturally. The secular world is beginning to notice the need for this. A fellow by the name of David Blankenhorn has written a book called Fatherless America, Confronting Our Most Urgent Social Problem. That book's gotten a lot of press and attention. U. S. News World Report gave a whole page to that book in a cover article a few weeks ago called Honor Thy Children. In which they observed that nearly two out of five kids in this society grow up without a father. Nearly 40% of American kids do not live with their fathers. And they say that the missing father has been demonstrated to be the most reliable predictor of criminal behavior in an adult child of any other factor, race, poverty, anything else. And so the father is gone. There's no model for that kid and goes on to perpetuate from generation to generation the things we've spoken of. But even among fathers that are home We see the same kind of thing. Because we men know that there is tremendous pressure on our time today, don't we? Focus on the Family in an article recently talked about the tremendous pressure in corporate America for a man's time. To stretch his priorities to the breaking point. It's commonly observed today within corporate structures that a guy who only puts in eight hours a day is considered lazy. Uh one company sent around a memo uh because of the tremendous pressure from international corporations, from Other uh competitors, uh people uh don't know how to survive and so one of the things they're turning to is service and saying, well, we can't do anything with the product Can't develop the technology any better, so we'll make our service better. Quicker response time. And quicker response time means overtime, means working weekends. Our own son-in-law is really struggling with this um because of a a job that he got uh just a few months ago and it looked like it was a a good situation and now he finds out that he was really deceived. They didn't tell him about the travel. He's away more than half the time. That was never described to him. And he's struggling with what to do about that. Just in in general, um If you look at the statistics about work weeks, the work week in 1973, average work week for an American, was 46. 6 hours. Excuse me, in nineteen seventy-three it was forty point six hours. In nineteen eighty-seven it had increased by six hours a week on the average to forty-six point six. For professional people, about 52 hours a week. For small business owners and corporate executives, about 57 hours a week on the average. The article goes on to say where are these hours coming from? They're coming from the family. Parents spend 40% less time with their children than they did 25 years ago. The average parent spent about 30 hours a week with their kids 25 years ago. Now it's down to 17. And it keeps on going down. Well that sounds pretty grim. Tremendous struggles, pressures. Maybe even make some of us guys, and unless you women think I'm not giving attention to you, probably most of the women are out there cheering and say, Finally, listen to this. But you know, we can get kind of discouraged, even cynical, because we see our kids growing up in the stresses of this You kids, as you reach teenage years, you're struggling with things and you're you're saying, you know, I wish I had more of a relationship with my parents. You're working things through. I wish things were different. You may not be able to even put into words what you wish was different. But we see the stresses and the effect of those stresses and tensions and discouragement and cynicism and even hopelessness perhaps in whether you can fulfill the role of a father or mother in our own society. Let me share with you that a few years ago I was struggling with this as our kids were growing up, and I'm certainly not finished struggling with it, but at that time I stumbled across two verses in scripture. That were to me like azaleas and dogwoods in May in Maryland, a tremendous refreshment to my own heart. And so I want to look at these two verses, and in anticipation of the Promise Keeper's Conference coming up in the end of May, I would like to spend four weeks on these two verses from Psalm 112, verses 1 and 2. Four weeks looking at these two verses. Let me read them to you. Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. His children will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed. There's a promise in verse 2. His children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed. The condition is in verse 1. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his command. I would like to spend this morning looking at the promise, verse 2, and then I want to spend the next three weeks looking at the condition in verse 1. For you singles, you are not left out, or if you don't have kids or don't have kids yet. I realize one of the struggles in preaching is that sometimes you want to kind of target something and You want to speak uh maybe it's to a particular sector, and then what do you do with the rest of the folks? I think that you as singles or or folks without kids will find that there are plenty of principles from God's Word to apply to your own life But beyond that, remember that our first family as Christians is not our biological family, it is our spiritual family, the body of Christ. And therefore, in some sense, all of the kids of this congregation are part of our family. In fact, when we come to baptize Mark Aaron 's in just a bit after the message We are going to all own him as part of our family. And therefore, for all of us, these principles are relevant in terms of the promises to claim as well as encouraging one another in fulfilling the conditions. Well, first of all, then what is the promise? I'll tell you, this is an exciting promise. I mean, you look at Scripture and you say, does the Scripture anywhere tell me that I, as a believing parent, can claim their salvation. I don't know of any other verse in all of Scripture that is clearer than this verse. And so I want for you to uh meditation uh encourage easy to work through these verses this week. I hope you'll use that And that you'll take the suggestion to memorize these two verses, at least these two verses. You may want to go on through some of the rest of the Psalm 112. Psalm 112 is about the Christian home. and uh perhaps to take some of the rest of that. But at least those first two verses. What is this promise? Again, verse 2. His children will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed. Now, what does that mean? Blessed? That's the first point. Your kids will be blessed. Now what does that mean? Blessing is kind of vague to us, isn't it? Something you say when somebody sneezes What does it mean? Well, somehow, you know, it means you're not cursed. It's the opposite of that. Well, in Scripture, the idea of blessing is much, much richer than that. In fact, I want to argue that blessing cannot be separated from salvation. That blessing Can be interchangeably used with salvation. To be blessed is to enjoy the riches of salvation. No one in Scripture is ever called blessed who is not going to heaven or who doesn't belong by faith to Jesus Christ. Now, that means That when we're claiming this, the generation of the upright, the offspring of the upright, will be blessed, we are claiming nothing less than that my kids will be saved, that they will not judge us in the faith that they will give their lives to Jesus to love him and to serve him, and that they will be forgiven by him based on his finished work at the cross, that they will own that work, trusting not in themselves, but in his finished work and his resurrection on their behalf. That they will walk with him, that they will love him, and that they will know his promises and his power in their lives. That's what is involved in blessing. And I'll tell you there have been times for all of us, for myself certainly included, when I have been anxious. Anxious about Will my kids would it be possible? You know, what parent hasn't known that that time when you you sense the questioning or the doubting or the rebellion and you're saying Are my kids Christians? What if they grow up and they don't know the Lord? What else is worth anything? What else in my life, my career, or anything else? You know, somebody once said, nobody on their deathbed said, I wish I had spent more time at the office. Nobody. But if your kids aren't walking with the Lord Jesus, if they don't know him and aren't serving him and loving him, what is the rest of anything worth? And so to be able in those times of anxiety to say, but Lord, you've given a verse to claim here, my children will be blessed. They will walk with you. They will know you. They will go to heaven when they die. We will be joined together as a family and be together forever. Let me try to substantiate that very briefly with some scriptures. Now, I did a study of many, many scriptures, and I just selected some of the simplest ones, the clearest ones, but we don't have time to to look at them most of them, but I want you to just note them and look at them this week in the meditation time. But for instance, in Psalm one, Blessed is the man who doesn't walk in the counsel of the ungodly, stand in the s uh in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of the scornful. But his delight, this blessed one, is in the law of the Lord, and in this law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by streams of water, whose leaf does not wither, and whose fruit produces in its season. Whatsoever he does shall prosper. The wicked contrast are not so. They're not like that But the ungodly are like chaff, which the wind will blow away. The ungodly will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous For the Lord knows He intimately is involved in the way of the righteous, the blessed man. And so this blessed man is clearly describing the one who is saved, the one who is walking with Jesus Christ. Psalm 32, blessed is the one to whom the Lord does not impute his iniquities, whose sins are covered. Psalm 40 verse 4, I am blessed because you lifted me out of the pit and set me on a rock, speaking clearly of a salvation experience. In Psalm 65, verse 4, the blessing is described in terms of atonement for transgression and living in the courts of the Lord. Or in the New Testament, think of the Beatitudes. The Beatitudes are simply a series of blessings. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for what? Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. What could be clearer? The whole rest of the Beatitudes speak of the marks of a Christian. For in Luke chapter 12, verse 37, blessing is described as reclining at the table of the Lord in heaven when he shall come to service. Where you speak of James 1:12. Blessed are you if you are in these trials and persevere in those, because in blessing you will receive the crown of life. Revelation 14, verse 13, speaks of blessing as rest from one's labors in heaven. Or in Revelation 22, verse 14, blessing is described as having access to the tree of life. Look through the scripture from cover to cover and see if it's not clear to you, patently clear that when you look at verse 2, his the generation of the upright will be blessed. This can mean nothing less Then that your children will be Christians and they will walk in the faith that they will inherit the kingdom and eternal life with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now is this for every parent? Is this automatic? No, it's not. And we'll see the condition as we look in the next weeks. About what is described. It is not simply that every child of every Christian is going to walk in the Lord. We too sadly know that that's not the case. But it is a verse that every Christian can claim. And you can claim it with spiritual authority and power as you understand the conditions and are seeking by God's grace to be involved in those conditions. But what I want you to see now is not that this verse simply allows us to barely claim that our kids will have a credible profession. that they will simply uh they'll get into heaven, you know, and uh, you know, if you judge the best that you can, you'll say, well, there's more evidence that they're Christians than there is that there isn't that they're not Uh, you know, they seem like they're decent moral people. That's not what this verse says. Look at the parallel. The first part of that verse says his children will be mighty in the land. Now I want to suggest to you that that is a powerful statement. What does that mean? The land you need to understand is equivalent to God's kingdom. The land is God's kingdom. This doesn't mean that they're just going to have a lot of real estate in Palestine This is saying they're going to be mighty in God's kingdom. Now, in order to make that statement, I need to substantiate it. And I'll tell you, this is some heavy Bible study that you see a lot of verses down there. But it's worth it to go through that if you want encouragement and confidence in your own heart about what to claim for our our kids in our congregation. You know, owned families. Look what this says. The land is of course referring immediately in this context to Canaan. But what was Canaan? Canaan was the place where God ruled and provided for his people. In Genesis chapter 12 and verse 1, Abraham is told to go to the land, same word, this word aretz. There are other words in the Hebrew that refer to land. But every time you see this word, particularly when it's got an article, Haaretz, the land, whenever you see that word in the Old Testament It's referring to the land as the land of promise, the land of inheritance, the land where God rules his people and provides for them. And so Abraham's told to go to this land where God is going to establish him. And in Leviticus chapter 20, verse 24, we're told that this land is the land of inheritance for God's people. In Ezekiel chapter 12, verses 19 and 20, God says he is going to cast these people out of the land. The word appears three, four, five times in those two verses. Because it's saying this land that you have defiled is no longer the land that you can inherit. You are being cast out of this land And that land is spoken of in terms of the kingdom, the place where God rules. You remember Psalm 37 that we looked at uh just last year? And again and again you see seven times in that psalm, the righteous will inherit the land. Now, you know, what's so great about inheriting a piece of real estate? Well Psalm thirty seven juxtaposes against that statement seven times the righteous will inherit the land, the statement, but the wicked are going to be cut off. not have this inheritance. And so clearly this is a salv this is salvation language, this inheriting the land. In fact it's in Psalm 37 that you have the verse that the Lord Jesus Quotes. When he says, uh, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit, and New Testament says the earth, I don't think the earth is the best translation there. Better it would be, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the land In fact, that's a quote from Psalm thirty-seven where he says, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the land. And that land you see is the land of God's promise. It's the land of his kingdom, for instance in Psalm 25. You have the same statement almost like Psalm 112, verse 14, The Lord confides in those who fear them. He makes his covenant known to them. Clearly these are his people. My eyes are ever with the Lord, for only he will release me. Release my feet from the snare. Excuse me, I skipped over. It's verse 13. He will spend his days in prosperity, and his descendants will inherit the land. They're going to inherit this land in contrast to Psalm 140, verse 11, which says that the wicked will not inherit the land. Now, to understand what this is, perhaps this is one you should turn to, and that's Hebrews chapter 11. Because Hebrews chapter 11 explains better than anything else I know what he means, what the Scripture means when it talks about the land. In Hebrews chapter 11, in verse 8, we see that by faith Abraham, when he was called to go to a place that he would later receive as his inheritance , Obeyed and went, even though he didn't know where he was going. By faith he made his home in the promised land. Alright, this is clearly Old Testament language. This is the land of promise. Like a stranger in a foreign country, he lived in tents as did Isaac and Jacob, who were heirs with him of the same promise. 4 Notice verse 10. He was looking forward to the city with foundations whose architect and builder is God. In other words, this land was just a first fruits. This was just kind of a the hors d'oeuvre of what was coming in the full meal and feast. This land that he was living in was not what he was really looking forward to. The real promise was a city that God was building. And then he talks about those who after him followed in that in verse 11 Then verse twelve, So from this one man, as he's as he as good as dead, came descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and countless as the sand on the seashore. All these people. Now this is coming down to you and me. All these people who had that hope of Abraham and the covenant of grace of God, all these people were still living by faith when they died. They didn't inherit this. No matter what it was that they had, even under Solomon's day, they hadn't inherited the fullness of the promise. They did not receive the things promised. They only saw them and welcomed them from a distance. And they admitted that they were aliens and strangers on earth. The land is not something on earth. People who say such things show that they're looking for a country of their own, real home. And if they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunities. Opportunity to return. Instead they were longing for a better country. Now if you in case you missed the point up until this point, he spells it out specifically. He says they were looking for a better country, a heavenly one Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them. God has prepared the city that is the fulfillment of all the things that you could see described in the Old Testament of the goodness of this land. And I've listed some of those things there. Look at what that land was described. As God tried to get the thirst of his people going. He says that it's a good land. He says that it's a land that is rich in material and agricultural resources. It's a beautiful land. You look at the scriptures later. We don't have time for that now. It's a land of milk and honey. That is, it's a land that's very fertile, producing cattle and producing all kinds of sweets and goodness. It's a broad land. You don't have a an eighth of an acre around your little piece of property, you know. You know, everybody's all looking in your windows and everything, you know and you hear the traffic roaring past. It's not that kind of it's a land where space is no problem. It's a broad, rich land, and you can travel up and down it freely and safely. It's a pleasant land. It's a beautiful land to look upon. It's a glorious land. And then he says it's a holy land. It's a land where you're not only safe, but everybody in that land is friendly and everybody loves one another in this land. This land truly is a heavenly land. In fact, in Revelation chapter 22 and verses 14 and 15 you read that uh of this place and the in the center of this land of course is the city, the city which is described as the heart of God's people. Blessed are those who wash their robes that they may have right to the tree of life and go through the gates into this city, the capital of this land. Outside are dogs whose practice Magic arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. None of them are in the land. And so you see, when you look back at Psalm 112 And you read, His children will be mighty in the land. Do you see how rich a statement that is? Now finally, I need to show you that when he says mighty in this land He's not simply saying they're going to be in the land. You know, it's it's nice to know that as we claim these verses, as we seek to follow the instructions of Scripture, that our families will have a continuity that is godly and there's peace in it. It's not simply they're going to be there. But he says they will be mighty in the land. Now that word mighty is a powerful word. Not you know not to sound like a cheap pun, but it's it is a powerful word. You see that word, for instance, in Psalm 30 In verse 30. And that's let me just read that. Psalm 30, verse 30. God is talking about their three things, four that move with stately bearing in his sight. The first is a lion, mighty among beasts, who retreats before nothing. That word mighty is the same word in Psalm 112, verse 2. Mighty in the land. Retreats before nothing, full of courage and stately bearing. You read that same word in 1 Samuel chapter 14 and verse 52, where it says that Saul went around every time he noticed some guy who had particular courage in battle. He recruited him to his army. And he describes those as mighty men. Well you see it in Daniel chapter 11 in verse 3 where Daniel has the vision of the mighty king who rules in sovereign power. You say that's my kid? Mighty You look at Deuteronomy chapter 10. There's just a wonderful description of the Lord. Deuteronomy chapter 10 and verse 17. God is described to the Lord your God as a God of gods, the Lord of lords, the great God, mighty, same word, and awesome. Who shows no partiality, accepts no brides. A number of times God is described as mighty, particularly when he is described as a warrior, for instance in Psalm 24. Where he is described in verse 8 as the one, lift up your head, O ye gates, you know, for the Lord, here comes the Lord, mighty in battle, mighty as the captain of the hosts In fact, this same word is used to describe the Messiah. Do you remember the messianic prophecy we looked at back this last Christmas, Isaiah 9:6? Where the Messiah is described as the mighty God. That's that same word in Psalm 112, verse 2. Your kids are going to be mighty in the land. Mighty God. And so when you look at Ephesians chapter 1, Paul brings over into the New Age the statement, and he says, I pray that your eyes will be open, that you might see the might, the power, the resurrection power of the Lord Jesus. whom God by that power raised up from the dead and seated him in the heavenly places far above all, ruled power and authority and dominion and every name that can be named both in this age and the age to come He is seated in the heavenly places in might and power. And then what does he say in chapter 6? In Ephesians chapter 6, in verse 10, he says, finally, be strong, be mighty in the Lord. In his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark and world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore Put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground and after having done everything to stand Say mighty, my little lamkin , my tender little morsel, mighty in the land. Our kids to be mighty against authorities and dominions of the dark powers I've said to you a number of times, more and more in the recent years, that spiritual conflict is escalating within this country. In some ways I tremble when I think of the kind of world that our kids are going to live in, but I don't tremble simply in fear For I believe as we see the escalation of the forces, both of evil as well as the prayer movement, and the forces of revival that we're going to look at more tonight in the Lord's Supper. We're seeing that it is going to take warriors to live in that world, but the warriors who will live in that world will experience things that you and I could only dream of of God's power But they're not strong in their own strength. When we pray our kids will be mighty in the land, we're not saying, I pray, Lord, that my kid will be a courageous kid and and Just be the kind of kid that wants to rip into anybody that's gonna give him trouble and gonna stand not in their own power. Some of the strongest Christians I have known have been meek people who he looked like he could blow over with a breath of air But when it came to convictions, they would die rather than compromise than to dishonor the name of their Lord Jesus. They were powerful in faith, not in their own strength. To speak of that is just like looking at this paper and saying, you know, what could you do with this paper? Well you could rip it up, you could tear it, you could do anything you want with it. It's pretty fragile But you take this paper and you stick it inside this book. And now the only way that you can get to that paper, the only way you can rip it, destroy it, tear it, is to destroy the book. Because it's in the book. And that's what Paul's saying. Be strong in the Lord. And so when we pray for our kids, we pray for ourselves. It's that they be mighty in the Lord, in his armor. And that, brothers and sisters, is a promise that we're given. It's a promise that we're given by God Himself, who wants to show His power through us. And through our kids. And so with confidence, claim not only the salvation of the kids of our g of our congregation. But we can claim that they will be a mighty impact for the kingdom, filled with spiritual power. And we should pray for and expect and prepare them. With confidence, expecting that that will be true. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, for those of us who are parents, our hearts are lifted up as we see that you have given to us a promise. Promise perhaps we never noticed before, really thought much about, but I know, Lord, in anxious times in my own life that this promise has sustained me and encouraged me. And we thank you, Lord. I thank you for this promise. I thank you for these couple of verses in your word. And Lord, help us as a congregation to delve into them, to understand them, to understand your promises and your faithfulness to your promises. And Lord, whether we have children or whether we do not have children, help us to set our hearts on the salvation and on the mighty growth and power of our kids that they would be mighty in the land in this congregation. That from this congregation there would be kids in strategic places within our culture Whether in law or media or the arts, or all kinds of occupations where there needs to be salt and light. Lord, we pray that as a congregation we will be establishing ourselves as a beachhead against the forces of evil and darkness. You have given us this power to claim, this promise, Lord, to claim about that power. Forgive our unbelief. Encourage our hearts. Encourage us, Lord, that any that not one of us here would miss out on that blessing and that inheritance of your kingdom. In Jesus' name. Amen.