Introduce your guest preacher this morning, Mark Samuel. Please come up. I'd love to pray for you. Mark is a fellow member of our Presbyterian. He's the associate pastor for youth and family at Covenant of Grace. PCA Church. And always a pleasure to work together. We're on a couple committees together and we have a good time, right? Absolutely. if you can believe that. Committee work, right? But um it is a joy to to know you and and I'm grateful for you to be here today So let's let's pray. Father, hear um from your word this morning in ways that penetrates our heart. That what you hear from us is praise and thanksgiving and renewed faith and first faith for maybe some of us. May we respond to your word and the grace in our lives through Jesus. Jesus Christ. Bless Mark as he preaches this morning. May we be encouraged by your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, brother. Well, it is wonderful to be with all of you today. Just by way of background before I get to our scripture reading, uh, we've been in the Columbia area for a long time prior to uh heading up to Rysterstown. My girls actually attended Pioneers here. And so we are very much familiar with how welcoming and hospitable a congregation you are. I'm grateful for PD and his his friendship and the chance to work with him. You are a blessed congregation. Let's go to God's Word, and then we'll get into the message today. I'll be reading from 1 Peter chapter 3. Our church has been going through a series on 1 Peter's, and so you get a distilled subset of some of what we've been talking about and a message that I think I'm really excited to share with you. So 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 13 through 18A. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness. and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous That he might bring us to God. Let me pray briefly. Our Lord, we thank you for this word. It is your word, and we confess that it is true. But Lord, I do pray that you would apply it to our hearts. And that above all else, your gospel would be clear to your people today, despite the inadequacies of the one who brings the message. All glory and praise to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, like I said, it is wonderful to be with you today. Actually, I I uh saw, I got to see s uh another family I know, one of your new families. the sniffins. It's really good to see you guys. Welcome back to Maryland. It's been wonderful to be here and to be greeted by all by many of you and to share a cup of coffee with a few of you So as Petey mentioned, I've been the assistant pastor at Covenant of Grace for three and a half years. Prior to that, we lived down in Laurel, Maryland. And I had a very different career. I I worked for the US Department of Justice as an IT systems manager. But so I commute into the city and commute out. But in our neighborhood in Laurel We had a pool. That's something moving to Reysters Town we don't have anymore. And we really miss that, especially my kids. But one amazing thing about this pool in our neighborhood was that it had a diving well with a full 12 um or sorry three-meter high dive. What pool has that anymore? It's not a really common thing anymore. I mean, liability issues are out are huge, and so pools have generally taken those down, but our neighborhood pool didn't. They resisted that trend. One thing that was always entertaining to watch though was seeing kids go off the diving board for the first time. Seeing kids go off that diving board. I enjoyed watching my own kids go off that diving board and seeing their fear and then their excitement when they finally did. But the pool, it was run by a man who completely devoted himself to the community. And he'd often be the one to engage if a kid really struggled making that first jump. You know the picture. A kid's all excited. He climbs up onto the board. He gets to the end, and then he's absolutely terrified to take the step. Perhaps that was you. Perhaps that's some of you. Perhaps some kids are shaking in your boots right now because you know that's going to be you this summer. I don't know. There might be tears, crying, whatever. Well, this man, Coach John, what he would do is he would call out with encouragement and belief and simply tell , I mean, he could be calling from the other side of the pool so everybody's eyes then focused on the diving board. Yeah, that that probably wasn't effective. But he'd call out and and say, you can do this. There's only one way off that diving board. You're not allowed to use the stairs. So we're gonna stay here as long as it takes. You need to jump. And more often than not, what would happen? The kids would overcome their fear and they would jump. Coach John just loomed so large in their thinking that fearful respect of him was bigger than their fear of jumping off a diving board. But then of course you couldn't stop them, right? They'd be right back in line jumping again and again and again until they couldn't stand up hardly And you know, I'm 38 years old, and if there's a diving board, you'd better believe that I am going to embrace being undignified. I'm going to climb up that and jump off, um, do a jackknife or a cannonball, whatever And I'll go back to the diving board too. But what enabled those kids to jump? What enabled that? Did self-confidence overcome their fear? No. It was actually fear of Coach John. You see, the kids loved and respected him so much that their fear of him Became bigger than their fear of jumping off the diving board. A good fear overcame a misplaced fear If you're here today and you're a Christian, you've trusted Christ Jesus for salvation Does sharing your faith with others feel a bit like being on the end of that diving board? Does it feel like that? You're afraid of the unknown and how someone in your life will respond and whether or not you will make a good witness. If you're going to miss and hit your chin on the way down. Our scripture for today calls us to evaluate our fears and to discover whether misplaced fear might be shaping our Christian lives and witness. Just as misplaced fear shapes the behavior of those kids on the board. And what I hope you'll see today is that it's looking to Jesus. It's looking to Jesus as our Lord, which overcomes fear and equips us for making it an effective witness, even when opposed. In other words, it is the Lordship of Christ Jesus which frees us to share our Christian hope without being driven by fear. Well, the key to understanding our passage today comes right at the end of verse 14 and the beginning of 15. Peter writes, Have no fear of them. Speaking of their opponents in society, which were far more fearsome than the ones that we have to deal with here. He says, Have no fear of them, nor be troubled, but in your hearts Honor Christ the Lord as holy. What this verse does is it sets up a contrast. It's a contrast between fearing the threats of opponents or honoring Christ. Fear of man versus fear of God. Though David writes in Psalm 118, the Lord is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do to me? That's often easier said than done, isn't it? We find overcoming this fear often beyond our reach. And if our fear is misplaced and our behavior ruled by the fear of man, It has the effect of undermining our gospel witness. Because what we fear most rules us. What we fear most rules us. So if we are ruled by the opinions and opposition of man , Instead of the Lordship of Christ, what it will do is it will shape our behavior in destructive ways. Now there is perhaps no disciple better suited to talking about fear than Peter. Now you might find that a surprise, because if you know the gospel stories, you know Peter is the overconfident one. He's the hothead. But you know, I I've heard it said that the way you can define an expert in any particular area of life is to find someone who has failed in every conceivable way within that area. Have any of you heard that definition before? I think it's an excellent one. Because it means I'm approaching expertise in a number of areas. I don't know about you. My wife would probably agree with that statement very much. But Peter, I believe Peter is an expert on fear. I think he is an expert on fear. He has the reputation in the Gospels of being incredibly confident and assertive, even a bit of a hothead, as I mentioned. I mean, he was the one who was willing to walk out of that boat, wasn't he? Well, the other disciples were afraid. They saw Jesus coming to him, to them on the water. And he said, Lord, if it's you, call me out to you. And he stepped out, right? And he was also the one who said he would never deny Jesus when they were seated together at the Last Supper. Jesus had said, You will all deny me. And yet Peter said, I will never do that. He was confident, wasn't he? But how did each of those situations resolve? When he left the boat Peter saw the wind and the waves and his fear of them, overcame his fear or trust in Jesus, and he began to sink. And he called out, Lord, save me. And after Peter said he'd never deny Jesus, Jesus told him, you know what? Actually before the rooster crows three times You're gonna deny me. You're gonna deny me three times. And he did because he was afraid. Fear of opposition undermined his testimony for Jesus that day. And you know, I find tremendous encouragement in the fact that we have those failure stories of Peter. Because I'm a failure too. And I'm in good company. But you know, that story in particular showcases one of the two major ways. That fear, misplaced fear of people can undermine our gospel witness. And that's by making us passive in sharing our faith. By making us passive. The Barna Group, which is a wonderful Christian research organization They published an excellent study of evangelical Christian approaches to sharing our faith. It's this little book, you can find it, called The Reluctant Witness by Don Everts. In their study, it revealed increasingly that Christians avoid sharing their faith out of fear of conflict. In fact, a significant percentage of young Christians believe that sharing your faith can be harmful. And even immoral due to the potential for conflict, even though those same studies show that people are increasingly open to spiritual conversation. Isn't that interesting? Our car our culture seems to say and encourage young people to believe that sharing our faith can be harmful, yet our culture is more open to spiritual conversation than it has ever been in our lifetimes. It's irrational. And fear often is. But fear of people makes us passive in our witness, and sometimes we even justify that passivity. And as a result, we hide our faith. But the other response that misplaced fear can produce in us is defensiveness. Defensiveness. And you know, defensiveness, it doesn't always look like fear. Sometimes we can convince ourselves that we're not afraid. It can mask as confidence. Like it did with Peter. In fact, Peter himself is an excellent example of this kind of response to misplaced fear. When the temple guard came to arrest Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. What happened? Even though Jesus had told his disciples that this was coming, that he was about to suffer, Peter lashed out with the sword, and he sliced off the ear of one of the temple guard. To try to defend Jesus. Jesus' response to Peter was to rebuke him. It was to rebuke him, saying, those who live by the sword will die by it. But you know, as we analyze Peter's behavior, we should see that action as a fear response. Not a response of confidence or assertiveness. Like a cornered animal, misplaced fear can drive us to do evil. And this is precisely what Peter warned his audience about in our passage. He said, in the face of opposition, they were tempted to fight fire with fire, to respond defensively. But Peter says in verse 17, For it is better to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. He repeats this again and again in the book, in the letter of 1 Peter, saying at the end that we, when opposed, we should commit ourselves to our Savior and do good. It is better to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. In other words, don't let your fear of opposition drive you to justify defensiveness. And both of these fear responses, whether it's passivity or defensiveness, what they do is they undermine the beauty of our gospel witness in the world as God's people. But focusing again on defensiveness, the other truth is that defensiveness particularly is counterproductive to our own peace as God's church. It actually serves to do the opposite of what we intend when we become defensive. Peter opened our passage today with an odd statement. to a group of people who were experiencing persecution. And that's who he was writing to, people who were suffering for their faith. He said in verse 13, Who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? Who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? Now the natural response of his audience would be, well, Peter, isn't that what we're dealing with right now? Isn't that why you're writing us this letter? You're writing this to us to encourage us in our faith because we're suffering for doing good and following Jesus But picking apart the words of Peter's statement, he doesn't say they'll never harm you He simply implies that good behavior, living beautifully in service and gentleness, as he talks about again throughout this letter, that this kind of behavior will actually avoid most opposition. It'll avoid most opposition, even from a pagan and unbelieving world. In verse 14, the verb there actually implies that situations of opposition generally will be rare In some ways, he's reflecting the wisdom of Proverbs 16:7, which says that when a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies live at peace with him. We don't need the world to be our friends, to love and follow Jesus and commit ourselves to doing good. Much is made of the increasing threat of Christian persecution in our society today. And while there is a reason for some concern, Peter's wisdom here should caution us against fearing that the cultural sky is falling on our heads. After all, responding in misplaced fear will only make problems worse So Peter says when these situations occur, do not respond with defensiveness. Do not respond by withdrawing. But respond with continuing to do what is good and pleasing to God. You know, as a kid, I used to think that sharing my faith meant wearing Christian t-shirts. Any of you remember that time in youth culture back in the 80s and early 90s? There were so many Christian t-shirts. In reality, I was deeply afraid of sharing my faith. And I was driven by the fear of the opinions of others. Anyway, I was in fifth grade, and I had gotten a couple of these t-shirts from the Christian bookstore. And they were pretty awful. They were just downright terrible. One of them had this cartoon-like picture on it. And it said that those who plan to repent at the eleventh hour die at 10:30. And it had this terrible, terrible comedic drawing of a dead man on the ground. I'm ashamed of this. I am mortified even telling this story to you again, and I hope that it will benefit from that this will benefit you, because otherwise I've just made a fool of myself for no reason. But you know, it it was kind of an in-your-face message, wasn't it? Turn or burn. I didn't fully understand what I was doing at the time. I really thought that I was being a witness. But you know, I had this teacher who I really enjoyed. He was the best teacher I had in all of elementary school, and he was an atheist. He at one point became so offended that he tried to ban Christian t-shirts like mine. In fact, I think I bought these in response to him trying to do this so that I could be part of the group that was being banned. Anyway, well, the natural response was to fight back. After all, my right of freedom of speech and religion was being violated, wasn't it? The county school lawyer ended up telling this teacher that he couldn't uh ban the t-shirts. Um anyway, I was allowed to keep wearing this forrid shirt. But looking back at that experience, what would Peter say about it? What would our texts say about that experience? Was I suffering for doing good or suffering for doing evil? In all honesty, I wasn't being persecuted for being a Christian. I was being persecuted for being a jerk. And I mean that completely. Dan Doriani, he's another PCA pastor and a seminary professor. He wrote that as a practical matter, if a believer seems to have a number of enemies. Persecution could be the cause, but it's also possible that the victim, in quotes, is earning enemies the old-fashioned way through selfishness or faithlessness. We must not confuse the trouble we deserve with the trouble we do not. I think that's a really important lesson for us as Christians. I deserved the trouble I got. And honestly, a lot of the trouble that I have experienced in life, I have deserved, either through harsh words or through defensive actions. Now, the teacher didn't respond in a helpful way. He shouldn't have tried to ban uh t-shirts, but I did nothing to further my gospel witness. And I'm actually pretty confident that if I was simply known for good works, kindness, and simply shared my faith faithfully when opportunities arose the hard way. Through words and love as Christ loved us. My teacher would not have tried to silence anyone. Now Peter's audience, they really did experience the very real threat of opposition. even though they were known for doing good. Not like me. But that's going to be true in our time as well. And if you've followed or know or support any missionaries overseas , in some nations you you can point to situations where people very much suffer the very real threat of death for doing good. I have a dear friend who is the area director for Intervarsity Christian Fellowship in the Boston area when a university called Tufts University removed the recognition for their student ministry chapter. And removed its access to campus so that they couldn't minister to students. They sought to work collaboratively with the school, but even to this day, that chapter has not been allowed back on campus. That's an example of genuine opposition for doing good. But for Peter's audience, this threat of persecution was even more real and more intense, and it created in their hearts a fear of people. and what those people could do to them. This is why Peter's great corrective to letting misplaced fear drive our behavior Is in verse 15, and I'm paraphrasing a little bit here to get the core of this. His corrective is honoring Christ as Lord from the heart. That is the key. That is the key, honoring Christ as Lord from the heart. We have to take people off of the throne of our hearts. And when we respond in defensiveness, or we respond by withdrawing from relationship, that is because people are on the throne of our hearts, and not our Savior Christ Jesus. The word honor comes from the word for holy, set apart, set apart in your hearts Christ as Lord. Let him and him alone take that exclusive place of rule. Fear him as the citizen of a kingdom fears and respects a king. Having a right fear overcomes lesser fears. Ed Welch, in his tremendous book on fear, Running Scared, he wrote that fear reveals our allegiances. If we have a mature fear of the Lord, it means that we value and revere Him above all else. That is how we fight fear with fear. It's not that we don't experience fear. It's that our fears of people aren't our ultimate fear anymore. And so they do not rule our behavior. The psalmist says in Psalm 56. 3, when I am afraid, I will trust in you. That's a great verse to have on your mirror in the morning. When I am afraid, I will trust in you. You see, this verse assumes that you're going to be afraid. It doesn't say if fear is not the opposite of faith. Don't let anyone tell you that. Fear is not the opposite of trusting in Jesus. We shouldn't set fear and faith up as opposites. Instead, when we set our hope in Jesus, it reshapes how we respond to our fears. They don't rule us anymore. We are ruled by Christ. What's important is where and to whom we turn in the midst of our fears. When you are afraid, will you trust in your Savior who loves you and gave himself for you? For Peter, the way we display that we fear God and not men, it's found in verse 15. By being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. That is the way we display that we are ruled by Christ and not the opinions of others. Be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you a reason for your hope. Now that word defense, it's the word apologia, where we get the modern term apologetics And perhaps there are some of you who have read apologetics books, I know I have, and learned arguments to defend the reasonability and rationality of our faith. And that's really what modern apologetics can be all about. Not always. It has a lot to do, though, with arguments and debates. And you know, I've always been really good at those. But I want you to know that that is not what Peter has in mind in this verse. That's not what he has in mind. The word apologia really relates to the courtroom. And he simply says, be ready. Be ready to boldly tell the truth about why you live with such hope when you are questioned. He is thinking back, I think, I believe, to that time when Jesus was on trial and he was being asked, Don't you know this man? Don't you know this man? And he said no. So he's telling them, be ready. Be ready to share the truth about your hope We don't need to be able to defend the faith with incredible arguments. Rather, we must be ready and willing to acknowledge that our good conduct In the face of opposition or difficulty, any difficulty in life, it comes from your exclusive hope in the salvation offered through the free grace of God in Christ's death and resurrection for you. You see, opposition to the Christian life, what it does is it presents an opportunity. It's an opportunity. An opportunity to showcase what we believe by how we live. But a beautiful life isn't enough. We have to give it voice. We have to give it voice too. So when asked, why do you have such hope in the midst of unfairness? Why do you have such hope in the midst of such affliction? Why do you have such hope in the midst of su Suffering We don't need beautiful rhetoric. We simply need to say, Jesus Jesus. He is the reason for my hope. He suffered for me on the cross, though he is God, and I'm but a sinner. He bore my sins in his body on the tree. He rose to give me life, and I believe that he holds my future securely in his hands. And he'll never, ever let me go. That's why I live with hope in the midst of what I'm facing. That's apologia You see, it's the combination of a beautiful life and a bold but simple testimony that makes the best witness. But you know, our hope in Jesus, it doesn't merely form the content of our witness. Jesus also shapes the attitude of our witness. And that's the final thing I want to leave with all of you today. That Jesus' Lordship not only enables us to overcome fear, but it sets for us the pattern of a gentle and respectful witness, even when opposed. That Christ is our hope, but the way He endured suffering sets the pattern for us. At the end of verse 15, Peter qualifies the call to give an answer for their hope with the statement, yet do it with gentleness and respect. Having a good conscience so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame Gentleness and respect must be the defining attributes of our posture as Christians in the face of opposition. Let's briefly pick apart these words a little bit. Gentleness can be defined as the refusal to respond with force or demand our own rights. The refusal to respond with force or demand our own rights. Throughout Scripture, gentleness is consistently held up as the standard of Christian conduct. In Galatians, we have this beautiful list of attributes, which we call the fruit of the Spirit, and gentleness is right in there. In 1 Timothy 3. 3, we see that gentleness is also a qualification. for the office of elder in God's church, someone who refuses to respond with force or demand their own rights as a first priority. Gentleness toward us is what led Jesus to the cross rather than to war, despite what Peter and some of the other disciples really wanted him to do. And in our witness, Jesus' gentleness. must shape our response to conflict and opposition. Now what about respect? You know, it's really funny, but the word respect is literally the word for fear. Literally the word for fear, fabos. How interesting is it that Peter doesn't call on us to be afraid of people? He's saying treat them with fear, but by that word fear, he simply means to offer honor and dignity to those who disagree, even when they don't offer it to you. Offer honor and dignity to those who oppose you, even when they refuse to offer it to you. Just like Jesus did to his accusers. You know, I can think of so many pictures of this, whether it's testimonies of missionaries who have had you answer this kind of inquiry under the threat of death. Examples of friends, even friends I know from our church who have shared their faith or come to faith through the good testimony of a friend. I can think of some examples of this from my own life. But there was one recently that hit me so deeply. And that I think is so incredibly profound. And it happened in Charleston, South Carolina in 2015. It was following the murder of church members during a Bible study at Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. You probably know this story. You might be familiar with the news reports. But a young man named Dylan Roof was invited into this historic church, welcomed into a Wednesday night Bible study. But during prayer, he pulled out a handgun and he killed most of the participants in that study. Now he was caught. He was found guilty. He was sentenced to death. But what struck me in that story is what happened at his bond hearing. It was the first opportunity many of those who had suffered the loss of loved ones had to face The one who committed this atrocity. And they began spontaneously, not in a planned way. They spontaneously began offering forgiveness. They acknowledged the deep reality of their pain and suffering, the pain and suffering that this man had caused to them, but they forgave him. Commenting on this scene, a pastor said, some people see the family's forgiveness as submission. But that act of forgiving people is the greatest act of love that a person could ever experience. In the face of the worst and ugliest kind of opposition, fearing God rather than man presented a tragic yet beautiful chance to display the gospel of Jesus Christ Fear of man would have made them refuse to show up that day. I might have done that. Fear of man would have pushed them to respond with defensiveness and hate in response But instead, through reverence of Christ Jesus as Lord, they could forgive publicly because they had experienced forgiveness A perfect Savior had laid down his life for their sins, though they were far from him and did not deserve it. And so they could forgive too. They chose to be ruled by fear of God and the Lordship of Christ rather than the fear of man, responding with gentleness in the face of violence. Borrowing the words of Isaiah. Like Jesus, they were oppressed and afflicted, yet did not open their mouths in self-defense. By their willingness to endure the cost of forgiveness and forsake their rights to wrath and hatred, they bore witness to a God who is gentle in forgiveness Even laying down his life for his enemies. What a beautiful and compelling witness. What a beautiful defense for the hope that they have in Christ. Brothers and sisters. The lesson I hope that you will take from this today is: do not let fear of mere people shape you. Fear and honor Christ Jesus as Lord in your hearts. And let his example of gentleness and respect in the face of conflict, let that be what shapes your witness. And your relationship with those outside these walls, and in them for that matter, if you find yourself struggling to jump off the diving board of sharing your faith. Or you are someone who struggles with letting misplaced fear rule you in some way. Let me give you one task this week. One task. Ask God. Ask Jesus. Ask him to take over rule of your fearful heart. Ask that God would grow you in the fear of the Lord And then share. Look for opportunities in your life and work, even over the dinner table with friends and family, even at the workplace when appropriate. To display gentleness and respect to those who disagree with you. And I know that our God who delights to answer your prayers, That he will give you the confidence to trust him and to make a good witness for the hope that you have in Jesus Amen. Let's pray. Our Father, we do thank you and praise you for your word which is living and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword. You change us by it. You change me by it. Remind us this week that there is only one worth fearing, and it's you. And to fear you is to know. Lord is to know confidence in relation to this world. I pray that you would help us to go throughout this week, knowing that you are our Lord, and we can trust you with whatever comes. And seek to follow you, knowing that you hold our lives secure. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.