How many of you have ever heard of message on fasting? Few of you, no, hold on. Maybe uh fourth or fifth of you have heard that. Maybe you've heard it in connection with a message on prayer We often have this idea that fasting really has to do with serious prayer. So maybe you've heard it in conjunction with that, or you've heard fasting mentioned about that. I just came upon an article this week that talked about fasting and prayer. Listen to this. This is uh encouraging uh Account of God's power in Thailand , uh the Kalisin province Of Thailand, 134 families became Christians when the native missionary Lun Pubuanak and his church prayed for rain. Pubuanak was holding services with his small congregation when the village leaders interrupted. If you ask your God to give us rain this month, all households in our clan will worship your God and become Christians, said the leader. Skeptical at first, Pubo Anak told them that they could not play games with the living God. But the leader repeated his vow and said, If we do not, your God can send judgment on us The Christians immediately began to fast and pray. On the fourth day, a storm came that filled the rice fields and saved their crops. The rain was so intense that the villagers admitted that Jesus is the true and living God, Puboanak said. All the households in the village were converted, and word is spread to many of the surrounding districts. This is a living testimony that helps us win souls easily now in this area. Encouraging account of God's power in answer to prayer. But notice it was in terms of fasting and prayer. So the question has to come, what place did the fasting play in that praying? Was it the fasting that made a difference? Did the fasting make the prayer more effective Should we fast when we pray? If we're really serious when we pray? Bill Bright has said repeatedly that he believes he's convinced that if two million Americans Will fast and pray for revival for 40 days. Revival will come to America. Is he right? I realize that as I'm speaking this morning, that those of you who are hearing me fall into broadly one of three categories First of all, there are some of you who have never fasted and can't imagine for the life of you ever doing it. Voluntarily missing a meal? That's kind of a crazy notion As for strange religious people who wear hair shirts and probably grow beards and carry around signs and placards protesting things. Where there's the second category of people here, those of you who perhaps have fasted once or twice in your life under some extreme circumstance of grief, affliction And maybe you feel that you should do it more. You feel that if you were really serious about spiritual things, you probably fast occasionally, but you feel vaguely guilty about the fact that you don't do it very much at all. And then there's the third category of people here, which would be those who do occasionally fast. You've fasted from time to time, found it beneficial, you wish more Christians did it. You find yourself more or less in agreement with Bill Bright. Maybe you're saying to yourself, it's about time that somebody at CPC finally spoke about fasting around this place after all these years. Now why is it that I'm preaching then this morning on fasting? What happened to the sit and walk stand series and sitting in the heavenlies, you know? Tired of it all of a sudden, got distracted? Why am I switching to fasting? Well, let me give you five reasons real quick quickly why I'm speaking on fasting. They're not in your bulletin outline. See you all looking down there. Don't worry. They're not there. Just gonna tell you five reasons real quick. Number one Because I'm finding that people like Bill Bright, Bill Gothard, and many others have been advocating more and more fasting as a key to revival in America The key to promoting a deeper spiritual life. I think that this is something we need to address. Secondly, a couple of years back, the elders discussed fasting in conjunction with practice that we elders should uh perhaps engage in or require for potential elders as part of their training. And the elders said at that time, Al , before we adopt any kind of policies or actions for the church We'd appreciate it if you would look into this and preach on it. So guys, this is the answer to that request. Thirdly, and uh John Wesley, by the way, did said once that he would not consider ordaining anyone to the Methodist ministry who did not commonly fast. Third reason is that it's Lent And a number of churches, notably the Roman Catholic Church, advocates fasting during Lent. We have never done that. Why don't we? Should we? Uh why is it that we don't speak about fasting around here during Lent? Fourthly, it relates, I believe, to what I was speaking about last week in Colossians chapter two, which talks about certain Things that we do in order to come into rest to attain to a higher spiritual level. And so I think that It fits in, as you'll see, to uh some of the principles and points I was trying to make last week. And then finally the fifth reason is that in the next two weeks, as part of the missions conference, Richard Sharp, that's not Sandy Sharp, no connection, Richard Sharp will be preaching and I will be preaching on Acts 13, Richard Sharp from Operation Mobilization. And uh we'll be both preaching from Acts 13, 1 to 3, which speaks of the Church of Antioch fasting in connection with their worship and in sending forth the first missionaries. Now I want to set aside, I want to deal with that question of fasting, which is mentioned in that text, so I don't have to deal with it when we deal with the text and other of the matters that we want to consider in the next couple weeks. But since I know there'll be questions about that. I wanted to speak to that now. So I want to sum up the Bible's teaching from Genesis to Revelation on fasting in a few minutes with you, with a couple of practical suggestions thrown in at the end. Let me be very clear right from the beginning that there is a lot in the Bible on fasting. Many passages in the scripture that speak about fasting. There is many references two people fasting in the Bible. Moses fasted for forty days on Mount Sinai. David fasted on a number of occasions, mentions it in the Psalms. Daniel fasted for three weeks in one period of time in connection with his prayer for Israel in the exile. Esther, you remember, called a national fast when Persia was threatening Israel with genocide, wiping out the entire nation. There are many other occasions that are referred to in the Bible about fasting. But I believe that the one key passage for us to look at to understand this is found in Mark chapter 2. So if you haven't already looked at Mark chapter 2 Please open your Bibles if you have them to Mark chapter 2. In Mark chapter 2, you have another account of the Pharisees' criticisms of Jesus and his disciples. Verse 20 to 22 is often referred to from Mark chapter 2 in connection with renewal ministries and restructuring the church for renewal. It's a classic example of ripping some verses out of context. Verses 20 to 22 don't talk about structures of renewal, it's actually talking about fasting. So let's look at it and hear God's word as he speaks to us and consider what the Lord is teaching us from this. Mark chapter 2, verses 18 to 22. Hear God's word. Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And some people came and they asked Jesus, how is it that John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees are fasting, but yours are not? And Jesus answered, How can the guests of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot, so long as they have him with him. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and on that day they will fast. No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth to an old garment. If he does, the new piece will pull away from the old, making the tear worse. And no one pours new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins And both the wine and the wineskins will be ruined. No, he pours new wine into new wineskins. As I say, this is a criticism of the Pharisees against Jesus. They were fasting. The custom of that time was for Jews to fast twice a week, every Monday and Thursday, was fast day. So they were probably it's probably some Monday or some Thursday and there they are fasting, they're missing their meal, and Jesus and his disciples are enjoying a good one. You know, they're having some roast lamb or something and they're saying, Hey, how come We're fasting and you guys aren't fasting. Why aren't you spiritual like we are in this? And so they put that question. Seems that Jesus and his disciples are less spiritual than the common run-of-the-mill disciples of John or of the Pharisees at that time. So first of all, notice the people's question. That's the first point I want to consider, which is basically why aren't you guys fasting? How is it that John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees are fasting, but yours are not In order to appreciate this, you need to understand that that question is based on two things. It's based on the commands of Scripture, and it's based on the traditions of that time. Now, real briefly, I want to just make five points about the commands of Scripture. You see in your bulletin outline to help you follow along in that. Five things about the commands of the Old Testament with regard to fasting. Number one, there is only one reference to any event where God commands fasting, and it's in conjunction with the Day of Atonement, Leviticus 16, 23. Chapter 16, Chapter 23, and I that's Leviticus, by the way. Missed my cap on the L there. But that's Leviticus and Numbers refer to fasting on the Day of Atonement, one whole day, from sundown to sundown, you were not to eat. In fact, if you had so much as a snack You were cut off from the people of Israel. It was a sacred fast to be held in conjunction with confession of sin and repentance. This is the only command in Scripture about fasting. Secondly That practice became ritualized. As our tendency is, so it was with Israel. They ritualized what was intended to be an intensely spiritual exercise. And so they would have their fast and they'd make a big deal about it, but there was no repentance, there was no confession, there was no searching of the heart. So Isaiah 58 addresses that abuse. and speaks about what a true fast and what should characterize a true fast would be. Third point is that after the exile, Israel instituted four more fast days to commemorate certain occasions, and those are mentioned in Zechariah seven and eight. Fifth point is that by and large, the vast majority of references in the Old Testament are simply to the practice of fasting As I mentioned before, of Moses, David, Daniel, Esther, a number of people. For instance, David in 2 Samuel chapter 31 and his men all fast on the death of Saul and Jonathan. In 2 Samuel chapter 13, I believe it is, or 12. 2 Samuel, wherever it is, 12 , David fasts for a week. while his son by Bathsheba his life hanging in the balance. And so David's fasting and praying on that occasion simply can't eat. uh mentioned about Esther uh calling a fast uh on the occasion of Israel's peril. And he had many other such references uh to fasting going on, people that can't eat. They also uh practice tearing their clothes on those occasions too. I don't notice a whole lot of people advocating that today. I haven't read one person saying if everybody would go around ripping up their wardrobes that revival might come, but that was practiced just as much as fasting back then. Of course, uh Hex and Uptons and Ross would highly uh advocate such a practice today, but nobody seems very eager to promote it Well, that's what they did in the Old Testament. In addition, there's also the second thing, which is the traditions of the Jews at the time of Jesus' day. Fasting had become a very important part of religious life at that time. As I said, if you were really in, if you were considered part of the core, then you fasted uh every Monday and every Thursday. There were two abuses to this that the Scripture addresses, and that is number one, that fasting had become uh something simply for superstitious merit at that time. You have Luke 18, you remember the Pharisee and the publican both go up to the temple And what's the Pharisee pray? You know, Lord, I thank you, I'm not like this scumbag publican over here. This guy's just a glutton eats all the time. I fast twice a week And so he uses that as a means of God, hear me, you know, I've got a right to be heard because I fast twice a week. So it was done to gain merit, to gain God's favor out of some superstitious sort of uh motive in doing that. Secondly, of course, there was the ostentatious self-righteousness being seen as more spiritual that Matthew 6 addresses. The fact that you would uh you know kind of let it be known in subtle or not so subtle ways that you fasted and that uh this was an evidence you really meant business with the Lord. And you see the same kind of thing today also, people kind of dropping little hints. whether writing or talking about fasting or preaching about like I'm doing. You know, you just you let this be known, you know, that I fast, why don't you, kind of thing. Well, clearly the scripture was against that But fasting in itself is a good thing, right? Well, before you answer too quickly, consider How would you account for Jesus' answer? It's a rather astounding answer when you think about it. So notice secondly what Jesus' answer is to this, in which he gives an astonishing new perspective on this matter of fasting. Very strange. There's three parts to his answer. Verses nineteen, twenty, and twenty to twenty-one and twenty-two. Notice first of all, first part of his answer in verse nineteen. Jesus answered How can the guests of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot, so long as they have him with him He's referring to the guests of the bridegroom who were the attendants. These were the people comparable to the best man. Only in those days you could have best men, you know, you'd have a group of them who would be attending you. It's interesting to me that Jesus counters it in this language. I think it's very purposeful, meaningful language. He uses this illustration of the best men, the attendants of the bridegroom, because that was the language that John the Baptist used. Remember, he's speaking to the disciples of John the Baptist. If you were to look over in John 3 verse John three, verse twenty-nine and thirty, don't bother right now, I'll just read it to you. Uh but John the Baptist said, referring to the fact that he was not the Messiah But he was simply sent ahead of the Messiah, he then says in John three twenty nine, the bride belongs to the bridegroom The friend who attends the bridegroom waits and listens for him and is full of joy when he hears the bridegroom's voice. That joy is mine, and it is now complete. He must become greater. I must become less. So Jesus picks up on this language. Remember, you know this, remember what John said about the attendance of the bridegroom, how they rejoice at his presence? Well, here's my disciples. They're attending me, and they are rejoicing in my presence. In fact, what Jesus is saying is something utterly astounding. He's saying, my presence outweighs any cause for fasting. That's the A there. My presence outweighs any cause for fasting. Now just as an aside in that, notice, if Jesus is not God, that is a most arrogant statement. Can you imagine that if we practice fasting here as just part of our Presbyterian Reformed evangelical heritage, everybody normally fasted every Monday and Thursday And then I come along and I say, guys, we're calling off the fasting. You can't fast because I'm here. Hey, how can anybody fast when I'm around? I mean, you'd say, hey, get this guy out of here, you know, who's he think he is? But Jesus is saying exactly that. He's saying, as long as I'm with you, how can you fast? You see, what he's doing is he's portraying a picture something like this. You're doing your income tax, okay? And you're working out your budget. And it's pretty grim. And so, you know, you get pretty long-faced and you're thinking, you know, how am I going to give through this month and I go and I owe the government I already thought I paid him twice of what I should and on and on and on. But this afternoon, my best friend's getting married Alright, so I set aside the income tax, I set aside all that, and I head off for the wedding. And what happens? My mood changes because I get caught up in something bigger than my budget. My friend's getting married, and so as I'm at the wedding, I'm enjoying his wedding, and I'm I'm all carried up with the celebration of this wonderful thing that's going on Mark and Michelle can smile and appreciate that a little bit and Paul and Mara and some others thinking about that. You know, somebody comes to me at the reception and they say, Boy, you know, I've heard about your income tax and your budget. If I were you, I'd be fascinated about that What would I say? Hey man, how can I fast about that now? This is a time to celebrate and rejoice. My friend's getting married. Now that's what Jesus is saying. I have come. And when you are with me in this celebration of the kingdom that is coming, how can you possibly fast? Now then notice the second part of his answer. This is the crucial verse, verse 20. Everything hangs on this verse. He then says, but The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast. What Jesus is saying here is my removal will be the cause for fasting. Now, what's that referred to? Everything depends. Everything about your view of fasting in our day and how we should practice it depends on your interpretation of that verse and your answer to that question. There's two possibilities Either he's referring to that period of time between his first and second coming, when the bridegroom's taken away, then he comes again, that's the second coming. Or he's referring to the three days between his death and his resurrection. Now which is it? Which do you think? I'm not gonna ask for a show of hands. Which do you think? Is he talking about a second first and second coming? Or is he talking about just the three days between his death and his resurrection Now, basic principle of biblical interpretation is that you compare scripture with scripture, right? You don't have to be left in wondering what the answer to that question is. Because I believe that John 16 tells you. In John chapter 16, Jesus is addressing the exact same thing. He's talking about how I am going to be taken from you and your joy is going to be turned to grief. Then he tells you when that grief is going to be returned to joy. Look at it later, John 16, 16 to 22. But let me just read you verse 22 now. So it is with you. He's given the example of a woman who's having birth and she's in pain and the pain of childbirth is upon her. But that pain all turns to joy because this kid's born, you know, and that kid becomes the focus and it's all worth it, and there it is. So he says in verse 22 with you, now, this is on the eve of his death, now is your time of grief. But I will see you again And you will rejoice and no one will take away your joy. What's that referring to? Obviously. That's the resurrection, right? So what Jesus is saying is the time when I'm taken from you and will be returned to you is talking about the period of the three days between his death and his resurrection. Now you go back to Mark chapter 2, and you realize that what Jesus is saying is that the time will come when the bridegroom is going to be taken away, kind of removed is the idea in the Greek, ripped away. And on that day they're going to fast. Then, verse 21-22, the third part to his answer, is that he says that there's coming a new time. A new day is upon you that's not going to fit Your view of religion. He gives two examples. The first example he gives is of a patch on a piece of cloth. No one says a patch. of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does so, the new piece's gonna pull away from the old, making the tear worse. Now perhaps you're like me, you're thinking, what in the world's that got to do with fasting? He just switched the subject. No, he didn't What he's saying is, take this unshrunk piece of cloth, tie it to a old piece of cloth that's been washed a lot of times, if you wash it again, the new piece shrinks and just pulls it away from the cloth that has been So too, and now you got a bigger hole. That's pretty dumb. Or the other example he gives, verse twenty-two, is of wine and wineskins. No one's gonna pour new wine into old wineskins If he does, the wine's gonna burst the skins and both the wine and the wineskins are gonna be ruined. No, he pours new wine into new wineskins. He poured wine into he's talking about course goatskin bottles that they used And he's saying you pour that new wine in there, the new wine when it ferments, it expands. If you got a new wineskin, it's pliable, it's flexible, it's going to expand with it. Got an old, rigid, brittle wineskin, uh goat skin The new wine wineskin is going to expand. It's going to burst the old skin. So you're going to lose both the skin and the bot the skin and the wine. Now what Jesus is saying is that there is coming now a new day of the kingdom that I am bringing with me. And when I am returned, when I rise from the dead, this whole new way of serving God and me is not going to fit the structures you have. Specifically, I believe what he's saying is that if there was only one command in the Old Testament to fast, and that was on the Day of Atonement, and my earthly presence abrogated fasting, that is, you couldn't fast while I was around here, how much which now? What's that blank? Less or more? How much more should you fast or how much less should you fast in the new day? It's how much less, right I hope you got that. How much less should you and I fast once Jesus has come back? Why? Since Jesus, number one, shed his atoning blood once for all, Hebrews 9 and 10. For our sin. The Day of Atonement 's been fulfilled. Jesus says, I've come. I've shed my blood for your sin And so if you this morning are trusting in Jesus' sacrifice to cover your sin, there's no other sacrifice to be made. You rest in him. Secondly, if Jesus is in fact now present with us perpetually, Matthew 28, ah, lo, I am with you always, from now to the end of the age, wherever you are in the world. Then Jesus is saying, This notion of your fasting and how it has uh been fixed to a way of approaching God simply doesn't fit what I've come to accomplish. I've abolished that kind of thinking Now, does that mean that we should never fast? That's the third question. What's our question? Should we never fast? Well, first of all, let me answer that both negatively and positively The negative side is, no, we do not fast to gain men's favor. Scripture clearly condemns the idea that we should be calling fast and promoting fast. So that people have this in-group or the outgroup. There's those that fast and they're the spiritual ones, and there's those that don't fast and they're the gluttons and they're the ones that, you know, don't really understand spiritual things. Fasting normally should be privately done. It should not be something that is done so that other people see or know. If you choose to do it, you don't do it for other people's benefit. Secondly You do not fast to gain God's favor. This is a particular concern I have. There's two ways that we tend to do this People fast because they think that it improves their chances of being heard. Kind of have gradations of prayer. You have the sort of run-of-the-mill prayers. You know, they're the ones you're daily quiet time driving in the car waiting for traffic lights. You know, you're gonna always do one Ah, then you got the more important prayers. And then as you call through the prayer chain, because you know you got more people praying, you got a better chance of being heard, get your small group, you know, say get all these people pray Then you got the really serious stuff. I mean this one, I am really bent on this one being answered, so we're gonna fast and pray. Now what's the thinking? You know, you're increasing the likelihood, right? Isn't that somewhat superstitious? Well, you're probably horror struck at my saying that. I mean, shouldn't we use the prayer chain? Shouldn't we fast? It's the motive Catch it. God, if I fast and I pray, I am more likely for you to hear me. Do you see what I'm doing? I am fasting so that you'll answer Twisting God's arm, you see, well, we're really going to answer that. Oh, but since you're fasting, I guess, you know, how can I deny you now? What y what stupid, superstitious kind of thinking is this? The gospel abrogates that. Jesus says it's my presence. It's not that you do something in order to get me to answer as if I'm somehow reluctant. You've got to persuade me through all your efforts. The second way that we fast, I think, uh super not just superstitiously, but legalistically, is just to prove our earnestness to God. Now this is the problem I have with Bill Bright and others saying if we just had two million people that just fasted for 40 days, then revival would come. You see, if we can just do something Not only, I think, is there some superstition to that, but there's also the notion of just proving our earnestness by this work. But you see, the gospel cuts through all that I mean at stake really is the gospel here. And yeah, let me just say I've anticipated, I already know. You're gonna have two objections, right? First of all, you're gonna say Jesus fasted and the church fasted. So how can you say that Jesus fasted for 40 days, so certainly doesn't that isn't that a pattern for us? Well, uh certain yes and no. I think it's a pattern in terms of the benefits of fasting, which I'll speak to in a moment But there's something very unique about Jesus going into the wilderness as Messiah to become physically, mentally, and spiritually prepared for a face-to-face combat with Satan. Jesus was in a unique position there of preparation as the second Adam going into the wilderness to do battle with Satan. And so at that uniqueness, you have to be careful what you draw from that as a pattern for us. I think there is a pattern, I'll get to that in a moment. Secondly, you may say the early church fasted. Saul fasted three days after his experience on the road to Damascus. The church at Antioch fasted in connection with their worship and the sending out of Paul and Barnabas as missionaries, we'll speak of next week. Paul and Barnabas, when they ordained elders in the churches, did it with fasting and prayer. So then you say, hey, clearly just defeated your own case. Church practice fasting, so why don't we? Three things to notice about that. Number one, I think it's significant those are the only post-resurrection instances of fasting, the three that I've just mentioned. Those are the only ones you have in the New Testament. D, there is no command or commending of fasting in any of the New Testament epistles. Paul never advocates fasting. Which is very m remarkable when you consider passages like James 4 that talks about m mourning, howling, and weeping over your sin, but he never mentions fasting in connection with it. See, Paul makes two personal references to fasting. Both of them were involuntary. In fact, the NIV simply cannot uh uh translates them with the word hunger. He talks about he had to do without because there was no food available. He didn't say he was fasting because he wanted to Again, let me emphasize what is at state. It's simply the gospel versus superstition and legalism. Fasting is not real prayer. Colossians 2 speaks of the higher level of those who taste not, touch not. This is the same kind of idea. If fasting is done superstitiously or legalistically, it falls under the condemnation of Colossians chapter 2. We are called to live in the heavenlies. Jesus' presence is with us, brothers and sisters. If you and I realized more that we are seated in the heavenlies with Jesus, That his resurrected presence is with us. He has taken us to be seated with him, to know his presence in every situation. I think that would change our perspective on any of these superstitious legalistic notions of our religious practices. And so we need to have that at the forefront of our thinking in anything that we connect with prayer in terms of thinking of what's going to make more or likely for God to answer. Now having said that, let me mention in conclusion three positive reasons for us personally, normally, privately, voluntarily, to consider fasting. Having said all of that Three reasons for personal, normally private. I don't think it's against Scripture, it's wrong to call a fast. I think the only way you would do that, or we would do it as a church, when it's so obvious that we have been gripped By a need, by sin, by something that has so captured us that it's just something that everybody's saying, Well, you know, we need to do it And it would be done again personally and privately, and not in some way that we would be comparing ourselves with one another. But That would be possible for three possible three benefits. Number one, I believe that fasting is simply a natural consequence of certain grief and repentance. There are certain things that happen in your life that just take away your appetite. And we need to be in touch with our bodies enough so that we feel enough passion for sin, for our repentance, for the things that happen in our lives, that there'd be times when we would choose not to eat. And that when we feel like not eating, that that moves us to prayer. That we consider the biblical principle of joining together the fasting with a prayer, not just fasting and worrying, stewing, grieving, and not turning to God in that. Secondly, fasting does aid in concentration. It aids in concentration and prayer in two particular ways. Number one, physiologically Your energy in your body is directed toward thinking rather than digesting. Uh kind of a joke with us of the session retreats. You want to get anything passed with any consideration, do it before lunch After lunch, you'll get people to nod very much in agreement in anything you say. They all just stand there and they go, Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, you know Uh you know, I mean what does a good meal do to you? Well it doesn't help your concentration, that's for sure. And so to set aside a meal will aid that higher drive level Focus is your concentration. Secondly, of course, you just save the time preparing, eating, and cleaning up on the meal. Now let me just mention that uh you know, I could tell you, hey, I fast every Tuesday, you know? Isn't that wonderful I don't fast on Tuesday because of some spiritual activity. I fast because I don't want to take the time to eat. I go out and I pray and I say it's just easier. I have no compunctions about taking an apple, an orange, a banana, or anything else along with me while I'm eating. I just don't want to take the hassle of the time. And so we need to just be common sense Christians that say, I'm in touch with my body, I'm in touch with my spirit, I take the opportunity because God's moving me to prayer, and something that gets in the way, I'm just going to remove it And then finally, the last thing is that it aids in our focus on spiritual things. We need to focus on things that are spiritual, and sometimes it helps to say no to the body to do that. Now there is one reference in Paul's epistles to fasting, so you said there were none. Well, I cheated a little bit. There's one reference to fasting. It's to sexual fasting. Not food fasting. First Corinthians seven, Paul talks about husbands and wives abstaining from sex for a period of time so that they can focus on prayer. Interesting the wh the point he brings it up for is to limit it, not necessarily to advocate it. But there is that benefit of setting aside the bodily needs, appetites, in order to focus on spiritual things. M. Scott Peck said in his book, The Roadless Travel, Westerners have a hard time thinking about denying themselves anything. And sometimes, in order for us to remember the importance and priority of spiritual things, to live in the heavenlies, There can be a benefit to saying no to the body. It's simply a it's as simple as that. It's not superstitious, not legalistic. It's simply a practical function. And it reminds you Of the presence of Jesus and the fact that when Jesus comes again and you appear with him, you will be brought to what? A feast. And in his presence there will be no cause for fasting ever again. Let's pray. Lord, we want to come to you this morning and recognize that we are superstitious and legalistic people. We go so get drawn into anything we think is going to get your attention or is going to help us to feel better about ourselves, more spiritual, or whatever else. And Lord Jesus, in doing that, we've denied the joy of your presence. Help us to see what you're saying here. That your presence is so wonderful. That to be aware of your presence is to take away any inclinations towards superstitious, legalistic kind of fasting. And simply to enjoy you. And yet, as people who do face pain and grief for our sin, longing for you to do things, Lord, we know that there can be a benefit And setting aside the food in order to come before you, we pray that you would teach us as people to be in touch with our spirits. We might learn how to pray. We may learn how to live in your presence and seek you. Teach us, Lord, how to pray. Teach us the proper and useful means of fasting and doing that. That we might enjoy you and see your power in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.