And nothing will ever be the same again. Back two thousand years later, it's still the cover story on Time magazine and US News and World Report that there is the hope of eternal life. Because we believe it is true that Jesus has risen. I would like for us to pick up the story that you heard earlier of the resurrection account from Luke's Gospel, chapter 24. After the account that you heard of the women going to the tomb and seeing that the tomb was empty, Luke picks up his account uniquely in an incident that occurs between Jesus and two disciples. And I would like to read this from God's Word. If you have your Bible, please open it and follow along with me. So that you can see the nature here of the risen Christ and how two disciples, ordinary disciples like you and me, related to him. Luke chapter 24, beginning with verse 13. Now that same day, two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. They were talking with each other about everything that had happened. And as they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them. But they were kept from recognizing him. He asked them, what are you discussing together as you walk along? They stood still, their faces downcast One of them, named Cleopus, asked him, Are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened there in these days? What things? He asked. About Jesus of Nazareth, they replied. He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death. And they crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. In addition, some of our women amazed us. They went to the tomb early this morning, but didn't find his body. They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. He said to them , How foolish you are! And how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going farther. But they urged him strongly: stay with us, for it is nearly evening. The day is almost over. And so he went in to stay with them. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, and broke it, and began to give it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other , Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us? They got up and they returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the eleven and those with them assembled together and saying, It is true, the Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon. And then the two told what had happened on the way and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread. The text that I want to focus on this morning is verse 32. We just read there. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning within us, while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us. That verse sums up the points that I would like to make to you this Easter morning, to see what our Jesus risen from the dead is like today. Because he has alive, we are still able to relate to him. And I want to see three things from this verse about that Notice first of all from this verse that he is accessible. He is accessible to us. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning with us while he talked with us on the road. He talked with us on the road. Now we understand from the Gospels, of course, that Jesus ate and slept and talked with his disciples in the years that he was with us here on earth. But since he has been raised from the dead, is he not now more remote from us? We can't see him. How many times have you tried to talk to Jesus? And you've wondered, is he listening? Does he hear what I'm saying? I don't get any verbal response. Is he really there? I talk to him. Does he hear me? Is there a communication going on here? Is there a relationship? He seems remote. And I want for us to be encouraged. And instructed by this passage to see that Jesus is in fact accessible to each one of us today. First of all, there's three things to notice about his accessibility. The first one I want to notice is that he is accessible only to his disciples. You notice in verse 32, three times they say, us, were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us. Now it doesn't say only us disciples, but it prompts the thought that if you read the post-resurrection accounts in the Gospels or anywhere in Scripture, You find that in not one instance does Jesus ever appear to one who is not a believer. The only Thing you could think of as an exception is the appearance to Saul of Tarsus on the road to Damascus, and that was on the occasion of his dramatic conversion. Jesus appears and is accessible only to his disciples. This morning, if Christianity in Jesus Christ is peripheral in your life Enough of an interest that on an Easter morning you would come to celebrate Easter and the resurrection But for the rest of your life, from Monday through Saturday, and even for many weekends, you find that he's really pretty peripheral to you. Then you are in the utmost delusion to think that He is accessible to you No wonder he would seem remote to you. For his accessibility is only to those who have recognized their sin and that they can do nothing for that sin to atone for it. to make good to God for, but only to rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross when he died for that sin, for those sins of his people. But the good news is that it's not too late. If you find that Jesus is peripheral in your life, that you find that He is not accessible to you in any way that seems tangible. Let me tell you in his name that he invites you this morning to come to him. It's not too late. He invites you because he is risen. That you can come to Him this morning and have your sins forgiven, to have your heart made new, and enter into a genuine relationship with Jesus Christ that will transform your life. I promise that in nothing less than the name of Jesus Christ. And if you have any questions or doubts about that, let me urge you to put on the gray slip before that's turned in at the offering time. That you would write on the back of that slip, I'm wondering about my relationship with Jesus or any way you want to word it. But I'll get back to you to talk about that. Jesus is accessible only to those who belong to him by faith. But note That while he is accessible only to those who are trusting in him and following him as Savior and Lord of their lives, he is also accessible to all his disciples. That's the B under point one. Not only is it only his disciples, but it's all his disciples. Who are these two that we've been reading about on this road to Emmaus? These two disciples are not among the twelve. In fact, there is no mention of these disciples anywhere else in the New Testament. In fact, one of them is not even named, and we don't know who it is. Two ordinary disciples like you and me. And here it is, Resurrection Day. You could argue that this day, along with Good Friday, are the two most significant, most intense days in all of human history. And here's two ordinary disciples, not very admirable disciples. These guys seem ready to give up their faith They're ready to go back home and say it was all just a dream, it was fruitless, we're ready to give up on the whole thing And for at least a couple of hours on that precious day of all history, Jesus meets with two disciples that are of no account in the rest of the pages of history, gospel or otherwise. I don't know about you, but that sure comforts me. Because it says that if you are in a place now this morning where you are disappointed with God, as these disciples were. If you feel that God has let you down, if you're in a place where you're feeling like all your hopes have been dashed , There was a time when you were walking with Jesus Christ more consistently. And now you're about ready to give up on the whole thing. And you're wondering if it's true. You're wondering if you can really trust this book, the Bible. Let me tell you again, Jesus wants to meet with you this morning. He's here to talk with you. Our hearts burned within us while he talked with us on the road. And because he's alive That same Jesus is accessible to every one of his disciples. There is no one here in this room. who is too small or unimportant or insignificant, that Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, does not want to meet with you and speak to you. And encourage your heart to believe him, to trust him, and to follow him anew. Every one of us Because he is the risen Lord and He is not restricted to just meeting with the biggies, the important people, the missionaries, the preachers, the Super Saints. He's accessible to every single one of us. He comes to meet with you as he met with Cleopus and what's his name that we don't even know. He meets with you on the road. Notice that the third thing. He comes because he's accessible to me on my daily road. He's accessible to me. These two disciples say, well, he talked with us on the road. You notice it wasn't just in a worship service or in a Bible study. He was simply on the road as they were going home. And Jesus wants to meet with you on the road of your life. What's your road like this morning? What's the road of your life like? Is it a monotonous road? A road full of nothing but endless diapers and seemingly trivial tasks? A road where you can wonder if Jesus could possibly ever be interested in what you're doing because sometimes you're not very interested in what you're doing. And it all just seems to unwind on and on and on, and you wonder what's the purpose, and will these days ever pass? Will you ever count for anything significant? And will God ever call you to anything that seems really meaningful? These disciples were simply on their way back to Emmaus. They didn't know what they were going to do. But Jesus met them right there. And Jesus Christ meets you on your road of monotony. Let me offer you a suggestion. If you find that in those tasks that you do, that your mind wanders and you find it very difficult to think about Jesus, try talking out loud to him. Try sometime realizing he is risen, therefore he is here with me. And instead of just thinking about him , If somebody around you is not going to think you're crazy, if you're alone, or if it's a baby that you're with, or someone who wouldn't be bothered by it, speak out loud to him. Lord Jesus, here's where I am, and here's what's going through my mind. And then you know what to do that makes it really interesting is imagine how he would respond to you. Call up from your mind what scriptures will help you to think: how would Jesus be responding to me now as I'm saying this? If he was right here on the road as he was with those disciples, what might he say to me? And then interact as you use your imagination, as you speak to him, and then imagine him using whatever you can from Scripture, and it'll be an incentive to know more Scripture so that the conversation will be more meaningful. He'll meet you in the monotony. And no road can be monotonous when you're talking with Jesus. Or perhaps with you, it's a A rough road that you're traveling. It's a road that you're feeling utterly abandoned. You're feeling that your hopes have been dashed as these disciples. And you wonder how you can talk to Jesus. Let me assure you again. It was right in their despair and their hopelessness that Jesus met these disciples. And I can testify to you, as I've told a number of you, that recent weeks and the last couple of months have been particularly difficult for me. God has been putting me through a number of things. And I have found it is precisely in those situations that oftentimes my communication with him is most sweet. Where he removes every other prop and he thrusts you completely on himself. And that road seems so rough you don't know how you're going to go another mile. But you cry out to Jesus and you believe He's risen. He's here with you. He is the sovereign Lord. And because He is the Sovereign Lord, He is in control of all those affairs of your life. And he's not only sovereign, but he is all-wise. He knows exactly what he is doing in those things that he has brought into your life. And he's not only all-wise, but he's also all loving. He has your best interest in his heart. And while the road may seem rough, When you're aware that Jesus is with you on that road, He removes the despair and the hopelessness and can bring joy into your heart. Perhaps for you it seems like a dangerous route. You're anxious about where this road's taking you. You're fearful about where you're headed. You're full of fear this morning. And you wonder, as these disciples, if all your hopes are in vain. Jesus is here. Because he is alive from the dead. You can trust him in where he's taking you on that road. And his sufficiency. Brothers and sisters, let us not just sing that Jesus has risen. Believe it and act on it. Tomorrow, as you get up, remember Jesus has risen from the dead. He is accessible to me in my life and situation right now. But you say I don't feel it. Ah, that brings me to the second point. The second point is that he is accessible, you see, here, through Scripture. He is accessible not primarily through your feelings, but through Scripture. Look again at verse 32. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road? And opened the scriptures to us. Look again at how these disciples met him. They're walking on the road back to Emmaus. They're downcast, their faces are down, they're saying, We had hoped that this one was the Messiah. They pour out their hearts to him in verses 19 to 24, and all their grief and disappointment. But how does he respond? In verse 25, he doesn't say, hey, fellas, wake up. It's me, Jesus. Here I am. Rather, he keeps his identity hidden from them. While in verse 25, you see, he said to them, How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Christ, the Messiah, have to suffer these things and then enter his glory? And beginning with Moses, the very beginning of the Old Testament, and all the prophets? He explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. Here he is, the risen Christ. And yet he doesn't reveal themselves directly. He wants to teach them that the way they're going to know him in the days to come is the same way that you and I are going to know him. It is by examining Scripture to see what God is like, to have our eyes opened to see Jesus as the one who is the fulfillment of all of God's promises. The one who has come to die for our sin, to rise again, to establish his kingdom and bring us into that kingdom, to be accessible and available to us. We are in an age where people think that it's more spiritual to have visions and a sense of direct appearance. We love to hear the stories of the person that talks about how God met them and spoke to them in some audible way. They mean there I was in the middle of the woods and I was lost and I didn't know which way to go. And I asked God, God, you gotta show me which way to go, and God said, hang a right. And so I did, and I got out and look, you know, there I am. Boy, we really love to hear that stuff, don't we? But that's not God's way. That's not to say that God can't lead us in unusual ways in extreme times, but let's grow up, brothers and sisters. Jesus intends to reveal himself fully to us through the scriptures. You cannot separate your knowledge of Jesus Christ from your knowledge of the scriptures. The scriptures are necessary. They're not sufficient. You can know Scripture and not know Jesus personally, but you can't know Jesus and not know the Scriptures. And so he opened the scriptures to them. And he showed them throughout the Old Testament. He didn't give them the New Testament. He didn't say, Here, here's the Gospel of John. Take a look at this. It'll show you what I'm about. Especially read those last couple of chapters. That's not what he did. He took the Old Testament to them. Those parts that you and I tend to think are the most dispensable. Then we say, how am I going to know Jesus in the Old Testament? Jesus opens himself up to them and shows them how he is on every page of the Old Testament. He wants them to see, as many of us are seeing as we've been going through that daily chronological Bible down to 1 Samuel. How God's ways and his nature are so vividly portrayed in the history of Israel. He wants them to see a bigger view of what God is like. Of what your heart is like. Of what his grace is like and the provision he's made through a Messiah for you. Of what his plan and his purpose and his presence and his power are that are available to you because Jesus has risen. But he wants you to see that through the word that he has given. He is accessible to you through scripture. But you need a you need to not just say, well, that's nice and someday I ought to read it. You need a plan, you need a commitment. You need to see that it's about him and that he opens it to you, but you need a plan that involves three things. First of all, a committed time and place. That's simply a question of priorities. You say I don't have any time and I don't have any place. I remember one time the only place I had to meet with God was literally in a closet. God says, go meet with me in the prayer closet. That was the only place when I lived in this dorm that I could get alone I'd go into the closet. Fortunately I had a light in there. And I'd sit down behind the clothes, and that's where I had my quiet time. One day I walked in and The fellow saw me walk in the room, close the door, and I went into the closet, was sitting in there reading, he comes in the door, he says, Harris, I know you're in here somewhere. So I come in the room. You didn't think to look behind the clothes in the closet, and so I was undisturbed and was able to continue to meet with God. Sometimes you have to be creative to it. Susanna Westley used to take her skirts and pull them over her head to give herself a little bit of reprieve from all the kids who were running around, you know. But you need a time and you need a place. It may not be easy, particularly if you have little kids, and I understand that, and the Lord understands that But if it's an absolute priority to you, we do the things that are the priorities to us. I've said to a number of you in the past, use this illustration. I notice that every one of you here this morning are dressed. And not a single person here came in their jummies. You didn't get up and you said, boy, you know, I want to get to the first service, and I only got 20 minutes, so I was gonna get dressed, but too bad. I'm just gonna have to go as I am. Sometimes you get to it and sometimes you don't. That's the way it is, you know. I would have liked to have gotten dressed, but you know, you don't always get to it Tomorrow I'm going to get dressed. I mean next week I'm going to do it. When I get to work, at least by Wednesday, I'm going to make sure that I get dressed. Nobody thinks like that. What do we think? We think, whatever I got to do, man, one thing I'm going to make sure I do is I'm going to get dressed. What do we do? We say getting dressed is a higher priority than meeting with Jesus Christ in the scriptures. If you think that this is the priority that Jesus is telling you, he's saying, I want to meet with you, I want to talk to you on the road of your life. Then you're going to say, Lord, I'm going to build my day around that time with you. And whether it's five minutes, ten minutes, twenty minutes, a half hour, nothing is going to be a higher priority than that time that I have with you. You need that kind of commitment if you're going to find them accessible in your needs. Also, you need a plan that and a method that I call a PTA method The PTA method refers to prayer title and application. First of all, you need to pray. I believe that that's a very important thing as we come to the scriptures. We want Jesus to meet with us and talk with us. Don't just open the Bible and say I'm going to hope I can get zapped by some verse here that's going to be meaningful to me and give me some sort of a spiritual jolt so I can get awake and head into the office or out with the kids or whatever else that I'm doing But if you you stop and you say, Lord, I want to meet with you now, speak to me. Open up your word to me. See, he says that he opened the scriptures to them. We still need him by his Spirit to open the scriptures to us. Begin your time in the Word by praying. Lord Jesus, open your word to me. That's not superstition. It's not a rote prayer that you just say those mumble those words every day. Kind of like a magical thing that happens. It's faith. It is looking to him, saying, Lord Jesus, I'm not just reading an ordinary book here. I am reading your word by whereby you, because you are risen, are accessible to me now. Lord, open my heart and open your word to me. And then as you do that, I would suggest if you do nothing else that you title The passage you're reading. I don't care if it's one verse, one paragraph, one chapter, whatever it is, write down a title. A title that's just three or four words. This can be a breakthrough for some of you if you've never found the Bible to come alive for you. Just try that one little thing after you've prayed. Have a piece of paper and a pencil. And you hand down what that passage was and just give it a three -four-word title. For instance, if you're looking at this paragraph that we've just looked at here in Luke chapter 24, verses 30 to 32 When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it, began to give it to them. Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us. What title would you give it? You see, asking that question forces you to look at it more actively. You can't just read passively. You've got to think, what is some clue? Just three or four words that are going to describe to me something unique and distinctive about that paragraph. You might write down the word revelation. You know, he revealed himself to them. They opened their eyes so they'd know who he was, and they opened the scriptures to them. Just something like that. Gives you a clue Let me suggest it's even better if you use something of the words of the text. Just put a couple of those words together to remind you of that text. For instance, on this paragraph, you could write down open eyes and open hearts And you just read those words, open eyes and open hearts, and you say, oh, that reminds me of that paragraph. The next day you come back and you continue your reading. You've got a flow of your own thinking. God's speaking to you. He's opening up his word to you. You're learning about him. That's his intention for you, but you don't just leave it there. And the third thing is you apply it. And so you say, now what does that mean for me? What does it mean to me that he's saying to me right now, this day, or on my road, where I am? What does he intend for me to understand from this? Be specific. I used to do this with students all the time, and they'd turn in their assignments to me. Anytime I've done this class, I've done this for 30 years, you know, and I've done and always the thing I would write every time almost for every person doing it, be more specific. Lord, open my heart and open my mind. That's great. You know, it's very pious. Doesn't tell you anything that's going to make a difference. What's something specific? Lord, I am going to read this Old Testament book starting tomorrow because I want to understand you more fully I am going to commit 15 minutes of my commuting time to talking out loud to you instead of listening to the radio. Even a praise station. Better to talk to Jesus. Take a verse, memorize it, gonna spend that time talking to you Maybe the other drivers will think there's somebody short in the seat next to me. That's okay. But I'm going to talk out loud to you. And I'm going to focus on you. Or I'm going to begin to journal, I'm going to write, and I'm going to relate to you. I'm going to do something, but I'm going to apply this text to my life. For some of you, it may be that I'm going to come for the first time in my life to trust you as my Savior and Lord, who is risen and accessible and alive to me today. Be specific. God needs you, not by the fact that you are some super saint from where you are now, but the fact that you are wanting to grow one step at a time, day by day, beginning today and tomorrow. Then you notice that the last thing here. By the way, I um I thought for some of you who may want to ask, you know, how can I get some more help on this? This is what I've used a number of times in the past when I've taught this kind of course. It's called a simple inductive approach to Bible study. It's simply eight steps on how to make the scriptures come more alive in your personal study. In case some of you might want it, I had some reproduced. They're on the back table, yellow sheet, corner back table. If you're interested, help yourself to a copy. Experiment with it. Please don't try all eight steps tomorrow. It'd be like trying to eat a whole hog. Just try a couple steps, get into it, experiment, enjoy it, add other steps as you want. It'll take you a lifetime to go through the principles that are there, but just start where you are and begin to meet with Jesus. Finally, notice the last thing that we see here: that he sets our hearts aglow. He sets our hearts aglow. They asked each other, were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us. Picture what they're saying. They're looking at themselves, reflecting on the fact that just a couple of hours ago we were absolutely hopeless. We were in despair. Life had no meaning. There seemed to be no hope in anything that God had said. He had absolutely disappointed us. He had let us down. Our hopes were dashed. And then Jesus began to open the scriptures to us. He began to show us that God's plan was bigger than we had imagined. He began back in Genesis, and he showed us that that hero who had been promised to Adam and Eve, before he would crush the head of the serpent, his heel would be bruised He showed us how that when Abraham offered up Isaac as a sacrifice, God substituted a lamb, a ram, in the place of Isaac. God made a provision so that Isaac could live. And when Israel was in bondage in Egypt, God provided a Passover lamb in the place of them so that they could be freed from their sin and the blood of the Passover lamb was their key to freedom and to what God intended to bring them into his kingdom. They saw that as he moved through the law, that lamb after lamb cow and spear all the animals that were offered in the tabernacle and the temple were in the per place of those who were sinners and could never make provision for their own sin. He shows them that the one who was the great substitute in Isaiah chapter 53 was taking the place of other sinners, and that this one had to die in order to establish his kingdom. That this one after he died, because God accepted his sacrifice, he would be raised from the dead and he would rule on the throne of David forever and forever as the everlasting Father and the Prince of Peace And all of a sudden they understand that God has not only not disappointed them, He has not only not let them down, but they understand now that His plan and His purpose was far greater than anything they had ever understood. They were looking through the keyhole and the Lord wanted to open the doors and the windows of their minds to see what his plan and his purpose was for them. That in fact he was doing something infinitely greater than they could have ever believed in the establishment of his kingdom and the eternal life that he was giving to them. Somebody say amen. Do you see how their hopes were transformed into expect their despair was transformed into expectation, their hopelessness? How their apathy was transformed into enthusiasm. And how their withdrawal was transformed into evangelism. They're so excited they get up and they run seven miles back to Jerusalem. They find the eleven there and they say, it's true, the Lord's risen. The others say, yes, we've seen, you know, we've known he's appeared to us, and they share, and they're back and forth, and they're going on with such great enthusiasm because Jesus is accessible and he is alive and he is real to them. Have you ever felt that? Have you ever felt God opening up the windows of your mind to see that what He's doing in your life is in fact far greater than you've ever expected or anticipated? And all of a sudden the lights go on. And you understand that Jesus is alive and he's doing something far greater than you ever imagined. And you're so excited that you can't contain it to yourself. But you gotta say to anybody who's interested in hearing, Christ is risen, and you respond. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we say that and we celebrate that this morning. Open our minds that we might see that because you are risen, you are accessible to us. You are not removed and something that is put on stained glass windows and within religious edifices to somehow think that you are separate from the everyday road of our lives. But you are available to meet with us if we want to seek you and to seek you in the pages of your word that we might know you and come to Seek you and believe that you are sufficient for our sin. You are able to rescue us in the situations of our lives, and that you are the only one who is able to rescue us. So, Lord Jesus, in the quiet of this moment, we give our hearts to you anew, that we might come to you And find you sufficient for the biggest need that we're aware of right now in our lives.