Last few weeks we talked about worship in spirit and truth in John chapter four. This week I would like to look at an example of worship in spirit and peace. In our series on worship, we so far looked at worship as prostration Worship in spirit and truth. This morning I'd like to look at worship as celebration. So we see that in Psalm 66. The Psalm of Celebration for God. Let's hear now then as I read from God's own words, God's word to us about this worship, the worship of God's people expressed by the Holy Spirit Himself. Countless joy to God all the earth. Sing to the glory of his name. Offer him glory and praise. Say to God, how awesome are your beauty. So great is your power that your enemies cringe before you. All the earth bows down to you. They sing praise to you. Saking praise to your name. Come and see what God has done. How awesome his work in man's behalf He turned the sea into dry land. They passed through the river on foot. Come, let us rejoice in him. He rules forever by his power. His eyes watch the nations. Let not the rebellious rise up against them. Praise our God, O people. Let the sound of his praise be heard He has preserved our lives and kept our feet from slipping. You, O God, tested us. You refined us like silver. You brought us into prison and laid burdens on our backs. He let men ride over our heads and went through fire and water, and he brought us to a place of abundance. I will come to your temple with burnt offerings and fulfill my vows to you. Thou my lips promised and my mouth spoke when I was in trouble. I will sacrifice fat animals to you, and an offering of ram. I will offer bulls and goats Come and listen, all you who fear God. Let me tell you what he has done for me. I cried out to him with my mouth. His praise was on my tongue. If I had carried sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened God has surely listened and heard my voice in prayer. Praise be to God who has not rejected my prayer or withheld his love from me. Let's pray. Father, we see here the worship to you. And that's, Father, what we want to be the attitude of our own hearts. We pray that you would seek that. What worship is a celebration to you this morning. Instructive for these things. Open our minds and our hearts to receive your word. Impulse it in it, engrafted into us. Father, you know my limited ability. I cannot take this word. And I cannot even make it as clear as I would like to. The Holy Spirit beyond that, we must take it and we must place it into our lives so to be carried free. At least one of us now call upon you to do that in our lives We want you to speak to us. We want to see the living God. We want to see Jesus Christ lifted us. Explain our Father that you will display Him to us. We feel changing because of what we view and what we do in our lives now. Amen. Why does the doxology always have to be pitched so high? You pay the organist enough. We should know better. Why there are the winners? They hadn't been out in months. I'm amazed they'll show their faces even now. Now a psalm is being read. It's a long psalm. Maybe it got rather emotional at times. Exaggerated surely No sense of perspective. No restraints. I see they put the same glass in a glass. Very affected by combination of blue and purple. Ah past your prayer. Because I knew it was the other one. One, isn't it? Eyes earnestly closed now. Someone may notice our sincerity All the other heads are nodding at just the right angle. Hands quiet and possible. Amen intoned with just the right proportion of reverence and fervor. The offer story, the quink of things. Oh, don't tell me. I forgot my tests. Now the sermon. Thanks to you and the 20th century for five Simulated I think. Thanks to being so necessary. I must talk to Pastor about this red slice of swearing things. At last , Benedicton. Well, one over time is useful. My leg is going to sleep. Hat on straight. Funny now. Oh, Mrs. Litty. Delightful to see you again. Prepare in the missionary meeting? Ah yes, he says. It will be a light release to get outside orders. So fucking That display voices on Lisa Green. Video book listen to the dream. Quite a contrast. From Psalm sixty six, verse one , doubt with joy the God of the earth Her example is decidedly not worshiping spirit and truth. And yet which of the two things that I've just read, from Lucy Saul or from Psalm 56 most characterizes our worship of the church. Which of these two most characterizes your worship? I want for us to examine Psalm 56. That first verse, the first line, we come here this morning. I want to draw upon it on understanding of elements of worship that I think we may be listening to God 's people. Psalm 56, the first verse, that first line, see simply three words in the Jesus. Countless joy is one word. Tagod is the second word. And all the earth is the third word. And I'd like to take a look in some detail at those three words From Psalm 56, verse 1. First of all, then how do we worship? How do we worship? Psalm 66, 1 says, shout with joy. We worship joyfulness. Meaning of this word, uh Interesting to notice that the word is used a number of times, in 15, and a number of times in the call. Often that is the exhortation to the doubt with yours. Psalm 100, one of the most popular psalms, begins with that same word, shout with joy to the Lord all the years. The Hebrew word that's used here Maybe a word that's used for shouting of applause. For instance, when Paul was made king over Israel. We read that the people shouted with joy and said, Long live the king. And it's the word that's used there, that same word we have here. The word which may mean to shout with just pure joy, the pure ecstasy of living. The same word that's used just up uh in the lines in the Psalm just before Psalm 66. You notice there is Psalm 55. You have the declaration of all of God's abundance. You notice thereof. You crown the year, verse 11, with your bounty. Parks overflow with abundance. The grasslands, the deserts overflow The hills are clothed with gladdings. The meadows are covered with flocks and the valleys are mantled with rains. They shout for joy and faith Or they're shout for joy, it's the same word. They're just shouting with a pure ecstasy of life, life and abundance. But most prominently, this word means a shout of victim A scout of triumph. It's the word that's used in Joshua chapter six. Remember where Joshua received those amazing instructions for the battle plan against Jericho? not by spear, sword, dull, arrow, but rather that the people were to march around Jericho seven times, and then on that seventh time they were to raise that great and mighty scout Can you bring the walls down? And the word that's used there three times in that verse, both in Joshua 6, verse 5 and 20, they shouted with a great shout. In Hebrew it's literally they shouted with a shout of a shout. Uh when Hebrew wants to emphasize something that uh uses the word over and over, it means they really had a shout. Sort of probably sounded like our nursing sometimes. And that's what brought the walls down to seeing God's great power. That word there, that word is used for that mighty shout, it's the same word here in Psalm 6610. Shout with joy to God, all the earth It's the same word it's used in Psalm 47, where you have God ascending the throne amidst the scouts of his people There's the clapping of hands and the shouting there. God's ascending the throne. It's the same word that God himself uses in Psalm 108, where he shouts with joy and victory over his Triumph over the Philistines, the enemies of God's people. In fact, you know the Bible says that we're supposed to shout our hymns Take a look at Psalm 95. You have there the statement, come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud for the rock of our salvation You see now in Hebrew poetry the first line is parallel with the second line, and so that if we find you expinging our joy for the Lord, makes you shouting aloud for the wrath of our salvation. Let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him in use it and song. uh not quite the same picture of worship that we're used to. And I think that in this regard The black churches who sometimes easternly struck us as common types out predominantly white churches, with the need for a little more exuberant and scouting in our words that Are not simply expressing something cultural, but rather something biblical. God Himself says that there's a place for the shouting of our hymns of worship We sing and so that the guy who uh speaks down from us can hardly hear us sometimes. Uh weeping and a kind of a mutter to ourselves But that's not the biblical picture that's given. Rather, we're told here to shout rejoice to God in our words. We respond perhaps to that, but uh wait a minute, don't just carry the word here. I mean uh worship is something that must be done with awe and with reverence for this. Worship's not a purpose And that brings us to the second point here, the paradox of this. The paradox of reference and rejoicing. See the question is, is reverence somehow incompatible with rejoicing? Can you both stand in awe of God as well as shout for joy to him? What do those two things somehow seem to contradict? Am I contradicting what I said a few weeks ago when I said that worship was prosperation? And there you had the idea that we ought to lay before the Lord in great fear and awe because we are such a mighty God. And now it sounds like I'm saying we ought to jump up and down. No, it doesn't Well if you worship is both , that's the point. Worship is both prostration and celebration And either one without the other is not through biblical worship. You see, we live in an age in which we very much again need to learn what it means to fear the Lord. I heard of a pastor recently who began his pastoral prayer with Good morning, Dad. Well, you know, there's something that seems to me lacking in the sense of approach to God, which seeks to make God some sort of a celestial petty bear. God is Fun is the great pie of the church today. He's not the kind of God who's going to bring up anything uncomfortable or embarrassing like discipleship. But rather, God is someone, as one evangelical said recently, someone that I can feel comfortable with. Well you see that's exactly the point that Lewis has been trying to get across to us and Marnia and many of his other writings. Did John White seek to get across to us in so many of his writings? That God is not someone you can be comfortable with. You see, uh, the lion may be a lion that is very gentle, but he's still a lion God may be a God of grace. He may be a God who bids us to come bold and into a service. And still God. He's still the God, as White has said, of white hot rains. He's still the God who is awesome in his holiness. He's still the God that Isaiah saw high and lifted up in the temple. And our age needs best today to learn something of reverence and a holy fear. But reverence and fear aren't quite the same thing, and they ought never to be confused. Here may be the gateway to reverence, but it isn't the same thing, because fear alienates. Reverence brings a trembling to a speech. And there's a difference. You see, the irony of it, the paradox of it to us, is that the more we understand the distance between us and our God The closer we are drawn to Him, and the greater is our joy, the greater is our celebration, the lower we prostrate ourselves before the Lord the more intense is our celebration in the Lord. Those two things must go together. You see if you look through the scriptures, you notice it with those who were closest to the Lord Who had the greatest sense of grace and celebration and also those who have the greatest respect and awe for the Lord Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 10 , the man who God said he spoke to face to face, the one who had the most intimate discourse with God of any Old Testament saint. Moses addresses God in Deuteronomy 10 as the great and awesome God. Awesome in your wonders. And Nehemiah walks close to the Lord with a bold petition, but he addresses God as you who are the great and terrible God But the one who is great in your work, then me and I then you are very comfortable. You see a few chapters later, a great celebration going on as a result of the response to that friend In Daniel chapter 9. Daniel, a man who had also a very close walk with the Lord, who understood something of God's ways Addresses God in his prayer, You, O Lord, you are the great and dreadful God who says. Daniel in that draws very close to the Lord stumbling to his feet. And the result of that is the joy that manually sees that God heals and brought close to him. I remember one time a couple of years ago, yeah. Uh many of you know that we rent year by year a cottage up on St. Todd. A couple years ago, we went to one of our favorite places at beginner, a place called appropriately Sunset Hill, or high hill that overlooks St. Todd Bay. And on any decently clear evening in the summer you'll see a small crowd of people who will be gathered there on that hill. And on this Last night, a beautiful summer evening, there was a small crowd of people who were all gathered there. People who were strangers to each other had nothing else in common except the fact that they wanted to see the sun get on over three cloud day that particular evening It was one of the most beautiful sunsets that I have ever seen. I remember still as we watch the sun descending slowly down over the bay Just as the sun, this last particle of the globe of the sun went down into the water, just as after it disappeared, the people broke out into a spontaneous round of applause. I've never seen anything quite like that before or since. But somehow to the people who gathered there together, that was the only appropriate thing you could do. That great sense of awe In seeing that majestic sight and all the beauty and the glory of the Lord, I have no idea what was in those people's minds and understanding about who God was And I know that somehow in feeling that it was brought celebration spontaneously. You just had to do something. And here to see a whole group of people applauding at a a sunset, applauding at a sense is a very moving sight And that's what God intends for us to understand. Sharp with yours, you who understand if your preachers are relieved the Creator. As you bow before him and prostrate before him, lift yourself up to shout for joy because you're his people. Because you've understood your distance and your closeness. Because we've understood also that repentance leads to season. Again, some people kinda think of these things as incompatible Somehow when the Bible talks about repentance, it's talking about something negative. Something that will reduce and diminish our self-image, that will make us rob our that will rob us of our joy. But in fact, it's the opposite of truth. David tells us this in his own experience, and he says in Psalm 32, when I kept silence concerning my sin, I did not repent. My bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. The day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was sapless in the heat of summer. Then I acknowledged my sinfulness, and I did not cover up my iniquity, and I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord And he forgave the guilt of my sin. What's the result of that? Happiness. Worthy is happy. Joyful is he, whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed, happy is the man whose sin the Lord does not count against him, and in whom we spirit there is no deceit. Rejoice in the Lord and be glad you writes. Sing all ye who are upright in heart. The more that you and I learn what through repentance, a heart-firsting repentance is, the more we learn what celebration and worship is. The more we learn what it means to rejoice in the Lord. You see , prosperation leads to celebrate The putting of ourselves before the Lord in an attitude of true worship is what lifts us up to rejoice in him and to stop rejoice. Why? Because we see. The reason is we count because we recognize that God is king. Our God is the victory. Our God is the one who has ascended the throne. The shout of victory is because of what we read in verse 3. Say to God, how awesome are you be, so great is your power that your enemy cringe before you. The universe isn't alternately impersonal. All that we see about it seems to say that blind, raw power is in control in this world. It's not true. There's a God of justice and righteousness on the throne. And his enemies will cringe before him. There is justice. Even as you realize he's justified, that makes you a new thing. Because if I look at what I've done to those around me, and I look at how I've treated God amazing, I realize that if there's justice, I'm in big trouble And you realize to yourself, if you're honest with yourself this morning, that if there's really justice in the universe, then that may be hope as far as the blind raw power being finally getting it due and the oppressors of the earth finally being judged, if you realize that you're one of them We realize that means judgment also for you. And so justice in that sense is not any consolation. But we can count with joy because we realize that not only is injustice But there's forgiveness. This God who has ascended the throne is the God that we use there in verse 5. Come and see what the Lord has done, how awesome his works are in man's behalf He turned the sea into my land and passed through the river on foot. What's that a reference to? In reference to the fact that God is not only the Creator, but he's also the redeemer. That God took the people, his people, out of Egypt. And he turned the sea, the sea of reeds, into dry land that they would pass through. The reefs spread the Jordan apart so that they come into his kingdom. You and I read that, we understand that saying that in order for Israel to be saved Easy had to be done. Because when you read about the sea being parted to Israel, you realize that the second part of that was that the Egyptians came through and the sea closed in over them And they were all drowned. But as Israel passed through the river Jordan coming into the kingdom, that was to them the sign of salvation, but it was to the Canaanites the sign of judgment. That's what Rahab understood. And that's why she kept the spies and let them go and sided with them because she understood that it is judgment for them So as you and I lead this, we realize that if you and I are to be forgiven, somebody's got to be done. If you and I are ever going to go free, there's got to be somebody that the river's going to close in us Because the Bible tells us Jesus was the one dust. So that you and I could go through and be free. Jesus Christ went through that river. He went through that sea and the waters closed in on him. And Jesus Christ bore the judgment. He became to Egypt. Jesus Christ took all of that sin that you and I deserve to have punished in Allah. And Jesus Christ bore it all. On the cross of Calvin, Jesus Christ was punished in full for everything that you and I deserve to have a place in full. And because of that, you and I can shout for joy because Jesus Christ raised from the dead. Jesus Christ ascended onto his throne The Jesus Christ is ascended as the one who is paid in full our sin. So that is who is in fact trusted. And if come to Jesus Christ this morning, then that sinner gone him and if you free for, and there's nothing left to do to make payment for That 's not something to doubt about. How can you and I sit things in some somber, sober ways how the Lord has revealed us How Jesus is saved. And not understand that that could be sung with a shout of victory, a shout of triumph. To the God who is saved. He's risen, he's ascended on the throne. We're living in the age of the Spirit. And you and I have the Holy Spirit in us now as we come to Jesus Christ for salvation And we have the beginning, the down payment of all the blessings of the kingdom. We've begun to enter into that kingdom. And we're in the very last days of it. We're in the last days before Jesus comes again. Jesus is going to tell me perhaps very, very soon. And if he does, he's going to take us to himself and we're going to rule and arraign with him. And all things going to be dispelled and put away, and we'll never have it in our presence again. And so the Psalm says, we shout for joy because of the victory that God is upon us. I can't you feel though? Can't you sensitive in you? Well, some of you do have to feel some of you otherwise have to decide to study it over somehow. But this is what God's saying to us, that this is what He's given to us, this good news. And our response is a sound of joy. Now there's a couple of things that I think we ought to understand in application of this. In a practical way for us as a congregate, first of all, beware that you don't generate the emotion without the content Be where you don't generate the emotion without the conflict. What do I mean by that? Well, I do it so often myself. Now, I confess to you that I am not naturally a joyful person. Um my wife says that my face and repose is a sunny scowl, you see. I I just kind of a kind of a you know, I just I'm not the kind of guy who goes around with a smile all the time. I just not the kind of personality I have. And so there'll be times when I will be asking the Lord in uh in problem-oriented, somber kind of personality that maybe I have, and I'll say, Lord, make me joyful Yeah, well what am I really saying for? Lord, that me. Put a couple coiled springs under my teeth, you know? Let me bounce around a little bit. Is that what I'm asking for? No. I'm worth that right. Why does he just back you and give you joy? How does he give you joy? He brings you to himself to understand the proof of scripture that makes you joyful And if you and I are saying, Lord, make us a joyful congregation, make us to worship you with joy, we're not saying, Lord, somehow turn us on. Lord, somehow, you know, just get us wound up here in these services in the morning. We're saying, Lord, Help us to understand the truth of your word that makes us joy. Lord, help us to understand what we have to rejoice about Worship is in spirit and in truth. Understand God's truth, and God will give you his joy. Think about it. Think about it in a heart-furking way. Meditate on it through the week and particularly in preparation for worship. I I guess they're bothered by this idea that people say that, well, you know, we need to have more joy in our worship. And what I suggest is maybe if we could just get a phone reader that would tell us to sing louder or sing more joyfully. I don't know if you've been to my But I've been saying that. It was been to that kind of a worship, you know, and the guy says, Come on, let's sing louder on stanza two, and come on, let's really hear it on stanza three. I just seen that as oh, let's raise the roof off in stanza four. That doesn't do a lot for me, just sort of just like a sounds like a pep rally or something. But worship is really more just like, consider what he's saying there in Santa 3 Think about that and sing that with joy. Look at what he says, verse 5. Come and see what God has done. How often his works are on man's behalf. Let that be the source of your joy. And if you think about that, you will sing with you. We need to understand that. We need to let that be warp into. This afternoon, think about what the Lord Jesus has done for you so that you come tonight ready to celebrate. The second thing is that we Have to remember that we're a congregation, not an audience. So you might even realize the things I've told you about and recognize that the Lord's given a lot to be joyful about But you still tend to look at yourself as an audience. We're convinced to do that, you know. We watch the leaders. I try to watch myself, but when I introduce the leaders in the morning I say, we are going to be led in worship by or so and so is going to lead us in worship. But I dare not ever say uh so and so is going to uh The worship is going to be led for us by so and so. The worship's going to be led for us by Don also That's not true. That's the idea that we have so often. And he's gonna go up here and he's gonna do it, and we're gonna sort of watch him and sort of go along with the things that he tells us to do. But primarily we see ourselves as an audience You know, before the Reformation, the congregation of the Lord was an audience watching the pastor as a priest in the front. Since the Reformation, the Congregation of Christ often sees itself as an audience watching the pastor as a prophet in the front. The emphasis has simply switched in its attention from the altar to the pulpit. But the congregation still sees itself as an audience. We still haven't gotten beyond that in many cases. What I'm pleading for is that we need to see ourselves as a congregation to express our joy to the Lord. Not just to watch somebody else express some joy and see if maybe you can get caught up in it or not. You come bringing your joy with you And this is the opportunity to express it, not come and see if you can get turned on and maybe go out with some joy. Sure, there should be some stimulation and encouragement We need to come as those who are the congregation of the Lord Jesus. The word that's sorry and fear to God who I think had something worth saying, particularly in this regard, he compares worship to a stage place, in which the congregation is the asset, the minister is the prompter, and God is the audience. In other words, we perform for the Lord. In practice, however, most of us go to church to be the audience. The pastor is the actor, the musicians are the performers, and we're content to be the sex team. You are the congregation, not the audience. I remember one time some years ago when I was reading either this psalm or a psalm like it in Bolton, Massachusetts, an outskirts of Boston, a place that I was on that particular day on a dirt road. It was a number of years ago when there wasn't much out there. And I was all alone. Nothing around me. Just an old dirt road and I was walking down that dirt road. Reading this psalm, I came to these words, doubt with joy to God all the earth. All of a sudden it occurred to me, I'm sort of like I'm a spectator watching the psalmist Yeah, I you know, what is he doing? Oh, he's out and joy about all the earth. He's singing to the glory. Well that's very nice. But then all of a sudden it occurred to me, stop talking to me It's not to me to shout with joy to God all the earth. I'm part of that. And so I was just uh the Lord was saying to me that day, uh, why don't you do it? Come on. I'm reading it, you know. I mean I'd ever came out here for a long time. You didn't come out here to scout around. No, no, no, you know, that's part of it. Why don't you do that? Oh, that's a good day. Okay, uh screen on his head. You know, he was all alone, the thing around and said, Well, I don't know, all alone. I'm you're here, Laura. I mean You know, are you here to receive my words of a life? Well yeah, then you think that would go. Well, that's fine, you know, we'll laugh. All right. Praise the Lord. You know, looking to see if anybody will have a bird to offer limb, but that was about all. And and I began to get a little bolder, you know. Uh pretty soon I was out there uh praise the Lord yes And you know, I I I I felt something just in the relief of my spirit, praising the Lord. You know, it's like some people say when they speak in tongues, it's a a relief of the spirit And I think shouting with joy can give us something that kind of release. It's a relief to the Lord to say, Lord, I love you. I want to shout to you. I want to use my body and my lungs and all of these To praise you. You think that's impossible? Somebody hear you say it. Praise the Lord. That's pretty good. You're alive better than I was. But why do you do that? You say, come and see what he's done. All the earth bows down to you. They say praise to you. They say praise to your name. Let's do it again. Praise the Lord. That's terrific. You see if you find yourself that you're able to do that, being caught up in the fact that God is a great God It's not a synthetic thing that we somehow manipulate, but if we feel it because we feel the awesome word, then to do it helps us to express to the Lord That's the third thing I want to just touch on for a minute, and that is the use of body language in worship. You see, in our worship to God, our bodies play an important part. For instance, the volume of our singers. When we sing, let's pay attention to whether we're singing out or whether we're in fact just mumbling to ourselves And if it's a song of quiet meditation, let's sing it appropriately that way, from hymns of prayer. It'd be wrong to shout out a hymn of quiet reflection and prayer to the Lord. But if it's a song of exuberance, let's shout it out to the Lord, as Psalm 95 says. Let's sing rejoice about all the earth. Let's also flatter expression. Yeah, I just see it. I see it here a number of times. I just can oh what a wonder that Jesus loves me. But I do understand what you're saying. I'm guilty of the same thing myself. Let's watch it. What are we seeing? And sing with an expression that reflects what we're seeing to the Lord Also a matter of lifting our hands. Now I notice that some of you do that, and I'm glad to lifting our hands, which is mentioned in the scripture at least five times, is a way of worshiping God as well as clapping our hands, a number of other things. is a way of expressing joy. And see, by the lifting of our hands, we're expressing ourselves to the Lord in body language that we're saying, Lord, I'm bringing myself to you in joy. Now, I'm not saying we all ought to raise our hands. Neither am I saying that you ought to feel uncomfortable if you do. In fact, I'll confess something to you if you want to know why I don't raise my hand Lots of times it's because I simply think it would blow your circuit. If I raised my hand, you see, you'd all think that you were supposed to do it. And I don't want you to think that. So sometimes I'll do it unobtrusively a little bit, you know But let's have the freedom to express ourselves with our bodies, whether it's lifting of hands or whether it is expressing or various other things to be able to rejoice and express our joy to the Lord, the congregation of its people. Kneeling I think is also another means of expressing ourselves in worship. Perhaps we'll get into that some other time. One last question on that, Andrew. And that is, do we help our children to worship? To rejoice in worship Well, one fellow writing in Chris Janks of ABC said that who impression of church services he grew up with that God was a grouse because all he ever heard was hit still and shut up And he concluded from that that somehow whoever God was, and he wasn't quite sure at that point, he sure didn't like kids to have any fun. Because when you were in his presence, you had a pitfill and shut up Well we need to express reverence to the Lord. It's not a time for praying. But do we with that instruction help our kids to enjoy worship So well we know that's part of us as leaders. You need to provide means to help you kids. To enter in with workers But you know, especially as I've been thinking about this this week, who better understands rejoicing than you? I mean, you know, you watch some of these kids after you win a game And uh there you have a picture of pure rejoicing. You understand what it means to win. You understand what it means to rejoice with all of your beings And now the Lord is saying here shout with joy to God all the earth because he hasn't won a game, he's won the universe All of history has been won by our Lord who's ascended onto the throne. That's something rejoicing And view kids can help us to understand rejoicing, but we are caring to help you, whether it's by drawing pictures with you. Whether it is by helping you to understand in Him or talking to you about what things you ask to rejoice in the worship of our God What part of that is terrible? What what it is that we're communicating about working. If you have suggestions to us, please we'd like to hear them to help us to do that together as a body of the speech. Just briefly, I want to touch on the idea here of who we worship and that's God. We worship God. Worship you see is first of all to God, and secondly, it's about God Worship? You see, in verse 1, it needs to be shout with joy to God, not primarily to non-Christians. If you are a person here in this service this morning who doesn't know Jesus Christ We are deeply concerned if you would come to know and place your trust in Jesus Christ as your own Lord and Savior. You can't have this truth unless you're giving your life to Jesus Christ. But having said that, having said that we are deeply concerned if you come to know him and trust him as Jesus, the worship service is not primarily an evangelistic service. It is not geared to bring you to Jesus Christ. This is a notion of the Sunday morning worship that's grown up in America in the last hundred years, and we need to be careful that we don't fall into that We are here to bring faith and worship to God, not to preach the gospel for those who don't know Jesus Christ. And our worship primarily, therefore, is addressed to God Shout rejoice to God all the earth. Secondly, the worship services have left under primarily the Christians Sometimes I think we have the idea that the worship is preliminary for the sermon in order to help us in our own walk with the Lord. That's not at all the idea the Bible present concerning What a worship is. It's a congregation of God's people to sing a shout of joy to him. God is the one who's hearing us. We address our faith to him. Now we also edify one another. encourage one another, challenge one another. I'm speaking to you now on behalf of the Lord. And this is something very appropriate. So our primary thrust Our consciousness and our intention in the service should be that God is present with us and we are addressing ourselves to Him Secondly, worship is about God. We see that in the middle verses of this psalm. Rejoicing in who he is and what he has done. Our worship should be Christ-centered, in other words, as we talked about before. The preaching should be Christ's punishment. The preaching speech should be characterized by verse 5. Come and see what God has done. How awesome his works are in man's behalf. That's what I'm seeking to do for you. To tell you about the awesome works of our God on our behalf. Preaching is about Jesus Christ. The same is about God. That's the difference between hymns and gospel call. Some people say they don't like the trendy hymnal. Well, you know, there may be some ways we can improve on that, some of the music here and there. But the point is that that hymnal has so many unfamiliar hymns for many of us Because he has not used gospel phones in our worship. Gospel phones focus on man. My experience, one believer telling another believer. But in our worship we're seeking to use hymns in which we are addressing ourselves to God with the content being about God Now if you look at a lot of the popular hymns of the last hundred years or so, you'll see that they really don't fit that. Uh in the garden, uh I walk I come to the garden alone, think like this is about my experience, the fundamental experience that I'm having with Jesus. or various other of the song could have become quite popular. But again in our work it could address ourselves to God and be about him, even our sparing should not be primarily sharing prayer requests and things concerning us, but things that we're telling what the Lord has done, encouraging each other in the Lord and things like this. Finally, who is it that's called the worship? Well, it's all the earth. All the earth is called to worship. Such joyful worship As we have here to shout and sing with joy to God, with a work that compels our witness. Shout with joy to God all the earth Sective evangelism, whether it's some Billy Grand Play coming up, our own personal evangelism in our neighborhood, wherever it is Will always spring from a scout of victory that our neighbors overhear. It worth it, it produces effective evangelism. Evangelism that begins with a shout of joy to God, all the earth, and moves in the earth for us with the understanding and the longing that all the earth bows down to. They sing praise to you. They sing praise to your name. And with a reason that we see in verse 8, the praise will be to our God, O people. Let the sound of his praise be heard, or in other words to translate that is, let hear it, all peoples of the earth. It's the kind of worship that produces evangelism. It's the kind of worship that says, Oh God, it's so wonderful. That's declared to the nation. The praising all people. All the people said in the flesh. Oh Lord our God, how we want to tell the joy to you who are our God. We want to shout with joy not because we want to just stir ourselves up, pump ourselves up with some false emotions But because we simply realize that that is the only appropriate thing that we can feel, and we understand that our God has taken the throne, He that has conquered death He's died on our behalf, and we are free and forgiven, and he's ascended, he's risen from the dead. The enemy's defeated. Jesus is on the throne And so we want to shout with joy to you, our God. We want to shout with joy to you this morning. We pray that you would help us in our worship week by week. to prepare ourselves in thinking of what you have done so that we might celebrate together, so that we might understand what you have done for us and how awesome are your works On their soul. And in doing that, you might self with the fruit. You might save you Our praise with our whole beings, with our hearts, with our mouths, with our bodies, that we might praise and be joyous, that we might long for all the earth to bow before you We might long that all peoples would come and bow before Jesus Christ. Father, if there are any here who have never bowed to Jesus Christ We pray that you would speak to them and show them the work that you've done on their behalf that they might come to you, they might receive from Jesus Christ the forgiveness of their sins The new life that you have offered and joy that comes from us. Father, we give our praise and our utterance with heart of joy. Amen.