Infinity in the Linear County Page three hundred in nineteen sixty-see. Well, whatever I got I did for his lines Therefore, we wanna be the remote things. What is even the remote things? There is no two It's very clear that we could be on this next. To be the new or the The thing I agree with people that we have the idea that I think that's still working. Somehow that is always equal to the fact that the new payments is because it's good. So that 's it, it may be the main point. Report of the people in order to get allowed to discuss it, but primary things. That means that we need work or A number of you have come on the under. Are you not alone? I think you've not alone since seven adjustments could be quite a new guy to read it for the They fell out and looked with one major area , these ideal codes, and they asked a whole number of these ideas meetings to give a report It's still cast a hard mark of DNA with the embedded line. Next to the bottom I had hundreds because the last case would be their dance. Last week is conducted a table they would be rated not only in their own life but the spirit in terms of so three sentences that God covers our citizens persecution And most of the setting is that the lower end of the diamond , indicating that we opinion relatively not one of its without case. The time that we do attend. The time that we look at workers. But if you can understand what we're doing, how we can do Because it does not always be always recognized for the music expression Yeah, it does. Well, could be sort of But if you already done out of it, then actually it becomes a kind of a business relationship. In fact, some of these narratives have no people. It's more than people apart from science We're doing called profounds, analogies of human things. So we can talk about workers in those real and narrow ways. We don't want to understand what we're doing, we're going to love the things and go into small different. Everything that I have been life be clear and everybody could be part of life. You can cast the police group. The all of lights is open. agree to the glory and we don't use it, we don't know for the group. All of our life. Whether it's what we think power, if we have to do good, what is left, looking at a story, everything that we do Sometimes that we are dealing by the glass of our divine value. very measure influence itself its hands and it gives us this more particular in what we call the asks of making rights. And in the third I know I think it's real system. I think it's I think the movie I do. Make the other person over the other things. So that's the quite sense. Very expecting to be real life together that we consider the new book of the universe and Bothhouse is allowed to celebrate our family only fixed. Whatever means. Both are less easy than allowed context of work. And say the media science and science. Make me love. And making work laughter. This can take a little Both may be happy, the thing you are not successful. So they put this reflections about the art of worship and living well because they are value only as we pray. They're only value when they honestly expect the attitude of the whole facts. So we put it because low view is over. So I could have this attack design is like C level is the fact. But then it wasn't going to do something like a So you have to question what's in the masses. So what do you do? It's a quickest piece of How can we understand this? What do we want to do? What do we mean by the words? What do you think I think is noticeable? The things that I want to look at primarily in the university can ask for the same thing as well. Mr. It's got the daily weight , do you? Will you think of locus? What do you say that? When you think of locus. you do when you make it. Do you associate any kind of particular typical factor with racing? Do you say to tricky that? So what's it can mean when it's going to decide to work with series when we work at the thought about that system? So there I'm actually probably going to be the first one. More to the comparison. And then we line up as a copy of the sun, so we can die from the middle offices. If you have not let them know who you are finding over this. He accessed by name by name and you have done over with this. The paraparking music, for our own reasons. The big thing is the parental businesses. My present is the reason. My pregnancy is this evidence disaster. I only am able to repeat the people with the people and I feel evidence. And I think the freedom with people from all medicines and on a space of ways Very clear below. I will prefer my goodness of our company. And I will prepare my name, the words, behavior, be the president. That's the presence. I will put your friends in that. I probably need my hands when I really need that when you will do my heart. And then separate. Good for the brothers, that's a big thing. And I mean away , remember the words that are only full of babies with the place. in the mornings. Don't come up on that sign out, the big discussion there and pass it to the mountain. Now when you come up busy, they didn't feel anywhere in the night. Not even the flight to hold Do you even find it? And I could figure out who can 't make a good system. And then at my power, we're in the room. And then I'll tell you that in the hands. It'd still go with them and so carry with no. When we are describing this even within the things , what is it that we are You can be really clear about the beginning of your business. God And I was five in his revelation these words. And yet several we are experienced. So then we want to look at it learning to see the outfit of that experience. In outfits as an answer and workers designed. Moses down to the ground at once and walking. is the word that most commonly used in Larry Captain used more than not all other words at least. We use more than all relevant words to sit together. The word is still literally used As the Hindu language is very graphic language and crystal language, let us with the type classroom, the only thing is exhibited the IDM. If you want to work with me later in the B , we'd need to conflict these things. The passage were to bear down. Because there's a very circle of typical position. The time is the first thing of this. It's the past week I think it's started to make it purple five raised happiness. And that view because it's three things been simplified by the fact that we're But I want to listen to this. These things that we are saying to God when we worship Him. And if we worship it with body language, the best way we do it is custom and The three things that are communicated is their own number from number one to the map line , I don't know. Because we need another honor. Notificable dives to the ground at once and work it. He couldn't cross land through the words working. And you could say this move that bowed to the ground is mostly translated in fact. And in BMWs, if you go to the same types , the open thing with us is removed the total with a real energy. And by doing that you are advancing the other side. Look at the word exact. The word exha means to bring time, to lift up, to elevate individuality, to nullify, to lift up with the end, to help you. So I do exactly somehow it could lift them up. And how do you lift someone up and booth and give one C slip that up or a book? And voice it means that you and I can say about maybe I'm waving and by doing that in the dark thing. That you think it's a proper thing. See, if I I have no weight to play in your brain , you could take exactly what to do. We don't know for the thought you've had that in the background, we have it in cell in our background. But we need to understand If we look at some other topics, colour solutions, which are going to be many times in Larry Pascal and referring to things that related to one another. So I hope you can understand that it's significantly by whether it 's interesting it's unique something every day with honor. So maybe came the first. Bowd low before them silence. And if you put a go and give it to their hazard. And have no name books. Build it bowed low before a song to give them silence. notify open so we can use it and open crafty screens. Uh that 's probably called notice our boots the dollar everybody else knows uh saving uh big and pair and uh you read and also chapter three the same book is our son of Muhammad the other bike and are elevating him and elevating him, giving him a seat of bottom higher than our That's supposed to kneel down and it's supposed to stay out of the room , supposed to confirm But Mordecai would not kneel down or pay an eye, would they kneel down and display his wisdom? She wouldn't like say the time. He would exhibit the honor by taking himself. He means he said when God said to do our first to give him honor , we do that by working. Given the fields would be the voice , would be the point of the influence. Too many , point aside too, and being immediately called to the examination. And you could talk to practice to bow down and answer the technical people. and if we're together we have to do caliber the view of God in the Ford Ravens and we're going to do that. Holy work of God And point himself with Jesus and the loneliness, he said, You bow before me and I will give you all the favourites of the world. The group of the time we are workers down alone. But what is it? Time again people to talk to have all the updates ever doing the program. Time again people come to people and they find that they are rebuilding, they're really important, they're bad important say work for person and in no see that every thing that that is wrong, that is inappropriate. So I can argue you, but I think there are powerful demonstrationism Jesus received worship. Even the owner in the book of Revelation said it was inappropriate when he wrote the God Now before that , Buddha had made the very death really content down his lips, since his newly clear to his gates , but they bought it for literally revealing a game He says we see a test of his famous thing. But this guy says, Lady, he says, you can't even see my face. What exactly does it mean if I say my face I've got a drive and wrap it out? Because God's down there seems to have perfect, so majesty and so powerful You're seeing uncarno things because you are a specific. You tell them it is a common. You still have a look at time to pass in it because you I 've perfect this teleport. So they're quick test them and reveal themselves mustn't be good fast. Oh yeah, it's very good. Nothing too slowly. The glory we hear about is But the powers explained and it's very placeful and that even in the findings and the lightning to have the hundreds of stars present as long as it's The only appropriate a bank is the violence and given lines. Therefore, you please any parents is given them to This is what you are never going to do now we've found in our health class. But here I tend to feel that when did we fail And start with them as a better. Sort of working with our own around us. The idea me, Lord, we really are together, yeah. Then we have left the whole point of work again. The same fellows for one month in the volume time giving a person of new problems and the fight is not in the Because in clearly that you can be replicating or you ask. Only when you are comes about poorly humiliating, that's perhaps humbling by the power of the Holy Spirit, where he can sumble feels out as well. I am compared to anything by what we think is really compared to the representation of Jesus. Like all our movies, and every word by them, what are we going to do? That was good word , so no one could give you the time to speak of the format exactly as well as the reading available. But I'm calling the bad attitude of the attitude of the And until you and I, I can pray that you be humble for the people. And you don't understand the other. The way that starts, the fact the fact that I was very quickly , because I think I would spend it somewhere else. And that's followed by the code. In other words, divine science feeds in the library, down the world go with it. Uh there we look at the trickless people to do our recognition of them. And take it to the employee. Loads of people bargaining them. He 's freedom. And he's freedom from a particular frustration And I think it's exactly the Saturday And I don't pick that what kind of style you're going through that all my trading groups. When you pick about 100% group in this down through the kind of point of boggle and And what did you think finally request again to write up this contract and talk about the final problem? You fling yourself down and you just low down in your feet and you go, Well, let's begin to talk about this. very large places, maybe he says a lot , what do we want? It's very reasonable that if we can ever come to that people say we can talk about your dogs, not all And the thing is that zero bargain is hundreds of independent. And very secular is how to communicating lots of lower reasons to ball be reasonables. Lord and God's favorite reason spenders. To do that way, we need to communicate exactly last word and take care of yourself. And I 've just spoken to Eli about what is celebrated who said this, and Eli 's parcel, who told you those things And the Lord said we can finally submit in love because when the first time sets them, everyone likes to So the burden children for people 's girls are And please, please anoint you with some offer so now we have pleasure. But he won't be able to do bow down before And if the world in itself understands that concepts exist, and we are kind of like itself, including more than markets and mind He's made the heavens and early hood, all things are the power still before, so he's very good. Yes, these people we recognize, people depend on us , not people reminded us. We do smart weeks. United States from rain, everyone divided wild, with all kinds of fifty values. And the modern state That's your guy. We're trying to do it. We're dependent on God to provide us. God is for you for you and me. We depend on you to raise all the things you have. You don't own the guide stable and accept this in your instance. It seems like an idea that Somehow by all from God, we worship your only company from him and we've left the lesson with us. We come before God and we say, Lord, there is nothing I have to buy the lips. Lord, there's nothing I have in my life so often. Sorry to be this. The only thing that I have to do is be the one who came and slipped my house. Can I think for God person to what I do? And descend before God and he the things and and have your words that possibly So because we flatter ourselves to have our own past , the only past we do a lot of this All you can do when it's half weeks with the extreme is something that is done All the goods, praise the evidence, and peace. The two requirements with all the goods. We heard about the law that is passing. freedom to be having freedom because that isn't something we received when I have to work. And that only freedom is We all have a little bit Because of I can do it myself. I wants to do it in thoughts. That 's the pay, but that's what he says every time he's got a feeding. But who can do it himself? That could be that to us. We and I can put up time by eye. So the people find out, we and I can do it myself. First part to take the thing, no matter , and really start selling it Everything some of the most of these and the permanent communities are the feeling about the same thing to do. Qual flows are really good. Maybe two being one later as high if you talk to Well there is the first. The very very thing wants to be The mystic weak to be exactly. What it looks to be Zuburged bad small down again. Made both of us made both of the bad people. So no longer find this who thinks it's about the command so you can find And they don't see. The way to give me labor success, but power could come up here. But it's clear to voice. So then we needed later give it out with that. When I believe it makes you all too much. It's great as I was here. You think I communicated my way number of times in the country recognized one? Censor, can I go exactly putting one and having spirit the difference of what that word means and given it to me In 1952, when something got a covered by all nuclear enemies , we moved it over , that 's how to eventually be becoming as a message. Uh if you're going to have victory instead of defeat, and if you decide to be safe, because this is what we have a lot of both of that and the failure people Take it out of your hand the cup that needs father. From that cup of God looked my wrath, he will never drink it last. And I will put it into the hands of your feminines. Most of the back like the ground and let's exceed to be less over. Fair fasting in the last evidence. Fair fast way with the word workers. It's the word workers. It means the goodness. You don't have to grow because the way he around is there is the one who is closing it. You are using it, you put on your life. By doing that until you're pretty bad in it. The BLI work is a work and to put on a map and seven bullets. My life is yours. If I want right to them, unless I don't want to Because more people this is a real real music, we have the weeks, we have 30 and our weeks, that we found 76. So it's going to go all the way into the world with remembering power of the name, 2020. All the families of the nature will I don't know if he's be over the week. But the million belongs to the land. Continue over the nation. He belongs to the God. All the width of the ocean. Even the rest of the day to write a few. Tell him to go down to the best will use him for him. Then he saved the peace, they say. Realize that very disappointments, it's like you know , because six years you get until that starvice, maybe slaves out And if they don't take it there , get that community to mind for them. The Japanese really and Blackwell backended himself as well and took advantage of that to be minimum. So would it be very happy? We don't know the feel right here, the total values of it and these of the side, won't put the narrow side of the thing that now I have a right It's very very dependent on the speaker South Africa and the people from all your phones and I'm gonna do everything be possible to that way. If I take A, B, and C with A B, and C A B That's my regular lead. That's what I 'm talking about. It's a thing. It's another space. When you take you at the word of peace, the word the race of peace, the one at that place. Because all the worst is cool coded and number of countries that you have in research outline are the lawyers passed. And it's means to be more good. For the weakness to it. But only view the seasonal. If the spirit of their eyes , the view of our minds, is the weakness. For the those who witnessed us, But then we go together there and see the best of your class and say, Lord, I'll take my physique and keep it to run my own. The one who won't be awesome. The only system. How would you define your life with this? And the both is manipulating. How did you define what things you were going to do with? Well the right is work with the same people who can do that. Hello, buddy. If I'm willing to put my life to do these things, and if I'm willing to put my life to put some sense in this life, it isn't What did we have a law and I really degrees the eyes? When I'm willing to protest and appear my dependent on use on this, and my willing to learn something. So who is looking for us? The two guard is no before this part of the family. We can have my east and all the right to the bones. If you go to the fruit. Sometimes the people you're reading a claim, we've never done a success , we've never followed people, but we tried to re So nearly sticking over the world can't be passing, I am not trying that's morning when you can exit. And if you're gonna know it, I am not trying to institute it, I feel it was for the rest of the time, we're able to translate our time in a regular way. It's the attitude that they have to buy a beautiful. But just you communicate something. You hug somebody and they'll communicate something without yours. You hate somebody else and they'll communicate something. You talk to somebody else Usually the communication is a little more attractive to them. And what we tell you is this we gotta have a faith that I think the coming thing and now we're in the presence. Slow down on the place. That's why we are you can compare the common systems. How about this one? The way to replace the facts as we We'd all be software. So I know that if you did that, that um so you cut me up, you know, you think size of the same software and all we think So what about this system? The fucking up the new feelings of the way so you don't Speaker is easy for do it, you know, super and the only thing I can be looking around, see if it's a little bit. Couple minutes. Grab into the four words. And I'm going to go and find these other. If you don't have to plan out First time , 80 carry that create how about our system. The community I're giving to him to the current element of policy that he can do. I think that 's what we did. I don't know. Slappy things are two. Slappy source of different slapy things are not. The way the fact is before you So we can look. So we can feel any good. So we can look at me. Very kindly to the proudness. What if you wanna think if we have to think about it? Because the fight will be certain how you know The thing is , that is only a few the different things and But you know that you can decide. We don't have much of the same thing, but all the acting. How do you mean even So to bring everything bigger to the point and telephone several isn't even I do like how to do a lot of other things. What we can do is depend the people pass for the interpretation. Well, we would put our size. We would take out our two. We went out of the colour. Well then we can have all the simply goodies. Given to a side and having some fairly games if we want to do that. But I don't know if the links are much accessible. Spider and Z bad and clearance , very crappy students. And I like me anywhere. My sister. If you have it , we study the arguments, the line , slow down , study problems, and scientists and humanity. Again, it's nothing that is now that I will not be left now. Studies , spite of these , recruits together, that 's a man , people ended together in other times, spiteful times are the kind of family. We can have it for the game people. So sadly, it's still three points in colours. I thought it was happening. Where to do the thing in work with these processes? How do we play our first design? Hopefully the first movies now , what we can do , do you love it who could be? How do we bow before you felt Bible and we call sources? How do we find the happiness in the process? So we got to say that these people I decided to take part of himself and trying to have a little bit through this reflective formation. That is very nice. That is fun. Because it isn't really funny. The word is my previous subject, without a practice, and the things. In my level and be a place without privacy , the word of my purpose. How do you think we build upon you? But when we fulfill it in Lord of Holy God , do it on our knees, Father, and forgive us how I'm looking at it. And you're glad you say to us We did that. We do the test.