It's my pleasure this morning to introduce to our pulpit an old friend of CPC , Tito Padilla. While attending uh college in Maryland, he met his wife to V Kim, and they served one summer on a missions trip to South Africa. And it was there that they sensed God's calling to serve Christ in other cultures. He then served as a social worker in Baltimore , then went to Reformed Theological Seminary. He came here and served as a pastoral intern and in 1992 was ordained a missionary. minister. He and uh Kim went as uh church planters to uh Spain in nineteen fifty three and served there till two thousand and five as the church planters. He returned and they uh Joined uh MTW Beam, Border Evangelism and Mercy Ministries in El Paso And for those of you who are here during the middle hour you heard uh Jean tell that one of the objectives of BEAM is to plant uh multicultural bilingual churches along the 2,000 mile border between the United States and Mexico on either side of the border. You know, many of you know that uh we have sent over three summers uh construction and VBS teams to Ciudad Waters just across from El Paso where uh Tim and uh and K uh uh where Tito and Kim have planted uh Las Tierras Community Church. And uh we have seen that church growing through his monthly uh reports to us and and prayer requests and we've seen them increasing their outreach out into the community. Uh during our trips, those three trips that I just mentioned to uh Ciudad Juarez, we've had an opportunity to uh see Tim and Tito, uh Kim and Tito and uh their three children. And again Tito it's wonderful to have you here. Preaching. That is a tongue twister. This uh Tim and Kido. So George, I appreciate you helping me out there. It's an honor for me to be here once again with you. You have blessed us as a congregation. You you love us and You support us, you endure, you've persevered with us through uh many years of ministry. Thank you. Thank you for praying, thank you for giving. Thank you for partnering with us in the gospel. Um I'm glad that uh Tim did recognize Jean and Luann, and uh obviously I A lot of what we do in Las Tierras Community Church uh is supported and encouraged by them. So if you have not had a chance to meet them, please do so after the service. And you in your bulletins you'll have this outline and um and I just need to confess to you I am not Alan Harris and I think you know that You know, when Dot asked me a couple uh months ago to give her an outline, I I said, I don't even know what I'm gonna preach. How can I outline that, you know? So uh I don't have my sermons scheduled y you know, years in advance. Uh like others do. And uh so so the outline is you know it's it's on the same topic, the same text, but y if you follow it and you you do well following it, see me afterwards, because you have a special gift So it's it's different. I just wanted to alert you to that. Uh please turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter nine. Luke chapter nine In a few moments, I'm going to read from uh verses fifty-one to fifty-six. But first let's uh let's pray. Our God, we are grateful to you for giving to us a wonderful and great Savior, Jesus. Who has saved us from our sin, who saves us from our daily sins, and who washes us clean day in and day out. We thank you for your wonderful grace. Jesus, thank you for going to the cross in our place. Thank you for changing us, giving us a new heart and new mind. A new passion, new desires. We want to be used of you in proclaiming this glorious gospel here and around the world. So we ask, O God, that even this morning you would speak to us, that we would see the majesty of our Savior, that we would elevate our praises to Him, for He alone is worthy. We ask in his name. Amen. Some years ago I was listening to a report on the radio from Operation Rescue. And some of you are familiar with Operation Rescue, a pro-life Christian activist organization. And they were reporting on this protest in front of a clinic And so here are the pro-lifers there protesting, but there was another group that was protesting against the pro-lifers who were protesting. And this other group They were vehemently opposed to these pro-lifers. They were berating them. They were cursing them. And I remember hearing that. And I remember my reaction You see, when I heard that, I got angry. I got angry as I heard what they were doing those who were opposed to the pro-lifers. And I prayed that God would destroy these people who supported the abortion of babies. I asked God to wipe out those baby killers off the face of the earth. I pray God execute your judgment. These people dishonor you. These people insult you consign them to hell After a few moments, I asked myself, did I just say that? Did I really say that You see, like you, I am not what I once was by the grace of God But I am not yet what I will be when I'm with him in glory. And as a missionary and a pastor serving the Lord for nearly 20 years You need to know, just in case you had any doubts, that I am a sinner. In an admissions conference Well, you want to hear reports from missionaries about the good things that God is doing, right? You want to hear how God has brought people out of spiritual death into spiritual life in Jesus Christ, who is a resurrection in the life. You want to hear how God transforms. Translates people out of darkness and into light and his kingdom of light. Those are wonderful stories of grace and the power of God that we need to hear so that we can be encouraged. But there are other stories That are rarely told the dark stories of the sinful attitudes of missionaries and servants of the Lord We who serve our Lord, we get angry. We don't handle rejection very well When I share the gospel, when I evangelize, I am learning as I walk with Jesus. As grace grips my soul a bit more each day, I'm learning how to better respond to rejection. When you share the gospel with someone and they reject that the gospel that you proclaim and reject you, when you have been involved in a relationship with people A non-believer thinking, well, look, I will just love them and serve them, and Lord willing, I'll have the opportunity to share the gospel. And the day you share the gospel, they rebuff you. How do you respond to that Rejection produces various responses from each one of us. And some of you may say, Well, I I don't have a problem with rejection. Nobody ever rejects me. And I say, come to El Paso. And some of you, as you preach the gospel, you share the gospel, and you feel that rejection from somebody else, you retreat, you withdraw, because you feel your impotence You feel inadequate, you're unaccepted by that person. Or maybe you react and respond with harshness and stridency. Or maybe you lash out in anger That's what I did that day. That's what the apostles, the disciples of Jesus, James and John, did on this occasion. See, Jesus was rejected by the Samaritans, and they in turn rejected the Samaritans. This text exposes our hearts as people who struggle with sins, all kinds of sin But also struggle to know how to respond with mercy and patience and gentleness to other sinners who at first glance don't receive the gospel. And so I want us this morning to try to understand the nature of this response. What prompts us? What prompted James and John to respond in such a way? So let's read the text. Luke 9, 51 to 56. As a time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem And he sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him. But the people there did not welcome him because he was heading for Jerusalem. When the disciples James and John saw this, they asked, Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them? But Jesus turned and rebuked them, and they went to another village. Let's look at first the historical background that'll help us understand this situation. You know, Jesus is leaving the Galilean region where he had ministered previously, and he was en route to Jerusalem. But first he had to pass through Samaria. And undoubtedly you know about the relationship and the rivalry between the Jews and the Samaritans. The Jews view the Samaritans as racial half-breeds. Because they had intermarried. These Israelites at one time in their history had intermarried with foreigners who had occupied their land, specifically the Assyrians. You can read about that in 2 Kings 17. So ethnically they were not pure Jews, and religiously they were also impure, they were corrupt. They developed their own religious heritage based on the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. Those are the only books they considered canonical. In addition, they built a rival temple, not in Jerusalem, but on Mount Gerizim. And you remember that encounter between Jesus and the Samaritan woman. It had to do with where they worshiped God, whether in Jerusalem a Mount Ger Mount Gerizim. And to make things worse, some years later, it was a Jewish ruler by the name of John Hyrcanus who went and destroyed that Samaritan temple. This is the background. This is something of the charged environments in which Jesus and his disciples enter as they approach this Samaritan village. We're not sure how many people were with Jesus, at least twelve, his disciples, maybe more. So there's a large group, and so he sends out messengers to prepare in advance some accommodations. And so these messengers go But the people refuse to show them hospitality. They do not welcome Jesus. They reject Jesus and his disciples. You see in verse 53 It says the people would not receive him because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And that expression, his face was set towards Jerusalem, is expression that means he was determined to go. There was resolved to go. to Jerusalem. And so maybe behind the Samaritan rejection of Jesus and the disciples was this rivalry, this racial ethnic rivalry between them Or maybe it was simply the fact that when they found out that Jesus was going to Jerusalem, they felt indirectly that Jesus was slamming them For their alternative faith and focus on Mount Gerizim. But whatever the case, what matters for us right now is the disciples' response, the response of James and John we see in verse 54. Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? Think about that for a moment. I want to say when I read that, I go, you stupid idiots, what kind of disciples are you? But let's try to understand what might have prompted this. What might have prompted this vindictive spirit in the disciples and in us? You see, earlier in Luke, the same chapter, James and John had been with Peter up on the Mount of Transfiguration. And there they saw Jesus transfigured, and Jesus was there with was there with Elijah and Moses. And so here they had Elijah on their mind. And they concluded rightly that Jesus was greater than Elijah. But perhaps they also had in their mind an incident that occurred in 2 Kings chapter 1, in which The prophet of Israel Elijah calls down fire on some soldiers. If you read there in 2 Kings chapter 1, you would hear And read about King Aziah, who was seriously injured. And he wanted to find out if he was going to live or if he was going to die. And so he sends messengers Not to consult with God, but rather to consult with this baob. And so as these messengers are going to consult with his bail, Zebub They encountered the prophet Elijah. And Elijah says to them, Is there no God in Israel that you have to go and consult with this false God? He says, You tell King Aziah that he's gonna die. Not great news. And so the messengers go to King Azia. And he responds by sending out a captain and fifty soldiers to go and get Elijah And so they approach and they see Elijah, and he's on the top of a hill, and they say to him, Elijah, man of God, come down from the hill. And Elijah responds, If I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men. And fire came down and destroyed those fifty men, and it happened twice. The third captain and his group, they were a little wiser. They begged and they pleaded. So here's James and John. Maybe all this is in their and their mind is that because they've just seen Elijah They're on the Mount of Transfiguration and they go, Yes, he's the man of God, but Jesus is the greater man of God But more than that, in the same chapter in verse 20, there is that confession that Jesus is the Messiah of God. Yes, he's greater than Elijah. And because these disciples are zealous, because they are committed to Jesus, because Because they're part of this inner circle. Oh, they request the Lord's permission to smoke the Samaritans. Torch them, Lord. Bring fire down upon them. And you know that fire oftentimes in the scriptures are associated with judgment. Just think about Sodom and Gomorrah. And so what the disciples were asking that day was for the judgment of God to fall upon the Samaritans immediately, saying, God, burn their homes, burn their property, burn their marketplace, burn those children. And what astounds me is these are men of God. You know that if you've ever experienced a house fire, it's horrible We've been serving and malicole wavering alongside the Fena family for a number of years. If you know something of their story, about three, three and a half years ago, their mobile home in which they were living caught on fire and it burned down. They escaped, thankfully, unharmed But if you could hear them tell their story of what happened that day, you would know that being burned and being in such an environment is a horrible, horrible and painful event. And yet, this is what the disciples are asking. Brothers and sisters, something is deeply wrong with me. Deeply wrong with you, deeply wrong with James and John, when this attitude surfaces. I wonder if they knew what they were asking. Oh, how does this happen in you and me? How is it that we come to have this revengeful spirit? Well, there are many reasons, but let me identify two reasons. One is a theological reason, a theological problem, the other one is a personal problem. First, the theological problem. They misunderstood Jesus' mission. Back in verse fifty-one says, When the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. Everything that Jesus did in his life and ministry was according to the divine sovereign plan of God, including this journey now to Jerusalem. The time was predetermined by God That he would go to Jerusalem and the time had come and he was going to do the work that the Father had given him to do. So he resolutely sets out for Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the center of Israel's life and worship. There's the temple where God manifested his presence And there in Jerusalem the text says that he would be taken up to glory, referring perhaps to his ascension, to his being enthroned at the right hand of God. But before he is enthroned, before he is taken up, he must be lifted up on a cross. Before he is taken up, he must be rejected, he must be despised, he must be scorned, he must voluntarily lay down his life, the Lamb of God, to be slaughtered, to take away the sin of the world. See, Jesus has already told his disciples that on several occasions in the same chapter in verse 22. Jesus says, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected. by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and on the third day be raised. So as you see in your mind's eye Jesus traveling to Jerusalem, going through Samaria What I want you to see is that he willingly, with great determination, faced the suffering and the death. that he was going to experience. He voluntarily walked into that. And perhaps this is shocking For the disciples they knew that he was the Messiah, and they thought perhaps as the Messiah, the great king of Israel, he was on a victory march to Jerusalem, and they there they would hail him as the king. But what they did not know and understand is that the king was not a man. That king must suffer, he must be despised, he must be rejected. And you and I do not see and remember That the Messiah's ministry and mission embrace suffering, rejection, and death If we don't see that the good news of life that comes to us has come to us because Jesus was rejected in our place. If we do not remember that suffering leads to glory, then Quite frankly, you will not know what to do with rejection. It will make no sense to you as a Christian. How do you make sense of it all? It's only as you understand, as I understand, that the gospel and a Christ-centered ministry is suffused with Suffering and rejection. And so Jesus' mission and understanding and determination to go to die compels me To see my service to him as one of willingly facing rejection, if in God's providence that would come. You see, if you do not see that, your reaction, like mine was, is the pushback. You'll want to protect yourself, you want to run, you want to fight back, you react with anger, with condemnation, with vengeance. You'll want to hurt other people because they've hurt you Is that not true? But if I understand that Jesus' ministry And the ministry that he's calling me to in a different sort of way involves suffering that it makes sense If I understand that when others reject the gospel and reject me because of the gospel that I proclaim. then I can see that I am sharing in the fellowship of his sufferings. In Philippians 3 10. There's a woman in Las Tierras , she's been with us for a little over a year, Yolanda. Now Yolanda, she's a woman with uh a tragic past history. She was married, she had three children. And uh but her husband was extremely abusive to her dear. And I mean extremely, and she still has the scars in her body to this day of the abuse that she received. Now she's been divorced now for about fifteen years and she hasn't seen her ex husband. And many, many years and about six months ago she said to me, Pray for me, I'm gonna go visit him in the nursing home. It's physically he's not doing well, emotionally, mentally he's he's doing terribly And says the Lord has just put it on my heart to go and visit him and share the gospel with him. And there's a part of me that says, no, don't go, don't go. But she told me of the times that she went. And uh it's an amazing story. She goes and she opens the scriptures and she reads the scriptures to him and she shares the gospel with him and he despises her, he rejects her, he belittles her, he hates her. And she's gone time and time again. There's no way There's no way that you can do that unless the gospel is deep in your soul. There's no way that you will share in the fellowship of his suffering unless you know you are loved and accepted, and never to be rejected by God Rejection is painful. You've experienced it in many different ways. But if you don't grab on to this You who are called to serve Jesus and Jesus' way, then when rejection comes, you will act out of the flesh. And as Paul writes in Galatians 5, as he talks about the sinful flesh, you will see fits of rage and fits of anger. This slides into the second problem, the personal problem, and that's misunderstanding our hearts. Not only did the disciples misunderstand Jesus' mission, but they misunderstood their own heart as well. I am sure that James and John, when they asked the Lord for permission to send fire down upon this village, they thought that their reaction was probably good. Not sinful at all. Righteous, virtuous, full of zeal and faith. I mean you gotta have a lot of faith if you're gonna crawl down and say, Oh God sent fire from heaven. I don't know the last time you did that. But when they ask to torch this Samaritan village, the request not only betrayed harshness and anger, but something much more lethal, and that's self-righteousness. They felt smugly superior to the Samaritans. They despised those lowly Samaritans. They deserved to die. Not realizing that they too deserve to die They too deserve judgment. You know, we can look at other people who re s who reject us and we and reject Jesus Christ Jesus Christ and they deserve it. It's true They deserve it. But self-righteousness will blind you to the fact that you also deserve that You heard if you were here in the middle hour, how in Ciudad Juarez on the other side of El Paso. Uh we're on track for seeing three thousand murders in Ciudad Juarez and this 2010 At one point there was eight murders a day on average And you know, when we pray about that situation and we think about that, we go, Lord, we're asking God to bring peace. But you know, what if, I ask myself, what if God were miraculously just to destroy those people and this drug cartel who are causing this violence and these murders. What if God were just to wipe them out of the face of the earth? Would I be happy? Would I say they deserved it? Yes But would there be sorrow? But would there be sorrow and pain in my heart because they die without Christ? Would there be sorrow? Because, but for the grace of God, I would do the same thing. I deserve the outpouring of God's wrath. My sins are just as offensive to a holy and righteous Pure God than anybody else's sin. But there's so many times in my self-righteousness that would rather that my enemies suffered God's wrath and not receive his grace. So what is our hope? What is your hope? We who are disciples in the process of learning and growing and being transformed to the image of Christ, our hope is bound up. In rightly seeing ourselves and our calling. We need to rightly see ourselves and our calling. You know, as George said, for years I served as a social worker in Baltimore City. And if you're a social worker here, I'm I don't want to slam you. But one of the things I learned, because it's a noble profession, it's a good job. But one of the things I learned is that social workers, we have this sort of attitude that we're going to rescue people. We're going to bring good and it's all those people that are down and out and they need our helping hand, right? And so when the good that I offer those who are in a less fortunate situation is rejected. I I respond and say, you know, you people are dumb. Don't you know that what I'm offering you is good? It's going to help you What's wrong with you? And at the root of my problem there is seeing myself as their savior. I think, you know, that I'm going to go and save them And so when they reject the gospel that I preach, the good that I'm doing, when they're they're rejecting me, their savior, and how can you reject the savior, see? But people of God, you know that's silliness. There is only one Savior, and you and I are not that Savior. It's Christ alone who saves. And we are to proclaim him, his life and his death and his resurrection. So we must see, as you go and proclaim the gospel to other people, see yourself and your calling rightly. But in the second place, see judgment rightly. What's interesting in verse 55 is that Jesus does not rebuke the Samaritans for their rejection. The rebuke is not for the Samaritans. The rebuke is for the disciples. Why? Because they failed to understand their calling was not to pronounce judgment Because judgment and vengeance belongs to the Lord. And they would appoint to him, to Jesus, this one who would be judged in their place. A few chapters later in Luke chapter twelve verses forty nine fifty, Jesus says this I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled. I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished What Jesus is saying here is that the fire of God's judgment and rejection would fall down on him. You and I deserve that. The Samaritans deserve that. But it would fall down on Jesus Christ. He was baptized with the judgment of God and the fires of hell at the cross. He would suffer what we ought to have suffered. He was rejected so that we would not be rejected. He was judged so that we might be accepted in the beloved. And when the glory of that gospel of grace and the work of Jesus Christ grips our heart and sinks in a bit more Then and only then will we have the power and the ability to respond with patience. And mercy and gentleness. Only then will you and I be free from this attitude of vengeance. Only then will we be able to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. Only then will we be able to not be overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good God will not be mocked. The day of judgment will come, but today is the day of salvation. Today we proclaim grace, free, merciful grace See, until then, as Paul writes to Timothy in 2 Timothy 2, 24 and 26, it says, And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but kind to everyone, able to teach. Patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness, God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. How do you do that? But by remembering that Jesus bore the judgment at the cross in our place. And it's up cross that we see our acceptance, our welcome. And set the cross, you understand Ezekiel's words a bit better. Ezekiel 33:11, that the Lord God has no pleasure in the death of the wicked, and neither should I. Let me ask you to do two things. Will you pray for missionaries? Who also fear pain and rejection as much as you do. Pray that we would have God's strength to stand firm and respond with mercy The same mercy that we have received in Christ. And secondly, would you pray that in those situations where we feel rejected And have sent a loss of our whatever, our worth, our personhood, that we would quickly run to Christ Because whatever we've lost in our encounter with anybody else who rejects us is amply and abundantly supplied in Jesus. In Christ alone, I am accepted. In Christ I am loved, and so are you. Because he did not shrink from rejection and judgment and the fire of God over his life at the cross. We have a welcome that will never ever change. A welcome that we experience now, but that we will experience fully in the new Jerusalem. Let's pray. Our Lord and our God, we ask that you would work in us by your Spirit, that you would give us courage. That you would give us a boldness that comes not from the flesh, from our own nature, but from the gospel, that comes from Jesus Christ crucified and risen. This Christ who is enthroned, who has led the way for us, and we also will rise, and we also We'll share in that glory. Until such time, O God, would you bless this congregation Would you give her strength to make Jesus known? Would you give her strength to share in the fellowship of Jesus' suffering? Would you give a great joy that comes from you? Amen.