Paul worship leaders that I was just vertically impaired. Please don't, yeah. I need something to hide behind. Families are much like the rest of our country. You've gone through weeks and weeks of anticipation of Christmas. You've had peace. You've shared presents Uh now that you finished the celebrations for Christmas, the house is probably cleaned up, or at least in some stages there thereof. And you'll have to remember the good time that we had. If you've got young children, you'll you'll be constantly reminded that you're now looking forward to next year's Christmas. Looking forward to the things that they can put on their list between now and then and the things that they can hope to get and and all those things that they long for. And that pattern, that annual pattern Celebration and that that anticipation, celebration, and repeated anticipation. It's something I think we look at in some degree as we celebrate the first Christmas Because Mr. Christ came to Bethlehem. Because having come, Christ fulfilled many promises Things that had been spoken of through the prophets from the creation on, from the fall of Adam and Eve, the promise of the Messiah who would come and would trample on Satan. Who delivers people from sin. All the promises that have been given and how those have been in some way were completely fulfilled in Christ in his first coming. And we want at the marvelous gifts that God sent him, but as as we look at Christmas now that we have come past, we find ourselves tempted to ask, is that all that there is Because we know that even though there are tremendous gifts that we received at Christmas, tremendous, tremendous sacrifice that Christ made to give those gifts to us, we also No. But it isn't all done. For you see, we still live in a world torn by sin. We still live in in in bodies and spirits that have habituated themselves to him. We still have struggles and we still have failures. And we know that everything has not been fulfilled. And this morning as we reflect in the period that wondrous week between Christmas and New Year, as we look at what we look forward to in the coming John in his first epistle has written a wondrous passage for us. It talks about where Christmas sits in history And understand what he's saying to us, we need we need to step back for a moment and take stock of the whole of history. Take stock of what he And I want you to think this morning about a timeline broken in three segments. There's a period that begins at creation. And it runs through Christmas. That's an age or an eon or a period. And I think that we can title that the age of anticipation. Where where God gives in in his promises to even Adam and Eve, the promise of the Messiah and what he will do. And all that's given to me and And that period is is a promise that looks to Christ. And then there's Christmas. And the period that follows Christmas to the second coming. And that's the age that we're in. That's the age that we live in now. We are in that time period after Christmas. And I think that we have to call that The age of the already and the not Christmas yet. For already in Christmas the promises have been fulfilled, but we know with deep frustration that they have not been fulfilled completely. And then there's that period that that's initiated with a second coming. The Jesus returns again to us. As the common says this morning, it's still coming. On into eternity without end. And that's the age of fulfillment. That's the age in which all the promises, not just Psalms , have complete fulfillment. The things that we now long for will be real. Not just in spirit, but in experience You know, Alan so constantly talks about that that our life in Christ is trying to become what God has already made us. So that tension. Difficulty because on the one hand we know who Jesus has transformed us and and made us to be. But on the other hand we see ourselves in a totally different And so this morning as we look at those ages, John's addressing the church in Ephesus, living in the age of the already and the not yet And what he has to say has complete applicabil applicability to Columbia Presbyterians where we live in that same age. Let me read the passage. How great is the love that the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called the children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know Him. Dear friends, now we are the children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure. John 's pointing out to us first of all that Jesus has come. That's the first blind. I had some comments in the first service that some people missed some of the blinds, so I'm going to make them very clear. Jesus has come He tells us that he's given a gift of love that's been lavished upon us in the Greek and in other verses it it's more clear. It says, behold what man or love, the Father has lavished upon us. And that's the second blank. We are to behold the love. It's something tangible. It's something we can cling to. It's something that is that is ours to hold on to and to see. And and to remind ourselves of the love God has because of the act of He's taken. And i in this morning in this passage there's just a couple of things that I think we need to remind ourselves of. The first of which Christmas. You see the gift of love that God has lied us on us first and foremost is Jesus. Jesus is Tom. He's he's the Ascended from heaven where he dwelt in glory, receiving the worship that was due him, without limitation , without hindrance. He took upon himself the person of name. And all the limitations, not only of a baby in the manger, but of a baby in the womb. And became man and God mixed. Together, but not mixed. God and man in one person. Living all the suffering, all the indignity, all the discomfort that you and I have for being God. The people that should have worshiped And should have fallen in his feet, shouldn't have opened the doors for him, so to speak, condemned him to death. Bad upon him, abused and oppressed him We can go through the whole litany of the sacrifices Christ made, and that might not touch you this morning. Because we've all had tough times. We've all made sacrifices. But the important thing of realizing the sacrifice of Jesus isn't what he did exclusiveness. You have to realize what he did, but you have to realize why he did what he did. He did it because he loved her. He loved He sacrificed himself totally and would do so again because he is expressing to us his love and purchasing before us a reconciled relationship with God and eternity in heaven. To do that he came He suffered, he was convicted, oppressed, he died, he rose again. And he in giving life to himself brings us to life with him. That's Christian. That's the love. And the result of that love is that we're we're called the children of God. Song goes on in in the verse here, in the first verse. He says, How great is the love that the Father has lavished on us that we should be called the children of God. We have been given an incredible name. We have the name Son, daughter of the Most High God. An incredible blessing. But that's not the extent of it. For not only does he give us a name He gives us the privileges to go with that man. The right. Last night I was watching the show on Lincoln And in that they mentioned again the story of Todd Lincoln, a precocious young son of Abraham Lincoln, who who constantly was running through both the family section of the White House and the offices And he'd come in regularly to interrupt Lincoln in his cabinet meetings here as a president, embroiled in a civil war, trying to hold the nation together. A little boy runs in and out of his office, constantly interrupting him. And Lincoln doesn't get upset. He enjoys his time He defends his son and says, No, you shouldn't punish him. We have the same privileges. Not because we have earned them. God had done nothing to bring himself the power to come into the president's office. It was a gift, a privilege given to him because he was the child of the president. And in the same way we can interrupt God Who's so much more important than Lincoln. You know Alan has pointed out how we were but a a speck on a speck on a speck on a speck in the midst of our gallery Which is a track in the universe. And God has created it all. But God wants us to come to Him. That's the privilege we have as children. of God. But we haven't just been given a name and a privilege. You see there there is a real transformation that's taken place. And and the next blank is the reas Of our adoption. For not only have we been called the children of God and treated as the children of God, we have been transformed into the children of God. Mark Twain has a story called The Prince and the Pauper, in which two people who look so much alike that they can trade positions do so. One is a prince of England. One is a peasant. And and and the peasant goes into the throne room and he's he can't ask like a prince. He doesn't have the education, he doesn't have the bearing, he's not familiar with any of the rules and regulations and neither can the prince act like a peasant. As he's in the streets, he expects people to bow down and take care of him. He's not used to washing his own hands. Much less finding food. But that's not the way God has left us. We are not the unwashed, brought to the throne room to be ridiculed. We are the children. Washed, changed, and transformed , brought in to receive the love of our Father. And that transformation That comes with our adoption may not always be cleared up. Matter of fact, sometimes we find it very, very unfocused. And we begin to doubt it. We see what God says is supposed to be the the character we're to have and we say that's not me. But let me let me give you some encouragement this morning. Because the transformation that God worked in you is visible to others. It becomes so visible in my life when I was a a freshman in college, God really began to lay hold of me and challenged me and showed me that I needed to make some changes. And and and I was on the horns of a dilemma. Do I change for the worse or for the better? And uh I was in a Suite of uh twelve guys in my freshman year in the dorm and and we decided we would build a pub. A public club. We burlapped the walls, we put up dartboards, we built a bar We had a a hanging light, we put a chef table out, and after our dinner in the commons, we'd come home and cleanse our palate with a glass of wine and play the trap and think that we were very sophisticated It was fun. But over that year God began to grab hold of me and said, This isn't death. It's like the woman in the movie morning. I was still looking. Now I had a relationship with Jesus, but he had not made yet clear to me what his demands on me were. And over that summer he really made some things clear to me and I made so many changes that when my roommate and I who we'd shared the room the first year and had decided to share the room again because we we'd really got along well as friends, if we came back together that second year of college I was so different that there was a tension. We couldn't fall back into our pattern of relating to each other We couldn't do the same things together because they were no longer fun for us together. And so by the end of the first quarter he came to me and said, Things are different. You know, I'm not sure what's up, but we need to change Now the changes that he worked in me, that God had worked in me, were so clear to my roommate that it was no longer pleasant for him to be my roommate. And so we changed. And those same changes are going on in you, while I didn't see them as clearly and was taken for surprise. They were clear to those who won. So from the outside those changes and that transformation is really fairly clear and objective. And sometimes We need to go to people around us and say, Do you see God working in my life? Or better yet, go to those that are around you and show them how God is working in in their lives from your perspective. That'd be a tremendous gift of encouragement this week. But when we're honest with ourselves, we have to admit that we're still struggling is a question of whether or not Christmas is enough. Is that all that there is? And John 's telling us this morning now. That's not Not all that there is. Because he goes from verse one to verse two. And he says, Dear friends, now we are the children of God and what we will be has not yet been made known. For we know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. See John points out that already we are the children of God. Now We are the children of God. It's real and complete. We have been adopted. We have been transformed and brought into the household of God. That is sure and unshakable. But see, he points out that taking as he saw What we will be has not yet been made known. See, the reality is that Jesus Jesus is still coming. That's point number two. Jesus is still coming. His work in one sense is complete But in another sense, is yet to be fulfilled and brought to completion. You know, we're grateful for all the Christmas presents that we've gotten this year. And we don't want to diminish the value of the gifts and the love that have been expressed in us. In the same way, we're grateful for what Christ has purchased for us in Christmas. In his coming, his death, and his resurrection. That's the case. We long for the island. You see, we're not created to live in a world formed by sin, but that's where we are. We've been given a hunger for righteousness and purity Yet we have a life that is habituated still to some degree by the sins we grew in prior to coming into Christ. And we doubt against not only the the sin in the world, but we battle against the sin in ourselves. And each of you here this morning needs that time of confession of joy Because you still battle sin. You still have sin that plagues you As long as you breathe, that will be true. And as long as that's true, we're frustrated. Because what we long for is heaven. We long for worshiping Jesus, not not in Gathering together in Smith Theater, but in heaven. We long not only to be able to worship him, but to know his pleasure in us. And that's changed by our sin. We look at God and and when we should think of intimacy and and closeness, we draw back. Because we're not perfect yet. And while God may look at us and see Jesus and see the accomplished work of Christ imputed to us, made our We see the work we're still doing. We see the battles we still fight. And we long for the day when that's no longer true, both in our vision or God. We're given commands in First Thessalonians five to rejoice and to pray without ceasing. But those of you who battle with hopelessness That command isn't is is torture. Because you want to go to pray to God, but you say He hasn't answered yet Will he answer? Can I trust his promises? Can I go to him as a father? And when you should go to him for that intimacy, you for Back because you struggle with open faith. For those of you who struggle with suppression, we're told in Philippians 4 to rejoice in all things He says, Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. And we say how You battle your depression and it's and it's it's intensified by the command to resort. For those of you who struggle with with wrongful thoughts Bitterness, lust, whatever it might be. You read in Philippians 4 where Paul says to think on the good things. And it reminds you simply of the battle that you face. There's a tension. Because we do want to please God. Because we know we have been trying to Transformed, but that transformation isn't complete. It's still impossible. And so like the Ephesians, who had struggled with the same issue , We have to do what John said and look to the hopes of coming. Because Jesus is coming again. And we will see him. And in seeing him we will be made like him. Because God is going to complete that work. In Philippians, Paul tells us that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion in the day of Christ. Hope number one this morning is it is not your effort that brings you transformation. Hope number one, because It is God who began it in Christ. It is God who is continuing it through Christ in the Spirit. And it is God who will bring it to completion if Christ returns And we and all creation will find the fulfillment that we long for. In Romans 8. Paul points out that we and our struggles are not alone. He talks about the struggles that we're undergoing now in He says, I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. The creation waits in eager expectation for the sons of God to be revealed will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glory of freedom of the children of God. See, redemption is coming Glory is coming. God is going to complete the work in us that He's begun. He's going to carry it through to completion. He's doing it now. In the midst of our frustration. me Christ-like, the deeper I see my sin. Things that didn't bother me in the past become plagued And I see more and more how much I need a savior. And that frustration isn't gonna end until Jesus takes me to glory. And it's not going to end for you until he takes you to glory. But he will take you to glory. There is a positive That he gives of a day coming when you will live with your father without misunderstanding. I I don't know if you are like me, but I I've read a lot lately that says that Everybody's pretty much the same, and that we all have fathers who are imperfect, who have conditioned us to think of a father in particular ways that limit our understanding of God. And we look at our Father in heaven and we focus on our Father on earth. And we attribute to our Heavenly Father all the limitations and weaknesses that we can But a day is coming when you will see God face to face and you will not focus on his limitations because you can't find them You will see God without misunderstanding. And not only will you see Him without misunderstanding, but you will be able to live a perfect obedience And the result of that perfect obedience in heaven is this, that you will focus on God's pleasure in me. You see, right now if you It's easy to focus on the facts when you fail. It's easy to focus on the facts that you fail. And how you disappoint But a day is coming when you will live a perfectly obedient life to God and will find his pleasure displayed in what you We 'll live without distance, without discontent Comfort in total and complete intimacy with God, face to face in heaven, without distance physically, emotionally, spiritually, link to God. That 's confident That's what we're created for. That's what we long for now but don't have. But we're not here to find out how much we can endure We're here for a purpose. And part of that purpose is what John talks about in verse 3. For he says, Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he, Jesus, is purified And one thing that you need to know this morning is that while you can induce God in no way to give you that righteous life and to bring you to that glory That you're waiting while you're here is not happy. You are not here to tough it out. You are not here to see how much you can take. There's one overarching reason that we are here, not just in this church this morning, but living now in this age. And that is To please Jesus. That's what John's talking about as he talks about purifying ourselves to become Christ like. For you see, John John is the one who writes down what Jesus says in his last discussions with the disciples. And in John chapter 14, Jesus tells us what will please him She says twice in the span of three verses that he who has my commandments and keeps them. He is the one who loves me. Jesus wants us to Display our love. Now the the thing that you have to grasp on that is this. But John's not saying to love Jesus or to keep his commandments in order to to gain something from Jesus. And he's not saying that you purify yourself because if you don't you won't be transformed. What he's saying is that those who fix their hope in Jesus will be Come like Jesus. Not so much because there's a mystical transformation that takes place, but because they love Jesus. And as you look at your life here and there, you have the opportunity and the privilege of pleasing Jesus. It won't be complete and it won't be it won't be unnecessary. Because we're Where fulfillment is still waiting in some degree. But you complete Jesus John points out here that that what pleases Jesus is is that we become like him. The goal of our creation is that we live in heaven with God as Christ-like as he makes us. And so we have this morning to think about how can I become more Christ like both in terms of knowing what is Christ life and in terms of what power do I have to do it. We have the frustration of being Unable to fulfill what we'd like to do. Like Paul says in Romans 7, that which I desire to do, I fail, and that which I hate to do, I complete But this morning, we need to realize that it is in the power of God and his spirit that we complete Jesus. And that's the goal. And so as we focus on Jesus, as we know Jesus, as we love Jesus, God empowers us to do what God What do we know? This passage tells us that Jesus is righteous. is pure. The Greek term here for pure means an ethical holiness. We are to be ethically pure, doing things that are right and doing them for the right reasons. Because that's what Jesus is. A chapter later John tells us that that God is love. And we've seen in Christmas that Jesus loves so much because he laid down his life, not just on the cross, but in the He came and didn't just live for a wondrous existence of thirty-three years and then take one day and die a miserable death. He sacrificed his life for his whole life for us because he loved him. And that's the love that we are to return to him. Throughout scripture there are other things that we learn about Jesus, that he humbled. Looking through tells us that he humbled himself. Humility is another characteristic that we're to build in our lives. But none of this can be offered to induce God to give us Salvation. And none of this can be used to induce God to love us more. His love is safe and secure, and our salvation is safe and secure. done because he's changed us. He's loved us. He's transformed us and is continuing to transform us. And so in response to that, our Our eyes were open to know him, to know our hope, and to know his power. And through the hope and the power we work to please him by becoming And so this week, as you reflect on the coming year, as you reflect on what is it that God is saying to you You need to change. Where is it that he's telling you that he wants you to focus this year in the power of his spirit To be more like him. Not to gain brownie points, but to please Jesus. You don't see the word for yourself in that except that Jesus Smile. It 's a law to see Jesus smile on you. Let's pray Jesus, we are unable to know all that you've done for us and the cost of the gifts that you've given us in Christianity. We we're unable to know what it will take for that total transformation to be work where we are fit for heaven. Not only because of what you've done in us, and because of a legal decision that you've worked to make us your children, to give us those lives. But Lord, because of the spirit that you worked through to make us your children in reality. Holy, righteous, pure, obedient Unborn children of God. Lord, we long for that day. We long for it to come. And we cry with Paul, come quickly, Lord Jesus. We long to hear you say to us, Well done, O good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master. And Lord, we pray that while we continue here, that you would show us how we might please you and empower us to do this. Fill us with A longing not only for heaven, but to see you smile upon us because of the gifts that we offer to you. We pray this in your name.