We're saying that last Sunday's message, which was heard by some people, got a lot of response, and I heard about a lot of that this week Some good conversations between parents and kids about where some of you kids stand with the Lord Jesus Uh and I have to remember that you kids are in a very different situation from the one I grew up in, because I did not grow up in a Christian home, so When there was the question about my relationship with Jesus, it was not something my parents were ever raising with me. In fact, hearing the gospel was something that was totally outside of my home and when I decided in high school to give my life to Jesus Christ That produced tension between me and my parents. That's very different from some of you. I can remember as a new Christian sneaking my quiet times in my bedroom to not create tension with my parents. And I think that for a lot of you if you had quiet time in your bedroom Parents would do handsprings maybe rather than, you know, creating tension in the family, but very different in the home where I was growing up Uh I heard that uh a number of you in the high school group were doing some emails. I don't know who, they're worried, but I just heard it was good, there was some good discussion And uh so it's raised our awareness of the place that you kids have in our church. For instance, why we have the service begin, for those of you who are here, with the kids, the children's choir singing But we don't do that here because you know it's kind of cute, isn't that nice, and everybody gets ah. That's our kids who are part of our body leading us in worship. And so that's a very special time. And why we have the children's church, for instance, during the sermon, what that's purpose is, and why it's not the whole service, but just part of it, and why we have these kids at church inserts for some of you kids to follow through. All these kinds of questions. But now it's Mother's Day. And by the way, let me take a moment to just say happy Mother's Day to all you moms. We honor you. And uh we honor our own mothers, some of whom that we will be able to see today, some that we'll just be able to call, and some of us only be able to remember For us this is special because it's the first year that our daughter Julie is a mother. And in fact, uh, I won't point them out, but they're here in the service, Julie with Jason and Riley's downstairs in the nursery Tim actually offered to put Riley on a transparency overhead so his face could be up there the whole time I was preaching, like we have sometimes illustrations, but Uh I appreciate that Tim, but I declined the offer for it. Uh nevertheless, glad to have you guys with us Um so I figured the best thing that I could do for you moms on Mother's Day is to preach to your kids. Continuing from Ephesians chapter 6 here, because I figured that if you moms have obedient, respectful, happy kids, then you're happy moms. Amen? Okay, I figured that. So my challenge now then is to address you kids. And uh I want you to realize that of the 155 verses in the book of Ephesians, these are three verses especially for you kids. You kids look at the Bible, and a lot of times you probably see seems like most of it is for things when you get older, it's for adults, it's difficult to understand. But here are three verses Where Paul is saying, kids, heads up, I got a word for you. God has a word for you. So I want you kids to specially listen this morning because this is particularly addressed to, it is directed to you. It is God's word for you. Now, maybe some of you kids dream or think about someday being able, when you're older, to do something special for Jesus. I got some good news for you. You don't have to wait until you're older to bring God delight and pleasure, because the passage that is the same idea in Colossians to what we're reading in Ephesians, in Colossians chapter 3 verse 20, Paul says, Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. Isn't that great to know that you can do something that brings pleasure to God What is it? It's what he says in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 to 3. So let's see that up here and let me read it as you follow along looking here or or also in your in your own Bible. Should be there somewhere. I'll begin reading. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Now the challenge, you got it there? Okay, good, thanks. The challenge is now to speak to you kids. of all ages, and you adults, it kind of reminds me of when we had family devotions at home, you know, and Heather was fourteen and Dean was six and Julie was somewhere in between, you know, Julie's always in between. To be able to say, well how are we going to speak to everybody? So work with me. You kids kinda pay attention, follow what I'm saying To apply it to where you are and you adults, there are some things here for you, and I will try to be as clear and practical as the Lord can enable me. Now, let me also suggest as we go through chapter 6 of Ephesians, if you have not been memorizing Ephesians, one of those few that haven't, then you might think about doing that in Chapter 6. Because uh you really will get more out of the messages. They'll be more helpful to you, and you kids might uh find it real helpful to memorize verses one to three this week. Maybe do something in your family devotions about this. Um but even for the rest of the chapter, it's very, very helpful. It really will help you as you follow through what we're going to be doing So that's just a suggestion as we begin. Now, take out your bulletin outline or if you're a kid, uh one of these uh green uh kids at church handouts, uh, and you see that uh there are Two parts to what Paul says here. There are the commands and there are the reasons. He gives you two commands and there are three reasons. So follow those along now. First of all, notice the commands. You see them up there. The commands are in red, they're underlined. Now somebody Under 15, tell me what's the first command? Should be pretty easy. Just call it out. Obey. Thank you. Obey your parents. That's the first command. Obey your parents in the Lord. Now what does that mean? Well, quite simply, it means do what they tell you to do. It means that God has placed them in charge. It means that if you don't learn how to obey your parents , Then you're probably going to have a very difficult time learning how to obey the Lord. Because you see, God in his Graciousness gives to you as kids some training in how to obey Him You can't see God. You read His Word. Some things are difficult to understand. And what does this mean? How do I apply it? But you know, mom and dad are usually pretty clear And you can see them and you know exactly what they want you to do most of the time, right? So God helps you to see that the issue is your heart learning how to say, I'm not in charge. I will obey what this person tells me to do. That is a basic heart issue in life. To be willing to submit your will to another person. So obey your parents is important in your family. It's important for your own life to learn what it means to obey. From the very beginning of when you're conscious That you know, you have a will and your parents have a will, there's a power struggle, isn't it? And you're, you know, if for a lot of it 's you know kind of like, what can I get away with? What can I do that I want to do and how can I minimize what I have to do that they want me to do? And for some kids, if the family is such that you can get away with tantrums and whining and arguing and complaining and all the rest of this, you think that's going to make you happy. Because you've got to do your will. But you know, I got news for you. In fact, you will be miserable. Some of the most miserable kids are kids who have never learned to obey. One of my favorite stories from James Thompson was from his early years, where he talked about a ten-year-old fellow by the name of Robert. Robert had never learned to obey. In fact, Robert was defiant and he was obnoxious, and every time his mom would take him out into a public place He would throw some tamper temper tantrum and make threats and all this kind of stuff and she just didn't know how to handle them. Well, when Robert would go to the dentist, the dentist office would all kind of cringe You know, because uh he'd grabbed the instruments, he'd grab the table, he'd just do all kinds of stuff acting out and it got so bad that his dentist finally uh gave up and decided he was gonna refer him to somebody else. So he referred him to a friend of his, which could have ended the relationship right there, except that he knew that this fella uh had a reputation for knowing how to handle kids And Dobson said that that office visit went down in the annals of human conflict as one of the classics. Robert went into the dentist's office And the dentist said, hop up into the chair, son. And Robert said, not a chance. Well, son, I said, hop up into the chair, and that's exactly what I intend for you to do. So Robert pulled what he usually did. He said, If you make me get up into that chair, I'm going to take off all the clues Well, son, take them off. So Robert took off his shirt and his undershirt and his shoes and his socks. Then he looked at him defiantly And the dentist said, okay son, up in the chair. You didn't hear me. I said if you make me get up in that chair, I'm going to take off all my clothes. Okay, son, take them off. So he took off his pants and his underpants and stood there naked as the day he was born. The dentist didn't blink an eye, he simply said, Okay, son, now get up in the chair He said that Robert got up and was very cooperative for the visit and had his teeth checked and had them drilled and cleaned. When he got down out of the chair, Robert said, okay, give me back my clothes And then I said, sorry son, I'm keeping your clothes for tonight. You can pick them up tomorrow. Now can you imagine what his mother thought and the rest of the people waiting in the office when out walks Robert, naked as the day he was born, all nice and pink with his His teeth nice and shiny, you know. Nobody noticing his teeth. His mom had to walk him out through the office, down the hall, through the public elevator, down into the parking lot, ignoring all the snickers and all the comments that were going on. Thompson says the next day the mom came back to get the clothes and she said, can I have a word with the dentist? She didn't come to protest. She said, I want to thank you for what you did here yesterday. For years I have been having trouble with this kid who in every public situation will humiliate me by his threats and every time he makes some wild demand says, you know, give it to me, I'm gonna take off my all my clothes. And you're the first person that ever called his bluff. I would tell you since yesterday he's been a different kid. It's a power struggle, isn't it? You see, and what God says to you is you've got to deal with your heart that says, I don't want to obey. I want to have my way. And God is saying, kids, learn to obey your parents. That's not all he says. The second thing he says, you see down there, the second word, again, kid under 15, what's the second command? Honor. Honor. Thank you. Didn't see who, but I heard it. Very good. Honor your father and your mother. Now, what's that mean? It means to show them respect. It means to be respectful not only in your words to them, but also in the way you look at them, in how you act. Now, I want to tell you that I believe that of all the social problems we have, of all the problems that we're confr that are confronting our world today I think a good argument could be made that this is our society's number one problem. The lack of respect of kids for adults and for those particularly who are in authority over them Now I realize that there has been a tremendous difference in public schools in the way kids are toward their teachers from when I was in school when we studied George Washington as current events But I'm just glad that you laughed and didn't just move on without a beat on that. Nevertheless I, even with what I know and what I've known from my kids, have been shocked since my wife, Kathy, has begun to teach in a public school She teaches and kids just talk. I mean it's kind of like, well, you know, if we're interested, we may listen in or not, but if we aren't interested, we'll just talk. Some kids just put their heads down on their desk and go to sleep. They wake up in their drool, you know. Then if you say, uh, I'd appreciate if you'd stop talking while I'm trying to teach, then there's this insolent, you know, like, you gonna make me Well, you know, if you're not going to stop talking, you need to move your seat. No. No? I mean, what do you say as a teacher when you tell a kid to do something and they simply say no And then, well then if you're going to refuse, you need to go down to the office. Get out of my face And then there'll be some obscene comment said to their friend, loud enough so you can hear, but as a teacher you have to decide, am I going to make an issue of this? Because my options into the current system are very limited. The kids are in control There's consequences, you know. These kids think that, hey, we're getting away with all kinds of stuff Somebody has said, and this has been Kathy 's experience, that you spend about 20% of your time teaching and 80% of your time doing discipline. And the kids are cheating themselves. Now you'd say, okay, but that's not true here. Yeah, it's not true in the families, the homes of people at Columbia Presbyterian But there is something that's infectious about this that I see in our homes that does bother me. And you know what it is The fact is that many of you kids, most of you kids are very bright, you're very articulate, and you're good at arguing. And so your mom and your dad will tell you to do something, and you begin to argue. Ah, but That's not fair because blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah you know. Now, you know, as a kid, I d it's not like I don't remember being a kid. I understand the strategy. It's a two-fold strategy You figure A, maybe I'll win the argument, but if I don't win the argument, strategy B is I'll just wear them down. And after we go on long enough, they'll finally say, oh, I don't care what you do, just you know That's wrong, kids. That is a direct violation of what God says here for you to do. He says, obey Now there's a there's a place for discussing, there's a place for questioning, there's a place for saying, but I don't understand. Help me to understand why, you know, and you talk about that and parents will be glad to, you know, in most cases you're gonna be Able to hear the reasons, but you're not equals in authority. And there comes a point when once you've understood The reasons, however much your parents decide to give you reasons, the command is clear, their will is clear for you, they've heard you Now you need to stop talking and do it. And anything beyond that is sin. It's just simply wrong. Interesting thing is that God tells you kids to obey your parents. But the idea of honor and respect is not something that is limited to you kids. That goes on lifelong. Everybody in this room is still under the obligation to honor your father and your mother. If they are old and they need help, your attitude in whether you Care for them, help them in assisted care decisions, maybe help them to deal with the fact that they can't live alone and how you're going to work out the best way for that is part of honoring them. You say, oh, that's a bit of a stretch. No, that's very explicit in Scripture, Matthew chapter 15. Jesus quotes that command, honor your parents. And then he says, some of you religious folks are saying, Well now I've dedicated something to God, so I'm exempt from that. I don't have to take care of my parents. And he says you have twisted God's word for your own ends Some of you are in that sandwich generation where you got kids depending on you on the lower end and you got parents depending on you on the upper end. And you pray for God's grace to be able to meet both of those obligations. But that's part of what is God's will for us and what he states here. Now you might say, well, it doesn't relate to me because my parents are dead. Still thus. Whether your parents are alive or dead, how do you refer to them in your cell or in your small group or your support group when you talk about the problems in your life and your background? Do you trash your parents? Let me tell you all the reasons all the reasons I'm screwed up and why I've done this and that and you know I'm addicted to this and compulsive about that. It's all my parents There's a way that you can acknowledge my parents weren't perfect. None of us are as parents. There are things that I'm struggling with because of my family background without trashing them. And that's what God's saying here. So he says to honor them. Then he gives reasons Now you notice that God gives here three reasons for his commands. Very gracious in telling us this. The first is that it's simply right. It's God's command. In verse 1, children, obey your parents and the Lord, for this is right. It's the right thing to do. And he says in verse 2, it's God's command. That is, uh, it's not a matter of what you feel like doing. What seems like it makes sense to you. This is crystal clear. Obey your parents unless they are commanding you to do something which is sinful. And before you take that option, please check with your Sunday school teacher or your youth leader or somebody in the church. Before concluding, wow that's sin, I can I'll have to do that. I very much doubt that that's the case for you So it's very clear what God is telling you to do. In fact, He stresses this not only by the fact that it's one of the Ten Commandments, the first commandment, dealing with the horizontal relationships of you with other people. But because he also connects it with his word, I mean with his name. In Leviticus chapter 19, in verse 3 God , says to his people, Each of you must respect his mother and father, and must observe my Sabbaths. I am Yahweh, your God. He's saying, this is what makes you distinctive as my people, that you have families where kids are obedient and respectful. Because you are my people. In fact, this was so important, it was so basic in the Old Testament. God sees this as such a vital principle Did you realize if one of you kids cursed your parents under the Old Testament law, you could be taken to the elders And executed, stoned to death. I don't know how much or whether that was ever practiced. But I'll tell you, for a kid, it lets you know who's in charge, doesn't it? It lets you know the importance of respect. You say I couldn't help myself. I'll tell you. If you thought I might be killed for doing this, you'd control your tongue, wouldn't you? You know what else it says? In Deuteronomy chapter 21, verses 18 to 21, it said if a teenager was drunkard and lived a wild life in utter rebellion. and disregard for what his parents said, then that kid could be executed. That's pretty severe stuff, isn't it? You see, it's our society has turned everything on its head. In that society, kids feared their parents. Now it was a fear, ideally, that was a secure fear. They knew the parents loved them, but they knew that there were boundaries. In today's culture, the parents fear the teenagers. I worked down the hall from a guy in an office when we were over at the Stonehouse who used to hang around with a bit and one Day after a weekend he uh we got to talking and he was really down. I said, uh, what's the problem? He said, Well He said I my kid was grounded and he took the car Saturday night and took off to a friend's house and so I called the friend and I said you get right home right now So he did. He drove the car right through the front door, through the house and out the back door. Destroyed the house and the car. When we used to live on Tamar Drive down the road from where we are now. One night Kathy and I were out for a walk and there was a teenager on a a block over and He had asked to go to the shore with his friends, and his mom said, No, you can't go. So he beat her to death This is a sick world. God says you're learning to obey your parents and be respectful of them at an early age or if you are a teenager. It applies just as much, if not more. It's basic to what's going to happen in the rest of your life. You know, we've just been hearing a lot about this guy, Timothy McVay, in the news. execution was stayed for a month perhaps. Here was a guy who killed a hundred and sixty two people because he felt like he had the right to do it. He had his sense of justice and he was angry at some stuff the government had done and so He decided it was within his prerogative to take the lives of 162 people. Sorry he couldn't take more. No evidence of remorse Why? It's a fellow who had never learned some of the basic principles of life about authority. Whether you heed this or not has consequences in the rest of your life. But you know what's interesting is that God doesn't focus, and Paul doesn't even mention here the threats. What he mentions are the promises. Because he is writing this to kids within the body, kids in the Lord. And so what Paul refers you to is the fact that God gives this command with a promise And you see the promise that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Now, in Deuteronomy, the command went that you will live long and things will go well with you in the land. Paul changes that and he quotes it and he says, So the things will go well with you and you'll live long on the earth. Because we no longer live in a land where God is the leader of that land. God is not the President of the United States, but he was the head of Israel So now Paul takes this principle, and this I believe is not a promise that is for individuals. It's a corporate promise. In other words, what it's saying is this is the command or the promise that it will go well with you and the you as poor, with you as a society, with you as a country, as a nation, as a culture. It will go well with you and you will enjoy long life on the earth. That is, you will have a stable society that is healthy both in society and in family life. So it's that principle. But then the third reason that Paul gives here, I believe, is the most important, the most basic, the most important for you kids to understand here now. And that is, you notice how he addresses. He says, Children, obey your parents in the Lord Or as we said last week, it could be, you kids in the Lord, obey your parents. This is gospel motivation. That's the two blanks for those of you with the bulletin outlines. This is gospel motivation. In other words, what Paul is saying here is because you kids belong to Jesus by your own faith, not by your parents' faith. Because you belong to Jesus, because you love him, because you want to serve him, then you will obey your parents because that pleases the Lord, as Colossians 3. 20 says. Now what does that mean for you? It means that as you remember the Lord Jesus, that you love you, remember he was a child. And do you remember that as Jesus grew up, Luke chapter 2, verse 21 says, just as Jesus was approaching his teenage years, that Jesus obeyed Mary and Joseph. Now, Jesus made Mary and Joseph, and yet he's still decided that he must obey them as authority over him. And you've heard it so many times, you know, we say, well, teenagers think they're always right. Well in this case it was true. You know, if if Mary and Joseph and Jesus disagreed over something he was supposed to do, guess who was right? But he still obeyed them. And it's in that obedience, Hebrew says, that he learned obedience. So that when Jesus came to the greatest test of his life in the Garden of Gethsemane, and everything in him wanted to disobey his father to find another way. Fortunately, for you and for me, he learned obedience and submitted to the Father's will to go to the cross To pay for your sin and for my sin. Kids, have you ever said to Jesus, Jesus I've disobeyed my parents, and sometimes I just everything in me Just wants to say something really nasty. I don't want to obey them And I know that's my heart. That's not their problem. It's my problem. Jesus, please forgive me. Have you ever asked him to forgive you for your disobedience to your parents? That's why Jesus died, you know. So that you could be forgiven of your heart of disobedience and disrespect, just as I need to be forgiven for my heart of disobedience and disrespect Because there were times when I was a brat to my parents. The pastor was a brat. Yeah, the pastor was a brat. Every one of us. Because you see, this command reveals your heart, doesn't it? How you respond when you read this Children, obey your parents, honor them. Do you say, Lord, yes, help me to do that? Or do you say, I don't give a rip? I you know, I wish you wouldn't talk about that. I don't I wish you could talk about something my parents do. Well we'll get to the parents in the next week. But right now it's for you to think about your heart, you see. For all of us to realize that we have hearts that are disobedient. If you want to have a powerful witness in the world that is around you You kids, try just obeying and being respectful to your parents. You'll stand out among your friends, you know? And maybe maybe you're thinking, well maybe I could obey my parents, but I'll tell you it's really tough when my friends are around because it's not very cool to be respectful to your parents And maybe your friends will make fun of you. Hey, it's not going to get any any easier when you're a teenager, right, teenagers, you know? You obey your parents, you're respectful to your parents, and what do your friends think of that? They really lift you up in their eyes, you know, hey man, that's really cool. He's really respectful to his parents. It's going to cost you something. Let me tell you something. When we were in Ireland last year, after one of the evening services, we went back to one of the elders' homes for tea And uh as we went up to the house, it was a beautiful home and we pulled up and the ten-year-old daughter greeted us at the door. She took our coats, we went inside, it was they had a ten-year-old and a six-year-old And uh as they served us the tea, I noticed that the ten-year-old girl was doing as much of the serving as her mom, and the two of them were out and they were working like a team, and she served us, and then she sat down with us And talked with us for a little bit. And at one point I noticed her mom said, Would you please go get something that she wanted to show us? And the daughter got right up. No attitude. I'm telling you this is true No attitude. It's not just Ireland, I think, you know. Went out, got it, came back. Now let me tell you the effect of that. Whatever that mom or dad had to say on any subject, I was ready to listen. You see, the kids gave them credibility And so how you kids are toward your parents either gives them credibility as you try to share Jesus with other people. You know, the floras have neighbors who have said to them, your kids are just so good. And it has opened up the doorway for Tim and Dana to be able to talk about the gospel with their neighbors. Now, this is not to say, you know, if your kids are, you know, disobedient and at times you know, oh well, we can never share the gospel. There we go. Boy, forget it. What it's saying is this is a hard attitude. And you kids need to see that what you're doing affects more than just you But the question is, do you want him to change your heart? You see, this all comes after Ephesians 5, where he says, be filled with the Spirit, and that filling of the Spirit produces a cheerfulness It produces a thankfulness and it produces a heart of submission. You can't do it. All you can do is come and ask Jesus, Lord, give me that new heart. So let's ask him now. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, all of us have hearts of disobedience and disrespect, and we want our own way. But you speak to us from this your word to tell us that a heart of obedience, a heart of respect is what pleases you, and that is a heart that only you can give us. Forgive us, Lord, for our disobedience and our disrespect. And Lord, for any of the kids here who need you to give them a new heart, I pray that you would show them what Jesus has done for them. And that they would seek from you that new heart that is able to obey because of Jesus and the Spirit in them. Lord, give each of us a heart of respect toward authorities and honor toward our moms, particularly today, to do something for our moms that show that we really do Care a great deal for all that they've done for us. Because that pleases you. In Jesus' name. Amen.