Well let's face it, we all struggle with our self-image, right? The things that we do, the things that we're like These all things that um we 're not content with about ourselves. Our physical appearance If only I didn't have this nose, if only I was built differently, looked differently, I hate this feature about me or whatever else it is. If I could have just designed it, it could have been a little better. Sometimes it's our abilities or our limitations which bother us We're concerned about what we're not able to do. We compare ourselves with other people. At uh at this age I should have accomplished this much. Look what this person's accomplished. Look at the uh success that they've gained. Why have I not been able to do that? And I'm discontent. And maybe it's just simple performance. Things that we've done that we regret. Things that we look back on and we say, why did I have to be such a Jew? Why did I have to do that? I'll live with that the rest of my life and I'll never get over that mistake or this or that thing that I've done. Guilt, derating myself. Now it's interesting that we in the 90s seem to have much more of a problem with this than people a couple of generations ago. Now I don't know, you know, depending on your age, how aware you are of that, but you realize that this series that we're beginning now on self-image This is series which if I preached that back in the 50s, first of all, I would have been preaching it as a kid, but If I had been preaching it in the 50s, it would have been kind of an esoteric psychological thing, but something that probably Most of you, if you were back there then, would not be particularly relating to. This whole question of self-image and developing a positive self-esteem and all this kind of stuff would have been somewhat academic back then. The public education and hundreds and hundreds of articles have made it a top priority for you and for me to be concerned about our self-image, haven't they? Interesting thing is that as we look at public education, it seems that that has been about the number one priority of anything to get across to kids today is that they develop positive self-regard. And yet we see kids with more problems with self-image now than we've ever seen before Why is it there with so much more concentration on this idea of developing a healthy self-image that were more and more plagued with negative self-images Well, as we go through the six-week series, I think the answer to that will become somewhat clearer, at least according to certain ways of looking at it. But I'm not going to deal with that right now. I want to deal with the fact that You and I are bombarded with this matter of our self-image. We hear from the secular press so much that we need to love ourselves before we can love others. So take for instance from this book, Love Yourself. Very clear. I mean here it is. You want to know how to be happy? Love yourself. So on self-acceptance and depression. There's a little poem or a reflection at the beginning of the book. Now, I want you to follow this clearly because you must understand the logic of this, okay? Listen closely, see if you can get it When I love you more than I love myself, I am really loving you less. Loving myself less than you, I make it harder for you to love me. Your love for me is so very dependent on the love I have for myself. And my love for you will be stronger if you love yourself the way you love me. You get that? Now somebody tell me what he said. I for the life of me, you know. And that's what we're told, you know. I I mean really in some way that you've gotta sit around and think about. You really can't love me unless you love yourself and and if you really love yourself more then you'll love me more because I'll be able to love you more and we'll all love everybody and all that kind of stuff Well, we hear this on and on. We we need to develop this positive self-image in order to love. We hear it from Christians. So very much that God has made you wonderful. God doesn't make jokes, and you're a wonderful creature. And so therefore, uh because you're wonderful, you ought to be able to love yourself. And the question that you and I have is the one that I titled the series under, If I'm so wonderful, then why don't I like myself? So you can sit there and tell me how wonderful I am. And you can go on and on and on and keep telling me that. But the fact is when I'm alone and when I face myself, there's lots of things I don't like about myself. Why is that if I'm so wonderful? Why can't I believe it? Why is it that I'm such a driven perfectionist who's never content with how well I do something, but must always strive to do it a little better in order to be satisfied. Why is it that I'm addicted to other people's approval? And what what other people think about me so controls how I feel about myself. And why is it so important to me that I feel good about myself? Why can't I just forget about it and move on? Why is it that I'm so hung up on continuing to blame myself for things that I've done and I can never seem to get away from that blame and that blame of myself causes me to want to escape it by criticizing other people. And so I criticize you. And I blame you. And I continue to blame because I'm not happy with who I am. Why is it that I'm so full of shame? The things that I've done I never seem to be able to get beyond, but I continue to berate myself and continue to feel that change. Why do all these things occupy so much of my emotional energy that I'm not simply able to get out of the introspection And to move on and to enjoy life. Well, I believe that it's time that we looked at what the Bible has to say about these things directly. They're on our minds, they're on the minds of our neighbors, they're on the minds of people in our family. We talk about it a lot, but I think we often greatly misunderstand what the Bible has to say about it I think that we often read the Bible through the filter of modern psychology and seek to find answers to questions that aren't precisely posed there. And we need to be able to look at the scripture to see what it says. We need to be able to look back and say that maybe Paul and John in writing the New Testament understood more about human nature than we have given them credit for. Perhaps even though they hadn't read uh Freud and Adler and Frome and all the modern psychologists of the self-image proponents, maybe because they reflected the thoughts and the minds of the God who made us, they do understand our nature And can speak to the needs that we have. And so we want to come and we want to look at the scriptures. We want to reclaim the healing that Jesus Christ has given to us. in our contentment, in our sense of being able to think about who we are and our identity, and to be content with that. First thing that we need to do is to clear away some misconceptions, some misunderstandings And then we're going to rebuild on a proper foundation of Scripture. And so this morning what I want to do is to clear away some misconceptions And then in the next five weeks we will build the positive understanding of a biblical self-image. Today, then, with your bulletin outline there, consider with me four points. Four things. Number one, consider that there is no command in Scripture to love yourself. There is no command in Scripture to love yourself. If developing a positive self-image is important as a contemporary psychologists seem to think You would expect to find a great deal in Scripture, wouldn't you, on this need to devo develop a positive self-image in order to be able to be free and love other people. In fact, if you look through the scriptures from Genesis to Revelation You find that there is no command to develop positive self-esteem or to love yourself or to like yourself or any other such thing. You look in vain for anything on that subject. But what about, you say, Matthew chapter 22, verse 39? For in Matthew chapter 22, verse 39, we read that Jesus commands us there to love your neighbor as yourself. That's the next two blanks there. Love your neighbor as yourself. Well, you're probably familiar with the popular argument that says you really have three commands here You have a first command in verse 37 where Jesus says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. And then he says, that's the first and greatest commandment. And then he goes on to say, the second's like it, love your neighbor as yourself. And the argument goes that uh I remember hearing it uh from the fellow who wrote this uh book, Walter Trobisch. Kathy and I were in a seminar with him back in the early seventies and I remember Trobish saying that most uh Christians uh look at this and they they think that they love themselves too much And Frobik said, uh the actual fact is that most Christians don't love themselves enough. That what Jesus has given us here is really three commands. Love God and love your neighbor, but the measure with which you love your neighbor is that you love yourself. And so the third command is really an implicit one to love yourself. Love God, love yourself, and then love your neighbor In fact at that time University Press put out a three uh series Bible studies, three books on that. Loving God, loving yourself, and loving your neighbor. And we were told that this was the idea that there were really three commands and that we couldn't really obey the third one until we had obeyed the second one to learn some of ourselves. The problem is that in verse 40, Jesus says right in this passage, all the law and all the prophets hang on these two commandments. The problem is that Jesus himself said, there's only two commandments here. I didn't give you three commandments. I gave you two commandments. And the reason is that he is assuming a certain kind of self-care When he talks about loving our neighbors, he's talking about action, not so much self-introspection and feelings. He says, Love God. Now, the way you care for your neighbor, the way you love him, the way you exercise that care and concern for him should be like you care for yourself and your own interests. Jesus is in no way here giving us a command to love ourselves. He's assuming that In fact, I find that many people who are the most miserable are the people who do think so much about themselves. Many times it's the people with the very negative self-images who in fact are the people who are most dwelling on themselves. To find a person who comes across having a negative self-image is often the most proud person. You know why? The reason that we're depressed is because we have set ourselves up as an idol. And that idol that we that we're so enamored with, that vision of ourself, that idol doesn't fit reality. When we look at what we're really like and what we do, we see the scumballs that we are. We look at that and compare that with that idol, and it makes us angry and it makes us depressed. And so we want to have people constantly affirming that we're more like the idol than the view that we have of our own heart. And that conflict is a conflict that produces tension and depression. Not because we don't love ourselves, but because we have loved this image of ourselves that we've constructed that reality doesn't fit. And so the escape is to get off of ourselves rather than to have another commandment that says that we need to learn to love ourselves. That's not the solution. In fact, you see that that clearly is not intended to be the solution when you consider the second point, and that is that the only reference to self-love in all of Scripture is not a positive one. There is one time that the Bible speaks about self-love, and it's in 2 Timothy chapter 3. If you haven't already turned to it, please turn to it. Because all of this is leading up to this Which is our text for you to take a look at what God says through Paul about self-love. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 2, God says, in the beginning of that verse, people will be lovers of themselves. Now he's describing a time in which people have finally learned to love themselves. And that uh word in the Greek means is simply self-lovers, lovers of themselves. The only time it appears in the Bible about loving yourself. And he says there, people will be lovers of themselves. Now, what good things flow from this time when people have learned finally to love themselves the way that we're taught that we need to do by every other article and self-help book that we pick up today. Well, Paul says about that time, he begins it in verse 1. He says, Mark this There will be terrible times in the last days. Not a very good start. Terrible times in the last days. People will be lovers of themselves, okay? They're also going to be lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, without love, unforgiving, slanderous Without self-control, brutal, not lovers of good, treacherous, rash, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying its power Have nothing to do with them. Wait a minute. You haven't read Glenda magazine, Paul. I mean that's not what it tells me there, you know, and Good Housekeeping and Mademoiselle and everybody else, you know, they say I need to learn to love myself. Paul says, hey, this is what is associated with loving yourself. It's simply a list of self-absorption. People who are in bondage to themselves, addicted to affirmation. You notice interesting, he finishes it up by saying they have a form of godliness, but they deny its power. You see, there's no power in this. There's a weakness that says I continue to need to have constantly fed the affirmation of my ego. And so I don't do what is right, I do what will make me feel good about myself. And I'm in bondage. Jesus rather wants to give you power He wants to give you power that will transform your life. And that's entirely different. And so the next time you read about from a Christian or from somebody in a secular setting About something very plausible in the argument that you need to learn to love yourself as a primary obligation that you have to yourself You ought to be just a little suspicious about the fact that you can't find any counterpart in Scripture and that the only time the Bible speaks of self-love It is in associating it with the terrible times of the last days when people have simply a form of godliness but don't know the reality of the power of Jesus. Jesus Christ. That should be a warning. Now that leads to the third concern then. What's the problem with self-love? Come on, what's so wrong with loving myself? You telling me how to hate myself Saying that's wrong for me to feel good about myself? Nobody uh no wonder nobody ever wants to party with Presbyterians. These guys are a real drag. I go to my friends and they say, I'm really concerned you feel good about yourself. I go to this guy and he tells me you're feeling good about yourself. Well I want to destroy that, or I want to send you out of here thinking it's sinful when you feel good about yourself. That's not what I'm saying What's the problem with just focusing as our goal on feeling good about ourselves? The answer is simply that it is out of touch with reality. Simply that it's out of touch with reality. I don't know anything wrong with uh feeling good about myself. I'd love to do that. And I want to be content with who I am. That's a big concern But the fact is that if my goal is to feel good about myself, and whatever I will take in, whatever I will believe and receive must fit that builder of will it make me feel good about myself And the problem is it's simply out of touch with reality. I mean I may like to think that I'm a helicopter and put a beanie on my head with a little twirly bird on top. But if I stand on top of a Smith Theater here and then, you know, jump off and twirl my twirly and I hit the concrete down there, splat, you know, and you say, well, you know, he was feeling good when he went up there. He thought he was a helicopter. The fact is reality has a way of crashing in on you, you know And so if in fact I am not all these great wonderful things that everybody's telling me that I am, and all I've got to do is just to believe it somehow and affirm it and image it or whatever else, then Shouldn't my goal really be to be in touch with reality? I mean that's how we get hooked on drugs and alcohol and all the rest of it, isn't it? It's in order for us to find a temporary relief from reality and coming to grips with reality And so what I need to do really is rather to find out what am I like, what really is my identity, whether it's good or bad. I simply want to find out the truth about myself. You see, I tend to believe that I am wonderful, but that I have a problem. That's what my society tells me. You're really a wonderful guy. You just have a problem. You know, your problem is your parents, your problem is your spouse, your problem is your circumstances, your problem is all those people who keep you from actualizing yourself and really becoming who you are and getting in touch with yourself and all the rest is you have a problem. The Bible says, no, no, no, no. The Bible tells me I don't have a problem. The Bible tells me I am the problem. And you see there's a big difference between those two. Because as long as you and I b believe that we have a problem, we'll try to get rid of that and blame shift and always try to cast it on to somebody else It's not until I come to look at the fact that I am the problem, that I understand that my identity is the fact that I am joined to Adam. That rebel who was my original ancestor who rebelled against God. And in his rebellion, his nature was passed on to me And that nature is characterized by four things that you see. First of all, that it is a disobedient nature. And so I am the problem. My nature is a disobedient nature. Do you remember some months ago I shared with you about how one of our pastors in our presbytery lost his church Because he went out one day and in an under a stressful situation on impulse he shoplifted and then he resisted arrest so that they finally had to throw him to the ground and carry him off to jail. You know that's not what you exactly like to hear of your pastor doing on his day off. And uh ultimately he lost his church in that. He God put him in a good situation of healing. And I wish he had been able to keep that church. I think he learned an awful lot through that experience and would have made him a far better pastor. But what I'm mentioning that for is why'd he get into that situation? He told me and others who would talk to him about that afterwards, he said I was out of touch with my heart I didn't really believe what I was capable of. My sin and my inclinations surprised me in a way that it shouldn't have. I should have been more in touch with my heart. When's the last time you were surprised by your sin? When's the last time you were surprised by what you were capable of? When's the last time you found yourself under utter shame to realize I am able to have those kinds of desires and impulses? I could think this about that person and under the right circumstances I could commit that sin. You realize that your heart is right actually a very evil heart. You and I need to be more concerned to be in touch with reality about ourselves than simply trying to Justify ourselves in order to feel good about ourselves. And that's the second thing, you see, that the Bible says about Adam. He's not just disobedient, he's a blame shifter You and I may uh we have a choice. I can either see that I am made as a wonderful creature in God's image But that I am also a rebel who is disobedient and guilty before him in my sins. Or I can go to the zoo and I can look at the primate cage to find out my identity I got a choice. I guess you know either it's out of the primate cage in the zoo and that evolved me and I have no moral responsibility, or I was made by a God infinite and personal. He made me in his image and I have rebelled against him. And therefore I am guilty before. But I blame Shift. I don't want to hear that. I want to blame everybody else. You know, there were some criminologists who did a study recently and 250 criminals. They wanted to find out what these criminals all had in common. They thought there'd be some sort of a uh a uh uh environmental, uh sociological, uh common thread that would enable them to say, here's what society has done to these people, you remove that influence and these people would not commit these kind of crimes. You know what they found out? They changed their thesis of the book. They said we couldn't find anything in common with these people. There some were abused background, some were not abused background Some uh came from terrible situations, others came from great situations. Some were poor, some were rich, nothing in common, except one thing. Along the line They had decided to rebel against authority and then to blame others. That's a common thread. Somewhere along the line they decided that they were going to do wrong and that they were going to blame others for their situation. Now, you're probably aware that if you're in Alcoholics Anonymous, the first thing that you do, you start every meeting and you start healing By saying I'm not going to blame shift. We're going to start by saying, My name's Alan Harris, and I'm an alcoholic. I'm a sinner. It is when you and I accept responsibility to say, I have to accept the fact that I am a sinner. I have wronged God. I have ignored his law. And I have blamed everybody else for my problems. I am guilty for what I have done. That you begin to get in touch with reality, and that's the beginning of feeling. The third thing that's true of Adam and is true of your identity in him is that you are lost Adam was expelled from the garden because of his sin and his disobedience. And you and I have been expelled from God's presence. We lack a sense of his presence and his peace, don't we? And outside of Jesus Christ, we will never have that. We need to admit that. I cannot gain it on my own. Nothing that you can do is ever going to gain that. No religious activities, no good deeds, nothing that you will ever do. Will ever gain for you the removal of your lostness, your coming back into God's presence and favor. It can't be done by you. Because the final thing is that you are spiritually dead. That's the last identity. You're disobedient. You're a blame shifter. You're lost and you're dead. That's your identity in Adam, spiritually dead. He can educate you, you'll be a smart sinner, but you'll still be a sinner. He can discipline you, you'll be a disciplined sinner, but you'll still be a sinner. You can give you culture and you'll be a refined sinner, but you'll still be a sinner. Give you religion, you'll be a religious sinner, but you'll still be a sinner. Your nature can't change from within. There's only one way you and I can change, and that's when Jesus Christ comes into our lives to change us. And it's not until you and I come into reality to say, my goal is not to feel good about myself, my goal is to be transformed. My goal is to understand reality, and my goal is to see if there's any hope for me as I really am. That you begin to look to Jesus Christ and what he has to offer. That you stop rationalizing and justifying, and that you see that in fact there is hope in Christ. And that's the last thing The last point is the question: what then is the biblical alternative to self-love? What's the biblical alternative to self-love? The biblical alternative is not self-hatred. That's a caricature. The biblical alternative is a positive alternative. The answer to that, as you see, is love of Jesus Christ. See, the biblical alternative to self-love is to get off of yourself as the center of your affection. The biblical alternative is to learn to love Jesus Christ. To admit who you are, and then to see in the Bible that the Bible tells you that Jesus came for you just as you are. In all your rottenness, your rebellion, your blame shifting, in all your lostness, in all your absolute inability to do anything good, God has come to you to meet you in the person of Jesus Christ. And if your desire is not simply to develop a positive self-image, but is to receive a new self in Jesus Christ, then Jesus can meet you. Jesus can meet you and he can grant that. Because your contentment and my contentment is not based on how I look, but where I look. No matter how I look, if I look to myself, I'll never have it. But if I look to Jesus, I find in him a new identity As we saw earlier in the service in Galatians chapter 3, if I am baptized in Christ and I belong to Christ, I am clothed with Christ. And clothed with Christ means I have a new identity in Christ. He gives me a new identity of himself. He gives me his righteousness. He gives me his record. His performances to my account. And I look at myself as joined with him. And I can feel very good about that. I feel very humbled, but my attention is on Jesus, and as I look to him, I am content and I love him. And so the Bible has given to us four specific provisions to meet the four needs that I talked about in the beginning: the problems of perfectionism, addiction to approval, blame, and shame. And it's those four provisions that we're going to look at in the next five weeks in order to see what Jesus Christ offers us in healing in our lives But in order to gain those, you've got to stop struggling in order to affirm your positive self-image. When you stop struggling and are willing to look at what you really like, then Jesus is able to meet you. Watch me knee tells an example about one time he was standing on the edge of a shore with a person who was an expert swimmer. And as they were standing there out in the river, A man was swimming and they saw that he was in trouble. The man began to scream for help. And Watchman Nee, knowing the person next to him was an expert swimmer, said, You see that man? He's drowning. Are you going to help him? He said, Wait And the man continued to struggle and scream, and the swimmer just stood there, placidly, watching, watched Minigi became more frantic, and he said, Aren't you going to help him? He's going to drown. He said, Not yet. He just kept waiting, and finally the man's struggle ceased, and he went down. And at that moment the swimmer jumped in and in a few strokes he had gained his place to that man and he dragged him in and he saved him. Watch me knee say, why did you wait so long? Why did you wait till the last minute? And the man then said, simply because I had to wait until he stopped struggling. For if I had gone out with his struggles, he would have dragged me down and I couldn't have saved him. But when he stopped struggling, struggling, then he could be rescued. Stop struggling. Be open to what Jesus can do. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we struggle, how we blame shift and rationalize and justify and try to perform and gain others' approval and do everything possible. In order to feel good about ourselves. And we're continuing to struggle, Lord. And all the time, Lord Jesus, you stand there and you're waiting for us to stop struggling. You're waiting for us to admit what we're like. We know better. We know what we're like. But we've had so much support from secular press and from so much that we've read today that says you're really not like that. That's just those negative Presbyterians and Christians who want to spoil your fun. But it hasn't worked, Lord. And so we want to come back to your word, and we want to come to that word, which doesn't speak to us about the need to learn to love ourselves, but rather speaks about getting in touch with what we're really like, so that Jesus can heal us. And we pray that you would do that and meet us in these next weeks to come and provide that deep healing, perhaps like we have never known before. As we meet you and the provisions that you have made for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.