Thank you, Dick, and thank you, brothers and sisters. I feel like all that clapping should not be in honor of me as much in honor of Jesus Christ. He's the wonderful one. He's the beautiful one. He's the one that is our strength, for indeed we are weak and he is strong. This is indeed my last sermon here at CPC, at least as pastoral assistant. And so maybe my last time to talk to you for quite a while from the pulpit. And in doing this, I'd like to focus our attention again on Galatians and unpack a little bit more of what I spoke of last week as one of the real keys to revival in the church in our day. Building on Galatians 1 to 4, as we looked at that last week, it's particularly chapter 3, 1 to 14. Now we're going to look at the last part of Galatians, Galatians 5 and 6, and look specifically at Galatians chapter 5, verse 6. But to set a little of the context, I'd like to read this morning from Galatians 5, verses 1 to 6, reading from the New International Version. Here is God's word to us. It is for freedom that Christ has set you free Stand firm then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again, I declare that every man who lets himself be circumcised , he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. But by faith we eagerly await through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. How do you get love for other people into your life? Francis Schaeffer wrote a small book a few years ago called The Mark of the Christian. It's a brief, but a very powerful little book. And Schaefer's thesis boils down to this. What is the supreme telltale characteristic of the Christian? What is the mark, the mark of the Christian? Well Schaefer 's simple answer is this. It's love. Love is the mark of the Christian. That's it. That's all. Love. But some people are hard to love. Even some people very close to us are hard to love. Even those in primary relationships with us, our spouse, our parents, our sons, our daughters, our brothers, our sisters. Sometimes they're hard to love. Recently I was talking to a guy who suddenly came to a striking realization about this. And I'll call him Ralph. Now, Ralph is a Christian and from a fine Christian family. And as Ralph and I were talking one day, he said to me in a moment of unique candor and unusual honesty. You know, Mark, I really don't love other people very much Even my own parents. Oh, I respect them all right, no problem there. But love them, that's something else. No, I really don't think that I love even my mom and my dad all that much That moment of deep honesty was a real turning point for Ralph. And as Ralph and I talked in the weeks ahead He came to see how bankrupt he was in himself, and how shallow and completely inadequate his own love was for other people, even his mom and dad. And as we talked in the weeks following that time, I kept coming back to Ralph with the question that by then he was starting to see the answer to in his own life. I kept saying to him, how do you get love for other people in your life, Ralph In other words, when you come up short on love, how do you get love for other people? Where do you go? Where do you look for love when you realize you have none in and of yourself for other people? You see, you and I, when we're deeply honest with ourselves, have to say the same thing that Ralph did. That some people, even some people very close to us, are hard to love. And since love is the supreme mark of the Christian, you and I need to ask that same question that I repeatedly asked Ralph. And it's the same question that Paul gives us an answer to here in Galatians 5, verse 6, a very rich verse indeed. How do you get love for other people into your life? Well, Paul says that it's not by laws, but by faith. Let's unpack that again a little bit this morning. It's not by laws Look with me closely at that sixth verse of Galatians 5. Paul says, For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. Now that's a rather striking statement. In the original language, it could go something like this: For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision anything avails, nor uncircumcision. But faith through love operating. The key verb here, which the NIV translates as to have value Also means to have power, to be strong, to be useful, to have strength to do something productive. The New American Standard Version, as you might be looking at that version, translates that verb mean anything. Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything. I think the key idea, however, is the idea of power, power to accomplish something worthwhile. Now what's Paul getting at when he says that neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value, has any power. Well, saying circumcision and uncircumcision for Paul in the context of Galatians is really another way of saying law or laws. So we need to understand the nature of laws. That's the first thing you can fill in there on your outline. The nature of laws, or simply the nature of law itself. You see, if you look at verses 2 to 4, Paul spells some of this out. Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again I declare to every one who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You see, if you let yourself be circumcised, you're obligated, you're you become a debtor to the law, and not just part of the law, all of the law. If you keep one part of it, you have to keep it all, you have to obey it all. The nature of law, you see, is that of obligation, duty. As Paul says, you are obligated if you let yourselves be circumcised. You're obligated. You have the duty to obey all the law. And such obligation, as Paul says, alienates us as it alienates the Galatians from Christ. It puts a barrier there. And as we saw last week, relying on human effort, relying on our own doing, is really the essence of law. That's really the nature of law, self-effort, self-doing. As we saw last week, Galatians 3. 12 says, the law is not based on faith. On the contrary, the man who does these things will live by them You see, the law is based on doing. The law is based on self-effort, self-work. That's the nature and the basis of law. Note two the power of laws, the power of laws What's the power of the law? What's the power of new laws and law living like we talked about last week, living under constant obligation and duty and things left undone? Well Paul says very clearly that the power of laws is absolutely nothing. Zilch, zero. There is no power in the law. As we said before, Galatians five six can be translated, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any power. It avails nothing. It's useless. Neither of those things, says the NASB, means anything. You see, self-effort living under the law is useless. There's no power in it. And elsewhere, Paul says that there is no law that can impart life. Law is absolutely powerless to impart life. In Galatians 3. 21, Paul makes that clear. And he says For if Allah had been given that could impart life, then righteousness would certainly have come by the law. The answer there obviously is that no law can impart life. As it is, laws are powerless to change. They're powerless to bring about deep and lasting change in us. There's no power in laws to impart life. And so what do laws impart? What do you get when you live a life under law, under obligation, under duty? Well, you get the fruit of laws. That's the third space you can fill in there. The fruit of laws. And the fruit of laws is a curse. As we saw last week In Galatians 3, 10 through 12, Paul says, all who rely on observing the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. And since no one can be perfect Seeking perfectionism by law living brings a curse. It brings cursedness. Elsewhere, the fruit of this law living is described as slavery, even here in this section of Galatians 5. As well as in chapter 3, verses 23 and 4. But here in Galatians 5, in the very first verse, Paul spells it out again. He says, It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery Living by law brings a burden. It brings a yoke of slavery rather than the freedom that Christ intends. You see, the fruit of laws, the fruit of law living is a curse. It's the curse. It is slavery, not freedom. It is guilt, not joy. It is death ultimately, and not life. Paul is so upset with the Galatians here, as he's even more upset in chapter 3, as we saw last week. He's even semi-violent here against the Galatians. Because the Galatian believers forgot that law-living is powerless. They forgot that doing more right-sounding things is not enough. Doing more things can never bring life. It brings slavery. It brings death. It robs of joy. And you see, the Galatian Christians had cut the power source out of their lives as believers. They disconnected themselves from the power source of Christ. That's why Paul was so upset. And because of that disconnecting of the power source, they are burdened with slavery. They are burdened with a yoke of bondage. They had no joy. They had no power. They had no life. Now let me bring this down to earth for you and for I. You see, when it comes to loving other people, most Christians, myself included, many times. Have a problem in our thinking. We have a problem in our thinking. I tend to think more often than I realize. That doing more acts of love, doing more right things, and more acts of love brings Faith brings substance to my face. If I just did more loving things to this person, that would bring reality to my face Then I'd be a better Christian. Then I'd be a stronger Christian. Then I'd be a better elder, a better pastor. And so we try to love more in order to be better Christians. And we think that's the key to sanctification. That's the key to growth in the Christian life Since love is the mark of the Christian, obviously I have to do more loving things. Then I'll be a Christian. Then I'll be a better Christian. You see, we think and feel and act as though I'm saved by the love I express to other people. And the result is slavery. The end result of that thinking is slavery each time. Guilt, not joy. Death, not life. Because we end up disappointed because our own high expectations or other people's high expectations go unmet. We can't do it all. We find guilt from our own or other people's high standards that have gone unsatisfied. We just can't do it on our own. And if only I did X, Y, and Z, I'd be a better and a stronger Christian. You see, that whole way of thinking is what Paul is getting at right here. Now let me give you a couple of personal examples to illustrate this. In my ministry at CPC Believe it or not, over the past two years, some of you have been tough to love. I haven't always loved all you folks, but lest any of you here in this room this morning take that personally. Let me also say that I can think of an extensive list of people over the past two years, even over the past month, that have been very hard for me to love. They've disappointed me. They've frustrated me. They've let me down. They've caused me pain. They haven't done exactly everything I'd like them to do. And it's been hard to love them because of that. And you see, I've realized that my love does not last very long under such circumstances. I don't have an awful lot of love for people. And I tend to think And here's where the problem comes. I tend to think, well, if I just made a few more phone calls, if I just made a few more phone calls this week, things would be really different. If I prayed a little longer for my sheep, for that person who's hard to love, then things would really be different. Then I'd be a better elder. Then I'd be a better Christian. I'd be stronger. But that's not the way it works. Because thinking like that brings only more guilt over what's not done in a week. Living like that brings slavery even more frustration because I can't love people in my own strengths. I can't. And doing more right-founding things is not enough. Over the past two years I've come to see that long-living brings slavery, even in my ministry, to other people. Even in trying to care for other people. It brings a curse. It alienates me from Christ. It robs me of joy It robs me of any delight in the Lord. Let me give you another example, if I could, from my relationship with my parents. Now, some of you who know me better know that it's I find it often hard to love my parents. They disappoint me. They let me down. They frustrate me sometimes. They're not very easy to love. And I find myself thinking, well, maybe if I just watch my manners more about my mom, things will really be different. Then I'll be a stronger Christian. If I just verbally affirm my dad and his positive attributes a little more, then things will really be different. Then I'll be happier, I'll be more content, I'll be a stronger Christian. But that's not the way it's worked for me. It doesn't work. My own love doesn't last. There's no power in my own efforts to even love my parents. Doing more only brings guilt over what's left undone. Now, who can you think of this morning that's hard to love? Think about that a little bit and I'll ask you that question a little later on. Who, in a primary relationship with you, a person that you see on a regular basis, who is hard to love in your sphere of relationships? How do you get love for that other person? When your own resources run dry, where do you go? Well, Paul gives us the answer, and he says, it's not by laws. It's not by doing more things. It's by faith. It's by faith. And that's the second point this morning. Back to faith, just like we talked about last week. Look with me again at chapter 5, verse 6. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision, none of the law, has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. Faith expressing itself through love. The New American Standard Version puts it like this, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working through love. That's the only thing that means anything. The original could be put, but faith through love operating. That's what means something. That's what has some power. The New International Version nuances things well, I think, even though it breaks it into two separate sentences, what is originally one, and it says the only thing that counts is faith Expressing itself through love. It's faith that brings love. It's faith that empowers love. It's faith that sustains love over the long haul. And so the key diagram, and you see there's some spaces you can fill in on your outline, the key link there is that faith Brings love. Faith arrow to love. And you see, that's the opposite of the way we usually think. It's the opposite of the way I think, when I think, all I need to do is do some more love acts towards that person, and that'll bring some substance to my faith. It doesn't work that way, says Paul. Faith brings you love and only faith. And you see the bigger picture is this, as we talked about last week. In Galatians 1 to 4, Paul's main point is that faith brings the spirits. Last week we looked at that in Pentecost Sunday, and we looked particularly at chapter 3, verse 14, where Paul spells that link out as clear as anywhere else. It's faith that brings the Spirit. And then Paul goes on in the rest of Galatians in chapters 5 and 6 to say, it's the Spirit that brings love. So faith brings the Spirit, and the Spirit brings love. And the key verses we'll see there is Galatians 5. 22. But right now, the whole hinge verse is right here in Galatians 5. 6 It hinges Galatians 1 to 4 with Galatians 5 and 6. And Paul spells out that key link. And that key link is that faith brings love. The big picture. Is that faith brings love? Now, why is it that faith is the only thing that counts? Why is it that faith is the only thing that avails anything, that means anything? Why does faith bring love? Because of the nature of faith itself. Because of the nature of saving faith. And you can fill that in in your outline again. Looking away from self to a source outside of yourself, that's the essence of saving faith. That's the focus of faith. Remember, last week I alluded to Galatians 2, 15 and 16. And there it's beautiful how Paul stresses that it's faith in Jesus Christ that makes the difference. That's what justifies. That's what brings the power. Faith in Jesus Christ. Faith just isn't some nebulous power, but it's what actually brings us into Christ. It's what unites us to Christ. It's what appropriates Christ's work for us personally. And so in five in Galatians five, verse six, Paul says, For in Christ Jesus, faith is what counts as it expresses itself through love. It's faith in Jesus Christ that makes the difference. You see, the word faith is heard so often, I'm afraid, that it becomes just another law work for us It becomes another thing that I have to attain to. It becomes another thing that I need to do that I haven't done yet. And you see, that's very that's very harmful. That's not so And see, faith has nothing in and of itself. Faith is no power in and of itself. It just gives us Christ. And it is Christ who has the power. Faith, the nature of saving faith, is looking away from yourself, outside of yourself, to the foreign, the alien work of Jesus Christ, outside of anything that you can do. And that work supremely is on the cross. It's looking to the cross that is the nature of saving faith. Because you see, at the cross, I see an alien love totally outside of anything I could ever do or have done. A perfect love, the only perfect love that the law demands. Christ has it at the cross. And on the cross as well, I see not only an alien love, but an alien righteousness. Jesus is the only perfect righteousness. The perfect righteousness that the law demands is met in Christ at the cross. And the cross shows me that. And you see, the cross shows me that all I have is need. That's it. A wise Christian once put it this way. Every Christian experience is an experience of what I have not. And that's what the cross shows me. The cross humbles my pride. It breaks me of the deep pride within me. And shows me that I have absolutely nothing to offer God. But Christ has it all. The cross shows me that. And you see, this is very directly related to the power of faith. The nature of faith and looking to the cross is directly related to the power of faith. You see, faith is not some vague spiritual energy you get when you obey more. That's what we tend to think on our own. But faith is simply looking to Christ, looking outside of yourself to the cross. There's really no power in faith in and of itself. The power is in Christ's love on the cross. That's where the power is. That's the power source, the source of love. It's like connecting a battery cable with a battery. That's really what faith is like that battery cable. And Christ's love on the cross is the battery itself. It is the source. And saving faith is just taking that cable and linking it up with that battery so you get the power running through that battery. That's the only source of voltage in your Christian life. The cross of Christ, his love for you there. And you see, it's that looking to the cross that changes us. It's that looking to the cross that heals us. It's that looking to the cross that empowers us to love people who are hard to love. It is really misleading that I titled this sermon, What You're Gonna Do for Love. Because actually a better title would have been, Where Are You Going to Look for Love? Because you see, only looking away to the cross, not doing anything in and of yourself, is what brings you love. It's the only thing that empowers you to love other people. It's the only power source for your Christian life. Only Christ's love on the cross, and not our own love, can empower us to love and serve other people. Galatians 5, 6 tells me that only faith, only trust in Christ at the cross, has the power to bring me love. And so the only thing that has power is faith. And that faith works itself out in love for other people. Looking in the cross, looking at the cross continually, making that a knee-jerk reaction to the frustrations I face in daily life, to the frustrations I face in ministry to other people. If I make looking at the cross, that knee-jerk reaction to that frustration, that's how I get power to love that person. That's how I can love other people. That's the only thing that continually brings me love, is looking continually at the cross of Christ, being melted and molded by that vision. And you see, faith does bring love because the fruit of faith is love. Lastly, that section D, the fruit of faith is love. Paul tells us in Galatians chapters 1 to 4 that faith is what brings you the Spirit. Faith brings the Spirit And then what's the first fruit of the Spirit that Paul mentions in verse 22 of chapter 5? You know it well. It's love, right? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, and all the others. The fruit of the Spirit is love, and so the fruit of faith really is love. Love for other people. Love, joy, and peace are the fruits of faith of looking at the cross of Christ. Instead of the curse, freedom, not slavery Peace, not frustration. Joy, not more guilt. Life, not death Faith, looking at the cross, brings you love. It brings love to me by giving me a new vision. Faith and looking at the cross brings me a new vision, not just of myself, but also of other people. And that's What really changes my Christian life? That new vision of myself that I get at the cross You see, faith brings me a new vision of myself in that the cross tells me that I am a hard-to-love person. I think so-and-so is hard to love. Well, the cross tells me I am hard to love. God had to send his only son to the cross to love me. To bring me to himself. That was the cost of my rebellion. You see, I'm a capital S sinner My worst sins aren't just the technicolor things that are outward and obvious to people, or even my temptations to lust. My worst sins are the deep ones, my pride, my deep self-dependence. That is what sent Christ to the cross. I am a hard-to-love person. But Christ has loved me and given himself for me at the cross. And now I am able to fully own the depth of my pride, the depth of my sin. I can own that because I know Christ has dealt with it at the cross. And you see this cross, looking at the cross, gives me a new identity. It defines me in a new way. Paul says in Galatians 2. 20, I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. Christ lives in me. I have a new definition. By looking at the cross. Christ has identified me with himself. I am no longer a slave. I am a son. Paul says that in Galatians 4, 4-7, verses I've learned to meditate richly on. I am a wondering orphan, but I have the full rights of a son. I am loved freely. So I can freely love other people. I am forgiven deeply of my sin. So I can forgive other people deeply. I am fully and freely accepted by God through the cross, so I can freely accept other people just as they are, without demanding that they meet my expectations. But you see, all this takes faith. Because I don't feel, in the mornings, often when I wake up, I don't feel righteous. I don't feel forgiven. I don't feel totally accepted before my Heavenly Father. But the cross tells me that I am. And so it's the reality. The truth of who I really am is at the cross And so when I go back there, I know who I am. And I must preach that truth to myself, must preach it to myself because I don't believe it very often. I don't feel that way. But it's reality, so I preach it to myself That's what brings me to power. Not only does the cross reshape my vision of myself, but it gives me a new vision for other people, whether Christians or non-Christians. You see, if I'm dealing with a non-Christian and he's hard to love, or she is hard to love, God I need to remember that God can change that person because he's changed even me. I can trust God to be able to change that person, and I can let the cross empower me to love that person because Christ has first loved me. And if that I can love that person aggressively, creatively, continually, as I continually look to the cross and then away to that other person. But if I'm dealing with a Christian, the news is even better and even more exciting. Because God not only can change that person, God is changing that person. He's making that person more like Jesus. In fact, he's already declared that person righteous, completely forgiven, completely accepted, completely loved in Christ. It takes faith to view other Christians that way. So often I don't feel like certain other believers are accepted before God. I don't see them change much. But faith shapes my vision. Faith gives me a new vision of that person as righteous As forgiven by God. And so if God has forgiven that person, I can forgive that person. I can love that person. I can freely accept that person. That's the truth that we need to preach to ourselves about one another. Now, again, let me give you a couple personal examples in this. In my relationship with my dad, I've seen this power powerfully at work. For about eight years, maybe more, I believed that my father would never change. I saw no interest in spiritual things. And so I wrote him off. I really shut him emotionally out of my life. I didn't initiate conversations towards him. I didn't really have any love for him. I just ruled him out. But then I allowed Christ to change me and mold my self-identity by the cross more and more. I came to root my identity deeper and deeper in the cross, in the fact that I'm a son, that I'm freely forgiven, that I'm loved, that I'm perfectly righteous in Christ. And as God started to change me, God gave me the faith to dare to believe that God would change my dad. And so on Easter Sunday, just last month, I approached my dad, and I approached him in humility, and I opened myself to further hurt And I asked him to forgive me for the bitterness I had harbored in my heart for years and years. I said, Dad, I've been hurt by you. I've been deeply hurt by you. But I forgive you because Christ has forgiven me. And not only that, Dad, but I have sinned against you. I've harbored bitterness in my heart for years, and I've cut you off emotionally. Will you forgive me And I couldn't believe my dad's response. Not only did he say, Yes, of course I forgive you But he went on to talk about spiritual things. I never saw him so open to the gospel and Christ's claims on his life as that day. And God is changing him. And it all started because I went and asked his forgiveness. And I look to the cross for my own identity and for the love to love my dad, to forgive him, to put aside that bitterness, to lay that aside and to talk to him. And to accept him as he was. God is changing him. As I look to Christ to fill me even with more love for my dad, as we're going on the long haul now, and I know God is going to Work slowly in my dad. But Christ has brought me a new love for my dad that I never had before. And he's starting to change my dad. And then in my ministry at CBC here as a whole, I've seen this deeply change me. Daily I've been recognizing that my own love runs out quickly for other people. I'm realizing that I am bankrupt of love in and of myself. I need an outside source. And so daily I go to the cross, I deeply saturate my heart with the gospel, I take a little chunk of Scripture like Galatians 2. 20, as some of you have heard me say before, and I just meditate on that until it changes me. Until I feel Christ's love for me, that He loved me and gave Himself for me. And then I think through the people that I'm going to have contact with that day. And I ask God to give me a new love for them To fill me with love and joy and peace in my ministry. And God has brought deep change in my ministry, in my counseling, in my discipling, in my preaching, in my evangelizing, everywhere. God has empowered me to love you and other people in a new way. Now think about yourself. When you catch yourself in guilt or short on love, what do you do? Think of one hard to love person right now. Write him or her down in that slot there on your bolton outline. Make of someone in a primary relationship with you, a son or a daughter, a spouse, a h uh your parents A brother or a sister, maybe your roommate. Take time to write that down. And then think: how does my faith in Christ change my view of that person? Whether he or she is a believer or not. And there's really, of course, two parts to that. How does the cross change my vision of myself And again, if you have trouble with that, go back to something like Galatians 2. 20. Make thinking of that verse a knee-jerk reaction to the frustrations of your life. You'll start to see a change in your identity. You'll see new joy, new love, new peace. How does the cross reshape my vision of myself? And then how does the cross change my vision of that other person? Think about that. Write something down there about that. And then go on to say, how will my faith in Christ express itself in love to that person next week, next month? Make it a month-long project. To love that other person aggressively. Conduct a love offensive this month. I love that term. Write down one or two concrete action steps you can take to love that other person. It must involve an element of impossibility. You know, we've got to get back to the old power question here. But write a couple steps that you can do. And maybe you need to start with forgiveness for that person for some specific wrong. Go to that person and say, I forgive you because Christ has first forgiven me. Forgive and bless. And then perhaps focus on your tongue. As James has been talking to us about that again and again, and we'll hear more of it next week even. Focus on your tongue. Find something positive to say about that person, and then say it. Affirm them. Words of kindness, words of appreciation. Love that other person concretely as an expression of your trust in Christ. How do you get love for other people, especially that hard-to-love person? Well, you won't get it through more laws. You won't get it through more self-effort and more trying to do things. Go back to faith. Go back to Christ. Go back to the cross. And then trust Christ to empower you to love other people by faith. My prayer for you, my brothers and sisters at CPC, is that Christ will indeed change you. And empower you this week, this month, to love others out of an expression of your faith in Christ as you look to the power of the cross. And all God's people said, Amen