Indeed, God is glorified. God receives the glory as we discover Him. I was reading recently from a colleague who said that the gospel saved him as a teenager, and then the gospel saved him twenty years later after he was a pastor. In other words To be a Christian means that discovering Christ is always the process of discovering Him and rediscovering Him. As God by His grace and goodness reveals Himself to us. This morning we turn As we continue in the series on renewing our vision, our purpose as a church Drawn from Ephesians chapter one, seventeen to twenty-three, said succinctly, to know him that is Christ, to know our hope. That is Christ and the hope of heaven, and to know his power, the power of his grace given to us by his spirit to follow him. To know him, to know our hope, to know his power. We're spending two weeks on each and this morning we m move to what does it mean to hope in God? And because hoping in God through Christ Jesus our Lord, it is connected to the reality That it is a hope in what Christ has done as the gospels announced them, that Christ died for sinners. But that not only for the purpose that we might be forgiven sins, but that we might have eternal life. Heaven You remember Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1. If you're not familiar, it goes like this. Faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we cannot see. Hope In God, in Christ, is connected to having faith, to knowing Him, as we've looked at the last couple of weeks, that God reveals Himself personally because He is a personal God. He is both good and the God who keeps his promises, his promise to be a covenant, gracious God. That we might be forgiven of our sins, but have eternal life, and our hope is to be situated, focused on God in Christ, who is now seated at the right hand of the Father, that we will go to be with Him if you are a Christian And that ought to shape our hope. But there are things that often diminish our hope, or at least redirect them. Why the hope of heaven often does not animate our life If you're a Christian, does the hope of heaven actually shape your daily expectations? Does it impact your daily hope? It ought to. But as I've been reminded in my own life of how quickly I forget that my hope is grounded in Christ and eternity in heaven with him How often my hope is invested in things that fade. Joys that do not last. And so whether you're a Christian or not, the question is: do you have hope in Christ? And the eternal life, heaven itself, that he offers to you. We're going to be looking at this in two ways this week. We're going to look at the things that often diminish our hoping For heaven is first the fact that our hope is in treasures on earth. And we turn to Matthew chapter 6. Reading verses 19 through 24, but I will be focusing on verses 19 through 21. This is Jesus' first sermon, teaching his disciples and those who are gathering because of interest. And here's what Jesus taught in regard to what our hope should be in. Matthew 6, verses 19 through 24. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Lord Come by your Spirit with the living word, united together, that we might rediscover Jesus. That you would reshape our hope by showing us Christ. And the everlasting life that He offers. And may that transform us. Because you are transforming our hope. In Jesus' name. Amen. Recently, in discussions with friends talking about our favorite albums from the eighties. I'm forty one now, eighties are sounding really good, you know. And so I remember in nineteen eighty six when you two put out the album Joshua Tree, it was absolutely stunning to me. I had just become a Christian. And here was a song that was voicing exactly that which seemed to shape my angst, my my desire, and it was, I still haven't found what I'm looking for. Perhaps you remember some of the lyrics. They are some as follows. I have climbed the highest mountain, I have run through the fields, only to be with you. Only to be with you. I have run, I have crawled, I have scaled these city walls, these city walls, only to be with you. But I still haven't found what I'm looking for. I have kissed honey lips, felt the healing in her fingertips. It burned like fire, this burning desire. I have spoken with the tongue of angels. I have held the hand of a devil. It was warm in the night. I was cold as a stone. But I still haven't found what I'm looking for. I believe in the kingdom come, then all the colors will bleed into one. Bleed into one. Well, yes, I am still running. And then these words gripped me You broke the bonds and you loosed the chains. Carried the cross. Oh my shame. Oh my shame. You know I believed it. Bono is at once expressing from the heart of a believer That in this life there is much which we seek after, but we do not find a lasting home. They are fleeting. And it wasn't until he experienced the cross of Christ and how it loosed him from the bondage to trying to find treasure on this earth. To how the cross of Christ took his shame. Profound words. To me as a young believer, it was more than profound. It was finally the aha moment. I wanted my hope, I wanted my life to be founded finally on something that lasted longer than the mere calculation of minutes or even days. I was tired of things not satisfying. But I did not know what I was looking for. Until the one that is Christ reveals himself to me in the gospel. And finally showed me that it was him that I was looking for. But I was looking for him in the wrong places. Jesus means for us to rediscover Him. Hope in Christ. We will deal with this morning two treasures. Two Myths, one hope. Two treasures, two myths, one hope. You see, Jesus wants to put before his disciples and us who are hearing these words and reading them. That there is before all of us the reality of two treasures. In this text, they are described as earthly. And heavenly. The earthly treasures he clearly describes as this anything which moth and rust can destroy, where thieves Can break in and steal. But more than that Not just that which can rust or be eaten or stolen by a thief. There are also earthly treasures which we can have which are very internal. They can be desires that we so long for. And we know this because of what Jesus says. When he says the words, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And I'll get to that in just a moment. But Jesus is saying that if your hope is on that which you discover here on earth, that is Physical things like cars or homes or boats. Or things that can that can actually rust, or things that can be stolen like money. Things that can be lost. Maybe not by a thief, but by an economic downturn He says that your heart, your treasure, that which you value, that which you long for, should not be invested in those things. He says, of course, that there's another kind of treasure. He says in verse 20, But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. But the question is Alright, so I can picture for just a moment what an earthly treasure might be. I can picture a car. I can picture money. I can picture a house. But what about these heavenly treasures? But what's interesting is if we understand what Jesus has been teaching in the context of the Sermon on the Mount. He's already told us what earthly, or rather what heavenly treasures are. He begins, if you will, to tell us what the kingdom of heaven, in other words, what heaven actually is shaped by. What it is full of. He actually begins to tell us at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. In chapter 5, he tells us In the famous blessed are those statements. What does he recount to us? Humility? Compassion Tenderness, mercy , integrity, peace Glory. Are the things of heaven really and truly are a reflection of the one who reigns in heaven? That is the character of God Himself. That what he's telling us that we ought to long for are the things that only God can give because they are reflection of his character, his goodness, his grace. His love, his mercy, tenderness and compassion, and his glory If we long for those things, those can never be stolen because they belong to God Himself, where no one can break into heaven. Because God is its king, and he is the guard, he is the judge. And because his character is attached to his eternal nature. Nothing created them. They are Him. Nothing will ever snuff them out because He is eternal. Nothing can steal them from Him because He is victorious. as we know from the from the scriptures, even Christ is victorious over death. We ought to long, you see for heavenly treasures, because heavenly treasures are God Himself. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Meaning Do not worry about today or tomorrow what you will eat or what you will wear. For your heavenly Father, this is what he tells us just paragraphs later. For your heavenly father knows what you need. But we ought to long for, seek, contemplate, look at, measure, think about, pray for the character. God Himself and all that He is, that God would give us a longing for those things which moth and rust can never destroy. The earthly versus the heavenly But he tells us a deeper truth. The deeper truth is at the deepest level, Jesus is asking us about our core desire. For where your treasure is, there your heart is also. Whatever that is, you will know what your treasure is. So here's the question. As I mentioned a couple of weeks ago, what do you fantasize about? When given brief moments to think about, what are you pining after? And if you take a moment and ask yourself the question between phone calls between texts, between stoplights, between children, between whatever, and you ask yourself when given the moment, in the quietest of places What does your mind and your heart gravitate towards? There is your treasure Let me illustrate this deeper truth by two examples. Shortly after we planted the church in New Jersey, I remember it was the Sunday after 911. We didn't announce to the community that we were starting the church because, quite frankly, we weren't ready. We didn't know what we were doing. We just wanted to worship together and not mess that up. But because it was after 9-11, we had 25 additional people show up that Sunday. We don't know how they found out, but one couple that came came for the first two or three years. I got to know him and I saw him go from being the a top money manager and hedge fund manager to then finally be able to make it for him what was the creme de la creme of his career, and that was he would become the chief global of uh global mergers and acquisitions chief. Let me get that right. And so we of one of the top companies in the entire United States, this man finally not only had great power, but he had great access. And it went well for the first couple three months. But then The one thing that his newfound career and success could not fix was the brokenness in his marriage that followed him into that new career. And when he began to look at the brokenness of his marriage, he began to see two things collide. The brokenness of his marriage, his necess the necessity of dealing with that thing began to influence and impact his growing success in his new job So the narrative of his family and what needed to be addressed there began to come into conflict with the narrative that he was telling himself. I finally made it. And when the one narrative that he needed to deal with, which was his family, and even though he was professing faith and he wanted to deal with it, he was only willing to deal with it insofar as it wasn't going to hurt the other. But once it did, the narrative of his career shaped the other narrative, and he left his marriage. He was hoping that she would leave the marriage. And so what he did was the narrative of his career and success, that treasure which he so longed for Began to shape his character and remake him into a monster. He allowed it to, and he began to make his marriage a place that was intolerable in hopes that she would leave. The deeper truth was that this situation that was coming out was that his hope in fact was not in Christ. The narrative of what God was telling him he ought to do was not important to him. He was looking at the two treasures, and the one seemed so pleasing and so so right. It was the culmination of everything he had worked for. And so he began to say, The problem is not me, the problem is her. It's always been her. Where was his treasure? Two years later, he lost that job. A thief did not come and steal it. But the economy did Where is your treasure? Men, where is your treasure? Another example, a mom, a Bible study in Metro, New York. Before the Bible study could hardly begin, she began weeping because the discussion was about the problem of idolatry. And after the study, as the women gathered around her to ask her what she was going through, one woman put her arm around her and said, What's going on? And she says, I'm weeping because God has exposed to me today that my real desire, my treasure was in the success, the academic success, the cultural success of my children. And I began to see even this morning how I was wringing life out of them because my joy was wrapped up in their success. Can a thief steal that? No, maybe not. But your child's failure can expose where your treasure is. Moms and dads, where is your treasure? Is it in that Which can fade, which can be stolen, or is it that which is heaven itself, God Himself in Christ? You see, Paul instructs Timothy, something which he applies to the wealthy But in fact, it has also other applications. Hear this from 1 Timothy 6. Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope in wealth or children, I'm adding Or academic success or cultural success Do not put your hope in wealth which is so uncertain, but put your hope put to put their hope in God who is richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous, willing to share. In this way, they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age. so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. Now let me be clear. Jesus nor Paul nor I am saying that money or academic or cultural or professional success is evil or bad or wrong. It is not But if that's where your treasure is, the problem isn't that the treasure is in the wrong place. The problem is, as C. S. Lewis says, it's too low. If you are struggling with lust this morning, the problem isn't that you lust, it's that your lust is too juvenile. You don't long for that which lasts. Consider this quote from C. S. Lewis, which I believe will be here on the screen. He says, Yes, there it is, we are half-hearted creatures. fooling about with drink and lust and ambition, with infin when infinite joy is offered to us, like an ignorant child who wants to keep on making mud pie in the slums. because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a vacation at the beach. The problem is not that we have success. The problem is not that we have wealth. The problem is not that we have academic success. That is not the problem. The problem is it wasn't meant to be the locus of our hope So, what is to be the locus of our hope It is also this are that our treasures are in heaven, the character of God, but it is also heaven itself And here I want to unpack, and I'm so grateful for Dr. Wayne Martindale, professor at Wheaton College, who I never had to take as a professor, as a literary uh major But by God's grace, guess what? His only daughter lives on my street now. He came for a vacation for a week and at the bus stop, the one guy I never had to take as a professor at Wheaton is like right there on my front lawn And he's a C. S. Lewis scholar. And I'm like, yeah. So so I said, um, I didn't have to take you, so what books have you written? You know? And he said, one of those is Beyond the Shadowlands, C. S. Lewis and Heaven. I'm like, that's perfect. I'm getting ready to preach on that. So I downloaded the book, and what does he talk about? Myths of heaven. And I want to talk about just two. And here's one of the reasons. I believe these are just two reasons why heaven no longer becomes a hope, that God, the the everlasting life that we have through Jesus Christ because he has died for us no longer becomes a hope because there are things that get in the way and two of those ways are these two Miz. I pick these out because they're well they're me And here it is, the first one. Heaven is boring. I wanted nothing to do with Jesus Christ. and his church because I thought that heaven was going to be boring. There are a couple of pictures. Where are they? Here's one of the first things I thought about heaven. I thought it was going to be a choir of angels. I also thought that heaven was going to be full of this instrument. You see, the last thing I wanted was to go to a place where I thought God was going to take away my fun So heaven seemed pathetically boring in how Christians were describing it. I I mean, you know, being an angel and sort of floating around with flutes and bugles and French horns, whatever they are, right? And harps. I don't even like the harp. No no problem with harpists. I'm just not a big harp fan. But I wanted this skateboard. I was a sixteen-year-old. So now I just want to be able to ride my bike in heaven. Heaven was to me boring. And here's why. It's because my biggest desire for the idea of paradise did not have God in it. One of my friends speaking at a junior high retreat asked all the junior high students something I'm not going to ask you to do, but I'm just going you Just work with me. You just act like you're doing it, right? He told all the middle school students to close their eyes and imagine like the perfect day, right? And then after they you know did that for about a minute, he then asked for kids to raise their hands. And if I ask you to do the same, I will bet that some of you are thinking if you were to paint the perfect day Somewhere palm trees, particularly today, a beach, sunlight, maybe mountains, but warmth for sure, and maybe some good food, good friends, and that's exactly what they said. And he said, isn't it interesting that nobody mentioned that Jesus was anywhere in that idea? You see, heaven was boring to me because I did not see what heaven was. I saw heaven as a disembodied existence. I did not see it as that which the scriptures describe. A new heaven and a new earth. with real resurrected real bodies that I don't believe the scriptures give me any idea that I will somehow be six feet tall, you know, muscle-bound, blonde-haired, blue-eyed, hunk I still think I'm gonna be five, six and a half. I'm still gonna talk a lot, you know? And I I don't and I'm a That's just the truth. And but the deal is that it will be all of that, but the center of it will be Christ Himself. It won't be about what I get to do or don't do, it will be about Him You see, heaven becomes boring when God and Christ And all of his glory is not at its center and merely our desires. But heaven was also not attracted to me because I saw it as escapist thinking. And herein I felt people were using heaven as a bribe. Like Sort of like, okay, I've done this with Caroline. Caroline, if you're a good girl, I'll take you to Chick-fil-A. Like, if you're good girls and boys, we'll take you to the movies this afternoon. In other words, I thought that heaven was simply a bribe to make sure that I'm good. In other words, that heaven was the result of my being good. And so many people see it that way. But the scriptures themselves teach us that heaven is never earned. It is a gift. It is a gift of grace. For isn't that what Paul says? For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, that heaven Is God's presence, His dwelling place, His glory? All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. We can never attain it by our efforts It is a gift, which Paul, which John would say, only by belief and trust in Jesus Christ as Savior. So heaven doesn't become a bribe, it becomes a home that I desire, because that's where Christ is. Isn't that what Paul would utter when he says to live is Christ, but to die is gain? To gain is to be in Christ's presence. That is not something which can be earned, it can only be given by God Himself in Christ. So then I began to see that heaven wasn't some great divine disciplinary stick to keep me good. No, it became the place where God says, I am preparing a place in my presence and I long for you. to be here. And because I had come into contact with God's amazing, forgiving grace in Jesus Christ, how much more than, if I've experienced grace here, how much more then will I not long for experiencing grace there? His glory. But it is Jesus here who talks of heaven It is Jesus who says, This is a place that if you trust in me, you will go. And he means that we take him seriously, or as C. S. Lewis would say, we either consider Jesus a liar, a lunatic, or Lord. Jesus talks about heaven a great deal. He talks about it by way of the kingdom of heaven, that is the character of God breaking in through Jesus Christ. By his love, compassion, and mercy, and how we ought to live. But it is also a place where we will go. And Jesus longs. And came to die that we might be there with him. These are the myths which can get in the way which cause us then to do and to do like the the writer of Ecclesiastes, if heaven is really boring, and if heaven is just a bribe, why not pursue my treasures on earth? Why not? It is because Jesus says it is a real place, and it is the place in which our hope is to be focused. By that I mean this. I want you to think for just a moment. I want you to remember in your minds to sweep out of your memory banks. The most beautiful sceneries you've ever seen. I had one of those this year, just ten miles away from this location. I was visiting here while interviewing. I was on my bike. It was one of the first warm weekends you had experienced. And I came up on a farm. And I was surrounded to the east. I I the sun was coming up, but there was a wall of what smelled to me like honeysuckle, but it didn't make sense because it seemed too early for honeysuckle. But the aroma Enveloped me so powerfully that I had to stop. And I was brought to tears by the beauty of that moment. Have you had one of those moments? I want you to remember it. I want you to remember the most wonderful meals you've ever enjoyed. I want you to think of the most wonderful full laughs you've ever experienced. I want you to think of the most joyful reunions that you have ever had with someone close to you. I want you to think of the most incredible musical experience you've you've ever had or heard or even played that rendered you speechless. That experience of breaking through of that moment where you've been trying to learn something, trying to figure something out, and you have that aha moment I want you to think about those moments. And I want you to realize, whether they are small or large, that all of those things Are a gift of God, not in and of themselves and for themselves, but that we might understand That our hope is not in the existence of those things, but that what they might point to. Heaven is all of those things multiplied beyond measure. It is the most joyful and joy-filled laugh you could ever experience. The most wonderful of music, the most beautiful of sceneries, the most wonderful of meals. The most beautiful city you will have ever imagined, that is multiplied beyond calculation for those who trust in Christ. But they will not be isolated experiences. Rather, they will be deeply connected, built one upon the other, stretching out into eternity. But at as their source, as their center, will not be them, but the one who is the cause of them, the one who is the crafter of them. It is God Himself and Christ and His Holy Spirit. He is heaven. Dwelling with him is heaven. All of these things in this life are his gifts, and we ought to embrace them with great joy. Because they point us to the joy which we were built for, a joy without end. That is why, as Presbyterians, we have as the first question and answer of the shorter catechism, what does it mean? What does it mean? Now I've suddenly gone blank. What's the first question? Thank you. That came just like gone. All right. But is what is it's in my notes. What is the chief end of man? To glorify God and to enjoy him. Forever. That is why Paul said, To live is Christ, but to die is gain. That is why he would say in the opening verses of chapter three of Colossians, Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things, for you died and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. You see, Jesus in this text is asking us the question: where is your treasure? In earthly things or in heavenly things. But what are those heavenly things? They are not disembodied experiences. They are being in the presence of God Himself. And that is the presence of His glory. But if you do not know him, it will not be your hope. For hell is, if anything, the very opposite of what heaven is. It will be a knowledge of God's glory But not the knowing the presence of it. It will be the knowing that God is king, but not enjoying the joys at his right hand. It will be not unending joy, but unending judgment