By scripture, the one passage that really jumped out at me in terms of dealing with pride was this one in Deuteronomy. And the reason is because the more I looked at pride, the more I kept asking myself, why does God deal with pride so much? What is it about pride that prompts God to deal with it so harshly? Why is he so dissatisfied with us when pride seems to creep into our lives? I think this passage brings that out. So there uh there's a couple of impacts of pride. That is uh you see here the first one, in terms of the uh impact, deals with that of our relationship with God. The impact of pride upon our relationship with God. Well, how does that affect our relationship with God? Take a look at verses 11 to 14 there in Deuteronomy 8. And there the author is saying, Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God, failing to observe his commands, his laws, and his decrees that I am giving you this day. Otherwise, when you eat and are satisfied, when you build fine houses and settle down, and when your herds and flocks grow large and your silver and gold increase And all that you have is multiplied, then your heart will become proud, and you will forget the Lord your God. What is he saying there? As We get more and more as we come become satisfied, we will forget the Lord our God. And so it impacts the relationship That we have with God. Now, you know, we may be saying, listen, you know, I really don't think I have a problem with this issue of forgetting God. I'm always thinking about him. We're right here. Aren't we paying attention to God right now? Are we remembering God constantly? We're in small groups, you know? So I don't have a problem with this Well, the author here brings out a very simple area. And we can't help but be moved by what the area is that he deals with. And that is the area of becoming satisfied with the bounty that God has given to us. Is becoming satisfied with that. And that's different than becoming content. What he's talking about here is becoming satisfied to the point that it causes us to forget God. And of course The the issue isn't in terms of dealing with herds and whatnot. It's you know, we have a nice house. We have uh two, three, four cars in our uh driveway or out on the street or wherever they are Maybe it's the issue of just you're really happy with the children that you have. Your pride becomes in them instead of pointing to Christ. Or maybe it's uh some of you in in terms of uh your popularity. You know, are you all popular at school or at work? You start to take pride in that? Well, maybe uh you know you're doing really well in your job. You've been promoted a lot, you've been in there a couple of years, and it seems like you're advancing quicker than you expected. And what happens? You start taking uh notice of how God is blessing you. And what are you saying? In your heart, what you're saying is, listen, look at what I've done. And where is our pride? And what happens is our pride tends to cause us to forget our God. Then the second area that's mentioned is likened to it in verse 17. And that is, my power and my strength have created this. And you forget that it is the Lord, your God, who has enabled you to do this. Well, there's there's ways in which that comes out in our lives. And it's ways we don't expect. And that is It can come out in the way of in which we give to the Lord. Okay, now we've got our nice house, we've got our cars, uh we've got money in the bank. It's not gold and silver. Uh it just happens to be paper uh in the bank. Okay? But nonetheless we we have this money in the bank. And how do we give? What's our attitude in giving? Is it really one of uh we kind of give out of our excess? Do we really have an attitude of giving back to the Lord because of the love that He has shown to us? Or probably not. It's probably more that sense of we give out of our excess. There's also another area that may show up, and that is when we see our fellow Christians in need. Do we come up with an excuse as to why we can't meet that need? Is there always a reason? Well maybe it's because uh like me, you have uh one in college and you got one going to college next year. And uh you start to see the cash drain that that's going to take. And all of a sudden, you know, when we see the needs around us, isn't it so that we think, well, listen, our need is greater. And so how does our pride begin to affect our view of how God is the one that has enabled us To accomplish what we've accomplished. To gather what we've gathered. To have what we have Well, there's a lot of other areas. Uh they're not dealt with in this particular passage. Some of those areas are uh that kind of reveal our pride as Are you always in conflict with other people? Are you always arguing with them? Do you always have to be right in what you do? Do you have a critical spirit? See, there's lots of ways in which this the pride can be there and start to reveal itself. But they all have the same effect. And that effect is to cause us to forget our God. The second aspect of that is it breaks our communion with God. If we take a look at verse 19, we haven't read that. as part of our passage. But in there it says, if you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods And what's he referring to there? Back to this wealth. Okay? He's referring what what is our God there It's the things that cause us to forget God and focus our attention upon. And so he says there, if you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and worship and bow down to them. Then I testify against you today that you will surely be destroyed. And so here we have that example of how we can focus our attention. Upon everything that we have, or upon our children, or upon our jobs, and forget the Lord our God. And so what he's saying here, that's idolatry for us. That's our idolatry. Well, how many times have you said to yourself that, you know, my walk with the Lord It really isn't all that close. In fact, I don't feel close to the Lord. You know, it's almost as if uh we kind of regret it when someone says, How is your walk with the Lord going? Why is because what do we do? We come up with our cat answers, don't we? But we feel distanced from him at times. Well maybe it's pride that comes into play there. Causing us to put our trust in ourselves rather than in him. And what's it do? It begins to affect our communion with the Father. There's two aspects of this communion, if you turn over to Hosea chapter 11, that are brought out there. Hosea chapter 11, beginning at verse 1. And you might want to hold your place in Hosea because we'll be coming back to it. But here it's a beautiful passage, and I think you'll see as to why I keep coming back to Hosea. But here is the uh is God describing uh his relationship with Israel. And he says, When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. But the more I called Israel, the further they went from me. They sacrificed to the Baals, and they burned incense to images. It was I who taught Ephraim to walk, taking them by the arms, but they did not realize that it was I who healed them. I led them with cords of human kindness, with ties of love. I lifted the yoke from their neck and bent down to feed them. What's he describing there? What kind of imagery do we have there? Well, the first part of that in terms of how God communes with us. is kind of that imagery of God saying, listen, I taught you how to walk You know any of you that have had uh children and taught them to walk, you grab them by the arms or by the hands and you're kind of lift you're holding them up as they're trying to take that step And they have that big grin on their face, don't they, as they take that step. But what do you see what's what's evident there? That little child is putting their trust in you, that you're not going to drop them as they're taking those steps. And then something happens, doesn't it, as they begin to get older, our children get older. And that's the time in which we really want to enjoy our fellowship with them. And isn't the same thing happening there with our children as they get older? As we see here displayed in the imagery that God has says about Israel. Look at verse 2. What's he say? The more I called Israel, the further they went from me. As they began to grow up , They began to rely more and more on themselves. And so we see as children grow up that more and more they get into this self-sufficiency, don't they? And we lose that wonderful opportunity for communion with them. So we have that imagery there. Here is God saying, listen. Uh it's the imagery of one trusting as a child in the Lord, and the other is a deep fellowship. But then we have uh the example that goes on there in Hosea. And notice what after God having described this relationship, having said what Israel is like, and say, Listen, the more I called them, the more they went from me. It wasn't they didn't even realize that it was I that healed them. And so it what does he say is going to happen to them? Look at verse 5 Will they not return to Egypt and will not Assyria rule over them? Because they refuse to repent So what will happen? Swords will flash in their cities, will destroy the bars of their gates and put an end to their plans. My people My own people are determined to turn from me. Even if they call to the Most High, He will by no means exalt them. What's he saying there? He's ready to destroy them. He's ready to punish them for what they've done. But he doesn't leave it there. Look what he says. How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I give you, how can I hand you over Israel? And then what does he say? My heart is changed within me. All my compassion is aroused. I will not carry out my fierce anger, nor will I destroy Ephraim, or devastate Ephraim. For I am God and not man, the holy one among you, I will not come in wrath. You see the imagery there where God is saying, Listen, I can't give you up I need to draw you to myself. I desire to. And you see, that's the same imagery that we see portrayed by Christ. As he looks at Jerusalem, and there in Jerusalem, what's he cried? Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how I long to gather you together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. But you We're not willing. See that image. God wants to commune with us. We've got to see. That's why God deals with pride so harshly. Because it breaks that fellowship. with him. Well the second impact we see back in Deuteronomy, uh the impact of of our pride not only affects our relationship with God, but the second one is found in uh verses 14 to 16 Then your heart will become proud, and you will forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. He led you through the vast and dreadful desert. That thirsty and waterless land, and its venomous sake, snakes and scorpions. He brought you uh water Out of hard rock, he gave you manna to eat that your fathers had never known, to humble you and to test you In order that it might go well with you. What's he describing there when he talks about taking them out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery? He's saying, listen. Pride impacts your view of salvation. Pride can impact our view of salvation. Now listen, I know that uh most of you are nice, you're reformed, uh, and you can say back as someone says to you, you know, you'll respond back, oh I know I'm saved by grace. I know that when God looks at me, He knows that I don't deserve salvation. There's nothing any you know really good in me. So you know, pride's not really affecting my view of salvation. Well, maybe it is and you don't realize it. Uh what's your view? of someone in your uh work situation that that really is uh you know they really seem immoral. They go out drinking at night. They're running around on their spouse Uh they're always swearing. Maybe some of you young people that uh the kids that are with you in school and you hear about all the things that they're into. What's your view of them? All of a sudden d do you really look at and say, you know, these people are really awful. They're immoral. Do you really believe that God's salvation that He has given to you is also for them? Do you believe that God can save them just like He's saved you? Okay, so you say, yes, yeah, sure, I really believe that. Okay, well, I used this illustration uh in the first service, and that is kind of hits home, because it hits home with me, and that is What's your view of President Clinton? Do you really have a holier-than-thou attitude? When here we have someone that's on the spotlight And the press is always emphasizing uh what he does wrong. Some of the press likes to emphasize what he does right, but listen, it still comes out all of the the immoral values, all the things he does wrong that are that seem to be so immoral. What's your attitude about that? It's probably like mine. And we become critical, don't we? And all of a sudden, yeah, wow, look how really awful this person is. What's your view of salvation? Can God save our president too? Say yes. Well, are you praying about it? The answer is probably no, isn't it? Too busy criticizing. See, our view of salvation is that God kind of saves those that uh really, you know, they seem like they can be saved, doesn't it? In fact, we have such a weak view of God's salvation that it lacks all the power that's in the gospel. It lacks the power of the Spirit. God saves in a mighty way. It takes as much to save the one that seems only to be lightly immoral as those that seem so heavily immoral. It takes the same price. You see, for God to save you and I and anyone else, it took the death of his own son. God desires to commune with us so much. That he sent forth his only son. See, our view of salvation is greatly weakened because of our pride coming out in our holier So what does Hosea say about it? Well, back in Hosea, look at Hosea 13. He picks up on the same thir uh theme And Hosea 13, beginning at verse 4. But I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt. What does he say? You shall acknowledge no God but me, no Savior except me. I cared for you in the desert, in the land of burning heat. When I fed them, notice they said, when I fed them, they were satisfied. They became proud. Then they forgot me. And he goes on there and he talks about the destruction that's about to come upon them, his judgment. And then after telling them that judgment, he jumps down to verse 14. And gives them a beautiful message here. What's he say? I will ransom them from the grave, from the power of the grave. I will redeem them from death. Where, O death, are your plagues? Where, O grave, is your destruction? So Paul, his letter to the Corinthians, refers to this passage when he says Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting? The sting of death Is sin. And the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. You see there, what God calls us to do is to acknowledge no God but Him, to acknowledge no Savior except Him. Okay, what shall we do then? Let's go back to Deuteronomy. There's four points that the author brings out in terms of the things that we are to do. The first is very evident. It's verse 10. When you have eaten and are satisfied, what does he say we're to do? We are to praise him for his goodness. We are to praise him for his goodness. It's a very simple instruction. And in its simplicity, what's it saying? You know, it's really tough to forget God when we're busy praising him. And so it's a simple instruction: praise him for his goodness. The second is found in verse 16, and there he says he gave you the manna. He goes on to say the reason he did it was to humble and to test you, so that it might go well with you. So we are to undergo testing. Now, again, this is not something that we initiate. We don't initiate our own testing. That's something God does. But we do respond to that testing. And the test of our pride in terms of being able to deal with it is how we respond to God's testing. Do we respond as those whom God is molding and shaping after the image of his son? And by recognizing that? Or do we become uh uh kind of complaining? And when God looks at us as he puts us through our test, does he look at us and say, you are a stiff-necked people So we are to go undergo testing as part of our ability to understand what it means, to put our trust in Him, which is the second one. Verse 18. But remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you the ability to produce wealth and so confirms his covenant, which he swore to your forefathers as it is today. So he says, Remember the Lord and his goodness. Remember the Lord and his goodness. In essence, what he is saying is, put your trust in him. We have a beautiful example of that in Psalm 78, if you want to turn to that, or you can just listen to me read it. Psalm 78 And dealing with the first uh eight verses there O my people, hear my teaching. Listen to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter hidden things, things from old. What we have heard and known, what our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from our children. We will teach it or tell it to the next generation. The praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and his wonder, and the wonders he has done. So notice what he's saying is. This is what we're going to teach our children. About the wonderful things that God has accomplished. He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children. So the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born. And they in turn would tell their children. Then They would put their trust in God and would not forget his deeds, but would keep his commands. They would not be like their forefathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation whose hearts were not loyal to God, whose spirits were not faithful to him. So notice what he's saying there. What he the good works that he has done. Remember his goodness and to teach them to our children in order that they too would teach them to their children. for a specific purpose. And the purpose is that we will put our trust in Him. In other words, what is to be our the focus of our attention? Is the focus of our attention to be upon the things that we've gathered together, the things that God has enabled us to accomplish? The wealth that we've we've we've uh accumulated, the money in the bank, the cars in the driveway, the friends that we've got. But no, as the uh writer of Hebrews says, let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, scorning its shame. And sat down at the right hand of God. And Paul also says, Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things, for you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Then the fourth one is found in Hosea fourteen. Hosea fourteen After God having announced all this judgment upon Israel and tells them what they are really like , Points out their own sinfulness. Then notice what Hosea calls the people to do. He says, Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God. Your sins have been your downfall. Take words with you and return to the Lord. Say to him, Forgive all our sins and receive us graciously. That we may offer the fruit of our lips. Assyria cannot save us. We will not mount war horses. We will never essay again Our gods to what our hands have made. For in you the fatherless find compassion. And what will be God's response I will heal their waywardness and love them freely, for my anger has turned away from them. Why is it that God deals with pride so harshly? Well, it's because our pride separates us from that communion, that deep communion with God. It affects our relationship with Him. And it causes us in our pride to forget him and to follow after our own gods, the things that we have made with our own hands, the things that we have accomplished with our own lives. It also weakens our view of salvation by saying that God's salvation is not for everyone. Are you able to see the impacts of pride in your own life? Do you really feel that your walk with the Lord is a close walk? Are you convinced that it's not pride that's driving a wedge between you and the Lord? Then we ought to humble ourselves before God in order that He, in His mercy, might lift us up. Shall we look to him in prayer? Our gracious Heavenly Father, we praise you for the many good things that you have done, for the way in which you have enabled us to accomplish The many things that you have laid before us, in fact, the deeds that you have prepared in advance for us to accomplish. Lord, we confess to you that much of the time We take credit for what you have done. And we become puffed up with ourselves. And for this we ask that you might forgive us We ask, O Lord, that you would enable us, by your power, by your mercy, to humble ourselves before you. And Lord, we pray also that you would rid us of any of our holier-than-thou attitudes towards others. In order that we might see those that are lost as needing your salvation. We pray this in your Son's name. Amen.