One of the radio stations on Friday reported the forecast and said there is a near one hundred percent chance of snow on Saturday, heavy at times And I thought, yeah, you can't say 100%, can you? The best you can say is near 100%, which means, as far as we know, it's a sure thing. It can't miss And then I thought, how interesting that we see that even with what seemed like such a sure thing God can just turn it. You know, I I couldn't help but think, was there some Christian that had to get somewhere yesterday? I don't know. I mean who can ever figure those things out? But for whatever reason, God moved that But when we look at the Old Testament prophecies that we've been looking at in Isaiah and the rest, God doesn't say there's a near hundred percent chance that the servant is going to come in this or that way. He simply says he will come. And that's the difference. We're not talking in Scripture about probabilities. When we talk about the fulfillment that we see in Matthew and the different things, we're talking about something mature. And when the Bible says he will come again That's not a near hundred percent chance. He will come again. Amen? And that's where we celebrate. Chris, boy, that was a pretty weak he'll come again, amen. Let's let's try that again. He will come again. Amen? Amen. I hope you're that sure. Uh because that is our hope at Christmas. We think of the first coming And then we've realized that we are now awaiting and anticipating his second coming. So last week, do you remember we looked at the uh Story that John just read from Matthew chapter 2. And we asked the question, who are these magi that came to worship Jesus in Bethlehem? We saw that the text only indicates that they are rich, influential Gentile astrologers from the East. Um but um I tried to make a case from Daniel chapter one and two that in fact uh I think there's a very, very high likelihood, near hundred percent chance that um they were because we don't know scripture doesn't actually identify but that they were in fact uh descendants of the Babylonian order of magi that Daniel presided over and had witness to of the hope of Messiah to come, and that uh whereas Daniel may have done that and been discouraged about What did they really receive? What did they believe? Did it really matter? That here over 500 years later, you have their descendants from that order traveling almost six hundred miles to see this one that they see as the fulfillment of the hope that had been passed down to them. And so it was a lesson to us that in your feeble witness and my feeble witness to our friends, to our family over the holidays, that we think it's not a matter of just getting through it. It's a matter that God will take that witness. And he will use it to bear the fruit that he sees and wants to bless in that. Remember Daniel. Remember the Magi. Remember my cousin. After eleven years, sharing Christ with her has come to faith. Remember also how gracious God is. We saw that in the story also That here he is pleased at the birth of his son to call Gentile astrologers, New Age occultists, who were enemies of his people to be among the very first to have the gospel revealed to them that his son has come born as king. And that they come to worship him. God wants them near him, and he wants sinners like them, like you , like me, near him. Kind of precious truth to know that God wants people like us near Him to come to worship. He wants you to come to see that your salvation is not within you. but is totally outside of you in the Savior, Jesus Christ. But I promise to be a part two And so for all those of you who canceled your travel trips, not because of the snow or the weather, but because you just had to find out what is this star, I don't want to disappoint you. Alright? You've seen it on the Christmas cards, you've seen it on paintings, you've seen it all around. There's the wise men, there's only three of them, on their camels, looking at a star up in the sky. There it is, the star of Bethlehem. I mean did you ever look at that and wonder what was it that they saw? I mean, was that a real star? Was it a supernova? Was it a conjunction of planets? Was it a myth? What was it? Very little is written that uh tries to deal seriously with this issue. And the story is very prominent. It's not something that is just an incidental thing in the story. You notice it's mentioned four times In verse 2, we saw his star in the east, come to worship him, then down in verse 7. Herod asked the exact time the star had appeared in verse nine. They went on their way, and the star they had seen in the east went ahead of them till it stopped over the place where the child was, and when they saw the star they were overjoyed. So what is this star? There are only two clues, two mysterious clues about what it is. You see in verse 2 that it is a star that is can be translated either we saw in it rising or in the east or from the east If I'm correct in my understanding of who these men were, however many there were, they were Seeing this star from Babylonia, which is five, six hundred miles east of Palestine, so a long way away. And since New Testament times there have been a number of conjectures and ideas about what that star was. Um a uh famous Christian astronomer, Johannes Kepler, who died in sixteen thirty uh spent some time thinking thinking about this and he had a couple of ideas. He uh postulated at one point that um There was a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in 7 BC, and there was some evidence that Jupiter and Saturn were associated with the Jewish hope of Messiah. Um but they were never really fused together so that they look like one bright star. They're always a little separate. And 7 BC is a little too early for Jesus' birth, probably was born around 5 BC. I know that sounds strange, but nevertheless, calendars are wrong. And so but some BC is still a little too early. Uh and then uh he actually didn't think that was real likely and so he later preferred the idea that it probably was a supernova very large exploding star that um got their attention. Unfortunately he didn't find any evidence that there was such at the time of Jesus' birth so he said, Well maybe there was and who knows And it kind of laid there and nobody really did a whole lot. But uh last year, 1999, lo and behold, two astronomers published books on this thing. That's rather interesting in a secular age that you have two secular astronomers taking seriously the star Bethlehem and two secular publishers being willing to publish books on it. The first was by Michael Mulner , who wrote the book called The Star of Bethlehem, The Legacy of the Magi. Uh Mulner won't give the details, but Mulner, the bottom line uh was that he said that uh it was an eclipse of Jupiter. Jupiter is um called the King Star, Jupiter King of the gods. Um and so Jupiter was seen by the ancients uh when it does something unusual as foretelling the birth of a king And it was in the constellation of Ares , which is the symbol of Judea to astrologers of that time. And that happened on the 17th of April in 6 BC Mueller actually was so intrigued with this, he got thinking about this when he was in the Holy Land and purchased a coin Ask me what it cost him, but he purchased a coin that was minted by the Romans around 6 A. D. And it shows a ram, which is the sign of Ares, looking back at a star And so Molner said, ah, there it is. You see, that was of such significance that the Romans actually minted a coin about this star, and that's the star of Bethlehem. That's his idea. The second book was by a fellow by the name of Mark Kidger , book called The Star Bethlehem, an astronomer's view, also about a year ago, a little over a year ago And he combines Kepler's first and second ideas and says that what it really was was a supernova that it appeared during uh the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. in the constellation of Pisces, which is sometimes connected with the Hebrews, and that this unusually bright star appeared for about seventy days in 5 BC when most people think that Jesus was born. Um that's their ideas. But every Every astronomical postulation, hypothesis, thought on this meets an absolutely fatal flaw in verse 9. And probably most of you have already known that. Because in verse 9 you read that after they heard this about the uh Bethlehem , they, the Magi, went on their way, and the star they had seen in the east went ahead of them till it stopped over the place where the child was When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. And so this star now directs them Not just to, you know, the state of Maryland. It kinda up there, you know, looks like it's directly overhead. But you know, it distinguishes between Columbia and Elecate City. You know, it's not Elected City, it's Columbia. Not just Columbia, it's this particular cul-de-sac. And you know, and they don't have to argue, you know, no, it's 1553. No, no, no, it's fifteen fifty-seven. I mean, you know, we're talking a particular house that it points out Without incinerating the Earth. Now if you just took our Sun, which is an average size star, and moved it half the distance to the earth that it is now, so you know, about forty-one, forty-two million miles away, it would incinerate the earth in seconds. Now, so here's a star that points out a particular house and nothing gets incinerated. In fact, it doesn't even seem to cause any great commotion And yet it's a star that can be seen five, six hundred miles away. What in the world can account for that? How do you justify in scripture that story without saying it's just something made up. It just couldn't have happened the way it is. And that's the way with scripture. Some things you can believe, other things you just don't know. I used to struggle with this. I mean I you know I mean I take scripture seriously and I'm the kind of person that when I get really hard times I gotta know I can trust this word. I can build my life on it, I can depend on it, that everything, every promise Every command, every fact of history is reliable in this book. So when I read this story, I'd you know it'd be this kind of like, I don't understand, but there's something here that's the problem. No commentator I have ever read has ever solved the problem. Everybody says it's a mystery. What I'm going to propose to you now, I have never read in any scholarly journal. I've never read it in any commentator. Nobody has ever proposed this. So before you accept this too easily, you better understand that. Okay? I've got to be honest with you. Now I also want to tell you that I didn't come up with the idea totally on my own. Back in 1972 Uh there was a pastor who wrote a little book called uh Word Keys for Christmas. And I don't know why in the world it got in my mailbox But somebody sent it to me. or anything about anything, I get it in my mail. So, you know, and who ever heard of this guy, Dwayne Spencer? I look at this thing. And I looked at it. And he gave this little idea that he said I think the Star of Bethlehem was the pillar cloud of fire of the Old Testament. Didn't give any substantiation, didn't, you know, just I began to think about that And I'm here, what is this, twenty-eight years later? I mean this these books started me thinking, I want to tell you, I think that the Star of Bethlehem is the pillar cloud of fire that led Israel out of Egypt in the Old Testament. Now, let me try to demonstrate why, and the more I thought about it, the fewer the problems, and the more spiritually significant I think it is. So let me try to make the case and tell you why I think it's important. Probably the one passage of the various ones I'll read this morning that you want to turn to is Exodus chapter 40. Because Exodus 40 describes in the greatest detail what this pillar cloud of the Lord's glory was and what its function was. In Exodus chapter 40, the very last verses, the last five verses of the book of Exodus Beginning of verse 34. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. That's where Israel met with God, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. In all the travels of the Israelites, whenever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they would set out. But if the cloud did not lift, they did not set out until the day it lifted. So the cloud of the Lord was over the tabernacle by day, and fire was in the cloud by night, and in the sight of all the house of Israel during all their travels. Okay? This pillar cloud of fire, I would suggest from these verses, has three functions. Notice what they are. First of all, it leads. That's very clear from verses 36-37. Of all the travels of the Israelites. Whatever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they'd set out. If the cloud did not lift, they would not set out till the day it lifted. In Exodus chapter 13 , We see the first mention of this, and it's God leading his people out of Egypt. By day the Lord went ahead of them in a pillar of cloud to guide them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them life. So you could travel by day or by night. This must have been pretty bright, because it uh could guide a couple of million people uh head through the desert Now in Numbers chapter 9, verses 15 to 23, which I'm not going to read, it's an extensive section that talks more about this. You can look that up on your own. But the thing that uh that is very clear from Numbers to keep in mind here is the pillar of cloud of God's glory by the day is the same thing as the pillar of fire by night. Apparently it was of such a glory that in the daytime you saw something that was dark, something that was majestic, it was overpowering, there was glory to it. But only as dark settled could you see the radiance of it. And so it was the same thing, just seen different ways depending on whether it was daytime or nighttime. Uh in and this is very significant in Israel's history. It's referred to a number of times. For instance, in Psalm seventy-eight, referring to God redeeming his people In verse 14, he makes mention of it. He guided them with a cloud by day and with the light from fire all night Nehemiah mentions this in his prayer, again recounting the Lord's mercies to his people. In Nehemiah 9, In verse nineteen, because of your great compassion you did not abandon them in the desert by day, the pillar of cloud did not cease to guide them on their path, nor the pillar of fire by night to shine on the way that they were to take a number of references to this. And so obviously its function was to lead clearly what the Magi saw. in the west, five hundred five, six hundred miles from Babylonia, guided them, it led them to Palestine. It then likely disappeared and they talked to Herod and then they see it again. It leads them not only to Bethlehem, but to particular house. So clearly this star has the function of guiding and leading. So that's that's one comparison. The second thing is that you see the pillar of fire in the Old Testament gave light to God's people. In verse 38 of Exodus 40. It says, So the cloud of the Lord was over the tabernacle by day, and fire was in the cloud by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel during all their travels. As I said, it was light enough to lead them through the desert. In Numbers 9. 16 we see that it was a light to guide them. It gave them comfort. Number Nehemiah 9. 12, the same idea about how it shed light for the people. Isaiah 4 verses 4 and 6 talks about this light being a comfort that it uh overshadowed them and it was kind of a a sing a symbol that uh you know you're in the dark and here come to the light you there's a safety uh and there's all that's associated with that. Well, clearly Isaiah and other passages of scripture talk about the Messiah being a light to the Gentiles. Isaiah 42, 6 and 7, Isaiah 49, verse 6. So how appropriate that God would at the birth of his son fulfill these prophecies, literally uh by bringing a light to the Gentiles in order to bring them as the first fruits of his kingdom to come to worship Messiah. Now I know that this is very anthropomorphic, but I picture it's as if God can't wait for Jesus to grow up. It's as if God is saying, here's my son. Look at my son. Look what he's doing for sinners. Now I I can't wait for him to be baptized by John and start his mis I'm going to make a light and I'm going to show it to the Gentiles and bring from the enemies of my people a few of these in order to come and see my son Jesus See, God is just, he's so anxious to bring sinners to himself. And this is the first fruits of that, of bringing the Gentiles to the light. But the third point of comparison is to me the most compelling and the most significant of all. The pillar of cloud and fire was the very presence. of God himself. It was the Shekinah glory of his presence. You see that again in Exodus forty First two verses, thirty-four and thirty-five. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. That's where Israel met with God. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses could not enter the tent of eating because the clouds had settled upon it. This was the awesome, holy, radiant, majestic presence of the Shekinah glory and the glory, the Shekinah glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Couldn't make it any clearer that this is the very symbol of the presence of God. More significant is what is stated in Exodus chapter 33 , because they have a detail that is, I think, very significant in this It's where Moses used to meet with God. Remember at the tent of meeting? You read in verse nine, Moses went into the tent, the pillar, as Moses went into the tent, the pillar of cloud would come down and stay at the entrance, while the Lord spoke with Moses. Whenever the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the entrance to the tent, they all stood and worshipped, each at the entrance. of his tent. And the Lord would speak to Moses face to face as a man speaks with his friend. When you as an Israelite would see that bright shining pillar come down over the tent of meeting and stand at the entrance You knew God was now meeting with a man, meeting with Moses. And you would stand at your tent in rapt attention and you'd just worship. God is in our midst. God has come to visit us, not to destroy us, but to protect us, to lead us, to save us. God is condescending of all the peoples on earth to come And to speak to us and to dwell in our midst. And they stood there as long as God's presence was symbolized at the ten of meeting and then they would when the presence departed, then he could go back to life as usual. Now I want you to notice that same idea is referred to in 1 Kings 8, verses 10 to 13. You look that up on your own. Do you remember that in the prophecy from Balaam in Numbers 24 verse 17, you have the star of Jacob that is going to appear clearly indicating Messiah? If you're interested, see the tape from whatever year that was. We covered that prophecy many, many years ago, about a generation ago for some of you. But clearly it's referring to Messiah. It is God who has come to defeat his enemies But perhaps the most obvious link of all, if you're still not convinced, is one detail from Exodus 33. You notice that it says there in verse 10, whenever the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at or standing over the entrance to the tent, then they stood and worshipped. You look at Matthew chapter 2, and you read what it says in verse 9. It says, After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star that they had seen in the east went ahead of them till it stopped over or stood over the place where the child was. Kind of familiar language, isn't it? Whatever this pillar was doing at the tent of meeting is exactly what this star is doing at the house where Jesus is. And so what brings shivers uh to my spine as I think about this Is what God is saying is now the Shekinah glory is pointing out a particular house because this isn't just where God speaks to people God Himself is there. God Himself, in the form of a tiny baby, or at this point, probably several months, maybe a year, maybe a toddler Is now in that house, the very presence of God come to dwell with sinners. Now, maybe you're asking, if it is in fact the Shekinah glory, that pillar, why is it called a star? Why doesn't it say that it's the Shekinah glory? And I think that that detail is also significant for two reasons. Number one, because I think that as the Magi saw from the east looking to the west, that star, it looked like a star. God showed that Shekinah glory up in the heavens so they could see it to direct them, to lead them. And so it looked like a star, and they had no other categories than the stars. That word, the Greek word, by the way, can refer to more than just stars, it can refer to planets, it can refer to all kinds of bright, luminous objects in the sky. So they apply that word. They say the star led them. They come to Herod, and then I believe the star disappeared. They come and they have to find out more about it. You notice that verse ten says that when they saw the star, implying again, they were overjoyed. In other words, they'd lost track of it. Now here it is again. But now it no longer is some bright object way up in the sky, but is rather a bright object that's very close at hand. It leads them to Bethlehem. It's over a particular house. Clearly no problem with that. It was over the ten of meeting. Didn't incinerate that. This is a supernatural manifestation of God. It's like the burning bush. So it comes over the house. And they have no other categories. They'll say, uh, and so the pillar of fire, because they they don't know anything about the pillar of fire of the Old Testament All they know is this thing that appeared to be a star has led them to the house. I believe that it's an indication of the historical accuracy of Matthew. That he simply reports what the magi said to him as eyewitnesses. That's what they said. That's what Matthew reports. It's up to you and to me to make the connections of the Old Testament and New to understand what this really was. Now I believe that that indication of God's presence has some powerful implications for you and for me. And they're related to the three functions of this thing. Very briefly. So what in your life and mine? First of all, it was a light. Clearly, the Bible refers to Jesus as the light. He's the morning star, Revelation 22, verse 16. He's the rising sun of dawn that is promised after a dark night in Luke chapter 1, verses 78 and 79. He himself said, I am the light of the world in John 8. 12. Do you remember that Isaiah 50 in verse 10? We had looked at a couple of weeks ago. Isaiah said, You're walking in darkness. There is only one light. Come to the Lord and trust in him as your light. Remember the alternative, verse 11? The alternative is you make torches, you make your own lights You see, the light is what gives meaning. You can't understand. Everything's in darkness. Where am I? Where am I going? Can't see anything. Can't understand anything Light gives meaning. Light shows you where you are. Light enables you to read, enables you to understand. And so Jesus is what gives meaning. He's what gives sense to life. And you're either going to read your self-help books and your articles and your magazines and your TV shows, whether it's Oprah or Dr. Phil or whoever else, and you're going to find from that something to give meaning. Will you come to the light? You come to the one who's revealed himself in the pages of Scripture, the reliable record that says, Let me tell you what life's about. Let me tell you why you were made, why you exist, why you have problems, why you failed, why you have struggles, why you have guilt. Let me tell you about the Savior that has come to bear that guilt and that shame, to die on the cross for your sin, to offer forgiveness and pardon and a new life. Let me tell you about a God who loved sinners so much that he would come as the Shekinah glory, wrapped in swaddling clothes and growing up in Bethlehem. And living as a man to keep the law that you and I couldn't keep so that we could have his perfect record. He's the light, you see. He gives sense and understanding to life. But he also leads The pillar called was to lead, it was to direct you. The Magi didn't have much light. I mean they literally had a light, and they followed it. But don't miss the significance. You have the light of the scriptures. You have the light of this reliable record. This record that I think again shows us in this incident how uniform and supernatural, how whole the scriptures are in a supernatural uniformity. What are the decisions that you're going to need to make in the year 2001? Things about your job questions about school, about relationships, whether to give up the job that you're at, whether to move, whether to Go back to school, whether to take that promotion, whether to continue this relationship or break it off, or on and on and on and on it goes, doesn't it? Lord, what do you want me to do? How often do we ask that? Remember the principle of Ephesians 5, verse 10, learning what is pleasing to the Lord. Then verse 15 to 17 Some do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, making most of the opportunity as you discover what Scripture reveals that you know He will lead you in what you don't know. So then, understand what the will of the Lord is, verse 17. What's your plan? To take the wisdom, the truth, the direction of this book and get it into your mind and get it into your heart this next year. Some years ago, a number of us used the Chronological One Year Bible to help us to go through and read those passages. Maybe I have that. Maybe you got halfway through or you you did some of it and you think now maybe it's a good time to start it again or pick up where I left off Some plan. Some of us use tapes, scripture on tapes. Maybe it's time to dig those tapes out, beginning of the year, and say, I'm going to go through and listen to God's word while I'm seated or while I'm doing things around the house or while I'm commuting, to get that word into my mind and into my heart. A few weeks ago we talked about Isaiah 50, where the perfect disciple, Jesus, talked about how he was wakened morning by morning. By God's word, and we talked about how every one of us are dressed simply because it's a priority to us Maybe you need to come back to the Lord at the beginning of this year and say, I'm going to make time and his word the same priority as I make getting dressed in the morning. The question is not to show up to work in my underwear, the question is to show up booth dressed and having heard God, to be led, directed by his might So that those decisions begin to, though they're still difficult and sometimes still seem like you're in a fog, they begin to come into perspective. But again, the most important thing is to remember that God is with us. The Shekinah glory Was more than anything else to say that God has come into your midst. There's no time like Christmas For us to lose that truth, is there? That is the great irony of Christmas. That there's no time in the year, perhaps, when we are more tempted To substitute an awareness of God's presence for the idols of some things we've looked forward to, kid toys or adult toys? Or clothes, or experiences , or something we were looking forward to that didn't work out the way that we had hoped. And maybe you're feeling kind of starved and shriveled, and you're saying, God, where are you? And all the time, God is saying, I'm right here. I haven't left. My presence is here for you to know. Come back to Jesus. Be quiet before him. So that you can be aware of his presence with you at the beginning of this year. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, awake us to your presence. Awake us to the presence of the one who at infinite cost to himself came. To dwell among men, so that you, when you left, Lord Jesus, by your Spirit have made us temples of your living presence. And we have forgotten that. We keep looking for other things, distractions, comforts, idols, in order to give us pleasure and meaning to cope. Lord, we want to turn at this moment back to you, to be awakened to your presence. In order to come that we might be aware that you want to meet with us, you want to reveal yourself to us, you want to lead us and direct us and be our light. It gives meaning and purpose and comfort, for it is found nowhere else. How foolish we are to keep looking. So again, Lord, awake us to your presence. And give to each one of us, Lord, a plan. That we might be in your word and cultivate the sense of your presence in this next year, beginning today. In Jesus' name. Amen.