The chapter on listing a group of seven parables that Jesus was teaching. We pick it up at the second parable. Jesus told them another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while everyone was sleeping, his enemy came and sowed seeds among the wheat, sowed weeds among the wheat, and went away. And when the wheat sprouted and formed heads, then the weeds also appeared. The owner's servants came to him and said, Sir, didn't you sow good seed in your field? Where then did the weeds come from? An enemy did this, he replied. Servants asked him, Do you want us to go and pull them up? No, he answered, because while you're pulling the weeds, you may root up the wheat with them Let both grow together until the harvest. At that time I will tell the harvesters, first collect the weeds and tie them in bundles to be burned. Then gather the wheat and bring it into my barn. He told them another paragraph. The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and planted in his field, though it is the smallest of all your seeds When it grows, it is the largest of garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and perch in its branches He told him still another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like yeast that a woman took and mixed into a large amount of flour until it worked all through the dough. Jesus spoke all these things to the crowd in parables. He did not say anything to them without using a parable. So as fulfilled what was spoken through the prophet, I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things hidden since the creation of Then he left the crowd and went into the house. His disciples came to him and said, Explain to us the parable of the weeds in the field. He answered, The one who sowed the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world. The good seed stands for the sons of the kingdom. The wheat are the sons of the evil one. And the enemy who sows them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the harvesters are angels. As the weeds are pulled up and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will lead out his kingdom, everything that causes sin, and all who do evil. They will throw them into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear will hear. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy went and sold all that he had and bought that deal. Again the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls When he found one of great value, he went away and sold everything he had. So far, God's word. Let's pause for a moment and ask him to give us instruction. To teach us and to open our hearts to receive what 's Christ. Lord God, we have read here the very words of Jesus. Translate it into our own tongue. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you who have given these words will enlighten our minds to receive the words that we're going to focus on. That you'll help each one of us to open ourselves to you. By your grace, teach us and change us. Lift up Jesus. The gospel requires sacrifice. Paul tells us that we're to submit our bodies, a living sacrifice, which is holy and acceptable. The Jesus Christ, who is a fire insurance policy who never makes any demands on you, who would never want you to feel uncomfortable and never bring up unpleasant things like discipleship, is not the Christ of the scriptures. We know that Christians are called upon to sacrifice. Most of us are aware of Chester Bitterman. Who in just the last months gave his life for the gospel when he was killed in Columbia serving with Wycliffe Bible translators. But how many of you know of Eric and Evie Berensen? Those are a missionary couple who recently were murdered in Afghanistan for the preaching of the gospel of Christ in a Muslim country. Or dozens and hundreds and thousands of other Christians who have made the ultimate sacrifice for Jesus Christ and given their lives for the Savior. We say that's so different from what the way we live. And it's difficult for us to relate, isn't it, to those who are murdered And persecuted for Christ. We are so comfortable, and we're allowed to be so comfortable in our culture with the gospel. And yet every one of us who is honest with the scriptures and honest with ourselves will realize that for us also, the gospel requires sacrifice. Why is it? Simply for this reason. Because we don't belong in this world. You and I are a people who belong elsewhere. We don't fit this world, and therefore we're necessarily uncomfortable in it. There are sacrifices and times of discomfort simply because we are not children of this world. So often We're made aware of that, particular circumstances, that the world is not normal, nor will it ever be normal until the Lord Jesus comes again And yet I'm concerned that so often we as Christians look at sacrifice, the sacrifice of discipleship required. In following the Lord Jesus from primarily a negative point of view. Sacrifice is seen as doing without It conjures up the kind of hollow-cheeked earnestness that speaks of how much I do without for the Lord to demonstrate the extent of my spirituality. A lack of joy to demonstrate that I'm really serving the Lord and I'm sacrificing for Him. And so, with that in mind, I'd like to call your attention to Matthew chapter 13, verse 44. For us to focus on that one verse together for a few minutes this morning. Matthew 13, 44 tells us that the kingdom of God Heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. And when a man found it, he hid it again. And then in his joy he went and sold all that he had And bought that field. That's the picture of discipleship that the Lord Jesus gives us in this parable. It's the fifth parable in a series of seven parables that he's telling here to describe the kingdom of heaven. And it's the shortest of all seven. Only one verse, verse 44. Very sparse in the details. We're told very little of the whole scene. All we see is there is some man He's not identified. He's clearly on somebody else's property. What he's doing there we don't know. But in the process of being on somebody else's land, he stumbled across treasure. And when he found that treasure, it was so terrific, it was so tremendous, that he went and sold everything he had to purchase the field. And according to Jewish law, if you purchase the Land, everything that was on that land , particularly if it was treasure that had been hidden by some monarch, was yours to claim. That was not unusual back in those days for people to bury their treasures. And so that's all we're told is that this man found a treasure, he sold everything that he had to go buy it. Here he is out here looking Stumbles over a treasure. And the next day you see his house up for sale. His camel's got a for sale sign hanging on it. He's got a big garage sale going out behind the tent. Everything's going. Big closeout. Everything must go. All because of what he found. My wife heard some time ago about a woman who went down in Ellicott City, and for $46 she purchased herself a necklace. She brought the necklace home out of an antique store And I was sort of taken with it, but she wanted to put a different chain on it. And so she sent it to Bailey Banks and Biddle to have it uh rechained. And Bailey Banks and Bill, instead of putting a chain on it, sent her back a note, and they said, uh, could we buy your necklace from you? We'd like to offer you $250,000 for it We found that on this necklace there were the inscription 2J from N. And we've checked it out and found out that it was in fact a necklace sent from Napoleon to Josephine. Could we have your necklace? A person just wandering around in elicant cities stumbled on a treasure. $250,000. You get some picture of what this man must have felt like. Here he is, just rubbling along in the field, and all of a sudden, there it is. Didn't do anything to earn it, but there it is. A treasure that he stumble on I'd like to consider the lesson that the Lord wants us to learn from this in three points. Now, so you don't get confused with your guide there, I'm going to reverse points one and two. I want to consider point one first. Outlines had to go in especially early this week. Didn't get much time to think about it. So I want to consider point two first and then point one. Point one then is that the gospel costs everything that you have. And then point two. The gospel is a treasure. And then point three, the gospel produces joy in sacrifice. The first point we see here then is that the gospel costs you everything you have. See that in verse 44? Kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again. Then in his joy he went and sold all that he had To buy that field. It wasn't enough just to sell the tent. The camel had to go too. The saddle had to go with it. The furniture had to go. Everything that he had had to be sold in order to purchase that field. Nothing less would do. That's what Jesus says about our lives. It reminds us of his words in Luke chapter 14, where he expanded and enlarged on this idea. Do you remember that time in Luke 14 in verse 25 where Jesus saw large crowds traveling with him? And when he saw the large crowds, you know, whenever you see large crowds following Jesus, you get a little bit nervous. You want to make sure that they understand what they're doing. And so Jesus, looking at these crowds, turned and said to them, If anyone comes after me, comes to me, and doesn't hate his father and his mother, his wife and his children, his brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Anyone who does not carry his cross, the instrument of death, and follow me cannot be my disciple. Jesus wouldn't have made much of a PR agent in our day. He certainly wouldn't have been the kind of guy you would have uh chosen to be a fundraiser at a banquet. He sees crowds and he says, if you aren't able to hate your family and take up an instrument of death, then stop following me. Then he goes on and he says, Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Will he not first sit down and estimate the cost to see if he has enough money to complete it? For if he lays the foundation and is not able to finish it, everyone who sees it will ridicule him, saying this fellow began to build and wasn't able to finish Suppose a king's about to go out to war against another king. Will he not first sit down and consider whether he's able with 10,000 men to oppose the one coming against him with twenty thousand? If he's not able, he'll send a delegation while the weather's still a long way off and ask for terms of peace. In the same way, any of you who doesn't give up everything he has cannot be my disciple. So it's good. But if it loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? It's fit neither for the soil nor for the manure plant. It's thrown out. He has ears to hear. I hear. And you see in that statement, Jesus saying that a person to follow him must sell all that he has. You must give all that you have in order to have that treasure. The relationships that you have. The aspirations that you have, the possessions that you have, all must go. See the relationships referred to here in Luke 14. He must be able to reject. That's what that word hate means. He's able to reject so that in comparison to his love for Jesus His love for his family could even be described as hatred. He's able to turn from them. Think of an example that John White gives in his book, Cost of Commitment, where he talked about leaving for a tour of ministry one time. And as he left his home in Canada to fly south, there was a blinding snowstorm going on And as the person drove him off, he had a very strong premonition of disaster for his family. His wife was supposed to follow him later on with their infant son. And he said he had an overwhelming sense that the plane that they would be on would crash. Have you ever had a feeling like that? Now what do you do with that? You say to yourself, Christians aren't supposed to run my feelings. I mean it's ridiculous. I turn the car back and go back and tell 'em I'm not leaving, you know, I gotta stay here with you, cancel the flight, you know, and then, you know, a few days later How embarrassed you are, you know, everything lands, everybody's fine, and you screwed up everybody's plans and they all say, you know, you and your silly ideas, what kind of a flaky character are you, running by your feelings? So he fought this battle all the way to the hotel that he was staying in. didn't sleep all night, wrestled with the Lord. Lord, what if they do die? Then he said, the Lord seemed as if he spoke to him and said Suppose they do. Can you trust me with your family? Or are you going to cling to them and not trust me with them? And White says it was at that point in the early hours of the morning. That he fell down before the Lord and said, Lord, I'll still trust you. They're yours. Have you ever taken your family? And really given them to the Lord. He said, Lord, I'm not going to cling to them. I'm not going to take all my plans and center them around my family so that my family becomes an idol to me. Can I trust you, Lord, with my family? You know what happened? The plane crashed And everyone on it was killed. But just before the plane took off, John White's wife also had the same premonition independently And she canceled her flight and didn't get on it. God is able to take care of us and our families when we trust him. But they must be his. And not off. What about your aspirations? Your career? The things that you want to be in life? I want to be recognized. I want to make my mark in life. I want to make some sort of an impact. I want people to miss me when I'm gone. Are your aspirations in idletude? Jesus says, suppose you're going to build a tower. You've got to calculate. And you've got to decide the cost of that tower What are the cost of the aspirations of your life in terms of your own discipleship to Jesus Christ? White in the same book. Quotes an American communist in Mexico City. Listen to his aspirations in life as a communist. This was taken from a letter written to his fiancee in which he was breaking their engagement. We communists suffer many casualties. We are those whom they shoot, hang, lynch, tar and feather, imprison, slander, fire from our jobs, and whose lives people make miserable in every way possible. Some of us are killed and imprisoned. We live in poverty. From what we earn, we turn over to the mech to the party every cent that we do not absolutely need to live. We communists have neither time nor money to go to movies very often, nor for concerts, nor for beautiful homes and new cars. They call us fanatics. We are fanatics Our lives are dominated by one supreme factor, the struggle for world communism. We communists have a philosophy of life that money could not buy. We have a cause to fight for, a specific goal in life. We lose our insignificant identities in the great river of humanity, and if our personal lives seem hard, or if our egos seem bruised through the subordination to the party, we're amply rewarded And the thought that all of us, even though it be very small way, are contributing something new and better for humanity There's one thing about which I am completely in earnest. The communist cause. It is my life. My business. My religion, my hobby, my sweetheart, my wife, my mistress, my meat and drink. I work at it by day and I dream of it by night. Its control over me grows greater with the passage of time. Therefore I cannot have a friend, a lover, or even a conversation without relating them to this power that animates and controls my life I measure people, books, ideas, and deeds according to the way that they affect the communist cause and by their attitude to it. I have already been in jail for my ideas, and if need be I am ready to face death You and I hear a man who is so devoted to the ideology that he follows. What does that say to us about our aspirations as Christians? They say that poor man is misguided. The cause that he is so dedicated to is doomed to failure, and so misdirected. What does it say to you and to me about our devotion to Jesus Christ? A man, when he finds this treasure, sells all that he has to possess it. But also takes our possessions. Jesus said, remember in Luke 14, in the same way any of you who does not give up everything that he has cannot be my disciple. What possessions do you have that are in danger of possessing you He says again in the same book, our souls are held by what they hold. Slaves still are slaves in chains of gold. To whatsoever we may cling, we make it a soul-chaining thing, whether it be a life or land, and here is our eye or hand Are there things that possess you instead of you possessing them? I think in my own situation of a number of years ago And being out one day in the woods and finding some pornography. And instead of walking past it, I picked it up and I looked at it And I took it home. And I kept it and I stored it. And as I looked at that, I then got to a place where I bought some more. And I stored it. And I kept it away And I would look at it from time to time, and I would feast on it. Then there came that day when it was so clear from the Lord, this is separating you from me. And I remember that time in which after looking at it for one last time, I took the whole thing and I just threw it in the trash. What I remember even more is the profound sense of liberation that I had after I threw it away It was as if somebody had let me out of prison, and I now had nothing between my Lord and me to break our communion in. What is it with you? That that thing that you suspect is keeping you from an open face before the Lord, that you're clinging to and grasping Our life is made up of little choices in selling all that we have. We don't lay it all on the altar and then simply walk away, and that's all there is to it. It's the little choices that determine whether we sell all that we have. Should you tithe or can't you quite make it? Are you really a steward of all you have in setting aside that portion to give to the Lord? Should you witness to your friends at work, that person that you're afraid to talk to about the Lord? Or should you just let the chances go by? Should you compromise When you're asked to tell that little white lie on a report, when you're told to compromise by going along with what everybody does to make the system work where you work. Or in some other way. Life is made up of little choices. And those little choices tell whether in fact we've sold everything that we have. What is it? What is it that's going to motivate you and me to make that kind of sacrifice? To give ourselves unreservedly to Jesus Christ and all that he requires. You see it simply right here. The fact that the gospel is a treasure. Jesus said the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure. Hidden in a field. And when a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy he went and sold all that he had to get that land, to have that treasure. The gospel is a treasure. How is the gospel a treasure? The gospel is a treasure of wisdom. In Proverbs chapter 2 that we looked at last week, do you remember we were told that we are to look for wisdom as for silver Search for it is for hidden treasure. Proverbs chapter 8. In verse 1, we have wisdom speaking. And wisdom calls out, raises her voice, and what does she say in Proverbs 8:10? Choose my instruction instead of silver. Knowledge instead of choice gold. Wisdom is more precious than rubies. And nothing that you desire can compare with it. The more I go on and talk to people about, who are living their lives according to this world's values. and our culture's values. It says that my happiness and my fulfillment are the number one concern in my life. And if it means that I've got to leave my wife to obtain it, and if it means I have to leave my husband to get it, and leave the kids and somehow hope that they'll work out. And go and sleep with whoever I want, and live with the person that I want to as long as it works out conveniently I was talking to a fellow just recently, his kind of philosophy. He'd left one woman. He'd uh been unfaithful to his wife for one woman. In turn she left him for another man In response to that, he then began to live with the woman who he's living with now. And as you described this happy little situation and all the delight it was bringing to everybody, it came out that His wife was seeing, his girlfriend was seeing a therapist because she needs help in coping. Her daughter seeing a therapist because she can't relate to her father who left her And everybody's also screwed up that he just sat down and we talked for a couple hours because he said my life's so messed up But God gives us wisdom. God tells us how to live. You know, as Christian, don't take that for granted. That in a sea of confusion, people say, How can I be happy? God tells us. He gives us his wisdom, his way to live. And that way works. Follow the principles of Scripture and they bring joy and they bring happiness. Even so often when the way that God tells us to live In terms of forgiveness and how to handle bitterness , seems so contrary to the way that makes sense to us. The gospel is a treasure of wisdom. It's a treasure that you and I have found. Because it's something that we would never come by in our own thoughts. The gospel is a treasure Of wisdom. The gospel is also a treasure of righteousness. Because as you and I are so painfully aware, we haven't followed God's way. We haven't walked the way of wisdom. Time and again we've walked our own selfish way, and we've reaped the consequences of it. Lightly or bitterly, we've reaped them. The gospel is a treasure of righteousness. Proverbs chapter 8, after wisdom has described itself in terms of rubies and the choice treasure. of the way to walk. Then wisdom goes on in verse 18. With me are riches and honor, enduring wealth and prosperity. My fruit is better than fine gold. What I yield surpasses choice silver, for I walk in the way of righteousness, along the paths of justice. bestowing wealth on those who love me and making their treasuries told. And how do we obtain this wisdom? Proverbs or Psalm 112 verse 3 tells us About the righteous man, the man who fears the Lord, that he is a man who has wealth and riches in his house, and his righteousness Endures forever. Wealth and the riches of righteousness are obtained only through Jesus Christ. For he who walked the way of wisdom became a curse for us who had not walked that way. Jesus took upon himself The punishment that you and I so richly deserve, so that when we face God, who judges our unrighteousness, we discover that it's already been judged We discover that God is not to us a judge, but a father. Because we've been clothed in our treasure of the righteousness of Jesus. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure. A treasure of righteousness, the righteousness that gives a clear conscience, the righteousness that gives an open face before the Lord God Almighty. Not as judge, but as Father, the one who loves us and has bought us. The one who has set us free My chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed thee. The gospel 's a treasure of righteousness What a treasure. The gospel is also a treasure of unlimited spiritual power. How we'd be mocked if our God had given to us the way of wisdom and told us to walk in it in our own strength. Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 7 that we have this treasure, the same word as Matthew 13, 44. We have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the all-surpassing power is from God and not from us The gospel is a treasure of power, the power to live the life that Jesus Christ has set forth before us. The gospel is not just barely enough power. The gospel is a treasure of power, unlimited spiritual resources, and the vast inheritance of glory that is set before us The Lord Jesus tells us he's given us his spirit as a down payment for that, so that we can enter into that now. But even more than this. The treasure is not simply wisdom. And righteousness and power. The treasure is a person. Jesus is our treasure. Because Jesus is our wisdom. Jesus is our righteousness and Jesus is our power. He's our wisdom because he's our prophet. Who tells us the way that we're to walk. And if you're in confusion, you look at Jesus to see him as an example of his attitude in a similar circumstance. Jesus is our righteousness. For we don't cling to some principle in order to get righteousness. We cling to Jesus. He himself is our righteousness. And we stand with our arms about him And know that his robe of righteousness covers us. Jesus Himself is our treasure, the treasure of our righteousness. Because he's our priest who offered himself a sacrifice for us. Jesus is our power, the treasure of our power, because he's our king to rule us And to conquer the sin in our hearts. Jesus is the treasure of our power. He's the one by his spirit who equips us to live the life that he's called us to live. So the gospel is a treasure because Jesus is the heart of the gospel. He's our treasure. How much do you treasure Jesus this morning? How much you treasure him will determine whether the sacrifices you make are from joy Or from with your teeth clenched and your mouth set, saying, I'm gonna live the Christian life if it kills me. Because Jesus is telling us here in Matthew 13, 44. The gospel gives joy in the midst of sacrifice. The gospel gives joy. Did you see that? The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. And when the man found it, he hid it again. It wasn't his. He wanted to obtain it. And in his joy he went. He didn't go home and hang out the sign and say, Well, you gotta get rid of the old tent I love this old camel, but I gotta get rid of him too. And all the things that I have here, they're so precious to me, and now I'm being forced to let them go. See, it wasn't a matter of renunciation, it was a matter of revaluation. All the things that had seemed to him so precious, things that he wouldn't part with he said for anything an hour ago Now he very quickly puts the sign up. Right now he he's re-evaluated everything that he's had. And he says, I'm glad to get rid of that stuff. Because of the joy. That's set before him in what he's going to obtain. You know, we have this idea of Christians that it's so noble to sacrifice for Jesus. You see, there's no there's no credit given to this guy He's not a spiritual giant to do this. He just has common sense. It's just a question of doing what makes sense, to re-evaluate according to what new knowledge he's gained What things are really worth. Jesus isn't telling us in this parable, I want you to sacrifice all that you have for me because I love sacrifice. You know, I came to sacrifice myself, and I want to see you do it too. Sometimes we get this idea that that's the way Christian looks at us, his disciples. Misery loves company, and Jesus suffered, so he wants us to suffer too. Pad, then this is the whole point. Jesus is saying we're in an abnormal situation. I've given my life to conquer the great enemy And I've called you as a company of hosts to come after me, and if you see the glories that I have before you in my kingdom That everything that you have will take on a different perspective. All that you own, your time, your relationships, everything will be seen from a new relationship through the view of the treasure. That's what Jesus is calling us to see. Oh, friend, if you're having difficulty in giving something up for Jesus Christ. If you're having difficulty wrestling with something that the Lord's been dealing with you about in your own life, and you say it's a hard road to follow Jesus in this, yes, it's hard, it's bad. It's difficult. I won't want to minimize that for a moment But if to you it seems like it's a sacrifice that you're making, something that you really wonder if a God who is so gentle and loving could really call you to do that. Maybe the problem is that you've gotten your eyes off the treasure. Maybe the problem is that we've gotten our eyes from the treasure to the sacrifice. If there's anything I want to do this morning is just to focus our eyes back to the treasure. See that Jesus is our wisdom. Our righteousness, our power. He's the treasure hidden in that field, for which with joy we'll go and sell everything that we have to obtain. Now do you notice that selling everything that he had didn't buy the treasure? Didn't buy the treasure. All it did was buy the land. The treasure was not accounted in the value of the land when it was put up for sale. You consider yourself one day going out in western Howard County. As you're riding along, you see something suspicious, and you know a little bit about geology, and so you make some tests and you find that there's oil out there in western Howard County. And as you do some of these private tests of yours, you discover there's probably a billion dollars worth of oil under that land out there in Western Howard County. The land you uh estimate is worth $100,000. And so you come back and you put up your house and everything that you have for sale to get that land. And you buy that land for $100,000 And what you have just bought makes the Ewings oil conglomerate looks like a puddle. Because you've just gotten the greatest oil find that's been discovered in the continental United States in the past hundred years. But did your $100,000 buy that treasure? No. All you did was buy the land. The treasure was given to you as part of that land. Jesus is saying here, the treasure of something you can't buy. And yet to obtain it, you must be willing to give all that you have for Jesus. Have you been resisting coming to Jesus Christ? Because you're afraid that he's going to put his finger on something in your life, he's going to change that, you've got to start monkeying around with your values. And so you say, yeah, I'm willing to dabble around with this a little bit, but I'm not willing to sell everything that I have. What is it? The Lord's been putting his finger on in your life that's keeping you from following Jesus Christ and giving your life undeservedly to him. What hobby? What possession? What aspiration? What relationship? See the treasure. The kingdom of heaven is as a treasure. Are you going to let some trinkets and toys keep you from that treasure? This man was not to be commended for his spirituality, but only for his common sense. How stupid for anyone to hear the gospel and say, I'd like to become a Christian, but there's this one thing that I might have to give up All see the treasure. See it and come to Jesus grace today. For you as a Christian Is there something that you have been dealing with the Lord's been putting his finger on in your life? The Lord's been trying to show you that he wants to take that thing from you so that he can show you and give you more of himself In your capacity to follow Him and to love Him. You and I need to have the kind of eyesight that Moses had. You know, Moses was raised to be a prince in Egypt. Raised to be a prince with all that a prince in Egypt could have. Do you know how much treasure Egypt had? The treasure is still being explored today, thousands of years later. It was the greatest civilization in the ancient world. Moses was a prince in Pharaoh's household. But what do we read in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 24? By faith, Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be known as the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He chose to be mistreated along with the people of God rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin. For a short time. He regarded disgrace for the sake of Christ as of greater value than the treasures of Egypt. Because he was looking ahead to his reward. And by faith he left Egypt, not fearing the king's anger, but he persevered. Because he saw him who is invisible. Have you seen him who is invisible this morning? Jesus And have you seen him as a treasure for which he'd leave the treasures of Egypt, or that particular thing that the Lord has his finger on in your life? Not to do it and feel like you've done some great thing, some heroic sacrifice, simply out of gratitude for the one that loved you so much. To see him as a treasure for which you'll give up anything, so that you can have him, so you can delight in him, so you can follow him, and so that you'll do it with joy. Because you got your eye on the treasure. Let's pray. Let's each one of us take before the Lord Those things that he's been speaking to us about. And speak to him now. Speak to him. With hearts of joy that have seen the treasure. Ah, Lord Jesus