When you think of the concept of heaven, I'm pretty positive that the first thing that does not come to your mind is what heaven lacks, or what's missing in heaven. When we think of heaven, we think of, when we should, as well we should, absolute perfection Because it's the place where the absolutely perfect God dwells With his people, his spotless, blameless, holy bride for all eternity. So we don't think of what's missing in heaven. And yet the scriptures are very clear and very explicit that there will be things missing in heaven. And it's significant for us, I think, today to look at what's missing and why. Why those things are missing. Philosophers have speculated on what's missing In heaven over the years, the 19th-century German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. He said that in heaven all the interesting people are missing. So that's one possible thing missing. Will Rogers, the early 20th century uh American humorist. And philosopher of the common man said, if there are no dogs in heaven, then when I die, I want to go where they went. He has many quotes about dogs. Pro dog was Will Rogers. And of course then there's the um America's Polka King and philosopher to the common man. Frankie Yankovic, no relation to Weird Al, who said, In heaven there is no beer. That's why we drink it here. So if that is some of the concepts of what you have, of what's missing in heaven I would suggest respectfully to you, you've been looking for your answers in all the wrong places. We gather today to look at the scripture. Because we believe that God, who has created the heavens and the earth, can give us very clearly what we need to expect and what we should expect to see missing in heaven and why, right? Let's read from Revelation 21. Then we're picking right up where Pastor Randy left off last week. We're going to read through chapter 22 and verse 6. God's Word for Us. And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord, God the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives its life, and its lamp is the lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it. Nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Through the middle of the street of the city, also on either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding each its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face, his name. will be on their foreheads. And night will be no more. They will need no lamp uh light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light. And they will reign forever and ever. And he said to me, These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. God's word for us And what a glorious word this is. What's missing in heaven? And why is it significant that it's not there? So the first thing John points us to, excuse me, in his revelation, is that there is no temple in heaven. Implied in this, there is no altar in heaven. There is worship in heaven, and the temple is the place of worship. Throughout Scripture, God's people travel to the temple to worship But in heaven, in this heavenly dwelling, in the city that God has made, God is the temple. There is no mediator. There is no mediation. There is no priestly class. There is no veil. There is now immediate presence of Almighty God, John says, and the Lamb are its temple. Communion with the living God, a constant experience of those whose eternal home is in heaven. Worship will be unceasing. Now, let me just as one who has worked and ministered in the ministry of worship for years, I just want to say this is not like any worship you've ever experienced. We get comments about our worship almost every week, and we know we need improvement on this. But this is earthly worship. This has just a hint of what that worship will be. I mean just a small little fraction When you experience the presence of the living God in this worship, when you are carried into that State of whatever it is that you describe when you encounter God's truth, when you see again the Savior given for you, and you experience something John says that that will be experienced in its fullest expression. There'll be no Shadow. There'll be no limit. There'll be no guesswork. He says that the Almighty God and the Lamb are its temple. Communion direct. Think of the most beautiful experience you've ever had on earth. Look out on a beautiful sunset, or the Grand Canyon, or the birth of a baby, or whatever it is. Seeing your spouse's face after a long trip. That euphoria that you feel, you can multiply times millions You've not tapped what this is. We don't have language for it. That's what John says in the beginning of the Revelation. Language is going to be hard to try to nail down what I'm seeing. But that's what we have here. There's no temple. Because Almighty God and the Lamb are the temple. John uses that designator for Jesus several times. And it's significant because one of the things about not having a temple is that there's no altar present in heaven There is no need no longer for a sacrifice. Why? Because the Lamb of God has been sacrificed for the sins of his people. Once. and for all. Praise be to God. It is finished. That was his cry from the cross. That was settled then and it will be realized there, fully realized. By faith we receive it now. By faith we live it out. By faith we rest and rejoice, and the promises of it is finished By faith, by the grace that God gives, by which we stand, we sin no longer. We say no to temptation. That's all by faith, but in that experience it will be by sight and real, by the senses we'll worship. Isn't that a glorious truth? The lamb that was offered to make a payment for your sins and mine, shedding his precious blood for your sin, for my sin. Never take that lightly. There's no temple in heaven because the work has been done. The temple is The Lamb. Amen. There's no need for the sun or the moon to provide light either. This carries on that same thought. John says There is no need. Why? Because God provides all the light that we need The glory of God gives its light in that city, and its lamp is the lamb. Again, this expression, if you're a physicist here today, disengage everything you know about the laws of thermodynamics. That's just a picture to point you to the reality of the glory of God. All we have in the physical realm is to point us to the heavenly. Every experience of faithfulness that we have is supposed to point us to God's faithfulness. Every experience of joy that we have points us to to the joy that we have in God. And every experience of light unmitigated, which we don't really have in this world, by the way, because we have shadow. But every experience of that is supposed to point us to the fact that God provides the light. It's his Brilliant glory. The source of the light is found in the Lamb who was given for sinners. That's why John keeps hitting that title. We're sinners redeemed. We're sinners saved. We're sinners completed. Matured like Christ. So this is an experience of the pure wisdom of God that knew all things and chose freely who would be his elect people. This is an experience With no shadow of love, of the initiating, relentlessly pursuing, self-sacrificing love that God has for sinners. Rick prayed earlier that we have become his friend. Jesus, the friend of sinners, he fellowships with us. This is an experience with no shadow of real joy, unadulterated bliss No hint of depression, no hint of discouragement, no hint of sadness, no hint of sorrow. Do you get the picture? He provides the light because he is perfect in all of his glory. This is an experience of lasting peace. complete reconciliation, being fully known for who we are and being, catch this, fully accepted for who we are. God's not going to kind of engage with some fellowship and then turn around and go, did you see what he just did? Oh, man. There won't be that because it's complete reconciliation. We are fully embraced That's what's being talked about here. That he provides the light, the light of his glory, all that he is, his wisdom, his justice, his truth, his love, his the joy that we have and the reconciling peace. We could go on and on, but we won't. God's glory finally revealed to his people. His people, one time rebellious, one time ruthless in our pursuit of sin, now fully resting in him. We are created to glorify God, and that's what this is. We're glorifying God. So He's the light. Which leads to the third thing that we find missing in heaven. There's no locked gate. There's no need to bar the gates because of bad guys. And the day that John was writing the revelation, city gates were shut up tight at night, and guards were posted And the city of the New Jerusalem has twelve gates, and they are made of pearl, and they are high. And we go in and out in that heavenly dwelling. But there is no night there. And what John is saying is there's no. The gates are never shut by day, and there will be no night. So they're not shut at night either. Because every rival to the throne of God has been Vanquished completely. There is nothing that sets up itself against the glory of God in that dwelling. And so there's no need for a locked gate. John says, rather the kings of the earth bring their glory into the city, they bring the glory and the honor of the nations. Nathan, nations is that Greek word ethnos. It's the people groups. There will no longer be any racial or ethnic barriers. All the inhabitants of this city will be from every tribe, every tongue, every people group on this planet. Complete harmony. You want to talk about coexistence? That's where that occurs Because the common bond is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. I'm not going to ask for a show of hands, but how many of us locked our doors on the car out there when we came in in today? How many of us at night make sure maybe we check and double check to make sure the the bar is the the door is barred Why? Because we understand that the heart of man is evil and does evil intent. But in that heavenly dwelling the gates are never locked. And never barred. It's just a beautiful picture. I I I don't have this in my notes. I wasn't gonna say this 'cause but here it is. The uh one of the things I did come across in the study this week These gates made of pearl, by the way, all the precious gems that are mentioned, pearl is the only one that is Constructed from an irritation in the flesh. The suffering of the flesh produces a pearl. So that when we pass these gates, we're reminded constantly that the God who took on flesh was bruised for our iniquity. He was crushed for our transgressions. By his stripes we have been healed. Isn't that a picture too? Just the the pearl gate. It's not, you know, for some water cooler joke. Oh, you know, two rabbis and a priest approach the pearly gate. It's a reminder of the Lamb of God who gave himself in your place, in my place. So no racial profiling, no stereotypes in that heavenly dwelling. But we will look on with wonder at the bride of Christ in all of its beautiful diversity and unity. That's where unity and diversity will. be joined together perfectly. So it brings us to, I believe, the fourth thing that is missing in heaven. Whew! This is where we need to pause. And we need to ask God, by his Holy Spirit, to meet us personally in this point. To meet me personally in this point. To meet you personally in this point. Because John says in that heavenly dwelling place Nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false. But only those who are written in the Lamb 's Book of Life This is a sobering point. It's a point for much rejoicing, but it is a point that I believe God Almighty wants to use in this moment in time to touch our hearts. To give us assurance of our salvation or to call us to salvation. John says, no detestable or false person Will ever enter it. No one who does those things. That's a practicing of those things. It's a continual practice. It's the lifestyle of the detestable. is what's being described here. No unclean thing will ever enter into it. It's a formidable problem for us, isn't it? Because by nature we are all unclean. There is no one righteous, no not one. All have sinned. All fall short of the glory of God. All, all, no one. We're hopeless unless intervened upon. No unclean thing will enter it. You remember in Numbers 5, maybe you're familiar with that passage. In the book of Numbers, God gives instruction to his people And he says this. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command the people of Israel that they put out of the camp everyone who is leprous or has a discharge or everyone who is unclean. Through the contact with the dead you shall put out both male and female, putting them outside the camp, cut them off, that they may not defile the camp in the midst of which I dwell. And the people of Israel did so, and they put them outside the camp, as the Lord said to Moses, so the people of Israel did. We say that's kind of harsh, and it is. But God was providing protection for his people, even in those instructions. Leprosy could infect that entire nation and kill all of them. The discharge issues. And the contact with the dead. They didn't have the benefit of medical science like we do these days. So God gives very explicit instruction to protect his people, but also to give the picture. To give this beautiful gospel picture because we see in Luke, Luke's gospel especially, in Luke chapter 5. Jesus is going through the town teaching and a leper cries out for mercy. And what does our Savior do? No, the instruction was to be separate from you. No, what Jesus does is he reaches out and he touches the leper and he heals the leper. Can you imagine the Jewish crowd gathered with him? Jesus don't do that. Unclean. The lepers had to call out unclean. They had to stay separate from the community. And Jesus touches the leper. And what happens when the righteous one comes in contact with the unclean? The unclean is made clean. Jesus wasn't defiled by that leper. Jesus healed that leper. That's what goes on in the righteousness of God. In Luke chapter 8, we see a man named Jairus coming to Jesus. His daughter is sick. She's been dealing with an illness. pleads with Jesus to come and heal his daughter. And as Jesus is going to Jairus ' house, a woman with a discharge of blood 12 years. She's exhausted every medical doctor resource that they had in those days. She knows that if she can just get to Jesus and believes that if she can touch the hem of his garment, she'll be healed And that's exactly what happens. He feels the healing power leave him. He stops the crowd and he addresses her. Can you imagine the Jewish crowd? No, no, this woman. Twelve years of bleeding, this discharge, the ceremonial law says, do not touch unclean. And what the righteous one is able to do what the ceremonial law is unable to do, and that is Jesus restores her to wholeness. And then the people come and they say to Jesus, don't bother with Jairus' house anymore. The little girl is dead Your timing was off. And Jesus says, that little girl is not dead, but just asleep. And he goes, and again, imagine the Jewish crowd. She's dead. If you touch her, you become unclean. And Jesus not only touches her, he tenderly says to her. Awaken. Dear one, awake. And the little girl who was dead rises up. Why? Because the righteous one is on the scene Listen, my soul, you. Nothing unclean will ever enter that heavenly dwelling place, nor anyone who practices does what is detestable or false. That's why Christ came. He came for us, the unclean. We who are unclean need only to acknowledge our guilt and our pollution. Our sin has brought this on. And we need to only believe that he is the one who can cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And then confess with our mouths openly. Let the world know I believe in Jesus Christ. He is the Savior of the world. He is the one who has cleansed My pollution. He has covered my guilt. Acknowledge and believe and confess openly that he is faithful, that he is just, he will forgive us our sins, and he will cleanse us from all uncleanness, all unrighteousness. That's the promise for all who call upon the name of the Lord. They shall be saved. Maybe that's for you today. Maybe that invitation is for you today. You've heard it maybe before, but today something inside is happening in your heart. And you're saying I want to be in that heavenly dwelling place. I want to glorify my creator the way I was intended to do from all creation. Lord, cleanse me. I believe, Lord, help my unbelief. Listen, if that's you, then like Rick had said earlier, come see somebody who looks like they belong here. It doesn't have to be me or Rick, it can be But someone and tell them, hey, I this morning when that guy was yelling at us, I I I think that's me I would like to know more about how to have cleansing. And I don't want to do the stuff I've been doing. I don't want to continue to practice what is detestable or false. Jesus said in Revelation 3, Jesus describes those who believe in him and overcome He says they were clothed in white garments, a picture of walking in holiness and pure purity. It's in humble reliance on his grace, by the way, because we don't have holiness inherent in us. And Jesus says in Revelation 3 that he promises those people two things. Their name will not be erased from the book of life. and that he will confess them before the Father who is in heaven. This is the promise we see in Matthew 10. If you confess me before men, I will confess you before my Father in heaven. And it also , I think we we've got something backwards about the book of life. The names that are written there have been written before the foundation of all creation. God chooses freely, not based on your activity or mine. He chooses all his elect and he sees to it while we exist in this present age that we receive the gospel. And the spirit to believe. Jesus says, for those whom His name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life. They will not be erased. Now, do you feel like your name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life? You can't feel that. You can't feel your way to heaven. We walk by faith, not by the senses. That's what the scriptures teach. And so we preach this and we encourage belief and then we hold each other to those beliefs. I need all of you and you need me and your life to be able to say, Hey, you know, God's word says this and yet your life is reflecting this. I want to see it come back to this. That's all of our experience. So have you cried out to him acknowledging your need for cleansing? Have you continued in that acknowledgement, growing by grace in who he is and what he's done for you? And then are you willing to confess him openly? I think those are the questions that That every Christian probably should have on a yellow sticky on their mirror or refrigerator, just as a reminder. Have I acknowledged him, my sin before him? And am I willing to confess him this day, this day. So three more things missing John in chapter twenty-two he says he just describes this beautiful picture. There's a crystal clear river flowing through the middle of the city. I don't know if you've ever been camping and you've taken those little pills to drop into the water supply so that you don't die from disease Yeah. Yeah, it's like, oh look how clear this stream is. Well let's drink from it. And then four days later, when you're finished with the restroom, you're like, hey, that wasn't as clear as I thought it was This river is clear. There is no impurity here. And on either side of the river, the tree of life, it produces fruit. each month of fruit. And it says this is for the healing of the nations. This is that people group again. And the word healing doesn't mean that they're all sick and they need something. This is the word uh is the Greek word therapui. It's therapeutic. It's like the supercharged vitamin water. It's the energy. It's the sustenance. It's the pure food and water of of the heavenly dwelling. It's we eat for enjoyment. No longer for like need. We just enjoy what's there. You get this, right? Because It's God's dwelling place. So there's no unmet need there. Let me go up. Let me move on. There's nothing accursed in this place. John says that there is no nothing, nor long no longer will there be anything accursed But the throne of God and the Lamb. Here's the reminder again. Here's the reminder that we all need again. That in this place there is nothing with the curse of the fall on it. And that's us. We who have the curse of the fall, we who inherited our sinful nature from our first father and mother Adam and Eve. No longer. Why? Because the lamb will be in it. What did the lamb do? Paul the apostle told the Galatians. In chapter 3, that he, Jesus Christ, redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on the tree. So that, Paul says, Christ Jesus has become the blessing of Abraham. that he might come to the Gentiles so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. In other words, he became a curse so that we might be no longer cursed. That's why the Lamb, the significance there is the Lamb. And then he says, and we're his servants, and we'll worship him. Again, don't think like this worship As good as some worship you've had maybe on earth is. Think of that scripture that Paul gives to the church and the In Corinth, when he says, Therefore, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all for the glory of God At a certain point in our existence, beloved, we will be able to fulfill that scripture I don't even think I should say 24-7, because I don't know how time is marked, but all the time. We're going to do all things to the glory of God. So whether we're like harvesting some of that fruit or doing something else in the labor for our Lord, it's going to be enjoyable, it's going to be delightful, and we're going to be fulfilling, uh completely fulfilling our Creation mandate to glorify God and we'll enjoy him forever. Nothing accursed. And then check this out. In verse 4, he says, they will see his face And his name will be on their foreheads. You may or may not recall that in Exodus twenty-eight, thirty-six When the high priest who represented all of the nation, he was given specific instruction for his dress and his garb and everything else, and there was a a a gold plate that was to be etched with the words Holy unto the Lord, or holiness is the Lord, or set apart for the Lord, and it was worn on his forehead. Because the high priest was the only individual who was permitted by God's instruction to enter the Holy of Holies. To be in the presence of Almighty God. And even then, there was provision If the Lord was not pleased with that priest, they had tied a rope to him so that if he dropped dead on the spot, they could drag his body from there. Nobody could enter that place to get him Do you see what John is saying about all of the redeemed? His name is on our foreheads. Because we, the priestly class, all of us, will see him face to face. We'll be in immediate context. We'll be in his presence. I can't I can't I can't fathom that because of what I know I've done and said and thought And so I rejoice that it really is amazing grace. It really is unfailing love that we worship. And then just to add, I guess, a wonderful topping to this entire list of things that are missing John says, there will be no end to the experience. There is no specific time when I think we've exhausted all the bliss we can have. I guess we'll cut it off here. Now John says Night will be no more. There'll be no setting of the sun. They'll need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. Forever and ever is a phrase that when we get into this series in August on the final destination of those who reject Christ The ultimate hell, the death of death, and the place where those who have rebelled and stay in their rebellion forever and ever applies to that location as well. Jesus makes that very clear in Matthew 25. You cannot do any linguistic gymnastics around the use of the words that Christ Himself employed for everlasting life. And everlasting destruction. That's why this message is so important for us. And John concludes, at least this thought is: these words are trustworthy and true. They're true because God has spoken of them to his servant and through his servant. They've been kept for us through the ages and in our scriptures, and they are trustworthy. And this is where I guess all of us a big challenge is for our hearts. Because these words are trustworthy, that definit by definition, it means you and I are being called to trust. To stake our eternal souls on the truthfulness of this teaching. Is Jesus Christ and Christ alone the way, the truth, and the life? Is he exclusively the only way to the Father? That's the challenge for me It's a challenge for me every day. It's a challenge for you to walk by faith every day to believe this. That's why in this present age we uh need We need the scriptures, we need the fellowship of the believer, we need the Holy Spirit and him to be at work in and through us. We need that communion with prayer. And we need the reminders like was given to the uh the Hebrew Christians in uh the book of Hebrews. I want to conclude with this verse, these verses The writer of Hebrews knows what it was like to live in this world that was racked with suffering. Filled with persecution, like Rick read from Matthew 5. He says this, so this Jesus also suffered outside the camp. Remember, he became a curse for us. He became unclean for us. He was placed outside the camp in order to sanctify the people through his blood. Therefore, let us go to him outside the camp and let us bear the reproach that he endured. Let me stop there for a second. When we claim Jesus Christ's name, we talked about this as the missionaries get ready to head up for a week of frontline evangelism. When we claim the name of Christ, you can talk about just about anything. You can even talk about the concept of God. And when you mention God and Jesus Christ and a call to salvation. That's when all stuff breaks loose. He says, let us bear the reproach that he endured. Why? Here's the verse 14 of Hebrews 13. For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come, that was just described here. Through him, then, let us continually offer a sacrifice of praise to our God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. See, that's really the call. It's a call for all of us. And we need him to help us in this. Let me pray for us, and then we're going to sing to the King of Kings. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do ask, Lord, that you would help us. Oh Lord, we we um many of us Lord, gathered here, because you have already begun that good work in us. You've been growing us for years. You've been you've been convicting us of sin. We've been able to repent by the gift of your repentance. That you give. We believe your word and we desire more of your word. And Lord, we recognize our weakness, our frailty, our struggle, and we acknowledge that to you. We can do nothing apart from Christ. We need you every hour. And Lord, then there are some here that we know maybe today you're drawing them to acknowledge their sinfulness and their need of a Savior. And Lord, I praise you for that. And I pray that you would give them belief and that they would truly see you for who you are. And that you give them the courage then to confess openly and follow you all the days of their life. Lord, help us all. Lord, we need you. To continue to lead and guide and direct. You are our Maker, our Redeemer, our Defender, and our dear friend. We pray that you would help us now. In Christ we pray. Amen The fresh one that battered him