Now having said all that, let's turn our attention to the Lord and consider uh a question that I think is a very significant one that I'm asked from time to time and I thought I would uh devote a message to it for us to consider this. The situation is this. Think of some person that you know and care for, perhaps a a family member Perhaps a friend of yours. And sometime years ago, that family person, that uh brother, sister, mother, father, whatever, uh confessed Jesus as their Savior and their Lord, and they said that they wanted to follow him. And then over the years, uh, after having believed all the right things, and they might even say they still believe those things, somehow you've noticed that their love for the Lord has grown cold. In fact, uh they rarely, if ever, read About the whole area. They'd rather not talk about it. When you really look at them, you see that there's very little difference between them and everything Any decent non Christian that you know, except that they call themselves a Christian. Now the question that we need to address and to think about Is what is the status of that person with regard to God? Will that person be in heaven? Can they still call themselves a Christian? And really when you You look at it, it comes down to two questions that you see there in the bulletin outline. The two questions that are raised by this are number one, can a true Christian ever lose his or her salvation. It's a very basic question that Christians have discussed through the years. Can a true Christian ever lose his or her salvation? And the second question that is raised from this is can a true Christian not bear any spiritual fruit? Can a person call themselves a Christian and you see no observable difference between them and a person who does not call themselves a Christian but tries to live a good moral life Decent life. Now, how do we answer these questions? Well, it may seem like it goes without saying, but let me affirm that we need to go to the Bible to answer answer these questions. When you get to these kinds of questions, particularly when it was regarding family members or somebody that you're close to, the the tendency, the temptation is to I want to answer that through my feelings, my opinions, what seems to be the case. And it's very important that at this point, in something that may touch us deeply, that you and I say we have to go to the Bible to answer this question. That's our only uh guide for faith and for practice. And so we go to the Bible in order to see what God says about that. Now, fortunately, it just so happens, and I believe Jesus addressed this problem pretty directly in what we call the parable of the sower. For the parable of the soils in Matthew chapter thirteen. I believe that Matthew chapter thirteen this parable deals exactly with these two questions. And so if those questions concern you You, concerning yourself, concerning somebody that you've known, that you do know, that you care for, then let's give very careful attention to what Jesus says about this. So let's look at this parable together to try and get answers for ourselves and for those that we're in touch with. And the way we're going to do that is first of all First of all, we're going to look at the parable, and then we'll try to see what the parable says, what it means, and then how that answers these questions. So, first of all, look at the parable Parable, Matthew chapter 13. And notice the context of the parable. It's important for us to see that in order to understand this parable before we look at it. Now, in chapter 12, Jesus had come to a showdown with the Pharisees. The Pharisees in chapter 12 had uh charged that Jesus was in league with the devil. And so Jesus had confronted them, he had accused them of the hardness of their heart, and then he went to the crowd with a new methodology of teaching. And that he begins to In chapter 13, verse 3. You see that there, verse 1 of the same day, Jesus went out of the house and he sat by the lake. Such large crowds gathered around him. He got into a boat, sat in it, while all the The people stood on the shore. Then he told them many things in parables. That's the first time you see that. He's beginning now a new kind of teaching. This is not like the Sermon on the Mount. This is a new kind of teaching. It's in parables. That's the context. There's a hardness. There's a resistance to his ministry. So now he begins to speak to them in parables. Parables. And this parable of the sower or parable of the soils is the first of the parables. And that's very significant because it's the key to parables. It's the key to understanding Why he speaks in parables. And so it's very important to see that in order to understand the parable. Now, the twenty-three verses are devoted to this parable. Is divided into three sections. So as we take a look at it, notice that the first thing he does is he tells the parable. That's in verses three to nine. Then the second Thing that happens is there's a question raised by the disciples concerning the meaning of the parable and why he speaks in parables. And that's in verses 10 to 17. And then beginning In verse 18 to 23, he gives the interpretation of the parable. So here's one where we have Jesus' own interpretation. And I believe that if we understand it, it'll answer those two questions for us. Can a Christian ever lose his salvation? What about people who have once walked with Christ, have no real interest in ministry or in the things of Christ now? Don't seem to be bearing any kind of spiritual fruit. Can they still call themselves Christians? Do they have the hope of going to heaven? What about that? All right. First of all, what I want to do is I want to read Each section and comment briefly about its meaning and then let's make the application to answer those questions. First of all, then take a look at the parable in verses 3 to 4 To verse 9. Jesus told them many things in parables. This is God's word now. Pay attention to what he's saying to us. A farmer went out to sow his seed. As he was scattering the seeds, some fell along the path, and the birds came and they ate it up. Some fell on rocky places where it did not have much soil. It sprang up quickly because the soil was shallow. But when the sun came up the plants were scorched, and they withered because they had no root. Other seed fell among thorns Which grew up and choked the plants. Still other seed fell on good soil where it produced a crop, a hundred, sixty, or thirty times what was sown. He who has ears, let him hear. Now you notice how many kinds of soil there are there. How many? Four. Okay? Notice Along the path, the shallow, stony ground, the thorny ground, and the good ground. So far, no interpretation, those are just the facts of it Then after having said that, and that's all Jesus told the crowds, the disciples come to him and they private in private and they ask an obvious question. I mean, this is what Jesus the browsing tells me what I just told you and then you know he goes on. The disciples are well hey you know before you mean you talk in the Sermon on the Mount, everything's very plain and clear and ethical. Teaching and who you are in the kingdom. What is this? And so verse 10, they say, Why do you speak to the people in parables? Why this new method? What are you doing? And Jesus gives the answer in verses 11 to 17. So let's hear his answer. This is Jesus saying why he speaks in parables. He replied, the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven is Heaven has been given to you, but not to them. Whoever has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has, will be given more Be taken away from him. This is why I speak to them in parables. Though seeing they do not see, though hearing they do not hear or understand. In them is Fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, you will be ever hearing but never understanding. You will be ever seeing but never perceiving. For this people's heart Has become calloused. They hardly hear with their ears. And they have closed their eyes. Otherwise, they might see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand With their hearts and turn, and I would heal them. Blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears because they hear For I tell you the truth, many prophets and righteous men longed to see what you see, but did not see it. And to hear what you hear, but did not hear it. Now, back off for just a moment. What's Jesus saying? I think you can sum up what he's saying in these verses by simply saying, putting it like this. Jesus is Saying the secrets of the kingdom are divinely revealed to God's own people. You understand those things. These people don't understand And so a parable is designed to see who God's working in. A parable draws people who God is working in to want to know more about the truth. Respond to it and they seek for more understanding. There's a thirst that is whetted by that. But if they don't have any interest, if God is not Then Jesus says, this doesn't keep on them more guilt and responsibility by Making plain the truth of the kingdom. They hear it and they say, Well, I don't know what you're talking about, and they go on their way. And so Jesus says this is a method you see by to discern Who is seeking after truth? And I do it in a in a way that's relatively unthreatening. Just broadcasting seeds like you and I. We in our work in our places In the bathhouse says, Boy, look at those stars, aren't they beautiful tonight? And I said, Yeah, and he says, look at it, you know, all the sand. I said, You thought isn't that interesting? The Bible talks about how God made all those stars and all the sand. Isn't that Great, you know, he sort of grunted and went on brushing his teeth. Well, he could have responded in a different way, you know, just you know, throwing something out. And and we do that a lot of times, don't we? Well Jesus says this is This is why I speak in parables. Now then he says, listen to what this means. So then verse 18. He gives the interpretation. Listen into what the parable of the sower means. means. When anyone hears the message about the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the Seed sown along the path. The one who received the seed that fell on rocky places is the man who hears the word and at once receives it with joy. But since he has no root, He lasts only a short time. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, he quickly falls away. Among the thorns is the man who hears the word. But the worries of this life and the deceitfulness of wealth choke it, making it unfruitful. But The one who received the seed that fell on good soil is the man who hears the word and understands it. He produces a crop, yielding a hundred sixty Sixty or thirty times what was sown. And so you see in this that the different soils represent different kinds of people Four kinds of soils, four kinds of people. And those different kinds of people represent different responses to the gospel, right? Now the question that I need to ask you, and you need to think about, very important question at this point, is how many of those four soils are Christians? Or because some people use Use the word Christian to distinguish between people who kind of are broadly Christians and those who really go to heaven. Let me ask, how many of these four will go to heaven? Now, I don't know if anybody says all four of them, unless they believe that nobody misses out in heaven. But there are some Christians who say that they believe all three Not very many, but some people say they believe that three of those, the last three, will go to heaven. A number of people say that the last two will go to heaven. Uh Patrick Morley and A book that uh a number of the men have been using in the um men's fellowship at Duke Stelle. Men's Breakfast uh has written this book, uh, Man in the Mirror. And he says on pages thirty four and thirty-five in that book, talks about this parable, and he says, uh this third Christian, the w the third person who is the thorny ground is what he calls Calls the cultural Christian. This is the person who spends his money and his time, pretty much like any unbeliever, but this person has made a true commitment to Jesus Christ. But he just is not living any kind of a radical biblical lifestyle. He's simply living along the cultural patterns, but he still knows the Lord. This the you know, the deceitfulness and the worries have choked out fruitfulness in his life. There are some people that say only the fourth person is a Christian. That only that one who bears fruit, that the bearing fruit is not Necessary. Now, how many do you say? I'm not going to take a poll here, you know. It can be kind of embarrassing to find out that you disagree with me. Whether I'm right or wrong, you've got to examine scripture. But the fact is you've got to answer in your How many of those people do you think are really Christians and will go to heaven? Now, how you answer that tells an awful lot about your understanding It really tells your understanding of the nature of the Christian life and what the Bible teaches about that. What I want to do is I'm gonna spill it out. What I'm gonna do, Jesus, I want to prove to you from this parable that only the last person is a Christian. That Jesus in fact gives us the clues right here to show us that he intends for us to understand that only that last of the four is a person who will be in heaven. That may have some important implications for you and your life right here, or for people in your family or your friends that you're concerned about. So let's take a look and see how I can prove it. So you go on to the next thing, point three, two key words that will unlock the meaning of the parable. First one is the word then or their Therefore, in verse eighteen. See in NIB it says listen then to what the parable of the sower means. You could also translate that I think New American Standard says listen therefore so it's uh it it is in the Greek uh the word therefore. And there is a basic principle of interpretation. You've probably heard from me before. If you haven't, you need to understand. Very clear and simple. Whenever you see a therefore, find out what it's there for. Alright? Very simple. Whenever you see a therefore in the Bible, find out what it's there for. And it's the There for a reason. You see, and therefore connects what went before with what's going to follow. And so that shows us that what Jesus is saying here is that this Interpretation is connected to what he had just said about why he speaks in parables in verses eleven to seventeen. Right? The therefore is crucial because Because it makes the connection. Jesus doesn't say, okay, by the way, now let's talk about the parable. No. He says, listen therefore to what the parable says means. Having just heard what I said about all this understanding and not understanding of the gospel. And that brings us to the second key word. The second key word is the word Understand. Understand. The word understand appears again and again throughout this parable. I don't know if you noticed But notice when he talks about why he speaks in parables, how crucial that word is. Verse 13, he says, uh This is why I speak to them in parables, though seeing they do not see, though hearing they do not hear or understand. Verse 14, and them fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah. You will be ever hearing, but never understand. Understanding. Here it is again, verse 15. This people's hearts become callous. They hardly hear with their ears. They have closed their eyes. Otherwise, they might see with their eyes. Hear with their ears. Understand with their heart Having stated three times there that he says this is what marks those who are God's people and those who are God's He says, your eyes are open, you understand the mysteries of the kingdom. These people don't love God, they're not following him, they don't understand. Spiritual truth. Then verse 18. Hear what the parable means. Verse 19, when anyone hears the message about the kingdom, and what? Does not understand Understand it very clearly, connecting them to the people who are not Christians, those who God is not healing, those who are not part of the kingdom, right? Not understanding Then verse 20 talks about the shallow ground. No mention of understanding. See? Receives the word, receives it with joy. Nothing about understanding. Verse 22. The one if you see the word fell among thorns. Hears the word, nothing about understanding. Simply says he hears it. And then the worries and the Now, contrast. Notice verse 23. But see? But gives you a clue. There's a contrast. But in contrast to these other The one who received the word that fell on good soil is the man who hears the word and what? And understands it. You see? Only one who is told we're told by Jesus understands the gospel. He's the only one who receives the word in an understanding And what's immediately connected with that? He bears fruit. He produces a crop, yielding what is a hundred, sixty, or thirty times what was So you see, the point is that Jesus is saying you can't understand the gospel without it transforming your life. And that's the next blank down. You can't understand the gospel without it transforming your life. You notice that there's different degrees of fruitfulness. Not all bear the same fruitfulness. And we see that I don't not all Christians are as fruitful as uh Billy Graham, you know, or others that we look and we say, obviously here's somebody God is blessed and used in a mighty and powerful powerful and unusual way. way And there's some Christians that, you know, they that just don't seem to make a big mark on history. Well that's fine. Some Christians follow Jesus. All their hearts, and they still don't have any big impact on history. They may be more godly than those who do. There are Christians who are seeking Jesus more fervently. Than others. But the point is that a thirty-fold yield is still quite a yield, right? You can still see it. And that's what he's talking about. Some are a hundredfold. Some six, but even the thirtyfold, you can tell that there's fruit there. Now, let's apply this to the questions that we asked before. Back to the two original questions on the back side of your The answers to the two questions then? Christians who fall away were what? Not, never Christians in the first place. You see, what verse 20 and 21 is telling us is it's possible to seem like a Christian. The one who received this word that fell on the rocky place, the man who hears the word once received He seeds it with joy, but there's no root. It's shallow. So as soon as it costs him something, trouble, persecution, he says, hey, this is not I'm out of this. I was after a God who was going to meet my needs and center himself around me, and every time I prayed that I would get peace Peace and my prayers would be answered. Now you're talking about the cost of discipleship. And I don't want any part of that. He didn't understand the gospel, you see. And so there's no fruit. He just simply withers away. We've all seen this people very enthusiastic. They even oftentimes these kinds of new Christians will intimidate you because they seem to have So much more zeal and emotion for Jesus than your quiet, kind of muddling along in your love for him seems sometimes so cold. But then when something happens There's no depth. There's no root. And so they blow away. Hebrews 6 describes this. In Hebrews chapter 6, Hebrews says that these people received the word. They've tasted of the heaven. They've partaken of the Holy Spirit. And he goes on and on and on, and he talks about how amazingly deceptive this can be, how a person can look very much Much like a Christian. And then he says, if they fall away, it's impossible to renew them to repentance. Their hearts are hardened, they want nothing to do with Jesus Christ after them. And then interestingly, Hebrews 6, a passage many people have problems with, goes right back to the parable of the sower. And he talks about fruitfulness and bearing fruit, and he says, But we're persuaded that you You are bearing fruit, and therefore that you really know Jesus. Take a look at Hebrews six sometime this afternoon in context of the parable of the sower. You'll see the connection. Now the other thing, the other question then, is that um can a Christi can a person who's a true Christian uh not bear spiritual fruit. And so the second question, it should be obvious now. The Christian without spiritual fruit, that's the blank, the Christian, without spiritual fruit, is in fact no Christian or not a Christian at all. Christian without spiritual fruit is in fact not a true Christian at all. Notice again verse 25 Verse 22 talks about the thorns that choke the word. There's two things that Satan wants to use in your life and my life to separate us from Jesus. One is either the worries of life, don't have enough, not gonna get this, don't have that, you know, and I'm always worrying and fretting, gotta fend for myself. Or the deceitfulness of riches, having my eyes focused on simply the pleasures of this life, focusing on all my joy, being in this life. And this is And so either the worry or the deceitfulness will separate us from the gospel. And if it does, if it in fact is able to do that so that we become, as verse 23-22 says, unfruitful. Then we really haven't understood the gospel. We really haven't understood what heaven is about. And what Jesus has died and risen for is to bring us, to bring us into his kingdom, a new heaven, a place that so eclipses anything of the glories and and a place that shows us by our Heavenly Father we don't have to worry about this life. That he'll take care of if we haven't understood those things, then the worries and the deceitfulness will win out. And if they Do it shows that we haven't really come to know Christ. We haven't really understood the gospel. As as compelling as our going to church and talking about Jesus and all the rest of it may have been for years, but usually it won't last. You see it says it becomes unfruitful. There's this gradual grip. So a person may go on For five, ten years, seeming to be a Christian, but gradually you see that coldness set in and spiritual things seem to have no real interest. They may even keep up the show, may continue to go to church, may continue But there's no fruitfulness. What kind of fruitfulness? What's the fruit he's talking about? What fruit is necessary? I believe there's two kinds of fruitfulness. fruit he's talking about. First of all, there is the fruit in you. There's the fruit that's in you. And that fruit is the fruit that Galatians 5, 22 and 23 talk about. The nine fruits of the Spirit. For the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And it's very easy to memorize those nine. All you have to do is remember the first three have one syllable, second three have two syllables, third three have three syllables. You just put them together. Anyway, those are the nine fruits of the spirit. Some people are going to go for this message and all they're going to remember it. You know now I know how to memorize Galatians 5 22. Then you didn't understand the message. That's the fruit that's in you, the fruit of character. Alright? Now the other kind of fruit is the fruit that issues from you. Fruit from you. John twelve, twenty-four talks about this kind of fruit. Jesus said, I tell you the truth, unless a kernel of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it If it dies, it produces many seeds. In the context, there you see that Jesus is talking about ministry, giving ourselves to others to influence Them for Jesus Christ. And so Jesus is saying here, there's a kind of fruit that comes from us. It talks about our fruit remaining, talks about fruitfulness. John 15 That's fruit of ministry. And both these kinds of fruit we look to to see if we in fact know Jesus. Now, Steve's talked a lot about assurance of salvation. Talk about the grace of that or our love for one another. This is just supplementing, it's just bringing it from another angle the things that Steve was considering with you over the last month or two It's by the grace of Christ this fruit is produced. But we need to be able to look in our lives and to be able to see there is that fruit there. And so when you look at your life, let me ask you just concerning your own situation. What fruit is in you? That's the last application to you. What fruit is in you? What character change have you seen in your life that you can only attribute to the Spirit of God? Not the fact you go to church, you read your Bible, you do religious things. What is in your life that you can say, this is a desire that's in my heart that wasn't in me Before I knew Jesus Christ. James Denny summed it up like this once. He said, before Christ, a man uses people and loves things. After Christ He loves people and uses things. Now you see that's just just a basic way. You see any of that in your life? Now all of us become so woefully short of what we love. long for. And there's some of us who have very tender consciences who are always kind of speculating, well maybe I'm not. You may need another person to help you to look and say, I see plenty of fruit in your world. But we stand and fall before God on our own ultimate. These are helps for us to see. But particularly to make sure that we're not displayed. Deceiving ourselves saying because I made some decision twenty years ago, went forward, signed a card, did this and that, then I'm a Christian. Or because my friend did, or somebody in my family So there needs to be something in me that can only be attributed to the Holy Spirit that has changed me, given me a desire to change. Sometimes I think I think we needed more desires than actual change, but the desires need to issue in change. Then there's the fruit from you. Others that you can look at that you can say, I have sought to influence this person for Christ. I have died to myself, my own desire, in order to serve, in order to seek to minister Christ in some way. When you look at yourself, if in fact you're in doubt, let me urge you, don't finish out this day without talking about To somebody about that, to me, an elder of this church, to some Christian friend that you can trust, maybe the person that brought you here or told you about us as a church? That you would come Coming that you would get that matter settled. There is nothing more important. We're talking about when you go after you die to stand before God, whether you hear his welcome into his presence or For whether you hear depart from me into judgment and everlasting condemnation, what could be more important than to have that subtle in your life? The other thing is to make sure that concerning your family and your friends, that this is settled also. I find a very interesting double standard that many of us as Christians use. You say, I know what a Christian is. A Christian is a person whose life has changed, they're following Jesus. They can give you a reasonable understanding of that. And then you say, Well, is your mom and dad a Christian? Well, I think so. They don't go to church anywhere. Well, I know, they don't go to church. But you know, but years ago they did. And uh well what happened? Well, you know, they got disillusioned. It was a falling out. But you know, they still I think that they still call themselves Christians. And I I really think that deep down in their heart, there's still that desire. You ever read the Bible? Well, I don't think so You ever talk to them about the spiritual? Well, they're not real comfortable about that now. They sort of put it off. Well, what evidence do you see? Well, years ago, you know No. And y so we nobody else would we say that that was satisfactory. But don't we find that there's such a resistance to believing that some Somebody in our family or some close friend would actually be deceiving themselves in such an important matter? Perhaps go to hell when they think they're going to heaven or at least telling you they are that our heart recoil and we want to believe. And because it's all so much more convenient for us, isn't it? Because if I raise that question as I had to with my own Parents at one point in my life. That puts a certain responsibility. I need to talk to them. And so it may be that in these next weeks, whether you see them on vacation or the last Of your summer travels or Labor Day weekend or whatever, it may be the Spirit of God is speaking to you right now about somebody that you know and you've said, Oh, I think they probably are a Christian Is there somebody that God's speaking to you about now that you say, you know, I really think I've been kidding myself? I wanted to believe they're a Christian. But I really wonder And I need to raise them. Jesus says these things are given to you by grace. You and I have only a very short time. Before he brings us to himself forever and ever. At that point it'll be too late. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that for every person in this room, there would be that assurance that you have changed their hearts and their lives. That in fact every one of us here represents good soil. Lord, we pray that be the case. And if it's not, we pray that you would awaken persons, speak to their hearts. Hearts before that's too late. If before this day is out, that would be settled in their relationship with you. Lord, if there's someone in our family, someone Someone that we see and care for and we know them, really know them. Know the hurts that they've gone through. And it's just kind of a Understanding that we don't talk about those things. They call themselves Christians and we just simply don't question it. Lord, we pray that Satan would want to keep us in that position so we can keep them deceived. Speak to us that we might raise the questions before it's too late. We see Your spirit speak to them and revive in them that interest. They may come to a genuine, settled understanding, perhaps for the first time in their life, of the good Good news of the gospel of the Lord Jesus, who died for our sins and risen to give us new life. Lord, speak to us. Give us the courage Courage, the ability to honor you and to obey you and to see you, Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen.