Last week we were together in Ephesians chapter 3 as we continue in this series on gospel renewal, looking at the central doctrines of the gospel itself We were in this passage of Ephesians 3, 16 to 21, and on Sunday afternoon I realized that I wanted one more Sunday with this passage and would simply pick out verses 20 and 21 as that which I would preach from this week. And unfortunately, due to technical difficulties last week, last week's sermon was not recorded. Some of you had wished to hear it again and to consider the strength of the Holy Spirit and what he seeks to do. And Paul's earnest prayer. This prayer and this these two verses, verses 20 and 21, form the middle point of the letter to the Church at Ephesus. It forms a a bridge bridging the first half of the letter to the second half of the letter. He spent the first half of the letter telling them who they are in Christ Jesus, and he will spend the second half of the letter telling them, so what? Now what are we to do given who we are in Jesus Christ? And so, right in the middle of this letter, he breaks out in prayer and he prays for them. Not because he doubts what God can do, but to do so as a reminder that Christ. And his spirit, the spirit of the living God and the spirit of Christ, the same one, the Holy Spirit of the triune God, will come and that he will strengthen them. And he praised that God would by his spirit strengthen his people in their inner being. He's not praying it because he doubts it. He's praying it because the opposite, he is certain. His doubt is never in what God can do, but oftentimes what the doubt is often what we expect God can do. What do we expect God to do? And this central doctrine, the work of the Holy Spirit, What are we expecting God to do in us, in the church, and through us and through the church, by his Holy Spirit? What can God do? And so at the end of this prayer Answering, I think, a question just like that, what can God do? Paul breaks out in a doxology. A song of praise. Ephesians 3, 20 and 21. Hear now the word of God. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine according to his power that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Will you pray with me? Now, Lord, we ask that by the matchless power of the Holy Spirit That is at work within the church and within those who call upon Christ by faith. May you do immeasurably more than all we could ever ask or imagine. according to your power that is at work within us. And may you receive all the glory Through the church and in Christ Jesus forever and ever. And so I ask you: help the teacher In Jesus' name. Amen. This past week Penny Graham was Doing what she had always been doing for over 20 years. She was leading a whale-watching cruise. that she owned off the s Nova Scotia's coast off of Briar Island. The waters were very calm. Almost too calm. A heavy fog hovered over the ocean. It was almost boring. Until a massive hunchback whale breached The surface of the ocean reached to the heavens and then in just beautiful form arched backwards and did a huge flop right into the ocean The boat went nuts. You could hear, wow , yay! Young children almost on the verge of crying. Splashes all over the camera lens. It was amazing. And she said, the sighting was the most dramatic well breaching I have ever seen in 20 years of running such tours. I started whale watching in 1984 with my husband Roy when he was alive, and never before have I captured a whale in that position. Perhaps you saw the video. But imagine if you were the person who just happened to be at that moment in the bathroom on the boat. Suddenly you hear the uproar, the wows, the screams, you rush out And they're like, you're never gonna believe it. It was wow. And then you find yourself in the unenviable position of trying to explain what it is you just saw, and you get out your tiny little screen. In front of this massive ocean, here, watch, you know. And you watch it, and then it was in vertical mode too. It wasn't even in horizontal mode. And you're and you're like, could you have done that? you know, and it's really going what to do and you're trying to explain and the person who was in the bathroom is going, Wow, but they're going, Oh man, you know, all that money and nothing and Oh my gosh. But isn't it true, however, that people probably have watched as I have watched that video now just so I could do the illustration some twenty times, you know And you watched it and you watched it, but over time, isn't it true that even with such an incredible experience as that There is a point at which the wow wears off. The video Becomes not something, wait, wait, wait, watch this. It becomes. How do you remember back in 2015? I'm so glad we actually got this video. We want to show you. The luster has gone off the diamond. I fear that for many Christians That's what, or the perhaps the way their faith could be described. They had that moment. Where they knew the grace of God had seized them. They experienced Christ and his amazing grace, his forgiveness, his power. But over time, the mundane takes over. And we no longer stand before God and his gospel With wow. We don't come to worship actually expecting God to do very much. I have felt that way. In fact, sometimes those of us who are called to explain these things and teach these things feel at times At a loss for words, C. S. Lewis once said that a doctrine never felt dimmer than after I have successfully defended it. You see, it's very easy to come to church, even as a pastor, to feel like a religious waiter. I'm simply asked to go to the kitchen and to bring to you a really good meal. And as long as I bring you a good meal, what you expect, in the form that you like it, You'll be well fed. We go off and we go about our daily lives, and we come back next week wanting the religious waiter to bring us another meal. Now maybe you don't feel that way, but if I'm honest, what do I expect God to do in me and in you? Don't you want more? I do. What can God do? Well, this passage tells us what he can do Paul tells us in these words, in this doxology. Something that we can consider first, imagination, power, and glory Imagination, power, and glory. Imagination. He tells us here He's giving us this blessing, this song of praise, and he's saying now to him, glory be to him. Who is able to do immeasurably more Then all we ask or imagine, and this very sentence requires us to enact our imagination. Why? Because Paul is scratching at the ceiling of heaven. He's trying to usher us to see what God can do, and he uses this word that is translated immeasurably. Which literally means the highest form of comparison imaginable. And it could be translated as: he is able to do infinitely more than. Infinitely more than what does your imagination What do your prayers say about what we think God can do? If he can do immeasurably, infinitely more than all we can imagine or ask Leads us to ask the implied question, what exactly are you asking God to do? What are you imagining that He can do? One writer says this: He who loved us so much that he spared not his own son to make us his children invites us. To come to him freely and confidently. But he also promises to bring the full measure of the wisdom and powers of his Godhead to answer us. How do we measure what he can do? He holds the whole earth in his hand. He created the universe, but continues to control the light in your room. and the decay of an atom in the most distant galaxy. He makes the flowers grow and the snow fall. He rides on the wings of the storm and holds a butterfly in the air. He holds you, holds us before the beginning. Or rather, and he who has before the beginning of all we know still uses time as his tool of healing and restoration and retribution. Our thoughts are as a window to him. Generations to come from us are already known fully to him who loves our family more than we do. He looks at the length of our life as a handbreadth and makes our soul, though sinful, his treasure. Such is the God who hears our prayers and is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or can even imagine. Because here is an interesting reality. When he says he is able to do more than all we could imagine or ask, no one would have ever imagined or asked that God would send his own son. To take the place of sinful men and women. And yet God does more than all we ask or imagine. Throughout the entirety of the scriptures, men and women are always asking for God to do something. But so oftentimes, even our best prayers. And this is a word of encouragement. Even our best prayers are feeble before his unimaginable power. His immeasurable ability. The reality is what comes into full focus Is not our prayers or how feeble they might be, or short-sighted, or selfish, or small What comes into full focus is that regardless of how we pray, Our God is on the loose. His ways are above our ways. His wisdom is above our wisdom And he is on the loose. And what this is calling us to do is to begin to pray, Lord, by your Holy Spirit. Who is praying for us, even while we are praying, says Paul in Romans 8, we can begin to say, Holy Spirit, begin to shape my prayers. And my imagination to greater and greater shape of our immeasurable God Because he is able, he can do it So the question is, when we pray, are we praying? Are we mindful that God has given us his Holy Spirit? Because what does he say? He says, he's able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine according to his power that is at work within us. He's referring right back to the prayer that he already prayed about the Holy Spirit's power at work within us. And so his Holy Spirit is in us, and when we pray, it is right and appropriate to ask, Lord, now your Holy Spirit, enable me to pray. Advance my imagination and how I can ask and what I ask. That they would have a greater reflection of who you are because you are able beyond my imagination But then he does talk about power. And here's how the two are linked. The word there, when he says, now to him who is able. That word able comes from the very same root word that the word power comes from, and that is dynamis or dynamite, which means which we get the word dynamite. So this idea that God is able to do is linked directly to his power that is at work within us. God is saying, I am strong, I am powerful, I am able, and that is precisely what dynamite can do. Though we light the fuse and can imagine what damage it can bring, only until we witness it do we see its power. God is saying, I have the power, and I've given that power to exist within you, the Holy Spirit. And by that Spirit, we are enabled to pray, we are enabled to imagine what God can do. And then he says this: according to his power that is at work within us. Is his power just on the loose and we can simply wield it how we like? No, when he says according to his power, it is his power nonetheless. And this is where we get the idea or the doctrine, though it is not mentioned here, it is certainly implied that God's power is at work in concert with his sovereign rule. His sovereign rule. This whole idea of God's sovereignty, that He does things according to his plan because he upholds all things by the word of his power and he brings them about in his timing by his ways that completely oftentimes Contradict the ways of man, completely blow away man. Think about it, for going back to the earliest days, who would have imagined that Abraham would be the father to many Though that promise came to Abraham, it was still a surprise, was it not, when Sarah was pregnant in her old age. Though God told Moses precisely what he was going to do, how he was going to do it to free his people from slavery in Egypt, they were still surprised in how God did it. in his timing and by his power. Joshua knew that God was going to give them the promised land. He had been told by God, be strong and courageous, for I will be with you. And yet even Joshua surely was surprised that God's sovereign promise still came about in the way that it did. Jesus, before his disciples, told them precisely what was going to happen to him. Over the good Friday afternoon and what would lead to Easter Sunday morning, I will die at the hands of our enemies, but I will be raised to life on the third day. And they said, surely not And then when he was raised on the third day, they were shocked and surprised, even though God said it. Because there's something sneaky about the doctrine of sovereignty if we are not careful God is sovereign. No one can measure out his ways. No one can control him. No one can wield his power for him. He will do all things according to the word of his power, in his timing, by his ways, and according to his character. He does not need us. And he will accomplish his ways. This is the great doctrine of our faith that God is sovereign. However, as one writer, Jamie Smith, writes, us reformed folk Praise and value, honor and make central the sovereignty of God, the theological giants of the Reformed tradition from the Great Reformation, John Calvin. Think of the later forebearers Jonathan Edwards, our Dutch forebearers, Abraham Kuyper, and many others have put God's sovereignty at the center and the heart of a reformed world and life view. God is sovereign. He is the Lord of the cosmos. God is free from having to meet our expectations God is sovereign in his election of the people of God. God's sovereignty is one of the pillars of the reformed accent in the Christian tradition. But here is the sneaky little problem with sovereignty. That very carefully and very slowly, the idea of God, our belief that God is sovereign and he is. leads us to believe from our human perspective that therefore God is predictable. And we begin to put God in a box. And we forget that his power that is at work within us leads us To imagine that God is able to do by His power more than we can ask or imagine You see, sovereignty oftentimes keeps us from being surprised that God can actually surprise us because He is able. If Jesus, in walking with his disciples, said, Tomorrow I will be put on a cross. as a sacrifice and a ransom for sin. And then on the third day I will be raised again and I will come again to you. Imagine if he said what would happen, how it would happen, when it would happen, and his disciples were still surprised. How much more then is God still desiring, and I mean this in a God-honoring, sovereign, powerful way to him, how much more than is he not also ready to surprise us? The question is, what do we expect God to do? Has believing in the sovereignty of God made us God's chosen frozen? Has it made us believe that somehow God is predictable? That God is done working in magnificent, miraculous, big ways? May God, by his Holy Spirit, that is at work within us, begin to renew by his power. An imagination and an asking of him who is able to do immeasurably more. That when we come to worship on Sunday morning, that we can begin to prepare our hearts before we even Prayed a prayer or sung a song, and we maybe we need to do this every Sunday morning just to take a moment of silence and all of us to begin to pray, Lord. Will you do immeasurably more than all I can imagine and ask this morning? What grand feast do you have for my soul? What miraculous work, what power do you want to bring about to change us from the inside out as a congregation and as individuals? This is why I jokingly say I consider myself a Presbycostal. Because I will tell you that many of my Pentecostal brothers and sisters Come to Sunday worship expecting God to do much. Not because he owes us anything Not because I can manipulate him by emotion or I can manipulate him through gifts or music or light. None of that. But in fact, a true gospel built on the sovereign power of God leads me to expect God to do much. And I want to be leading in that. I want to be praying for you when I get up on Sunday morning. Lord, unless you are present by your Spirit and by your power, I can do nothing. My words are just human words, but your spirit working with your word can bring about massive Character, life change in the life of your people. What do you want to do, O Lord? Please do it. What would it be like if we began to pray like that, friends? Because I do believe that's precisely what Paul is leading us to To by the Spirit reforming by the gospel our imagination, by the Spirit's reforming by the gospel how we ask and what we ask. By the Spirit's power that is at work within the church collectively and within individuals specifically, that the Holy Spirit and God's power Is on the loose. Are we praying like that? I ask you to join me to pray like this. Because what is at stake? What is our aim Our aim is his glory. And that's where Paul goes next. His glory. He says to them, to him be the glory, the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations. To him, he's saying, be all the weight, literally, the word Daksab means the weight of God 's holiness, his beauty His goodness and mercy. To him be all the praise. And he's saying, In the church. You see, we begin to pray like this and imagine like this and ask for the Spirit to move in us, not for us, but for His sake, for His glory. And for his beauty. To him be the glory in the church. But here's why Paul says We ought to be moving to this end. It is because God cannot just do these things. He's actually willing to do them. God is willing to answer our prayers like this. Why? Because he tells us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. This is the first time Paul uses that phrasing, Christ Jesus, in this letter. And he's saying By using that name, Christ Jesus, he is saying, our God in his glory is willing. He is willing because of Christ. God in his glory is willing. We know that he loves us. Because of Christ. We know that because of Christ, he can do more than anything because he's already done it in Christ. On the cross and on the third day he rose again, victorious over sin and death. It is finished. The law no longer is my master. Sin is no longer my master, though it is still present. It is no longer a power that has the weight of God's glory in my life, for God's glory has flushed that power away. Because of Christ. You see. God is willing and able to do this because he's already done it in Christ. But we need this. We need to know that he is willing because everyday life pushes in on us. The financial pressures of a mortgage or a rent payment, kids to raise, bosses to please Medical tests, results that we await, and so much more Everyday life pushes in, and when it does, what begins to push in also is the question: but can God do something in this? And slowly but surely, we go back into ourselves and we put God back in a box. But this passage is here, this prayer is here by Paul to pray for renewal, because this passage is a song that what God can do is in capital letters more. But it by saying that God can do more doesn't mean that his glory is not also operating in our gloom and our lament. God's glory, God's ability, God's power to do all of these things does not mean we will be free from trial or lament or loss. Or plenty of trial and gloom. But the question is: what will God's glory do with us and in us and through us in the gloom? Many of you know because you are living it out Your testimony of not knowing what the future holds, this congregation and the loss of friends and loved ones that we've experienced over these last couple of years, the difficulties and the trials. remind us that God is still present in the gloom. That God's glory often is the most bright when we are often in the darkest of situations. So I want to be very clear. This is not triumphalism That somehow God's power will remove all difficulty and trial and gloom. That is not what is on offer here But what is offered is a God, if God can do and bring about our salvation in the gloom of His Son, who is holy and without sin, hanging on the cross. If God can bring about our salvation through the gloom of the cross and bring about the resurrection, then I say he's not done with our gloom either. And we ought to pray earnestly, Lord, what would you want to do in the midst of this lament, in the midst of this gloom? Can we pray that, friends? Because I say with all authority, in heaven And on earth in the name of Christ Jesus, the Bible says to us, not once but twice, in Isaiah and in 1 Corinthians. What no eye has seen, no ear has heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love Him. These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. He is on the loose. He can do More because he is able. And the beauty is that his aim for us is his glory Forever. And ever. The truth, one writer said, is that nothing on this earth can finally satisfy us. Much can make us content for a time, but nothing can fill us to the brim. The reason is that our final joy lies beyond the walls of this world, as J. R. Tolkien once put it Ultimate beauty comes not from a lover or a landscape or a home, but only through them. These earthly things are solid things, and we naturally relish them. But they are not our final good. They point to what is higher up and further back. Something in us keeps saying, not this or still beyond. What Augustine knew is that human beings want God because God has made us for himself. What is the chief end of man? To glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. God's power beyond all our imagination and beyond all our asking for the sake of his glory forever and ever. Is what should characterize us as a people. May He do so in us this day, and may the glory of His power be at work within you. For his glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Team, let's worship together. As we come to the Lord, I'm going to ask if it's okay to make an executive decision I would like to sing praise to the Lord the Almighty. Where we began, so projectionists, can we go back to the first hymn?