Well, tonight is the uh annual missions banquet. And this morning we wrap up our month of missions by my giving part two of the message that I started uh two weeks ago. It's based on the fact that the New Testament does not make a distinction between evangelism and missions. But you simply have a statement like Acts 1. 8, which is what we were looking at. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. In all Judea and Samaria and to all the ends of the earth. So, in order to lead us to be more involved as a church in missions, that is, God's calling the nations to the feet of Jesus , we need to experience more of what it means to witness Where we are, where we live, where we work, with our friends, with our families I made the point back then, two weeks ago, that uh talks on evangelism often deal with why we should evangelize. That's fine. Nothing wrong with that. The interesting thing is that when I read my New Testament, I find that it says actually very little about why we should evangelize. But rather it talks about why we do evangelize or why we do witness, which is a bit different. And so I looked at three points back then, two weeks ago. You see them in your outline there in the review section. That is, first of all, why we should witness. We talked about Obedience to the Great Commission, simple obedience. The Lord said to go make disciples. Okay, well, he is Lord. All authority is given to him. We do it. He says we're responsible To warn those who are perishing, those who are outside of Jesus Christ. And would face him as judge if they don't turn to him. We're responsible. All right. Also talks about the fact that we should have compassion on people who are like sheep without a shepherd wandering and No one to direct their lives or care for them. And then finally it talks about how our worship should be jealous worship. And when you and I declare as we sang there, you are my king, we realize he is to be everybody's king And that we can't really worship him and not care that there's people driving along on 108 or over in Centennial Park or sleeping in in our neighborhoods and we're one of the few cars that went out. And most people don't really give A rip about whether Jesus is worshipped or not, but he is calling the nations to his feet And worship should be jealous worship. Now, we talk about the fact that all those things are reasons why we should witness. But unfortunately, they generally do not outweigh the reasons why we don't witness. And you have a number that you could give, and I mentioned just a few things Such as the fact that maybe the gospel has ceased to be good news to us because we're back living legalistically under the law. Or perhaps because there's some sin in our life, and when we read the Bible we feel more condemned and feel His grace and favor, and we've ceased to believe the finished work of Christ covers all of our sin. Or that um we're afraid of what people will think about us if we uh let on that uh we are identified with Jesus and they'll think we're one of those intolerant evangelicals always trying to ram their religion down your throat and So because of our image, we would rather not get involved in that, or perhaps it's because we just don't spend a whole lot of time with non-Christians. Pretty much all our friends are Christians and we kind of like it that way. It's more comfortable So we really don't spend much time with people who, on any deeper level, uh need Jesus. And so we um You know, we say we've tried a few times and never led a person to Jesus, and so why let ourselves in for more disappointment? All kinds of reasons why we don't, but we don't In many cases. So then why do we witness? And the New Testament answer to that I proposed two weeks ago is very, very simple. Why do we witness? The Holy Spirit. It's as simple as that. You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses. Now, is that a command or is that a promise? You look back at the Great Commission in Matthew 28, and you had there a command. All authority is given to me in heaven and earth, therefore go and make disciples. Now is Acts 1. 8 a command? You will be my witnesses, or is it a promise the Holy Spirit will come upon you and you will be my witnesses as a result? I think While there is a command force to it, that the primary emphasis there is a promise. Jesus is saying, when the Spirit comes upon you He will constitute you as witnesses. And so just a few days later, Acts chapter 2, you remember, there Sitting there and it doesn't even say they were praying. They're just assembled and they're sitting and all of a sudden the spirit comes upon them, tongues of fire over their heads. And they witness, they declare the praises of God to people from every tribe and tongue and nation, all the people that are gathered there in Jerusalem, and they speak boldly about Jesus. In fact, Peter, who was the biggest coward of all, who was ashamed to even talk about Jesus to a servant girl, to even say that he knew him, is there declaring boldly that Jesus is Lord and Savior. Persuading, warning, it says. And so Jesus has taken people, cowards like you and me, who are so afraid of our image and everything else, and he constitutes them as witnesses. Beginning in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth. Now that's what the Bible teaches, and that's I suggest to you very comforting to you and to me, because what it means is if you're saying You know, I'm just really I don't I can't remember the last time I shared my faith. I don't talk about Jesus very much. My mouth is closed. I you know I don't seem to find the opportunities and on and on and on to talk to a lot of people about all that, you know And uh it's not a matter of you need to just kind of beat yourself up and get out there and try again or do this or try that technique. The issue is the Holy Spirit. So it means that you need perhaps to get alone with the Lord sometime for an hour this afternoon, uh, you know, between all the activities, the luncheons and the other meetings and the banquets. Find some time You say, Lord, I gotta get alone with you because I need your spirit to come upon me. I need to abandon myself to you to be available For your spirit to come in and cause me simply to love people, to care for people And as part of that to realize that the greatest favor I can do to anybody that doesn't know Jesus is to introduce him to him, but that's up to you to provide that opportunity and to lead. I just need for your spirit to come into me. To fill me and constitute me a witness. See? Well, that's as simple as that. Yeah, there's other things we could talk about, but that is the bottom line, brothers and sisters. And to be encouraged, we see the Spirit of God working in our congregation. A couple of examples Mike and Jen Costanzo, back a couple months ago. One presentation on a missions trip to Japan. Have more people signed up for the trip than we have slots for the trip. So some you know you gotta you gotta you know sort of vie to be selected to go to evangelism in Japan because there's more people wanting to go than can go Sandtown Project and build a house there in the Santown Project Al Tibbles talk to us about during the middle hour More people have signed up to do that project that can be involved in this first project that are already talking about the well, should we do a second house Needed $25,000 to put up for that. Hasn't even been announced to the congregation. Half the money has already come in There were about 84 slots for testimonies for upwards this season. Almost every single one was filled with people saying, I want to talk about what Jesus is done. That's the Holy Spirit, see That's not you and me. Hey, aren't we great? The Holy Spirit has worked in us. Praise to him. When the Spirit comes, you receive power. And God makes you witnesses. Isn't that great? Now, what I want to do is before we leave that, I want to say a few more things about how Acts 1. 8 works out, how it works out in the book of Acts and how it works out down to today to wrap this whole thing up. So when you look at Acts 1. 8, you see now we're looking at point four in your outline. how they did witness. And you notice it's instructive to see two things about that. The first A talk about the outline of this verse in the book of Acts And then secondly the outworking of Acts 1 eight. The outline, if you've been a Christian or have heard many messages, particularly anything on the book of Acts, then you may have heard that Many people will say the Acts 1. 8 is basically the outline of the book of Acts. You'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you'll be my witnesses. We see there first in Jerusalem, that's chapters 1 to 7, and all Judea, chapter 8, and Samaria, rest of chapter 8, and to the ends of the earth, chapters 9 to 28. And so that's the outworking of the Holy Spirit coming. In fact, some people say the book of Acts could be called the book of the Acts of the Holy Spirit. And so you see this outworking from the very first chapter of Acts. Jesus gives a promise a few days later, on the day of Pentecost, in Acts chapter 2. They're assembled, and as I said, the Holy Spirit comes in tongues of fire, tongues speaking of the boldness that is given to them to declare the gospel. Why are does it happen on Pentecost? Not because they were praying, not because they did some great act of uh dedication, nothing about that. Simply because it was on the day of Pentecost. God sovereignly determined The day of Pentecost, which was the first fruits of the wheat harvest , would be symbolically fulfilled in the first fruits of the nations coming to him. And so Peter Cowardly Peter, Peter, who has all the courage that you and I do, normally, naturally speaking, stands up And warns and declares and persuades, and three thousand people come to Jesus. And then you go on to Acts chapter three, and Peter and John are going up to the temple, and they see a crippled beggar, and the fellow says, Can you give me something? You know, got any spirit change? And they say, Well have any money, but we can heal you in the name of Jesus and so rise up and walk you. Hey, I'll take that. He stands up and they use that as an opportunity to talk about Jesus, his deliverer and savior. They boldly declare him And then you see this beginning of the pattern that goes through the book of Acts. In chapter 4, then, there's the first opposition: intimidation. You've got to stop talking about this, Jesus. And remember that Peter responds, the same Peter that cowered before a servant girl the night that Jesus was betrayed, the same Peter says, you know We can't stop speaking about the things that we have seen and experienced. You ever feel like that? I just can't stop. I I've got to tell you this because there's something in you that says you need to know this and I and I have this gospel and I don't want to tell you, the Holy Spirit is what produces that compulsion. And so they go back and they pray and they say, Lord Here we're being intimidated and threatened. This what do they do? They don't pray for protection, Acts chapter 4. They pray for the Spirit to give them boldness. See, they're praying for the fulfillment of Acts 1. 8 And you read that the whole place was shaken when they prayed. And that they all spoke, the end of Acts 4, they all spoke the word boldly. God added more disciples and it goes from 3,000 to 5,000. Then it comes to Acts chapter 5. And there's more opposition. Only there's two basic kinds of opposition, the counterattacks of the evil one. One is the external persecution, and the other is internal. Either compromise with sin or division or whatever. In this case, it's the compromise of sin. Ananias and Sapphira lie against the Holy Spirit. And for their foolishness, they forfeit their lives. Because God wants to keep his church without compromise, pure and holy. And so as a result Of God's judgment, the purification of the church, it goes on in Acts chapter 5 to say that the word went forth with power. And people respected the Christian church. They saw that it was a church filled with power. The gospel goes forth and more power. And then at the end of Acts chapter five, you have the third uh kind of opposition, back to persecution. Now, in this case, they they arrest all the leaders and they throw them in jail. They remove the leaders, and maybe the thing will shrivel up. They hold another prayer meeting. God's Spirit sovereignly delivers the leaders out of the jail. And the end of Acts chapter 5 says there's more courageous witness going on. You have the references there in your outline. You can look them up later. Then you come to Acts chapter 6. In Acts chapter 6, more opposition. Once again, back on the internal. It goes from persecution back inside. This time Satan's strategy is to use divisions. And so you have Hellenistic Jews and Judean Jews and uh and the people who are poor, there is distribution of food and The Hellenistic and Judean Jews start squabbling and organ of Hellenistic Jews saying we're being cheated on the distribution of the food. And the apostles wisely say we're not going to give up praying and we're not going to give up The preaching of the word to get involved in administration, because we know it happens to churches that get involved with everybody just does administration. So they assign seven men who are what? Filled with the Spirit The first deaconate. And the interesting thing is the seven men that they assigned to take care of the problem are all from a num the minority, culturally the minority position That's a gracious act on the part of the leaders. And God restores power and unity. And the gospel continues on in great power, then it says. And then you come to chapter 7. And there's more opposition. Satan's not going to give up. And so now it's all out war against the Christians. Persecution breaks out all over Jerusalem. And it's a bloody persecution. And the Christians are scattered. But the result is that in their scattering, chapter 8, verse 4 says that they go out and everywhere they are preaching, sharing, declaring the gospel wherever they're scattered. And so what is meant to shrivel them up actually becomes God's process for expanding from evangelism to begin to cross geographical, cultural boundaries. into missions. But it doesn't call it missions. It's simply evangelizing across the boundaries. And so you see, and you can trace this through the whole book of Acts. Sometimes Sit down with three colored pencils. Now I know some of you think that I'm, you know, sort of obsessed with colored pencils. But take three colored pencils, and this will find this an edifying exercise. Three pencils, and what you do is you you underline where you see these three things The statements that the Lord adds to the church, or the church grew, or the Holy Spirit brought conversion, you know, we see about the church being added to, growing. And you find that in every chapter. And uh it's just, you know, just make sure you say it. And then the second thing you notice is that's always connected with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit filled them, they spoke with boldness, the Holy Spirit converted, whatever. So you see this connection between people becoming Christians and the Holy Spirit's sovereign work in their lives. The third thing, use the third color, is you always notice there's opposition. So you see these waves: courage, boldness, proclaiming, opposition, persecution, internal, divisions, compromise, whatever it is. And this goes on and on and on until you've come to the end of the book of Acts, Acts chapter 28, and you find something very interesting. You come to Acts chapter 28 You see that uh it ends there, verse twenty-eight. Uh therefore I want you to know that God's salvation has been sent to the Gentiles and Whenever you read Gentiles in the New Testament, almost always it's the word ethne and should be translated also nations, probably a better way of looking at it. Because this is talking about the gospel now going to the nations. And then the end of that verse, I love it, it says, and they will listen. They will listen, so not all of them, but God sovereignly is determined that the word will go forth and will not go forth in void. They will listen. There will be people that will come from every tribe and song a nation that will come to the feet of Jesus. But then look how the thing ends. For two whole years Paul stayed there in his own rented house and he welcomed all who came to see him Boldly and without hindrance, she preached the kingdom of God and taught about the Lord Jesus Christ. End of the book. It's kind of like you cut off a piece of baloney. You know, it's kind of there's no reflection, there's no conclusion, it just kind of ends. Fine Well, I think mainly because the the idea you get there is the story's not over, you see. This is just that's where it is at this point. So it thrusts you forth to an Acts twenty-nine and thirty and thirty-one and thirty-two because it's the same pattern that continues down to our day. And that same pattern is Declaring the gospel by the power of the Spirit in the midst of increasing opposition and expansion of the gospel against the gates of hell. And that's the pattern. It's the pattern in every culture, different kinds of opposition in various cultures. In some cultures, Satan uses external persecution and intimidation. It is estimated. That currently about a half a million Christians lose their lives every year for the gospel. And we don't suffer that. In our culture, it's more secularism that simply makes the gospel implausible. Or the commitment to the one absolute of toleration that says there cannot be any absolutes, particularly the cross, which is offensive. In contrast to the first century, when the disciples preached the gospel and it went out and it was something new, to be considered in our culture, people think that they know Christianity and they don't want it. They dismissed it and rejected it. And a fellow explains this from an experience that he had, I would like to see, let you see, tell it himself. So let's watch a video Still remember it was a cold December night in 1999. I was sitting at a local Starbucks by here and I was actually journaling about this dilemma I was having of meeting new friends and I just said, God, I asked this question, I said, God, where do people people my age hang out that don't normally go to church. Now of course I had an epiphany in that moment there at the Starbucks and uh at many Starbucks like this. And so I thought maybe that would mean, you know, just start hanging out here more, develop friendships is I hung out there. And I just thought, you know what, I'm still, you know, young and single and have enough discretionary time that I could do things a little bit differently and I just felt prompted by God to apply for a part time job there. I really went into my Starbucks experience assuming that the only thing standing between these people being Christians than where they were now with somebody who could come in and deliver that truth for them. So, you know, I was a pretty busy guy like everybody else. I figured I'd do a six week jaunt at this Starbucks and you know, give them the bridge diagram, explain the message of Christianity, take them through the conversion process. do a little baptism service behind the espresso bar and then six weeks later I'd be out. And uh that's not at all how it has gone. Um to my surprise, these people knew a lot more about Christianity and spirituality than I would have guessed. Um and they just weren't all that interest interested in hearing what I had to say about responding to it. They used to just really freak out when they found out that I worked at a church. That was like so weird and couldn't understand it. And you could see they were like very skeptical of that. It's so funny now to see two years later that they now they introduced me to every customer and every new staff person as the as the Starbucks priest, that's what they call me. And they tell them that I I'm a man of the cloth who works at a church and uh last time I was in there actually they're having contests to see who would have the worst confession if they had to um give those to me as the Starbucks priest and um when I went home after they were joking with that I just realized how far we have come because what used to be um scared and skeptical and I don't trust him has now evolved in a place where they trust me enough that they can joke about it but it's not a derogatory type of joking. It's uh I feel comfortable with this, I'm intrigued by this, just to be in the midst of that and to hear story after story after story. And uh there have been a couple things that have really emerged as consistent things about these people that are true that maybe have changed a little bit in the last generation. Uh for one, what surprised me is that these people are incredibly spiritual at Starbucks. So there's probably fifteen people that work there, I would say. There's not an atheist in the whole group. There's not one person to say, I don't believe in God, I don't want to know about who God is. And so that's surprising, I was guessing it would be uh a little bit different than that. I also was surprised to find that they knew a lot more about Christianity than I thought. And this difference uh began to emerge that I finally had words for. As quo I read Steve Taylor said that Gen X is today's first post Christian generation. It's not that they don't know what Christianity is, it's that they think they know what it is and they don't want it. And I read that quote and it put words to what I've been feeling for the last two years. And in this distinction really emerged in the circles that I know at Starbucks and other friendship circles that some of my friends are pre Christian and some of my friends are post-Christian. It's really just playing off that word pre and post, like obviously pre is before, post is after. And you see some people who it's like they're on this journey to understand God, understand Christianity, so they're they're not even at Christianity yet. And so there's a certain kind of question or certain body of information that if they could understand that, they'd be able to make this lead to becoming Christians And I think I've gone in assuming everybody's there that just find the right thing and they'll be able to make that lead to Christianity. Well when he said that, it made sense what so many of my friends are. They are not people who have never heard of Christianity, who have never heard of the salvation explanation. or seeing the bridge. These are people, they think they know what Christianity is, and they've decided they don't want it. They don't want to be like the Christians they know. They don't want to um follow the kinds of leaders that they've seen. And so they're on this other end. They're post-Christian. And they've said I think I know what it is and I don't want any of them over here. And the journey for them is not to get that one piece of information and help them get that one thing click. It's really you have to realize they have to go in reverse, basically, and come back around Christianity and get on the front again. to the place where they're open to understanding it. I have one girl at my Starbucks who she's actually since transferred to another one, but after numerous conversations, I just finally asked her, I said, what's your opinion on the whole God thing? And she said, Do you want to know my true opinion? I said, Yeah, well I want to know your true opinion. She said, I want to know where was God when I was being raised when I was fourteen. I mean that's that's a tough question, one that doesn't have an easy answer. And you know, she wouldn't have said, I'm a post-Christian person who has a breach in trust and therefore I'm not interested in Christianity. Obviously these are classifications I'm kind of creating. But it really she really has a broken trust thing in her case is with God more than with Christians. That's in her way and it makes her skeptical of a religion that believes in this good God. looking out for our best and so I really feel like it pushes her to be almost more post Christian where, you know, she needs friendship and time and kind of new ways of thinking to become open again to the idea of who who Jesus is. The the only way they're gonna be reached is when You know, average John or average Sally who works in the business world or works as a teacher says, I'm gonna take the call of evangelism seriously on my life and I'm going to reach these two or three people in my setting that God has given me. When Krishna will take that that commissioned seriously, develop authentic friendships and dig in for the process over time that as time elapses more these people almost go reverse from post-Christian to pre-Christian. They become interested again, they get connected to a Christian community, and eventually they start getting some of these questions. You get that? They think they know what Christianity is, and they've decided they don't want it. They don't want to be like us And what you have to do is be a person that they see, they begin to trust As you begin to get into their lives, you begin to share what Christ is really about. We live in a society which is So dismissive of Christianity that uh in a week or two ago, Bill Mayer from HBO's Real Time with Bill Mayer said this about Christianity on television. We are a nation that is unenlightened because of religion. I think the religion stops people from thinking. I think it justifies crazies. I think that flying planes into a building was a faith-based initiative I think religion is a neurological disorder. If you look at it logically, it's something that was drilled into your head when you were a small child When you look at belief in such things as do you go to heaven, is there a devil? We have more in common with Muslim countries like Turkey, Iran, and Syria than we do with European nations and Canada and nations that, yes, I would consider more enlightened than us. He agreed with Jesse Ventura that religion is a crutch for weak-minded people and said that the Bible is a book of fairy tales. Now, not everybody is that set against Christianity, but we live in the midst of people who have dismissed it. And they'll never come and listen to me. But God has placed you in their lives. God has placed you in their lives so that sometime when they're going through something tough, you can say something as simple as after they have seen you. with them and you've established some credibility to say something like Would you like me to pray for you about that And most people will say, sure, I appreciate that. And tell them that you're praying for them. And then come to the next hurdle. Talking to somebody after the first service, I've done the first thing, but he's I've never done the second. And the second is to say, would you like me to pray for you right now? Now my experience has been I can only think of one time when a secular person said, actually I'd rather not right now. Almost always a person will say, yeah, I'd appreciate that. And you just pray for them, just naturally, as a Christian, God begins to break down the walls. And you see where that take where God takes that It's being available to the Holy Spirit. The same message as the book of Acts, the same Holy Spirit, the same opposition, intimidation, compromise But it's being willing to be a Christian in the place where you work among your friends that have no regard for them. And this is not just for adults. It's uh for you kids in the back, for teenagers. You know, Samuel was just a little kid when he said, Lord, here am I. What are you saying? David was a teenager when he slew Goliath. Are you willing to be known as a Christian among your friends? Are you willing among people who would never want to go to church To simply say, this is how I live, as somebody that loves Jesus, and be willing to talk about it. And so you see, the final questions are, we all have to deal with the same issues as the book of Acts. What is it that intimidates you so that you don't want to open your mouth? Come. Come before the Holy Spirit. Say, Holy Spirit, you know me. I'm weak. I'm cowardly. I'm afraid of what people think. Fill me with your spirit. Fill me with your spirit so that I'd be willing. Willing to say something about Jesus In the light of eternity, who cares what they think? I just read just this week about a girl who in high school This one girl was kind of confused. She had heard some things about the gospel but didn't really understand. And this other girl said, Are you a Christian? A believer said, Are you a Christian? She said, uh, yeah, I guess so. And she gave her this little tract and said, Well, here, take a look at this, and went off to class. Never said a thing more about it And that night that girl said, I read that tract over and over, and I gave my life to Jesus Christ. And she married Altra Karico and is now a missionary in Uganda. Who knows what God would use? Some simple thing. What is the area of compromise in your life? The area where the evil one wants to get you to compromise so that you feel like I don't have anything to say. I don't have good news to share. Come and confess that before the Holy Spirit. And ask the Spirit to come and to fill you, to take that from your life and to make you available. To give you a new heart that is willing to follow him and obey him and to care for people. See what he do. Because you know the weaker the vessel, the harder the circumstances, the more he's glorified when he works. Right? So he works through me and he works through you. He gets more glory than somebody that has natural talents and gifts and abilities And as you think about praying for missionaries, realize they have the same exact struggles. Pray for them to not be intimidated. Pray that they won't compromise. Pray that the gospel would go forth with boldness. Because the Holy Spirit has filled them. And then as you examine that and you think about being available to the Lord, you may come to a place where you say, Lord, I'm wondering now I'm getting kind of scared about uh, you know, this mission trip and getting involved in Sandtown and where are you going to take this, Lord? Where's it gonna lead to? Confess those fears to them We'll come back again and say, Holy Spirit, make me simply available. If you're not part of those projects, you know, it's too late, can't go to Japan Can't go to Sand Town this time around. You're gonna have to find your own mission field. But you know what? Tomorrow morning you're gonna be in it. And there's no greater thrill than to see somebody come to Jesus. There's a couple I've been meeting with for about a year. And I give them a little sheet, a declaration sheet to fill out things that they believed about Christianity and recently I sat down with them and I showed them that sheet again. I said, Remember what she said a year ago Has anything changed in that year? And they looked at the sheet and they said, well, oh yeah. And they said, well, what's changed? They said, well, we've become Christians. And how do we grow? We're so concerned about what people think about us, the impression that we make. We don't want to look foolish. We're afraid that People ask something, we don't know how to answer it. You think of this guy in Starbucks and how people looked at him and put him in a category and I've had that too. You call me the The father over at uh Lake Centennial when I run around with folks there. The Lord uh You are looking for people who are willing because they're filled with the Spirit, because your spirits come upon them. They're available to you. To be witnesses, whether it's here in Columbia, or whether it's in Baltimore and Sandtown or whether it is in Japan or whether Is among any nation in the earth. Lord, we simply want to be available. It's not a matter of where and how, it's simply our hearts Coming before you to be filled with your Spirit, we ask you to do that so that you would be glorified through weak, timid people like us. To see, declare Jesus to a culture that believes that it knows Christianity and it's dismissed it, and needs to see genuine Christians incarnate the gospel. Lord, do that through us, we pray. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Yeah.