Chapter God's Word, Cellophone, Chapter Eight , Verses Eight and First East. We have a young sister in a dress who might yet read. What can we do for our sister for the day that she is spoken for? If she is a wall, we will build pennels of silver on her. If she was a door, we will enclose her with panels of cedar. I am a wall, and my breasts are my towers. Thus I have become in his eyes like one dream from Tensor. Solomon had a view in Belham. And my own venue is a penetrated. We put the dream for a sleep on the chuckle for still. But my own dream is mine to give The thousand shekels are for you, O Solomon, and two others are for those who tend to free. You who dwell in the garden with things and attending brothers, maybe wear your voice. Come away, my lover. And be like a good guy, or like a young stag on the spice lazy mountain. And for each, it's all a fall. And so we come today to the last message in the period on the Song of Song. uh been sort of uh enjoying exploring some things out of this book. And I'm glad that God's been delighting it and seeking it some discretous part of his word is often ignored and overlooked Either some embarrassment or simply lack of understanding. Something about a little girl and wall and be What's the connection between these images? And what do they mean? Well in order to get a handle on that, we have to go back and review the overview of the book. Remember that the book started, chapter 1, verse 1, through chapter 3, verse 5, with the courtship of this man and the woman, speaking of the ripening of their love. Then chapters 3 verse 5 to chapter 5 verse 1 spoke of their wedding and wedding night, the consummation of their life. The third thing was the beginning of chapter 5, verse 2, and going through chapter 7, verse 10, we spoke of their marriage love. We spoke of the cooling of it and the rekindling of it. And then chapter 7, verse 11, brings to the end of the book as a reflection of all. They will have three phases of their life together. They're courted, their wedding and honeymoon, and then their married life. But from chapter 711 to the end, you see us a kind of a reflection on the nature, the essence of their life. And that began in chapter 7-11 up to 8. 7 with three facets of love. And particularly we saw in chapter 8, 5-7, three tests of love. The foundation of married love to succeed in adopting. Now, this, by saying, was the last question of the book And that is, how do you become the kind of person who will have that kind of marriage How do you become the kind of person who will enjoy this kind of a relationship with another person that God called you to marry? And so the point of this last section, you see, is that just telling us that it's not so much a matter of finding the right person as it is in seating the right person. It's less you see it's a matter less a matter of You're finding that person who's going to be the perfect natural. And with you sending all those few wild strings of love just waiting to be released, if you're learning to be a loving person And that's communicated here through these images, which are another way of recurring what Paul says in Galatians chapter 6, in verses 7 to 9, but whatever he says, you will also read. But you so we put that son by means of a flashback to your trousers. The two lovers now And reflecting that. And then just keep beginning, keep reflecting on what kind of a home he came from. And so you see in verses eight and nine the concentration on the stones, and then on verses ten to fourteen, the concentration on the beacon Let's take a look at that now as we follow to your outline. First of all, that is what you saw. This part adjusts particularly to parents Because it's particularly appropriate for us to look at it on Mother's Day. It's nice, isn't it, if the things just happen to end on Mother's Day so that we could put together In one grand finale of all that we've seen here happening, bringing back to the parents. Now what God is doing in his plan for producing married love And see how we as parents fit into that. You may say, well, I don't think anything about parents there. But nurse is in the line is spoken by her brothers For secondary brothers, because we've seen in chapter 1, verse 6, chapter 3, verse 4, chapter 3, verse 2, that a father's death doesn't say that It's quite clear that her mother, it's her mother's house, it's her brothers who uh were in charge of her in chapter one, verse six and all the rest of this. So her father clearly isn't on the feed. So her father must have died The least is not around. And so her mothers now are in a parental role. Therefore, what we need in verses eight and nine is her case. You see, interestingly enough, God does not simply say that this is prepared, just for those who are on authority over the child. And so he can generalize it for adoption. So whether it's taken care of in some capacity, foster care, or anything else, this is talking about those who are an authority of her task. In her case, the brothers Over brothers. And we see three lessons to be learned when verses eating mind. First of all, plan ahead. We had a young sister in a dress of my head's room. What are we going to do for our sisters? For the days when she's spoken for. And we're looking ahead, it's a matter of years to say, what about that time when she will come to the age of eligibility for marriage? How are you going to prepare for that? You're not to be simply reacting to the immediate situation. Yeah, you thought there's no way you hope it's like you sort of move along and let the release get flowing through the window, you lob them back out the window, you know. I know people who sort of live that way, you know. And you're always just reacting to the current crisis, trying to coach. But God 's teaching is here through this that we, as those who are in charge of our children, need to plan ahead anticipate what's coming down the road. And then to to uh to anticipate is to plan appropriately for that time. So they're saying this something you can get married How can we make her a good wife? What can we do that will build into her character godly qualities that will make her the kind of wife that God wants her to be? And of course in that culture, uh, marriage was much more expected than it was in this culture. But in general, it's simply saying, how are we going to make them be a godly woman? Well, the second lesson that you see in this is the plan right system. Not only plan ahead, but plan right system. You see what they say in verse 9 There's two options here. 50 the wall, we will build cows of silver on it. 50 the door, we will enclose you with cows of cedars. What does that say? Or there is something to keep things out, to keep investing out, just a protection. And some of what they're saying is that uh The fellows weren't any different back in those days than what they are today. And a girl had to constantly be realistic about the fact that there'll be a lot of side to be selfish and self-centered in their relationship with her. They'd want to take advantage of her. They want to around her, so they'd want to play with her body, they'd want to play along to get sex, and if she needed to be a wall, it would be protected from that. She needed to be a wall with the parents who say no He needs to be a wall to keep out that invasion. And so they said, if he is a wall, then we're going to build powers of fingers. We're going to see the more unifiable character. Don't exactly add a soul lot , the fact that it's silver to be a strength of the wall. So it adds beauty And so they're saying, what 's the biggest commitment to integrity of theirs? Then they want to beautify that by helping to be a kinder, more thoughtful, more possible person. But if she's a bird. And what's the difference between a wall and a bird? But a bird is doing it now. A bird lets you in anyone who wants to come in, the bird can be flung open, can be shut at wind. Yes, in fact, she does not resist the advances of these self. If she's someone who can be taken advantage of and is foolish and naive in the relationship with God Well they say well that's close. You know, your life, your body, that'll do it. That's not what they say at all. What do they say? We're gonna build life of cedars About her scriptures, we are not going to let her do that to herself before she is able to take responsibility. We will not allow that to happen. That's very different for a lot of people say to that. But very much I think in keeping with what Proverbs 4. 11 speaks to itself. In Proverbs 4. 11, we read, I guide you. This is the word of the Father now to his child. I guide you in the way of wisdom and lead you in all straight paths. Hebrews even stronger than that. The Hebrew of that verse says, I cause you to walk in ways of wisdom. This is only a few verses later with a free for the children to hang on to it, to hold it, to choose it themselves. But the parent here is saying, I'm not just going to let you choose from the beginning. I'm going to cause you to walk in the way of duty But in open things, you get to choose whether you want to hang on to it or whether you want to reject it. You're right. But as long as you are under my responsibility, I will cause you to walk in the way of wisdom. A very interesting because it's very practical advice for us today and mother said. God is saying through this, but not only do they plan ahead, they determined godly characters to look for us. And so there are those who have a couple of options, but their determination is that as long as he's under their responsibility, she will walk with improvements. But then that's the third lesson we need to learn also. And that is that they plan flexibly. They plan flexibly. Verse 9. Let's see the world. Will be this. If she's adored, will be that. Every child is different. And so you can't assume she's going to be adored. And then we 're not still. And so we're just gonna have to express them with our holding, you know, we're not gonna let it be listed, I realize it Well, can I even appease it's gonna be a wall? Well that all we're Christians, we pray together, we do all this and stuff. Where it should be a wall. What would you treat her like that? But they use the sameness. They realize that some kids are more likely to be subject to peer crashes than others. And if you do that, two kids, same family. One of them can resist peer crashes, the other one follows right along with the crash. These who have had the same kinds of influence, but they can't predeterminate. And so the real question here in Rose Line is the question of responsibility This thing can she handle responsibility. If she's a law and can handle responsibility, we'll give her responsibility and we'll be unifying, we'll advance it If on the other hand, she's adore and she can't handle the responsibility, we'll restrict it, and we won't give it But we'll treat her like an individual who helped predetermined what she's going to mind. I heard a very sad example of that just this week. One I was talking to has two sons The one son was a fellow who was able to handle responsibility very well. He grew up as a hard-working fellow. He made the best of everything that he had and did the best that he could as a fun. My younger brother, the younger brother had a lot more going for him. A lot more natural ability, physically, mentally, personality, everything. Just had a lot more going for him. The younger brother, they didn't expose Okay, the older fellow can handle responsibility, so then that's the other fellow handling with the same life. Did you see the main difference? Younger fellows couldn't handle it. Last week, the younger fellow was over at his friend's house. He called up an hour late. He said my friends were at my friend's house. His father says, No , he could have been home an hour ago. He said, Well I'm not coming home So you better come home and let it take some of the police out to get the car. Because they're going to find the car and a free thing. Two minutes later, they put down the phone and he's staying in the city with his wife Heard an ancient roar outside. He just took his mother's car, ran it right through the house. Go right through the den. Where his mother used to. Go through the den, back out. Came down the driveway once again, hit the other car and drove to 33 30 feet in the house. Got out of the car, two cars down there, over $20,000 damage What if he used to his father and said, here Dad, you brought this on yourself? He 's down in jail. The father said after that happened, I didn't know If you get hurt like I felt last week. I didn't know if you could feel like I felt. Before the world. But every person. It's very true, it's the same. Some good for wall, another forward. We need to plan ahead and we need to determine the under God in our own weakness to finish by his grace. Treat our kids, right? But then we treat them according to how we see them responding to the discipline of the given. We're depressing our kids to be adults. And what we've done , we read. And what happened in this case? Before that verse 10. Verse 10 is a matter of years now, summer. She's looking back on this and she's telling her husband. When she tells her, she looks back on that experience. And then we don't have to guess what the results are. Because in those things, I was going to go. That is beautiful. I love that verse. Now here it is. He's building up on this thing and both sides. Now what's going to happen? We can look back. And she says, I was a wall. And she said it wasn't because anybody didn't want nobody wanted to either. There was a lot of temptation, but I was a wall. And so what is the result of her being a wall? Even though she was an attractive, lovely young woman Three things. And those are the three things, the three fruits of the harvest with which this book ends. The first is that she says, I become in his eyes like one that is in him The first fruit of this soul of righteousness is peace. Peace. Literally the Hebrew says I find a defended one who finds peace in his eyes Well the point, of course, here because verse 11 to go by the same Solomon is talking about, and Solomon means peace. Because he's saying, I found peace in the eyes of the man of peace It 's the the same secret race is used to find race in the eyes of someone or to find race in the eyes of the Lord. And she changes it to peace. But then she said, I am a woman who will found peace in the eyes of my husband. I find peace in his eyes. He finds peace in me. The word which means to find also to me to bring. And so that idea of translated is I bring contentment. I am one bringing contentment into the marriage. We can see there a very deep truth But what we were, as we grew up, we lived into America. And if we come from a life of turmoil in disobedience to God's command We win that turmoil and the fruit of it into the marriage. But if we have grown as one who is determined to follow Jesus Christ It was dependent on him and he would follow the praise beginning to our marriage peace. Because I am one now who can bring to this man contentment. I bring peace into the relationship. Because of what I've stolen and because of where I was raised as one in the southern community. Because I was raised with a kind of opportunity to be a diponically place to great further place. I was one. through the wall until I bring into my marriage relationship in entrance. May God grandson in the marriages will besues in the years of hence. How was it disciple to you in our major out of three and four and seven and ten years. Second thing , we feel this, the second fruit of the harvest is gratitude. Gratitude. You see that in verses eleven and twelve. Solomon had a billionity in Bell Queen. Now that probably was her family. Now the circumstances seem to be that you read Ecclesiastes 243, the following owned a number of dinghies. He really liked vineyards. I don't know, but he really had a sense of windows. But they had quite those things, and they were the ones we had within their hands. And that possibly is how we met this one with seen out. Because you remember the people as people of the days in chapter one. And so what is likely the case is that her brothers were tenants of the days And uh Solvett came up to David Lee as one of those that uh he owned as well as a number of others, and that's how he met Cuban And so he's saying, uh, you remember Solomon to deal with uh the war views. Uh you let the added danger to tenant, and you swear to grains for extreme the thousand shekels of silver. That's kind of a tax, that was the payment. In that kind of a culture, uh for the one who owns the windows and they would get to keep the rest of it. About 25 pounds of things, first of all, it's pretty hefty price But he says uh this is the way things operate in the uh in the field of uh winners and of uh tenant farming But Nathan uses that as an example to make a point. Verse 12 he says, What my own vision is mine to give. And look to angel. Again, chapter 1, verse 6, very clear. It's very nice. That's courage to give. Nobody can control that. Because he says, now I'm ever given my body, and that is mine to give it, my life. A five seconds of prehimited for Solomon. I give to you all of my thoughts and that dream. I give to you the proceeds with my life and of my body. You say all to you, follow me, you see the thousand septicals in which he owns it Because you say, I belong to you, my lover is mine, and I am his. You only as in that mutual possession is beautiful displayed in you. Don't notice what else we said. Yeah. 200 are the those to 103. What does that mean? First of 103 are those who are in charge of developing things But I believe that what she's saying here is our underground to those that raised me. Those that ended the proof of my demon. Bilphes determined when I was a little girl that I was going to do well. Biles just prayed and he operated in the discipline and the loving fear of my life, he said this woman's going to grow to the woman of integrity And he said, even though my whole life is good, they will only see that space in my heart for my parents. Because they determine that I would become the kind of woman who could bring peace into my teachers. We had a beautiful thing, Lord to see a mother's thing. The God is given to us but farmers. Even when there's discipline and there's the screaming and the I hate you and boy, you're not my friend, and I'm not going to speak to you anymore. And all this kind of thing is really Yeah, I haven't yet heard a kid say, boy, that is great. Boy, I really enjoyed that discipline now. I'm really looking forward to the entire it's going to build in me. So they're going to come to that time when they will thank you. So that happened to me just weekly after I disappoint Julie. She came back confused. I couldn't believe it. She came back, put her arms around me, and she stopped ten minutes later. And she said thank you back. Because I needed that. Because I know the best to have a guy who explained to me what I did wrong and will stay with me when I eat it. That's all right. But I really appreciated her materials. And you will see that. But because of the words for you too, it may be that today would be an appropriate time for you to mention your mom , your dad. But along with me have you noticed that the fact that I don't think that you take your time to disappoint. Best from the times that I don't enjoy Because that's tending the food of my life. It's going to produce in me happiness. It's going to make me to be someone who will grow up. To love Jesus and alone what a Jesus can produce. Thanks a lot, Ma. We could pay him or put that down a little grab a paper a little card or something, but I probably mean an awful lot to your both. Because it's a lot easier to not discipline than it is to try to discipline caringly and consistently and lovingly. You don't believe that, where do you grow up There is that gratitude. And then finally the last one. We could use the love growing ever deeper. The love growing ever deeper. And we see that in verse 13 and 14. In verse 13 is now speaking. And he says, You who dwell in the gardens with thankful attendance, let me hear your voice. So beautiful, this is the good of friends So having a kind of social time, and he says, Come on. I just want to hear your voice. I want to have some time with you. And she says, uh, don't bother me now, I'm having a good time, you know, uh. Virtual scene was the immediate response. Come away, my lover, and be united to thou like a lone sad on the space lady night. I remember once meetings in a book by Charlie Sherry March on Marriage He said after something like 26 years of marriage to his wife, he said my heart fills faster when I drive home from being away in the anticipation of hearing my wife's book I've had a manchaper had one time before a house in an evening house. My office if you recall had no windows or uh any way to see the light of day or know what was going on outside of the floor walls every time on Sunday or any other time But I would hear Kathy coming into the meeting house. No matter how many voices were outside of it, I could always pick out her voice. And I always thought, you know, something happened a little smaller and just hearing a voice. Now I know it's Kathy out there. And so there is that growing through the years of the preciousness becoming true to that person to the same mom To be with that person. You see, if it's lost in infatuation, just like a burst of a flame, it will soon burn out. But when it's love , Agatha, it's a growing lady, it gradually gets warmer and hotter and real thing. Before this is the last picture that we have of this. And I've pictures who knows how long at this point they 've been married. But there continues to be that growing deepening love. Growing ever deeper, the longing, to be with each other, and not too many people. But still, even after all those years saying, I just want to get away and be with you so little. Wondering the road once we love It's like a long conversation, it's always too short. The faith for the Christian and his Lord. You 're asked for the Lord Jesus. You say three truths. But the amazing thing is what we say and get what we eat. For a Christian God reaches peace from the Lord's reason. What is he unlike this bride who grew up as a wall, holding herself for that man, keeping herself faithful to him You and I have not kept ourselves faithful to the Lord's people. We've gone after a false God. We've gone in a spiritual adulteress to Philippi with every God that met our fancy to our lives. And we've surrounded ourselves with those things that have moved us away from the garden of east. That Lord Jesus, who has worded and followed, not the man of peace, but the fruit of peace. He who wants to look upon us and he saw us in our somewhat and dreams of pain Became a man , lostly, was faithful to the covenant of the south, and so was eligible to lay down his life. So that you and I could receive the reconciliation with the Father and stand before Him not as judge to condemn us But his father to forgive us. And so through Jesus Christ, you and I had peace. He didn't deserve it. For he has in Christ. But if you've never come to Jesus Christ or that seat by inviting this thing, this motherfucker We can come to Jesus Christ and receive the peace, free loss from him, based on the sacrifice of his own blood. And so we receive peace and can take it. Peace with God and peace in our own hearts He comes from his work in our life. It is also gratitude. The gratitude is realized that I have done nothing. To receive, to deserve this peace, it comes through Jesus Christ. Has been a my faithful life. And though he's given to me this peace, this contentment in my life And so my life, my given, is unceasingly offered as a living sacrifice to him. And I give for him my life, the whole thing. Lord says, you have all of me That could preface myself to me. But with that Lord , is always that place for my heart, the ways of memory to Jesus Christ. There's always that place in my heart for those who disciple me to grow up to be one moved with mature in Jesus Christ. And that's good This could be no matter where God takes us and how he needs us, trying to feel that special place in our hearts For those that have brought us to Christ and those who have tended the fruit of our lives. To be grateful to God and to express to them the gratitude for how God is used And then finally, it is that mourning of love for him. The mourning of love to see his face. Lord Jesus, come quickly. Come away. Come take me with you so that I might see this in place and behold you as you are. Come away, my mother. Come away to be my goal away. And be away from this world into a place where I can be holding unclean, which signifies to see as you really are, and to realize that no marriage No matter how great is this congregation or any congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, is still full of father on Jews. Who among us would want to say, my marriage is impressive? My marriage has never had a day of sorrow. We've never had a rustle through the kinds of things we talked about last week or other weeks for things Our marriage has been exhibited, and we love each other with a perfect love and we reflect that love of Christ and his church in a way that enables me to see without any diminishment exactly how Jesus and his church is supposed to be. But I married with a soulmaker, so full of hurt and sorrow, and so little things for that long. And longing the godless fulfill the truth. And so don't say a little few things if you can't secure it. If you're looking at this, you feel like you're really looking up. Oh yes, this is a picture of marriage and isn't it wonderful? Wouldn't that be great? It wasn't what it was to be married, well I'm really having second best in life. Well this is to dispel any such nation. Any marriage. This life is so important. And if so believes the true message is yes of Christ, who is still only in the each of the Lord Jesus We will have that love consummated at any day, at any moment, when we'll come to the seed of fruit, and so alongingly will come away, my loving. Whether I'm single or whether I'm married, my cry is to the Lord Jesus, come. Come and see me. Come to show me what that real marriage is like The real old architect, of which everything else is only the dimmest kind of reflection, because Mary isn't the only thing. The relationship with Jesus You see over yourself. Before our heart's long for us. And we express that on you. Every day, when we get up a half hour early, When we rearrange our schedule to meet with the Lord Jesus alone. When we set aside that time to say, Lord, I need to come away with you today before I do anything else. We're expressing the love of this song. This is saying that three times in this song, she has expressed the wimp, come away, come away, take me away. One time in chapter two, he expressed to her, come away, my beloved. Let's go away together. And you see that picture of the mutual desire of Jesus and us to meet together. The useful desire that we satisfy at that time alone with me Not simply to pack our minds with more Bible verses, to get more information, to get another list of applications, but ultimately to really quiet time is to lead them with our minds. It's the cry of the heart. Come away, my mother. I want to meet with you. I want to get away from these friends and attendance, from the pressures, from the turmoil. I want to meet with you. And I want to have that precious time to express my love to you, to hear you express your love to me, and to deepen our relationship in the longing of God. And so you see As it's on the uh bulletin, so you see it. What is saying? Clear where this is headed. You see the connection of his love for you And of whom I've returned. And your supernatural, therefore, must, for your husband and your wife. They will understand why John says to everyone who must in a gospel has been born of God and made God. That's what the song of song is all about. Our word our done. Become To express that longing of our hearts. Lord Jesus, we did not come bringing peace into the relationship. If you love Jesus, Have I to have that peace? He has given it to us as a free gift And so we give to you our hearts of gratitude. We offer ourselves up to you. And we say, Lord, our good design. To give to whoever we choose. We choose to give ourselves to you. And we cry in the long and above us, come away. Come, Lord Jesus. Comment take us to be with you. Until that day, Lord, show us more of your love. We might understand that love. That we might not look at the quiet sign, of the beauty, because we talk about it so much around here that you uh forbid Lord the beauty become inoculated Against that and if we have simply decided that we can't make that time, we can't set that time, and it doesn't accomplish anything anyway, but it feels refreshest at this moment. What is the desire? The desire of the heart of the beloved to come away with the lover. We might see a view green of God. We will see We might go about our lives full of grace and truth to reflect that love to a world we so desperately need. In particular, For those who are closed. See in the name of Jesus.