Good morning. We've been going through a series of sermons. This is the second of four. We're looking at the issue of community. Last week we looked at the fact that we are created into community, created in the image of God. as community. Today we're going to look at what kind of community are we called to be a part of? And we're looking at if Ecclesiastes four, nine, and particularly verse ten. Tim's read that. And I'm going to say something some of you might never expect me to say. The form of community is not critical. I don't care whether it's a cell, I don't care whether it's a Bible study, an accountability group, a support group, a recovery group. Scripture doesn't say what form your community should take But what we're going to look at today is scripture that tells us three qualities that are essential for intentional, gospel-focused community. And that's what we're called to. We're called to intentional gospel-focused community. It's not that you just happen to be sitting next to the person you're sitting next to in worship today, or that you just happen to be driving in a car with somebody, or that you just happen to be having a conversation with somebody. It's not accidental. It's intentional. And it's not free of concern for content, it's gospel focused. What we're called to is remind one another who we are. To remind one another what we have in Christ And to deal with each other in three qualities. What I believe this passage talks about is three essential qualities. It's not talking about form, it's talking about essential qualities of gospel community. And those three qualities are mutual knowledge. Mutual knowledge. Mutual engagement and mutual respect. Mutual knowledge. In Ecclesiastes 4. 10, it says that if one falls down, his friend can help him up. You have to know others to know if they fallen We typically in America, when we get together in a group setting, like many of you today, have probably greeted one another and said, Hi, how are you? Okay? But there's more to the message than the words. There's more to the message than the fact that you said, How are you? Did you say that? And stop Did you listen? Did you make eye contact? Were you engaged in understanding where the person you were speaking with was as they came to worship today. We can be in communities and we can go through all the formalities and we can ask the right questions with absolute confidence that we won't get an answer Or that the answer we'll get is, I'm fine. I was checking on on what people say about that phrase on the blogs, because somebody recently told me that's probably the number one lie people tell in relationships. I'm fine. And there are certain certainly a number of blogs that would list that as the number one lie. I can't validate that. I don't have any statistical evidence. But I know that it's probably one of the most common lies I tell We have to know one another. There's mutual engagement. Not only do I need to know where you are if I'm in a relationship with you, I need to act on that knowledge. A while back there was a hiker in Utah. He was out on his own. He had gone for a day hike, and while climbing a rock face, he scrambled across an 800-pound rock that shifted. And it shifted in such a way that it pinned his hand to the cliff face. And he was alone. He was alone. And he stayed for three days consuming two burritos and some chocolate off of wrappers of candy, all the water he brought with him, and he finally came to a conclusion nobody was coming. He was alone. And in his being alone, he came to a conclusion that he would do what he needed to to survive, or he'd die. And so he amputated his hand by himself, repelled down sixty foot of rock face, walked miles, and finally found somebody who could get him medical attention. That's a tragedy. It's a really sad story in many ways. But what this passage envisions As a woe, as a denial of our identity, is that let's say you were on top of that rock face. And you're having a conversation with him. And you know that he's down there, but he doesn't tell you that he's trapped. Or he tells you that he's trapped, and you don't do anything to save him. And so after three days, he does all that he does to escape. But because you have done nothing to help. We talked last week about the phrase, it is not good that a man should be alone. And I try to make the point that that is such a cosmic understatement of reality. That 's incompar it's comparable to this Pity the man who does not have another who will lift him up. I mean, what it says here in Ecclesiastes is pity the man who falls and has no one to help him up. That is such an understatement because we're created into community in the image of God and community is such an essential aspect of the identity of the triune God in whose image we're created. That when Jesus faces that separation from the Father and the Spirit, it is the greatest tragedy in the history of the universe. We tend to think that it would be good if we would engage in the lives of people who are struggling. It would be good if we could give compassionate engagement. Brothers and sisters, Scripture says it is tragic not to. It is tragic for you to suffer in isolation. You're created for community. You're created for engagement. For you to live alone is a lie For you to believe that your suffering, your difficulties, or your strengths and your abilities don't matter to the people around you is a cosmic tragedy. Because it assaults the identity of Christ, in whose image you were made. Paul talks about this in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, 13, chapter, 13, verse 1. He says, if I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding gong , reclining symbol. In Ephesians chapter four, he continues to talk about our identity and our calling And he says in chapter four, verse fifteen. Instead of speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head that is Christ. Speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up to the head that is Christ. Our identity Our very nature is to be created in the image of Christ. To grow in that image, we must speak the truth in love. So what we're called to is loving, courageous honesty. Loving, courageous honesty. That's the gospel focus of our community. We're called to speak the truth to one another. We're also called the humble approachability. In James chapter five, we read Therefore, confess your sins to each other. And pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. We're called to humble approachability as well as loving, courageous, honesty. The community we experience Mutual knowledge and mutual engagement. That engagement is loving and honest and courageous. It is also humble and approachable We're called to engage with one another and be honest. We're called to know one another and care. I want to point you to three different stories that the gospel authors tell of Jesus. I'm not going to look at all three today because it would take too much time, but but I am going to focus on one. The three stories are familiar to you. The first story is a story of Simon the Pharisee who invites Jesus into his home. The second story is the story of the rich young ruler who comes and says to Jesus, What must I do to be saved? And Jesus answers. And and the man in hearing Jesus says, Well, I've done all these things, and Jesus says, No, you haven't. You have a blind spot. What you must do in addition is go and sell all you have and give it to the poor and follow me. And the man was crushed. I encourage you to look at that story to see how Jesus related to that rich young ruler. The third is that of the teacher of the law. We know the story is the story of the Good Samaritan. But the teacher of the law comes to Jesus and says, What must we do to be saved? And Jesus answers again, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And love your neighbor as yourself. And this man thinks, Well, that's okay. So who's my neighbor? Jesus zeroes in on his blind spot. Jesus zeroes in on that place where he must be lifted up and says, let me tell you a story. There was a man. And he recounts the story of the Good Samaritan, the man who was a neighbor. But what I want to look at in some depth this morning is the story of Simon and Jesus and the woman If you have a Bible, look at Luke chapter seven. You're familiar with the story? Jesus is invited into Simon the Pharisee's home. Jesus went into the home. And it says, when a woman who had lived a sinful life in that town learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisees' house She brought an alabaster jar of perfume, and as she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. She wiped them with her hair, kissed them, and poured perfume on them. What I want to point you to in this story is how Jesus responds to Simon. Because if you look at this passage, Simon thinks, condemnation of Jesus. Simon, it says, thought to himself, or said to himself, if this man were a prophet He would know what kind of woman this is that stands by and touches him. That she's a sinner and he should throw her out But Jesus isn't dealing at this point with the woman. Jesus is dealing with Simon. Jesus is lovingly, courageously honest with him. And he says to Simon, Simon, may I ask you a question? Simon hasn't said anything to Jesus at this point. There's no way that Simon knows Jesus understands what he's been thinking. He says, Sure, ask, teacher. Two men owe a man money. One 500 denarii, the other fifty. Neither can pay. Neither can pay. The man forgives them both. Who will love him more? And Simon says, well, the one who was forgiven more. Jesus says, you said well. Listen to what Jesus says to Simon. You have judged correctly, Jesus said. Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I came into your house, you did not give me water for my feet. But she wept my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You did not give me a kiss. But this woman from the time I entered has not stopped kissing my feet. You did not put oil on my head. But she has poured perfume on my feet. Therefore I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven, for she loved much, but he who has been forgiven little loves little. What Jesus says to Simon is this. You don't think you need a savior. You think you measure up. As a matter of fact, you think you measure better than I do. You don't even believe I'm a prophet. Simon, God has come into your home. God has come into your home. I know your thoughts. Before you speak them. I know your heart. You have not loved me You need to. You don't see your sinful heart. As a matter of fact, you believe the comparison is who's better, this prophet or me? I'm telling you that the woman whom you disdain The woman whom you disdain is forgiven, and you need forgiveness. Jesus is courageous He's loving. He doesn't condemn Simon. He's not putting Simon down. He's not rejecting Simon. He's speaking the truth to Simon in love. And pointing out Simon 's blind spot. Simon needs to know God. Simon needs to know himself, and Simon needs to repent, to receive the love of God, and to respond with that love. And Jesus so wondrously shows him. He does the same with the rich young ruler and with the teacher of the law. Jesus calls us to that kind of loving engagement He doesn't call us to lord it over brothers who fall. He doesn't call us to be experts. And that's why the third point. We talked about mutual knowledge. You've got to know each other. We talked about mutual engagement. You have to care. It's a tragedy to know someone has fallen and to abandon them where they live. But Jesus demonstrates that it's not only important to be engaged, but how we're engaged, mutual respect. Because you're not called to save one another Okay? Please understand this. When we care, we might think that picking up means that I fix you. You got a problem, I understand the problem, I've lived with a problem before, I have a solution. Have you ever tried? Yes, I've tried. If my problem were so small you could fix it, I would have already fixed it. Thank you very much. I don't need you to fix me. I need something radically different. Think of the story of Job. Job was a man of righteousness, of incredible righteousness, so righteous that God and Satan had a dialogue in heaven. God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? Satan says, Well, of course he loves you. Look at what you've done for him. How could he not love you? He's rich, he's healthy, he's wise, he's accepted, he's respected. Of course he loves you. God says. God says anything but his health and his life. So Job is devastated. Job is wiped out. His children are taken. His material possessions are taken His wife comes to him and says, Curse God and die. He says in place, Naked I came from the womb, naked I returned, blessed be the name of the Lord. His friends come. And for three days they do well. Look at Job chapter two. This is amazing. In chapter two, in verse ten It says in the beginning of Job's experience, in this Job did not sin in what he said. God's commentary on Job was that even in his sorrow he was righteous. And his friends begin, well, verse 13. Then they sat on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights. No one said a word to him because they saw how great his suffering was. Job's friends began wonderfully. I would love in my suffering to have friends who would come and experience my suffering with me in silence for seven days and seven nights, just to show they care. But there's a problem, there's a tension that Job's friends felt that we feel. For you see, when we pick another up We have to understand why and how we pick another up. I have a proclivity that I believe each and every one of you has, and that is I want to save you. I want to fix your circumstances because if you hurt and I care, I hurt. Follow this equation. You hurt I'm your friend. I see and know that you hurt. I'm your friend and I care about your hurt. And if I can't help your hurt to go away, I continue to hurt. Or I hurt differently by abandoning you. But for me to be your friend in pain means I'm not only in my own pain, but I'm in yours. And so there is this drive that we have that says, I need your pain to end for me. I need your pain to end so that I don't hurt That presses me to desire to fix you. And I'll minimize your suffering, and I'll give you platitudes, and I will try and change your circumstances so that I'm okay. Job's friends went there. Job's friends said, without speaking the words, God is good We know God is good. Therefore, when we're righteous, God gives us good Job got bad. Therefore, for God to be good and for me to have confidence in my security, I must believe that Job sinned. So that Job received suffering. And so for days, Job's friends met with Job to tell Job, What did you do wrong? And Job's reply, nothing. Nothing. So Job in his sorrow, Job in his illness, Job with his wounds, Job with his loss of family, and with his friends. Suffers for days as they continue to try to point to Job that he must have sinned. Because for them to believe that God is good And that God rewards the righteous, and that Job didn't receive a reward means that Job must have sinned. And they can't break out of that loop. They're continuing in that loop because for them to experience confidence in life and hope, Job had to sin. So their well-being became tied up with Job's confession of sin. Because they needed to know that if God is good and the righteous are blessed, and they want to be blessed, they must be righteous. Their hope. is in their performance. Their well-being is tied to this system. And so they press and they press and they press upon Job that he must have sinned But look at what God says in chapter forty two. God speaks with Job, God comes, reveals himself, God points out to Job that God is big. After the Lord had said these things to Job, he said to Eliaphaz the Temenite, I am angry with you and your two friends, because you have spoken what is not right As my servant Job has spoken what is right. Now take seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job. And sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you, and I will accept his prayers, and not deal with you according to your folly. You have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has. We want to take from the story of Job that God is good, that if we're righteous, God will bless us. Because we want to be in control. I want to be in control, and I think you probably do too. But the story of Job is much more glorious, much grander, much more amazing. Because the truth of the matter is, what the story of Job tells us is that Job was satisfied not with his circumstances changing. Job was satisfied with the sight of God. Your circumstances, good or bad, don't determine God's goodness Your circumstances, good or bad, don't determine God's goodness. And we, in mutual knowledge and mutual engagement, and mutual respect can do something much better than fix We can see Jesus. You're not okay Because you or we can fix your circumstances. You're not okay because you understand how to repent properly so that God will give you good. God already is giving you good. God has given you Himself. He's given you all How do we live in community? How in the world can we come to the point where we can engage with one another, sit silent seven days and seven nights love one another and survive. Y you may be thinking, some of you, I'm already drowning in my own circumstances. I'm already drowning in my own circumstances, and you're telling me that that that's not my focus. That's not my hope. I'm not okay because God is going to change this. I'm not okay because God is going to make this go away. Or God is going to replace it. God is going to take care of me. Doesn't make sense to me. If God doesn't show me by my circumstances that I'm okay, what hope do I have? You have heaven. And you have a God who loves you now, and a God who takes care of you even in those difficult circumstances. You have a God who has experienced everything you possibly can Every wound, every sorrow, every joy. What you need isn't better circumstances And some of you have very difficult circumstances. I don't want to minimize them at all. But your answer isn't change in circumstances. Your answer is to see Jesus, because he is with you in all of them The Jews were in the wilderness. A million plus people. They had no water. They could have said, take us back to an oasis. God didn't do that. He brought them water from a rock. God can do what you don't expect God will take you, love you, be with you, hold you, prepare you for heaven, and may not change the circumstances you demand he change. But he will love you. And what we need to see is more of Christ. How do I live in this community? How do I, in my circumstances, embrace another's circumstances? By seeing Jesus, by knowing what awaits, by believing that He is good enough and that He will love in a way beyond what I expect. God constantly shocks us with how he does what he does. He will do good. Look to Jesus. You're not alone. As you look to Jesus, he calls you to love one another. The new commandment I give to you, that you love one another even as I have loved you, by this all men will know you are my disciples if you love one another. You have a savior. It isn't you. It isn't your wife. It isn't your husband. It isn't your neighbor. It isn't your friend. It's Jesus. And Jesus wants you to see that He's your Savior. Your friend who's suffering or struggling or in a difficult place, who's fallen down, has a Savior, and his name is Jesus. What Jesus wants you to do isn't to fix, it isn't to run, it's to sit. See Jesus and show Jesus to those around you. What we're called to do in picking one another up, what we're called to do in living in community, is to see Jesus together. And if we see Jesus, we will know one another. We will engage with one another. And we will respect one another because we're not called to fix. We're called to love. We're called to love as Jesus loves. And that is glorious. Let's pray. Jesus, you were lifted up in a way radically different than we were. You were lifted up on the cross. You were lifted up subject to scorn, to ridicule, to rejection. And yet you, having been lifted up in such a painful way, lift us up, like you did, Simon Like you did the rich young ruler, like you did the teacher of the law, like you do us. Lord help us to see you, to see your loving, courageous honesty, to repent To be humbly approachable to brothers and sisters here in this body where you have placed us. To love well To be a light, sit on a hill, shining to people who live in darkness, and pointing them to you Lord, we desperately need your redemptive work in our lives. And we long to be able to give that glorious redemptive work to others. Make us community. In your most precious name we pray. Amen.