I don't know about you, but I'm really excited about the opportunity that we have have with the Lewis property, not only to provide for a much needed facility in order for us to better reach Columbia through Jesus Christ, but also because of the opportunity that it gives to us to grow in our faith. There are people who I think often know more than we do. And just gives us an opportunity to put our faith into action, to trust God, to do something beyond what we are able to do ourselves. It also gives us an opportunity to express our love for the Lord Jesus by sacrificial giving. But there's a danger in the Lord's property. The danger that instead of seeing the As something for God , we look at it as something for ourselves, then it becomes to us a matter of purchasing something rather than Did it be to us more like buying something than offering something? And so because next Sunday we're going to have our special week service at the Lord's Supper, where we will bring our sacrificial gifts to the Lord for that matter. I thought that because of the issues that each of us hopefully is praying about and considering , this is so important that uh I'm going to set aside James for a couple of weeks, sort of like that poster, you know, you see I hate it when people talk while I'm interrupting. So I'm going to interrupt myself for a couple of weeks uh to set aside games in order to deal with this session of this author. This week I'll be speaking on the giving. And then next week Dan Iverson is going to be speaking and he'll be bringing his last message before he flees town the uh to go for missionary training in the summer. So look out. for that message always beware when a guy uh speaks and then leaves town. But uh as I thought about this and became convinced that something needed to be said the week before we give so that we can have God's perspective about it. I began convinced about what the Lord wanted me to say, uh then I just needed to find a text to say it, you know, and we've been in that position. And we know that this is right, we know that this is biblical. Somewhere in the Bible must say that. And uh So I prayed about it and I searched around, I had some ideas of the flow of it, and uh lo and behold, in Deuteronomy twenty six, I have found a text that says better than what I wanted to bring to you, and so you can test me and see after We look at this passage, whether you think my points actually come from this and you see uh the points are there, so you sort of fill it in as you go along and uh that way you can have to listen to find out. And uh you did to you who was beyond the Make sure you fill those in and see if they really do come from this passage. From Deuteronomy chapter 26, then the first 11 verses. Let's give our attention to God's holy. word. When you have entered the land the Lord your God has given you as an inheritance, and have taken possession of it, And settlement, take some of the first fruits of all that you produce from the soil of the land the Lord your God is giving you They'll put them in a basket. When they go to the place, the Lord your God, they'll choose as a dwelling for his name, and say to the priest in office at the time, I declare today to the Lord your God. that I have come to the land the Lord swore to our forefathers to give us. The priest shall take the basket from your hand And set it down in front of the altar of the Lord your God. And then you shall declare before the Lord your God. My father was a wandering Arabian, and he went down into Egypt with a few people, and lived There, and became a great nation, powerful and numerous. But the Egyptians mistreated us and made us suffer, putting us to hard labor. Then we cried out to the Lord, the God of our fathers, and the Lord heard our voice and saw our misery, toil, and oppression. And so the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, with great terror and with miraculous signs and wonders. He brought us to this place and gave us. This land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And now I bring the first fruits of the soil that you, O Lord, have given me. Place the basket before the Lord your God, and bow down before him, and you and the Levites and the innovative shall rejoice in all the good things the Lord your God has given to you and your household. So a lot for us as we consider this portion of God's Word to Notice three covenantal principles. That is three principles in giving that are related to the covenant that the Lord has made with us through Jesus Christ. The first principle It's a matter of first truths. Covenantal priority of God. Covenantal priority of God. That's the first word. Priority. See the whole section. here is about for getting the first fruits. So notice there in verse 10, verse 2, after he's talked about when the Lord brought you into this land, then he says, take verse 2 some of the first fruits of all that you produced in the soil and you put them in a basket and you bring them to the priest. Then in verse 10, after you finish this confession of faith, you say, Now I bring the first fruits of the soil. That's what all this is about. It's bringing the first fruits, the offering, the first fruits of what I have. And you recall that in Messenger. We've gone into in the past, but the first is or that it's belong to the Lord. That's not something given by generosity, it's something given by sheer honesty. God has given you all that you have, all that belongeth to him, and so in recognition of that. Let me trust and in obedience I give back to him the first fruits, the first ten percent of all that I have gained Well, the offering that we're talking about next week is not a first truth offering. We're talking about an offering next week that's above and beyond that. It's something separate from that. It's a sacrificial offering beyond the first truths. So then why do I bring in this passage? Because there's a principle. The principle of our giving to the Lord is that we give him the best and the first, not the leftovers. And so you see that here, you give to the Lord the first fruits of the first. your offering. See, this offering that was given was given during the Feast of Weeks at harvest time. And that offering was given of the harvest before they had tasted anything themselves. Before they had tasted Many of the fruit and the vegetables, the wheat, the barley and any of those things, the first was brought to the Lord. Now if you've ever grown anything, you'll know that the thing you really look forward to is the first that comes up. It's nothing like that first tomato of the summer, is it? It's nothing like the first bit of fruit or vegetable that you grow. But that was given to the Lord, even though the mouths were watering as they brought it, because it was an act of devotion saying, Lord, you deserve the first and the best. And so the principle as we apply it to our situation in the special offering that we're having is that we have to be careful that we don't have the attitude that says, well I'll wait and see how my finances go this year before I commit myself to anything. matter where we we seek Matthew six thirty three first the kingdom and his righteousness. And we determine those things first, and then we trust God to provide for what we need. But in our own situation We consider what the Lord would have us to do in the first place before we go on. Now the second point here is even more important, and it concerns the place that this is given. The place that this offering is given. This has to do with the covenantal presence of God. The covenantal presence of God. Now we all know that the third is going to be a T also button. for that one. The covenantal presence of God. This is no small matter in this passage. In fact, it's very central to it. You notice that the the promise is that God is going to bring you into a land. And then you see there in verse 2. that you take these first fruits of all the Lord that will give you, put them in a basket, and then go to the place that the Lord your God will choose as a dwelling for his name. This place is very important. What is this place? Well you see he said here in verses 22 that God is giving you a land. And so there's a special land that God is giving. It has nothing to do with the Lord's property. Don't think I'm going to make any connection on that. God is giving you a land. This is a holy land that he's talking about. It's the covenantal land where God dwells. God says, This is my kingdom. I'm giving you this. But while we're in this holy land, it's a very special place. And that's prescribed here in verse 3. It's the place where the Lord your God will choose as a dwelling for his name. That's the place where the tabernacle was. That's the place where the Ark of the Covenant was. That's the place where the altar was. So you see there in verse four, the priest shall take the basket from your hands and set it down in front of the altar of the Lord your God. This is where God has set his name by his covenant with his people, the agreement in his favor. I will be with you and you will be my people. And so God says, this is where I am personal. He said, where do you bring the offering? You gave to the Lord. personally. This is the Old Testament way of emphasizing that the offering is given to God himself. It's not given to the church, it's not given to an organization, it's given to God. These authors were used for the salaries and the expenses for the priests and the Levites, the maintenance of the tabernacle, all that's gone into in chapter 18, verses 1 to 5. We'll check that out later. It was used for earthly material needs. These offerings were translated into budgets and salaries and expenses and the rest of that. But that did not diminish in the slightest degree the fact that the offering made by the person given it was to the Lord. It was to him himself. The focus was on this as before his altar. Lord, this comes to you. It's not a purchase, it's not a bargain. It's an offer of worship to you. You see the same kind of emphasis? In the New Testament. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 9. In 2 Corinthians chapter 9, Paul's talking about the needs of the poor Christians in Jerusalem. And so Paul's talking about the need for getting there, and he talks to the church. church about their duty uh for this uh special need. And it's totally to go to these Christians to support them. It's not even talking about building a sanctuary or going to the temple or anything like this. It's talking about these Christians in their needs. But in Second Corinthians chapter nine, verse twelve, notice what Paul says about it. He says, This service that you perform, this giving, this offering, is not only supplying the needs of God's people, but what? Is also Are overflowing in women expressions of thanks to God. Your author, and those that be seated, it issues them in worship. It's an offer of worship to God. In Philippians chapter 3. four, just a few pages further. Paul talks about his own needs. The passage where he talks about how he knows how to abandon and be a faith and be a need and bond as well as to have plenty. And he says, I guess he's looking because he gave to my support. Designated giving here. Lay an example of it in the New Testament. They designated their giving to Paul's support. But then as he describes his best for that, notice what he says in verses 18 and 19 of Philippians chapter 4. He says, I received no payment. And even more, and I made a supply now that I've received from the pastor of Avis the gifts that he sent. Then this is how he describes them. They are a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice. It's an offering to God. You see, if the offering is primarily to God and not simply a means of purchasing property, It matters more the quality and the number of the giving than it does the amount. I hope that that's some encouragement to some of you who may say, I will be far below whatever average is needed for giving me. Uh I can't ignore much. But that doesn't matter. Because you see, it also is to God that the quality and the Of the giving as an act of worship is that as important. Not so much the amount. In an excellent article on giving, this fellow Mel Reese, who's really about, I think, one of the best painters in Christian stewardship says this. Too many times projects, objectives, and goals replace God as the focal point of the gift. And while these may all be commendable and They must be only the recipients of all things given to God, never the focal point of the gifts. You see my concern? Because the concern itself with uh the easy course, as we look at this offering next week, to say, then you know, I'm gonna sacrifice some for this, but that's okay, because I'm gonna win drive in this facility. It's gonna be nice to not have to set up chairs every week, you know, and put everything away and be able to have a place that is a little more comfortable and uh you know a little more enjoyable for us. So it's worth it to sacrifice. But you see that kind of attitude that nothing of worshiping. Of course there's a vision of the Great Commission in that. Where's there is a sense of sacrifice in worship to God in that? It's that that devolves congregations, brothers and sisters, because it's that kind of giving that says I'm getting for what I can get out of this. I'm going to sacrifice sure and I'm going to make sure that the color of the pocket is the colour that I want to have, and if the drapes are the way I want them to do it. We get the kind of cues I want, and the kind of design and this and that. explosive congregations because they never had to say that this is an offering to God. No strings attached, no plaques needed, no recognition. It's my offering of worship to the Lord Jesus Christ. He the focal point of our giving next Sunday. Not the list property. Not investing in Columbia Presbyterian. Jesus Christ is the focal point of the offer. Just as they wrote breakfast, they didn't say Well you know, this tabernacle is okay, but you know, if we could really build a new temple if we just gave more. And you know why that the priest looks like we need to leave both, you know. So maybe we ought to up his power a little bit, you know, he's flying around and was mourning for our third game hoops, you know. Maybe want to give more for him. And people didn't say, I want to go up to the tabernacle to offer because I really like that priest who's featured. The whole goal of this, you see, is to present the offering before the altar of the Lord. Lord your God. Verse 10. I bring the first fruits of the soil that you, O Lord, have given to me. Then place that basket before the board. Your God and bow down before him. The whole focus of this offering is that it's before the Lord, it's unto him, it's given to him. First offered first fruits. We do this uh generally in the summer when we have our garden with first fruits of the stenny chimpanzee and things like that. And I can still recall a number of years ago when we gave those first fruits, but we put them outside. So this is just a recreation allowed for us to feel what the Old Testament people of God thought when they gave the first fruits of what they do to the Lord. Do not command them to Jesus. But that giving unto the Lord, that which you'd like to take first yourself. And I remember the next story that told some of you that uh when that first first offer of letters uh was drawn, the given was convinced that God had taken it himself. You know that You may think that 's kind of key, you know. Uh she obviously doesn't believe that kind of thing now, but God has lifted it up to heaven. But you know, we need something of that sense. And when we give this offering, God himself has taken it. This is an author of worship to you. So what's going to motivate selfish sinners like us to be able to give something and don't even say, hey, they're all you're cutting, eating all the fun out of it, and that says, oh, you give anything why you tell me. And now you can say, hey, that's not even a proper motive. What is that? That's the third point. Grace. The third point has to do with the motive. Covenantal praise. of God. Covenant and praise of God. Praising Him to his gaze. If there's anything that's clear in this text, it is that, along with a sense of the presence of God, is the focus of all that God has for us here. Remember, Deuteronomy was given in the wilderness. They are not yet in the land. So this is given on the east side of Jordan, out in some miserable dry wilderness. Before they're ready to go into the land. And all this is a promise. Verse 1. When you have entered the land, the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and have taken possession of it. And has settled in it. And all these blessings have come to you by grace. Then God says, You're going to say, I declare, verse 3, today that the Lord your God, to the Lord your God, that I have. comes to the land that the Lord swore to our forefathers to give us. So this is all the prophetic. He said, whenever God gives you this, then this is what you just said. And David goes on in verses five to nine to get an Old Testament. And that instructs me because I'm so sure that I'm going to give you this land. But here's how you are to ask me for it after I give it to you. And it's just like we did this morning. It's a confession of faith. And so the Old Testament has confessions of faith. And you have an example of one in these five verses. But notice how he states here his confession of faith in the context of his giving. Why does he give the first? Fruits. He tells you. Beginning with verse 5. He says, My father was a wandering Aramelian. That means uh he's referring to Jacob. Don't call him an Aramelian because of where he admitted. And the the word they're interested in. Wandering means lost or perishing. My forefather was really in need. Jacob had nothing, and because famine was upon him, and he had no resources But the very self had been a scandal. God had came a savior to him. But he was without anything. He thought he had lost his dearest son Joseph. And here he was in famine. And he was perishing and lost. Then this confession goes over. He went down to eat. Egypt in order to get some provisions. But in Egypt, what did he find? Verse 6, bondage. So he went down and we became powerful. The Egyptians mistreated it. And he describes in Old Testament terms your bondage and my bondage to sin. He describes how we thought that we would prosper a little in the land of our own choosing. And he describes how we were mistreated, how we were in bondage to our sin. And in that bondage, he says, we cried out to God in verse 7. And what's the response? He heard us and he saw us. The things you consider and you reflect on your own needs, the bondage of you sinned this morning, to those things that you wish that you could overcome in your life. But those habits, those weaknesses, the things that you say, I just feel powerless. I know that this isn't helping me. I wish I could overcome it. But I feel totally helpless That says when Jesus Christ has heard your cry. He heard your cry when you were in need of forgiveness and when you were outside of Jesus Christ. Because he heard you and he brought you out. Jesus Christ came. Jesus Christ came and he lived, lived a perfect life for you. Gave up his glory for you. So that he would come and live and die and take the curse that you and I so richly deserve. And he would bear our sins In his own body. So that God, verse 8, has brought them out. He's delivered us, he says. He has brought us out of that bondage. With a mighty hand that has stretched out arm. He picked up his son Jesus from the dead. He's brought us out with great terror and miraculous signs and wonders. He's brought us not only to a place where he's forgiven us and he's transformed us. But then in verse 9. He's brought us things to his own kingdom as sons and daughters. And when he showed his favor , made us part of his family Jesus Christ has not only put away your sin, he said that you're precious to him, and he's brought you into his own place. And that place is described there in verse 9. The place that he's given us, this land, a land flow with milk. And this honey. If you think of how beautiful with the large forests and the streams and the valleys, but everything greens out like it's now where irrigation is needed to make everything grow, but as the promised As Canaan was back in those days where the grapes were huge and succulent, but everything was rich and burdened Things both wet and doing. And God says, that's just a dim picture of what I have in store for you, Christian. That I've given to you in the kingdom of my own Son, Jesus Christ, who's fought up this He's spot up his areas and made of Indruns and all the rest of it. So these are simply the product of his imagination that he's put together and he says, Now, this is wilderness compared to the kingdom that I've established for you in an unfallen creation. creation, an unspired universe. He says, This is what I have for you, because I brought you by the purchase of the blood of my own son out of the Egypt of the bondage of your sin. To be my people. And so he says in verse ten, and now then, because of this Because I realize that all of this is by grace. God didn't do anything to deserve this. Now, I agree the first fruits of the soil that you, O Lord, have given to me. And then you place the basket before the Lord your God And you bow down, you prostrate yourself before Him in worship Jerusalem. And then you and the leaders and the lower to know you shall rejoice. And all those good things that the Lord your God has given to you in your household. You know what that referring to? That's referring to the feast that they had after that offering. The feast of the weeks, it was called at that time. The feast of the harvest. And they offered that to the Lord and then there was a great feast that everybody celebrated and they enjoyed for a week the good things that God had given to them. You see, giving is simply a response to grace. It's the response to the grace that's shown you in Jesus Christ. And we see the same principle in the New Testament. Paul takes 11 chapters of the book of Romans. To talk about all that God has done for us in bringing salvation to sinners like you and like me. Without anything that we ever have done or ever could do to own it Giving to us a new life in him. Then he says in chapter 12, Now I beseech you, by the mercies of God, therefore to present what A token of your thanks now. Your very bodies as an offering of worship. Also, if you understand the grace that's been showed to you in new life in Jesus Christ, there will be nothing too. small, too large to be able to give to him as an expression of thanks for the grace that's been shown, even your very body. Giving all that you have as an expression of thanks to grace. In Second Corinthians chapter eight, same passage I talked about where Paul's talking about giving to the needs of the Christians in Jerusalem. He says in chapter eight that verse eight that already says I want this gift to be not simply something that you give me, so it's an expression of your heart's praise to God. For you know, he says The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Before he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that he from his poverty might become rich. Why didn't we agree? In response to the grace of Jesus Christ that's been shown to you. To the green remote Forgiving. Then the gratitude that comes from the grace of Jesus Christ. There's a pastor who is living for his unusual abilities in getting the people that he ministered to to take on large projects. The people who get large amounts of money And so there was a fundraiser who went to him and he said, uh I'd like to know what is your secret of your church giving so much money? And the man just laughed, like Peter's respond He said, I don't have a formula as such. I just hold up before thy people the unfathomable love of God in sending his son Jesus to save us. I make this the focal point of every server, every project, every program. In our business meetings, we lay aggressive plans for God and then present these as another opportunity to express more love and gratitude. I have learned through the years. But I don't need any other focal point or any other motivator. Grace is the best motivator that there is. But so you need to be careful that in giving that as you and I don't say to ourselves, Well, we're going to sacrifice for this But that I hope that uh this is going to make up for some of my sins of late. But you won't hold those things against me, because you'll see how much I'm sacrificing for you now. You know, just to say that you said, No, I couldn't imagine myself thinking that. But check yourself. Why will you give what you give? You're not going to earn or do anything of God's favor and God's grace through the gift that you give next week? Either you have that in Jesus Christ Of you will never purchase it. For grace is too costly to ever purchase. Forgiveness and transformation through Jesus Christ can never be purchased. again and again in the scriptures, Demeter forgive it is love for what Jesus has done. Mark twelve, Lord is the widow put her last two copper coins into the treasury because she loved the Lord Jesus so much. She's like the woman who washed the Lord Jesus' feet with his tears and wiped them with her hair. And he says, why did she do this? Because she who is forgiven much loved much But like Mary, who gave thousands of dollars of costly precious mars and poured it upon Jesus to away him out of the love that she had for him. Lord you can give without loving. But you can never love without giving. It 's like giving us simply the response to grace in Jesus Christ. You say this again and again in the scripture. You see Truths, I think of a fellow who was very wealthy and who was very old is a true story Occasionally a pastor called him up and he said, you know, I haven't thought much about God in my life. I haven't thought much about making my peace with the church, but I'm getting older. And I thought that I'd ought to do that. And I'd like to start by giving you this check for twenty thousand dollars. More was asking the pastor his response and he said immediately I gave him the right hand of fellowship. And he wasn't kidding. How sad? To make a man think that he can purchase God's favor. And on a small scale, you and I will be tempted to think that. And our giving next week. But praise God. It's all there. It's free. It 's in Jesus Christ. And so there's nothing that we can do to add to what He's given to us. All we can do. is to show our gratitude. We give it to him, not to the project, not an investment in the Columbia Presbyterian. But let's make sure, brothers and sisters, when we give next week. But the focal point is Jesus Christ Himself, and the giving is to him. I think one of the best illustrations I ever heard of that. Take you concerned a little girl. There was a little girl who did not uh her family did not have much money. And like she was living with her in a store at one point, she saw this beautiful, beautiful little doll. And if her whole attention was captured by that doll, and she wanted that doll more than anything else in the world. But if I was a lot of work, and there wasn't money to buy a doll. And so every time she was by that store, she would look at that doll longingly, knowing that she was a little bit more. She couldn't have it. Some months later her birthday came and she'd almost forgotten about the doll, and there the doll was on the table. She could have an eating birthday cake. She was so excited to have that little doll that she called Suzanne. She said that doll would her earth. Everywhere. You know how it goes, get out of the store, to school. Uh everywhere she went, Suzanne went along with her, slept with her, played with her, took her to church, everywhere. On Sunday morning, she heard The preacher talked about the love of Jesus Christ and his grace for sinners, how freely he had given himself and sacrificed all that he had so that she could have her sins forgiven and be made right with God. All she had in her purse was was a penny and that didn't seem very much to show concerning her thanks to God. But all that week she thought about. What could she do? What could she give to Jesus to show how much she appreciated and was grateful for the love that he had for her? So the next Sunday they came to the worship and as the offering basket was placed past, she put Suzanne right on top of the offering plate. So people sort of stared, you know, as the offering basket went up and down the aisles and they sort of had to put their text and money around with Suzanne laying on top of the offering basket. But nobody said anything. And all that next week she missed Suzanne terribly. She would cry a little bit when she go to bed and she didn't have Suzanne to hold anymore. There'd be times when she would seem to miser unbearably, but then she would think of why she had given it. She had given it to Jesus because she loved Jesus so much and letting it done for her. A week later, the pastor stopped by. Then he just wanted a brief social call and he had Suzanne under his arm. He brought the little doll out and he showed it to this little girl. And he said, here's Suzanne. I want you to take her back. Suzanne's eyes filled with tears, the little girl's eyes filled with tears. She could have a broken back as she looked at her precious possession there, Suzanne, right before her. The pastor said, God has hit her. And three tears, she said. I can't. The pastor said, why can't you? And she said, because I didn't give her to you. Let's pray.