I must say that I was tempted to come from behind the stage through the door or down the steps. And uh sit down in the chair and pull over a stand-up mic and just uh have a uh talk show here have a friend I haven't seen for some time that's with us and I said I might interview him. He could just come and sit down on the couch and we could uh talk about old times. But uh Didn't want to do that because God's word is something holy and we need to give our attention to it. And so I didn't want to throw you off There was a conspiracy to take Jesus' life. And because of that, Jesus knew that he could no longer publicly mix among the Jews. He was staying, in fact, near the desert in Ephraim with his disciples. But now Passover was near. And hundreds of thousands of Jews were streaming up toward Jerusalem. Many of them were wondering if this controversial rabbi was going to show. They knew that the order was out to arrest him on sight. There, he appears. What a bold, brave action. Jesus comes publicly. And not only does he come publicly , But he explicitly fulfills the prophecy of Zechariah 9. 9 concerning how Messiah would come as king, riding on a young donkey into Jerusalem. The crowds, of course, get the point and they go wild with praise. The Jewish leaders get the point and they're enraged They command Jesus to stop this praise. And Jesus responds that this foreordained praise could not be stopped by any power in the universe. And so he comes, bold and brave. What a man. And yet as he comes into Jerusalem that day. Perhaps no one really understood at that time the significance of what he was doing. In fact, even today in the United States As many millions of people are celebrating Palm Sunday, many are celebrating it without any real understanding of the significance of the central character, Jesus the King. And so what I'd like to do is to look at a story that Jesus told because he knew that this would be the case. And Luke 19, 11 tells us that Jesus told a story because he was coming. Into his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. He told this story in order to correct three misconceptions about his kingdom And in order to indicate three possible responses to him as king. Now, this story that Jesus told is a story that uh it's a parable. That few people uh really understand today. Now, I don't know if Dick Barnes is going to tackle this one in his his study on the parables. It's traditionally called the Parable of the Pounds or more contemporary. It's called the Parable of the Ten Minas. It's not about birds. It's about money. And it's particularly about money as an illustration of kingdom power. But now uh this parable of the ten minors is the kind of parable that you might read through and say, Well, I read it, but I sure don't know what that's about. What's he trying to say? And so let's give our attention as we read God's Word, understand this parable, and understand that this parable was given so that we might understand what Jesus was doing as he rode into Jerusalem on what we call Palm Sunday. Luke chapter 19, beginning at verse eleven. While they were listening to this, he went on to tell them a parable because he was near Jerusalem. And the people thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear at once. He said, A man of noble birth went to a distant country to have himself appointed king and then to return. So he called ten of his servants, and he gave them ten minus. Put this money to work, he said, until I come back. But his subjects hated him. And sent a delegation after him to say, we don't want this man to be our king. He was made king, however, and returned home Then he sent for the servants to whom he had given the money in order to find out what they had gained with it. The first one came and said, Sir, your mina has gained earned ten more. Well done, my good servant, his master replied. Because you have been trustworthy in a very small matter, take charge of ten cities. The second came and said, Sir, your mina has earned five more. His master answered, You take charge of five cities. Then another servant came and said, Sir, here is your minor. I have kept it laid away in a piece of cloth. Now is afraid of you because you're a hard man. You take out what you did not put in and reap what you do not did not sow His master replied, I will judge you by your own words, you wicked servant. You knew, did you, that I am a hard man taking out what I did not put in and reaping what I did not sow? Why then didn't you put my money on deposits so that when I came back I could have collected it with interest Then he said to those standing by, Take his mina away from him and give it to the one who has ten minas. Sir, they said, He already has ten. He replied, I tell you. That to everyone who has more will be given. But as for the one who has nothing, even what he has will be taken away. But those enemies of mine who did not want me to be king over them, bring them here and kill them in front of me. And then Luke goes on to say that it was after Jesus had said this, that he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem, and then goes in triumphantly. And I see the connection between this story and Palm Sunday. Jesus is telling this so that we'll have a right understanding of him and his kingdom. Let's take a look at it. We might understand it and we might apply it to our own lives. First of all, why did Jesus tell this story? Because it corrects three misconceptions about his kingdom. It corrects three misconceptions about his kingdom. That's the first thing in the bulletin outline. First of all, it corrects the misconception that the kingdom will appear the way that they think that it will You see, in verse 11, while they were listening to this, he went on to tell them a parable because he was near Jerusalem, and the people thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear at once. Passover filled them with reminders of the glory of the Exodus, their deliverance from Egypt into Canaan, where they were transferred from bondage to freedom. And so now they look for a political Messiah who is going to deliver them from the bondage of Rome. They see the Messiah only in earthly terms. That's their expectation of the kingdom appearing. It means a political messiah to deliver them from Rome. And Jesus wants to enlighten them that he's not into liberation theology. Hesa wants them to understand that his kingdom is primarily and basically a spiritual kingdom, and that their conception of it is wrong. It's not a political kingdom for the Jews only. In order to release the earthly oppressed. But rather it is a worldwide kingdom for all people everywhere. To deliver them from spiritual and other oppression coming from that. But primarily spiritual. The second misconception is that the kingdom will appear when they think it does You notice verse 11 says that they uh the people thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear at once. The when in their mind is that uh when he comes in riding on the donkey, now the kingdom's going to be consummated. We're going to see it, we'll see Messiah in all his glory, and all of our troubles will be over. They're convinced that revolution is right at their doorstep. Now many uh biblical scholars criticize uh the scriptures and we'll say that it uh Jesus uh could not have been God because he was expecting his kingdom to come as a result of his preaching and of his uh miracles And uh so uh Albert Schweitzer and others have said that Jesus couldn't really be God because he was he was um he misunderstood when the kingdom was going to come, and so he died disappointed. He died as one who did not see his hopes fulfilled. But of course, uh Any accurate reading of the scripture must take this parable into account where Jesus Himself says that the kingdom is not going to be seen in its fullness, the fullness of its manifestation right now. It's not going to appear at once. For you see that he says in verse 12 that this uh one who's going to be king goes to a distant country to have himself appointed. And so then he gives money to be invested. while he's away. And you see there in verse uh fifteen that uh after some time he comes back and the duration of that time is enough For those investments to have gained uh a thousand or five hundred percent. So there's got to be some duration of time And Jesus is warning, don't think that the kingdom is going to be seen in its glorious consummation right now. It's not coming at this point. It will begin to break into history, but it will not be seen in the king's glorious return for some time. And of course, we've been waiting for 2,000 years at this point for that king to return. But the time may be very, very close now. It may be that the king is just about at the door and ready to come back, and maybe he'll come before we celebrate Easter next Sunday. For the king is coming back. And that's very clear from Jesus' teaching of this parable. Be ready, for the king is coming. The third misperception that the people had was that the kingdom, he's saying, the kingdom will not appear Excuse me, that the third misperception is that the king will not exalt them as they think. The king will not exalt them as they think. They think that they're going to be part of his kingdom simply because they're Jews And Jesus is teaching through this parable that they're not part of that kingdom simply because of their heritage. It's not simply because you grew up a Presbyterian, even a Reformed Presbyterian. Or a Methodist or a Baptist or a Roman Catholic or anything else that you have part in this kingdom. Jesus says citizenship in this kingdom is seen by observable faithfulness. It's seen in a way that you can tell by judging each person separately, looking at their lives. And that brings us to the second point in the parable, and that's the most important thing. That is that it indicates three possible responses to Jesus kingship. Three responses to Jesus kingship. And every one of us fall into one of these categories. And so I hope and I pray that, as I've been praying and preparing this, that each one of us will look at this not as an interesting story to celebrate Palm Sunday, but as Jesus' words to us. We might examine our own lives and hearts to see where do I fit within this parable? For Jesus has covered the span of the human race within these three categories. First of all, he talks about his enemies. His enemies, who of course were religious people. But his enemies who hated his rule. You see that in verse 12. It says a man of noble birth went to a distant country to have himself appointed king and then to return. And then verse 14, but his subjects hated him And they sent a delegation after him to say, We don't want this man to be our king. Of course, those that heard Jesus tell this parable , most all of them would be reminded immediately of an incident when Jesus was just a little baby. An incident when Archelaus became king of the Jews. Do you remember when Jesus was just a little baby, uh that Herod the Great was out for his life And when Jesus was just one, about a year old, Herod the Great died. And Herod had one of his sons, Archelaus, who he appointed to be king over Judea. But Archelius couldn't take on that kingship until he went to Rome to be appointed by Caesar, and so he was a man of noble birth who had to go to a distant country to have himself appointed king, and then to return to Jerusalem. But between the time that Herod appointed him as king and the time that he was able to take off to Rome, Passover came. Passover, which is what they're coming to celebrate right here. And this Passover came that year when Jesus was about a year old. Archelaus was in Jerusalem and there was a disturbance, a minor disturbance among the Jews there. As a result of that disturbance, there was a clash and a conflict It escalated as things sometimes do. One thing led to another until Archelaus responded ruthlessly with his soldiers and he slaughtered three thousand Jews celebrating Passover that year. Passover was abandoned. It was a tragic holiday. People went home brokenhearted to see such bloodshed and slaughter. As a result of this, when Archelius went to Rome, there was a delegation of the Jews who were sent to say, we do not want this man to be our king. And that surely must have been in their mind when Jesus told this parable. You see, Jesus is saying that people don't want someone who they view as ruthless to rule over them. But even beyond that, Jesus is saying, for Jesus of course is the king in this parable, he's the one who's leaving in order to go to be appointed as king, messianic king over his kingdom. And Jesus is saying, there are those here who want no king to rule over them. Their theme song is Psalm 2. Let us cast this king from us. Let us break his chains and throw off his fetters. We don't want anybody to tell me. I don't want anybody to tell me what to believe or what I'm to do or how I'm to live. I'm going to decide that myself. I remember just uh three, four years ago, we had some new neighbors move into our neighborhood. We had them over for dinner to welcome them into the neighborhood, and we got very quickly into the gospel, right into the very heart of the gospel. And as a result of that, I remember the man saying there at the dinner table very clearly, nobody is going to tell me what I've got to believe. Nobody's going to tell me how I'm supposed to live. And since that day, we have never again discussed the gospel. They have avoided us, and they've avoided anything in spiritual discussion. Jesus says saying there's some of you who don't want anybody to tell you what you're to believe or how you're supposed to live. You say, I'm going to decide that myself. I may come to church. I may read the Bible, but I'm going to decide what I believe from that Bible, and I'm going to decide how I live. No one is going to tell me how to live Jesus says, these are the citizens who hate the rule of the king. They can't stand having him tell them what they're to believe or how they're to live. I refuse to live under the authority of Scripture. I will decide. And perhaps there's some of you that are out there this morning, right here, worshiping with us. Perhaps you're here because it's Palm Sunday. Perhaps you come here regularly. But you've never really settled the issue of whether you're going to live under the rule of Jesus Christ. Whether this book, the Bible, is going to direct your thinking. To direct you in what you believe and what your values are and how you live. You want to pick and choose. Jesus said, these are the people who hate my rule. But before you decide that that's okay, and as an American citizen, as an individualist, that that is your right, look at the end of this parable to see what happens to these people. For after he goes to his servants, Jesus comes back to these people again. And he finishes up with them in verse 27. And he says, But those enemies of mine who did not want me to be king over them, bring them here and kill them in front of me. Those are hard words, aren't they? That's loving Jesus. That's the one meek and mild The one who is full of compassion and love teaches us to love our enemies. And he says, Now you bring my enemies here, and I want you to slaughter them in front of my eyes. Sounds like a ruthless tyrant. Sounds like that ark of las that he's been talking about, doesn't it? Why in the world does Jesus end this parable that way? I would suggest to you that there's only one solution to that dilemma. And the solution is that Jesus wants to dramatize to us Just how heinous is their crime in distorting the nature of the king. Do you see what Jesus is saying in this? He's saying, you people who do not want me to rule over you, twist what I'm like in your minds You make me out to be a tyrant, as if I'm a cosmic manipulator who wants to take you as puppets in order to just control you and rule you for my own arbitrary pleasure And Jesus says that is such a heinous distortion of my loving, beneficent, kind nature, my compassion, my love for you. Having created you and brought you into being and given you life, simply out of my own pleasure, to be able to see you enjoy that life. In order to give you life, to love you, to give to you all the good things that I've created, Jesus says that is such a distortion, that's such a twisting of what I'm like. It is such a crime that is a crime so reprehensible. That the only appropriate consequence to that is for such people to be destroyed before the eyes of the Holy God that they had distorted. You see, what Jesus wants us to see is that he's saying, understanding that I am as kind and loving. You see, he's just uh just a few verses before at the end of chapter 18 uh rebuke those who had no compassion on a blind beggar. And Jesus was the one who came and said, What do you want me to do for you? And heals that man of his blindness. Jesus says, you who see me and twist me what I'm like. That is so terrible That this crime, that excuse me, that that crime is only sufficiently punished by this kind of action. So before you too glibly decide that you're going to determine what to believe from the Bible, that nobody's going to tell you what to believe or how to act. See the necessary consequence before loving Jesus in that day that you and I will stand before his throne. See what it means for you and I to say to him, I refuse to bow my knee before you, because nobody was going to tell me how to live or what to believe. And understand that this will be the necessary response in that terrible day of judgment. But Jesus continues to hold himself out to you even this morning. And if you've refused and resisted him up until this point, I plead with you in the name of the final judgment In the name of Jesus, who will be that judge before whom you will stand, do not delay, but come to him this morning. Come to him to give your life and say, Lord, I've seen how I've twisted what you're like. My excuses are so shallow. I'll do anything to twist Your nature so that I can excuse my own autonomy and independence and Lord I've seen that it doesn't work. I've seen that I've got to come to terms with you as you really are. Lord, receive me, forgive me. And He will. He will forgive you. He will change your heart, and he will take you as one of his own. And you will know the delight of his kindness and his rule of you. That's the first group. Then there's the second group. The second group are the religious servants who reject his power. Now you see, this group of people are those who would call themselves Christians. The first group are those who are his enemies. They don't call themselves Christians. Some of them may call themselves Christians in the most shallow kind of way. But those kind of people are out and out rebels. These people are the kind of people who see Jesus in the Father only in terms of law and not of grace. They also distort what he's like. But these people, if you ask them, are you a Christian? They may say, Yes, I'm a Christian. I'm an evangelical. I'm a Bible-believing Christian. I believe that I'm going to heaven based on what Jesus did. I believe he died for my sins. I believe that I'm going to heaven, and I put my trust in him. But their whole notion of what the king is like is distorted in their minds, so that they know nothing of his power. You say in verse 13, the king calls ten of his servants, and he gives to them ten minutes. And he says, put this money to work until I come back. But now this servant, the one just described in verse 20 and 21, comes and he says, Sir, here's your minor. I've kept it and I've laid it away in a piece of cloth. I was afraid of you. Because you're a hard man. You take out what you didn't put in and you reap what you didn't sow. That's not a very positive view of his master, is it? It's not a very positive view of the Savior that he claims to love and to serve. But you notice now it's key to this parable is that the parable never agrees with that view of the king. Jesus never says you're right. Jesus never in this parable acknowledges that view of the king to be accurate. In fact, you notice his response in verse 22, his master replied, I will judge you by your own words. I don't even have to dispute with you what I'm really like and how you've distorted me. Let me take your own words You wicked servant, you knew did you that I'm a hard man, taking out what I didn't put in, reaping what I didn't sow. Well then why didn't you at least on your own terms Serve me in the way that you knew at least you could do. If that's the kind of servant I am, then at least serve me faithfully in that. And of course, what's he saying? He's saying to the Pharisees and all of those who are legalistic in our mind, go ahead, try to serve me in the way that you say I am, and the way that I truly am, and you will find that you're not able to do it. You will find that that will bring you to the end of yourself. You see, this person is the person who says, Yes, I'm a Christian. I go to church and I read the Bible and I do these kind of things. But when you begin in this person to question them concerning their relationship with Jesus, You find that that relationship is practically non-existent. You find that with this person all they can talk about is religious duties. All they can talk about is doctrine in some abstract sense. But they can never really talk about a personal warm relationship with Jesus as a person. In fact, this person views by their religion God to be a very harsh taskmaster. The God that they serve is a God who is highly temperamental and extremely difficult to please, rather arbitrary in his demands. Christianity to these people is more of a burden than a release. It's like A. W. Tozer wrote in his book, The Root of the Righteous, to a Pharisee, the service of God was a bondage which he did not love, but from which he could not escape without a loss too great to bear. The God of the Pharisee was not a God easy to live with. And so his religion became grim and hard and loveless. It had to be so, for our notion of God must always determine the quality of our religion. He was a God who expects much and excuses nothing No tenderness, no grace, only law. Do any of you identify with this notion of Christianity? Is Christianity to you more of a burden than a release? And do you find that your view of God that is that He's always waiting for you to slip up? So that he can zap you. So that he can say, Aha, caught you again. You promised to do that. You didn't do it. You blew it again. And you never dare come back to him for mercy. For there's only severity to be met with. Is this your view of the Lord Jesus? See the title? When I think of Jesus as King, I feel. How do you feel? The first group feels angry. I don't want him to be my king. The second group feels despair and guilt. When I think of Jesus, I feel discouraged. And because I realize that I never can please him, it's never enough in my Christian life. I've got good news for you this morning. And the good news is that this person is lost and going to hell. He'd say, now that wasn't exactly the kind of good news I was looking for right there, because I had to identify with this person too much. Why do I say that's good news? I say it's good news because what Jesus is wanting us to understand about this person is that he's worshiping a false God. And he is in fact not in a relationship with the true Jesus the King. This person has also distorted the nature of Jesus. He has made Jesus out to be a hard man and a hard taskmaster. Who wants to extract from his people that which he doesn't even put into them? He demands from them what's unreasonable. That's what he's saying here, you see. Jesus is saying, You have no part with me. You see what he says there in verse twenty six? In verse twenty four he says, Uh take his minor away, give it to the other one. It's why he's already got ten. He says, Well that's okay. One that has nothing, he's gonna even lose what he has. And in that statement, you see what Jesus is doing is he is disclaiming any relationship with this person, with that servant. He's saying he doesn't really know me, he's not really part of me, he doesn't he doesn't belong to my kingdom. The book of Galatians, that some of us have been looking at in the Galatians course of the last four weeks, in looking at bondage and freedom, the scene that Paul says in Galatians chapter 3, the law kept us slaves. Until faith came. But when faith came, or Jesus came, Paul says at the end of Galatians 3, this one Jesus brought us out of that servitude into a relationship of sons. And so Galatians 3. 26 says, You now are sons of the living God. And then he goes on in chapter 5, in verse 1. To say that it was for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then, Paul says, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Do you understand what good news that is? Jesus is saying the person who is living in fear The person who says, I can't do anything as a Christian because I know I'm going to fail. I know I can never succeed. I know God is out to get me, and so I just live in that slavish fear and bondage. Hiding my minor, never able to live out in freedom before the master. Jesus says that person has never really understood what I'm like For I've come to set you free. I've come so that you might understand that you have my righteousness, and that is sufficient. And because of that righteousness, you're free to fail. You're free even to sin and to know that that does not break your relationship with the living God. While he disciplines us, he never rejects us. That God is for you and not against you. And that's the good news you see of the third group. For the third response, the third group is the true servant. Who employs the kingdom power. Now at this point you have to understand what the minor stands for. What is that mina that he's talking about? It's not talent Remember in Matthew 26, Jesus told another parable of the talents in which people were given different talents and they were to invest those. That's a different point. You notice in verse 13 here, Jesus calls ten of his servants and he gave them 10 minus. Each one gets the same. No difference. Mina was about three months wages, or probably in our cultural equivalent, say about $4,500. For a common laborer. So he's giving each one the same amount, about forty-five hundred dollars to invest. You notice in verse sixteen and eighteen, the true servants Call it your mina. It's not my talent, it's your mina. It's that which belongs to the king and is simply given to them as stewards The mind I would suggest to you represents the supernatural gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel of power. The gospel which is able to change lives. Paul, and over and over again in his epistles, talks about being entrusted with the gospel, or entrusted with preaching of the gospel. And I think it's that same idea that you see in Paul's epistles that you have here in this parable. Jesus is saying the king went away and he entrusted to his servants all have the same message. You have the same message that Billy Graham has. You have the same message that Francis Schaefer or anyone else that God has used in some mighty powerful way has. The message is no different. The Holy Spirit is no different. You and I all have the same access to the same God, the same message, and the same power. Jesus acknowledges that some will use that power to greater degrees than others. One gained a thousand percent. Another one gained 500%. Jesus says in each case, that's fine. That's good. You have seen my power. Why had they seen the power? Because they trust the Master as a good Master. They believe the gospel, you see. You see, that's the message. That's the challenge for you and this for me this morning. Do you believe the gospel? Do you believe that that gospel is able to change your life? That's the first way we see it. And of course, that's what Jesus was illustrating here. I think I can prove that because you look at verse 11, Jesus says, while they were listening to this, what are they listening to? His interchange with Zacchaeus. Zacchaeus had come as a man who was a selfish, greedy, dishonest conniver. And when Zacchaeus saw Jesus' acceptance by grace of who he was, and Jesus forgave him , Zacchaeus had a whole new view of Jesus. And he said, This Jesus has forgiven me. This Jesus accepts me. This Jesus has loved me. And Zacchaeus freed up as a forgiven sinner says, now I'm going to give half away what I have away to the poor. And if I've cheated anybody, I'm going to restore it to that person four times what I've given them. You see, that is supernatural. And it's supernatural based on grace, not on law. What was it that changed Zacchaeus' heart? That Jesus threatened him if he didn't make things right? No. It was the gospel. That's what motivates you and me to love other people. And to be able to invest the kingdom power. It's what changes our hearts and changes me from a greedy, selfish, self-centered person. To someone who begins to care for other people. That's the supernatural Maina, the supernatural gospel. It's also the power that changes others. It's the power that we invest as we share it with other people and watch the Holy Spirit change their lives. It's that investment that we can make because we can risk. We can take risks, you see You and I can make investment and take risks. What's the very most you could lose? Paul says the very most I could lose is my life, but for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. What is it that you're risking for Jesus Christ in terms of trying to share the gospel? Now you and I are put off by such small threats, aren't we? And somebody might be embarrassed. They might make us feel like we're uh not uh very in a very comfortable situation, that we're socially rejected, and that we're awkward Jesus says, take this, you're free to fail. Invest it. I think of a couple, Danny and Mary, who were unbelievers and were invited to an evangelistic dinner party. And they went to that party risking going in. They were they were just just terrified to go in all the Christians and wondering what they were getting into here. And they went in and they heard the gospel of Jesus Christ and they gave their lives to Jesus Christ that night. A year later, they were inviting their friends to the same kind of evangelistic dinner party. And just before the wife said to the husband, you know This is really a risk. Our friends may not want to be our friends after we blow our cover here tonight and they see what we're really into. Then they looked at each other and simply said, if we lose our friends, we lose our friends. That's the risk the Lord Jesus is calling us to make. Are you willing to make a risk for Jesus Christ this Easter season? Not because of the law, because you love Jesus. Because you fill that out when I think of Jesus as King, I feel free. I feel loved. I feel cared for I feel accepted by him. I feel secure in his power, which is always used for me, never against me. Which of these three are you? Let's pray. Lord our God, this morning we come and we want to examine our own hearts Show us, Lord, which of these we are in our response to you. Whether there's some here saying, I don't want anyone going to tell me what I have to believe or how I have to live. I am my own captain. Strip away that pride and arrogance, Lord. May that person see how they have distorted what you're like, and how eminently you can be trusted. Lord, we pray for those of us still living under the bondage of the law, even though we've claimed you. Lord, we pray, deliver us from that bondage. May we see the freedom that Jesus Christ has come to give us. And may we live out of that freedom in the fullness of the gospel. Do that work in us, we pray. For Jesus' sake. Amen.