That God is light. In Him there is no darkness at all. If you pain to have fellowship with him and yet walk in darkness, we lie. We're not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, As he is in the light, they have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from every sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just, and will forgive us our sins And purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim that we have not sinned, do not come out to be a liar. And his word has no place in our lives. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not what he commands is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know that we are in him. Whoever commands claims to live in him , Must walk as Jesus did. So far, God's word. Let's consider now what the Lord is saying to us here. Part two that I recently saw pictured the preachers sort of draped over the podium, sort of like this. Eyeing down the congregation and saying, this is the fourth message now I've preached on the transforming power of the gospel. How come you still look like the same old bunch? Do you ever feel like that about yourself? You ever feel about that about Columbia Presbyterian? About the Church of Christ as a whole Balance is so important in Christianity. You take away any part Of balanced doctrines of scripture. And you will have a distortion if you put that one truth to its extreme without a balanced ultimate truth. And you'll push that to an extreme that becomes biblically unrecognizable. You take back sovereignty without the balanced truth of responsibility, and you have a caricature. You take God's justice, but you don't speak of His mercy, and you have a caricature. Or to take mercy without justice. And you don't have the biblical God. But if you take the truth of the transforming power of the gospel, the new life in Jesus Christ, Without the balanced truth that we continue to be sinners in this life, and who had an unbiblical perspective. If you take the idea of 1 John 1, verse 5 to 7, and then chapter 2, verse 3 to 6. But if we are Christians, then we do not walk in darkness. If we're Christians, we keep his commands. And if you take that truth, And forget chapter 1, verse 8 to 10, and chapter 2, verses 1 to 2, the fact that we still are sinners and we still need an advocate, Jesus Christ, to cover our sin. Then you have a distortion of Christianity. If you take that idea that we are already forgiven, we already are in the kingdom, and we already have the power of the Holy Spirit. But leave out the fact that we are not yet made perfect. Sin has not yet been taken out of our lives. Then we're going to be in trouble. You have what I call Christian idealism. The idea that we as Christians can somehow almost fulfill what God has for us in this life. You have uh that idea, I think, dangerously held by people who are perfectionists. If uh you're like a lot of people I've talked to in our congregation and in our culture. So many of us say that we're plagued by the problem of perfectionism, don't we? And what does a perfectionist mean when he reads 1 John chapter 1 and 2? He looks at that and he says, that's God's standard And I'm performing to the end, so I want to be at that standard. But then when I realize that I'm not at that standard, at least the next best thing I can do is give the impression. But I'm meeting at that standard. And you know, we can be scrubbed enough and clean enough and respectful enough to look as if we're almost doing it, can't we? We can really pull it off a good bit of a time to almost give the impression that we have conquered all of the biggest sins. There's a few little ones, you know, that sort of hover around the edges and the periphery of our life. But all those major ones, you know, we've really sort of conquered them because we're mature Christians. And I believe that if we hold that kind of a view, which I believe is a distortion of what John 's saying here, It's an imbalanced truth. When I say that we're letting ourselves in for the distortion of the four D's, and you see them they are underlined. The problems of the four D's in our life, discouragement, disillusionment, depression. And defensiveness. And I'd like to consider these with you this morning. Problems of disparagement, disillusionment, depression, and defensiveness. If you all have any of those problems, then I guess you can just worship the Lord and five that they're on speaking. For the rest of us who have some problems with discouragement, disillusion, impression, and defensiveness. Because I see a fair amount of them What is John saying here in verse 8 to 10, chapter 1? His point is that if we claim to be without sin, we're deceiving ourselves. And the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, then He's faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. But if we claim to be a God's sin, then we may turn out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. I claim What God is saying here is that there are two claims being made. In verse 8, the claim is that we don't have sin. We're without sin. God says if you think That you're basically heathen without sin. You're just deceiving yourself. In verse 10, the claim is: I haven't sinned You know, my sin may all be in the distant past, but when you're talking about my recent history or my present, there really isn't any sin there to talk about. John says again, you're taking God out to be a lawyer. And you are not holding his truth. You're distorting his truth. His word is replacing you. Because that's not what his word says. My first point is, don't be surprised when you see others sin. Now, that may seem fairly obvious to you, that you shouldn't be surprised when you see others sin, but I'm not so sure. Do we really grasp that? You see, I find that we like to see ourselves as A- people. Now, what is an A-Person? Well, an A minus person is one who says, uh, I'm not an A plus person. I mean, I haven't arrived, you know, I'm not perfect. Sure, there's sin in my life, there's some things that I need to deal with, but I'm not perfect But I'm sure not an S. And you know, I I don't even think I'm really a C. Uh sometimes I feel like a D. But I think basically, you know Sin has been taken care of in this church, and uh most of us are fairly true, and uh so We we give that impression. You know, you look around and these people look also well-dressed and scrubbed and respectable. Do you ever feel like you're the only sinner around? Do you ever feel like you are the only person here that really wrestles with deep sin in your life? The rest are all among this people. And you feel like an ass. But you feel like it after it's all alone among all the A-minuses. You know, like the kid that wants the exam and everybody else is active, you know. You really feel like it does. You feel like you're the only one who really struggles and loses to temptation. But I struggle, but they basically can have victory. You strive when you bomb out with lust, with imperialism, with laziness, with selfishness, with your temper. What other life-dominating problems you have? Nobody else seems to be able to identify with those things, but they've all mastered this stuff sometimes. You can feel rather alone, and that produces first problems discouragement Discouragement, but I'm the only sinner around here because most of the rest of these people have basically got their lives together If you don't think that this is true, I'll tell you personally, several people have come to me in the ministry of our church in the last five years and they've said something very similar to this. I don't really feel like I fit at the CPC. Because it seems like everybody there really knows the Bible and has it together. I feel like I'm just sort of floundering around. And I don't feel like I'm really fit for this word. I always have to first kind of laugh to myself because they don't realize how many other people have come and said exactly the same thing, you know. But somehow there's this impression that if I feel like that, I'm the only one who feels like that And that's really basically simply what John is saying. Somehow there's this impression, given that we're A-t we don't really have sin in any major proportion, that we haven't really sinned Now I'm not suggesting that we all stand up after this message and give a confession to the deep dark sins in our lives so that we all feel at ease. As a matter of fact, you'd accomplish quite the opposite. You'd all feel twice as illness. That's not the purpose. And that's not God's intention. But somehow, it seems to me that we get the impression that even though I may not make public all my struggles, that the fact that I'm struggling isn't really there. Somehow there is the impression given that I'm basically amus in my following of Jesus Christ. That leads to the second problem of disillusionment. Disillusionment comes from the subtle denial in verses 8 to 10 that we have sinned, that we are, that we still are sinners. In a radical sense, to produce an expectation from others that we shouldn't sin Yeah, I sometimes get the impression that people view others in the congregation as since these people are mature Christians, they shouldn't ever sin. And you know, I sometimes wonder if it's not my pride that may keep me from revealing to you more of the way that I personally struggle with sin. And some of the things that in my life, I do scrolls, how very heavy I can be But I feel like if I really opened myself up in that way, you might lose respect for my leadership. And so we give the impression that we're basically amount. And when we do that, we open up ourselves to a great amount of disillusionment. Because if we expect one another to be perfect, then when we sin, then others wonder what happened. How come you're sinning? You're not a sinner. You're a Christian. You ever see that? Once uh blue, the white, all of the white, who set her husband on a pedestal. She had her husband as an A. He wasn't even an A minus. He was an A. And he was perfect, and he could be expected to operate perfectly. Yeah, you may not believe it, but you know, that's true. I mean, I had no wife who thought her husband was perfect, even after she lived with him for a while. But there was one problem. The problem was he wasn't perfect. And so every time he would act like a sinner, she'd wonder what happened. And she'd get this illusion. And you know, he sort of, why are you acting like a sinner? You're not a sinner, you're a Christian. You should have dealt with that. You don't act like that. That's not what you're marking. You're not a sinner. You're here on this pedestal. You conquered sin. And so that would produce a great deal of tension because he was a sinner. And there would be that frustration and that tension because she hadn't learned to love him as a sinner. My wife, Kathy, has said the same thing about me, and I admit that it's true. I've given her the impression over the years that I'm an A -minus person. Actually won't come up with that phrase. Have you ever heard it further? I can't even change the title of this thing and call it the A-minus people. But it already went to press and it's too late. You're stuck with it every day. But that's really what I'm getting at, you see Somehow I give another impression I'm an A minus person. Sure I'm a sinner. But not not seriously And whenever we give that impression, the problem is that we open ourselves up to disillusioned people because they see our sin. There are times we can't hide it and it comes out in all its ugliness. It's insensitivity, it's worthless. And then the person wonders, why are you being like that? I don't accept you like that The Bible says if we're going to accept each other, it's got to be as sinners. We can't be surprised When we see each other sinning. We can't condone it. We don't look at it lightly. But we don't say, I can't accept you like that because you're not a sinner. You're a Christian. You are a Christian sinner. And if you and I are going to love each other, it's going to be a sinner. Eva Shaper once said in one of her books, if you demand perfection or nothing You'll always get nothing. Sometimes I think we demand protection from ourselves and from one another. And it's perfection or nothing. And when we don't get perfection, we don't accept and love what we do get from one another. We write it off as nothing. If God says that we claim to be without sin, then we're simply deceiving ourselves And the truth is. If you and I are going to love one another, we're going to love one another as sinners. I sometimes think that we come across like Puritan spiritual journals. I don't know if you've ever read some of the great old saints' spiritual diaries. They're a very treasure to read, and I highly recommend them But there's one problem with very many of them. You will see a great deal of lamentation about what a great sinner I am and what need I have of Christ's forgiveness. But there's nothing ever very specific about it. Now, I don't claim to have a mood of curiosity. It's not that I want the guy to lay out all the sin there, but I sort of get the impression if I went up to him and said, Well, like for instance He'd say, Well, I don't know, but I know that I'm a very great sinner. Well, you know, might you know give you an example and might help me to understand I'm not alone in all this Well, no, I really can't, but I am a very great sinner. Well, again, there is an appropriate time and place for us to confess our sins one to another, as James 5 says And that is not to be done any more publicly than it ever needs to be done. I'm again talking about an impression that we may give to one another that in fact all our sins are in the past tense And there's only a few little skirmishes around the edges of our lives. But not, but we are basically struggling with sin to keep it out of our lives. And that sometimes you and I have deep struggles. And when we have those struggles, we're not alone in that struggle. And when we let each other down by insensitivity and thoughtlessness, And we ought not to be so shocked and surprised. People come to me from time to time, believe it or not, and don't criticize others in the congregation, but our church as a whole. And when they do that, and they'll talk about how this church is failing it this way or that way. Sometimes I find myself thinking: what you're really saying is this church is full of sinners. Well, I don't condone that any more than you condone it. But why are you so surprised? Whoever said the church wasn't full of sinners? And do we write one another off because we're sinners? John says if I claim to have no sin, well, I claim to be part of a body that has no sin I'm simply deceiving myself. And the truth is not in me. That's true in each of our relationships. Husbands and wives, I just gave you an example of that Don't look at your husband or your wife and say, I accept you because you are so much without sin. The more you get to know them, and the more you see the sin, then you find the harder it is to love that person. You've got to deal with it right on. If you're going to marry somebody, you're marrying a sinner. And the more you get to know them, the more you'll get to know about their sin. You'll see victory as the Holy Spirit controls your lives increasingly. But don't ever think that you can sort of get rid of that sin in that person, and then the relationship will be closer. We've got to come to accept each other as sinners. It's true of kids and parents. I talk to parents who somehow get the idea that total depravity doesn't come in their family. Their genes somehow missed all of that in the uh passing down of Adam's transgression. Every kids are inherently sinned. Oh, yeah, I've got a few problems, but they're just kids. And there's not the acceptance. My kids are sinners And if I'm going to love my kids, I'm going to love them as sinners. Your kids. Maybe you have a problem accepting your parents as sinners. Maybe you need to understand that your parents, when they brought it, you shouldn't be surprised and shocked as if somehow your parents have let you down in some way that other parents don't do that. Your parents are sinners. If they say that they're without sin, they're deceiving themselves. And you with kids Need to understand now that God has given you your parents to love you and to be the authority over you, not because they're qualified by sinlessness, but because God's made them your parents. And you need to love them, even as sinners. And as you grow up and find out about those sins and not become disillusioned with them, because you've known from early age that they were sinners. It's true also in our small groups and with our friends. How many times do we get in a small group fellowship? And as the group gets really close and begins to open up and know each other, there's certain people who leave. Because we're saying, well boy, this this group's full of sinners. I I I thought this was a really together group. But I find out there's sinners like other people I've known. Oh big deal. No one else will look for some other people. My friends, you know. They've got me down. I know a woman who has systematically eliminated all of her friends because she found out they were sinners, and so she came to lift for that that made a wrong Now she doesn't have any friends. Well she thought yourself. Someday she's going to find out she's a sinner, then she's going to really be in trouble. It's true of our leaders and our elders. We're especially vulnerable to this. Well, not only are we part of the congregation, but God has called us into leadership. Surely we should be without sin. And you know it's not true. Don't be surprised when you see us as elders sinning. No, again when I say don't be surprised, but I'm not saying write it off with, well, sure those sinners just like everybody else and can vote it. If we need to be corrected, correct us But don't be surprised when you see that we're sinners. When you see that we don't care for you the way we should care for you. When we s when you see that we are not constantly in communion with the Lord and know his will in some close and intimate way with a constant pipeline to heaven, then you see that we're insensitive at times and thoughtless But you see that we sin like you sin. The same way, sometimes worse. But we all struggle against the same basic sins and character flaws in us. We need to have your acceptance as sinners, so that as we share with you more of who we are and what we're like. We don't feel that we're reject this because we're sinners. Because we are grievous sinners I remember reading once from Jack Willard, pastor at New Life, who spent a good deal of time in Uganda and North Ireland in evangelism, and God used him mightily. He was sharing about a small group experience he had had in this discipleship group. He was leading in some people, and the people in that group decided they were going to commit themselves to stop gossiping. When they made that commitment , Jack and his wife said they had some rather solid dinner times in the next few weeks. They began to realize how much a normal part of their conversation gossip was But they felt that they were going, by the power of the Holy Spirit, begin to have that sin rooted out. The thing that amazed them more than what God was doing in their own lives was a reaction that they got from one of the group members He was a person that they used to like to gossip with. They no longer gossip with. But what they found really true was that that brother rejected them. That brother no longer wanted to be with them because they couldn't gossip together. And beyond that, the brother began to criticize them publicly. And Jack says, I was naive in thinking that if I simply loved him enough, that would epemonate his sin. But he says, I have found in my relationships that even though I may love another person, I'm naive to think that necessarily that will produce in us a fellowship that will be without sin. I shouldn't be surprised when I'm rejected, when I'm criticized even by a brother or sister, because we're all sinners. And we need to accept the fact that there are going to be times that will be difficult. Times that will be tense because our love is so imperfect. Don't be disillusioned. Come, deal with that biblically, correcting, forgiving, receiving forgiveness, and go on in the Lord. The third problem is the problem of depression. You see, I suspect that the one of the main reasons why we don't accept the fact that others act like sinners is because we've never really accepted the fact that we are sinners. But we're not gay minus people. Oh sure, if we're Christians, we've accepted the fact that we're sinners. We did that basically when we came to Jesus Christ. But there's a difference between saying, Yes, I'm a sinner Yes, I need Jesus Christ's work applied to my life. And saying, I'm not simply an A- and I need his forgiveness. But I'm at F. I'm a failure. I've broken his law at every point Lord, sometimes I wonder if there's a greater sinner than me when I look at the attitudes of my heart. And there are times when you and I get hit in the face with the realization that we're sinners to a far greater degree Then we realize to that point, isn't it? Sort of moved along, and you think that you sort of got a handle on things, and all of a sudden the Lord stops you. Maybe it's through a message. Maybe it's still a victory or tape that you listen to, or something on a Christian program. Maybe it's the brother or sister who seeks to correct you, maybe lovingly, maybe not so lovingly. But at some point you're brought up short. And as you're brought up short, you're picked to that realization, my God, I really am a sinner. I thought I was flown off pretty well here for a while. But I see that I'm right back to the basics. I'm going right to the foot of the cross again, as if I'd never known the power of the Holy Spirit. And I've brought back to the very basics of seeking God's forgiveness. If, in fact, I am not able to come to grips with that. But if in fact I want to preserve the image that I'm an A-person to myself, I will become depressed. Depression, you see, is not repentance. Repentance is basically a positive action, through which having third and being made aware of my sin, I admit it. I look at it in the light of the cross. I see what it has done to Jesus Christ. But it has nailed him to that cross. And I hate that sin. Therefore, I want to turn from it and have God root it out of my life. But if I'm an unless person, then when I am hit with that sin , I rather win the guilt of it. You see, it jars my view of myself. I don't have sin. What am I doing with all the sin? I'm supposed to be more mature than this. Why am I dealing with such basic issues in my Christian life? The more I grow on as a Christian, the more I'm convinced. That it's simply a series of coming back again and again dealing with those same basic issues. But if I can't accept the fact that I'm dealing with those same basic issues, I have no mechanism for dealing with the guilt Because I can't admit it. I don't accept the fact that I'm a sinner in any radical sense. It's sinners who find forgiveness, not ammonious people. The Pharisees were Amil and his people. The public indeed is blessed as a sinner. And Jesus said he went away justified. Jesus said, I came to seek and to save the lost. And those who are A- and don't think they need a position. Will ballow in their guilt when they can no longer turn it aside. But if I'm willing to come and say, Lord, I don't say I don't have any sin, Lord, I know that I do. Lord, I know sin is still such a part of my life. Then I find forgiveness Then when I'm hit with some sin that I wasn't aware of before, I don't have to try and blot that out. But I can simply say, yes, Lord, that's the kind of person I am. And that's the kind of person that you died for. I remember one time, several years ago, that I was praying along the Potomac River. It was in the wintertime, snow was all on the ground. Very cold day, and I was going out and trying to get my heart a little warm with the Lord to give me some praise, and I felt simply blocked. I was spending some time in Psalm 115, and I just couldn't break through to praise the Lord And I remember thinking at that time, Lord, I've got to get rid of this sin so that I can have an open communion with you. Lord, this sin is blocking me from being able to praise you. Do you ever feel that? You know, this is just a whole block there. And the problem is there's no particular sin you can put your finger on. If there's a particular sin, that's easy. You confess that, you come before the Lord with that, and let Him take it. But it's just a free-floating kind of guilt. So that I just I don't know what to do, but I just feel sinful and I can't praise you And all of a sudden, it was almost as if the Lord spoke to me. I won't claim an audible voice, but it was one of the most striking times. That's why it stands in my mind even though it was about twelve years ago so vividly. But the Lord was saying to me, Ellen, if you're going to phrase me, it's going to be as a sinner and nothing else in this life. Don't think that you're going to get all your sin to put away, and then you will praise me. Praise me as a sinner And then I saw what that first verse of Psalm 115 was saying, and it hit me right between the eyes. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. Because of your love and faithfulness. And I like to think that I can come to God with a pure and clean life, and I can offer that to Him, and that I can give Him something. The grace is so embarrassing. Grace says, I don't have anything to offer. I can only receive. I can only receive his mercy. I can only about verse 9. I can only confess my sin. And know that he is faithful and just to forgive me my sin and to purify me from all righteousness. The last thing is defensiveness. That's what happens When I try to maintain the fact that I'm an A-minus person, somebody else hits me with that sin. And perhaps instead of turning inward and wallowing in all the guilt and wondering why am I still a sinner when I've been a Christian for so long. I react to the other person. You've heard it. It's such a popular phrase now. Don't lay heavies on me. We talk about going around laying heavies on people. Laying a heavy on someone, I understand as trying to make them be like you. The word we ever see in Scripture that we're not to call sin to one another's attention, if in fact that is done lovingly and helpfully. And so if I don't accept the fact that I'm a sinner, I'm an A-minus person, don't go around telling me I'm a C or a D. You know, because if you do, you're going to get a bag on your hands. And don't go around telling me that I'm less than I think that I am. And so defensiveness rises up. Why? I think in many cases, because I don't accept the fact that I'm a sin. Somehow I think that I shouldn't have to deal with any significant sin in my life. Just little brutal skirmishes. And so someone brings something to my attention and I react defensively. And I say, You're way heavy on you. And the Holy Spirit is saying, I want to get through to you. Will you let me read you? Will you let me by stop denying that you're a sinner? And stop saying, I haven't sinned, and let my word abide in you. Well I may say, I may carry this out in my defensiveness by implying that others should be like me. You see, the first is the more defensive posture. This is going on the offense, an offensive defensiveness. The offensive defensiveness says that I will maintain my position as an A -less person by coming to you and showing you that you should be like I am Not some scriptural principle that the Lord has given, but in the slightest, subtlest way, saying that you should have your quiet time like I had my quiet time. You should spend your money the way I spend my money. You should raise your kids the way I raise my kids. You should keep your house the way I keep my house. And on and on and on Because I'm an A-S person. And if I can persuade you to become like me, I will maintain that image to myself. And it's really simply saying, I don't have sin. I'm not a sinner. I have my values all in order Let me sustain that by having you bow into it. Brothers and sisters, the only solution to this is verse 9. It's coming to confess The deep sin. It's the idea that John is there, which is the counterpart to Psalm 32. The David said, When I tried to cover my sin. I became guilty and I became depressed. My bones even ached. Then David said, Finally I came to the point where I confessed my sin. I uncovered it, and God covered it. You see two things there alone in verse 9. He says if we confess our sins, then he's faithful and just to do two things. What's he do? He forgives our sins. And he purifies us from unrighteousness. Forgiveness is remitting a debt. Purifying is removing a stain. Again, I need to come to the Lord, who has once for all acted as judge And as faithful judge, he has sent his own son. He's faithful and just. As a just judge, he must condemn sin. But he's been faithful to his covenant and he has sent Jesus. And in sending Jesus, he judged Jesus. Jesus paid that debt. And Jesus paid the debt that you and I still own. Not something we just owned in the past. A debt that you and I would still own by our constant sinning, if it weren't for the fact that the debt has once for all been paid. And there's nothing that you and I have to add to. Because Jesus has died. And he has removed the stain. He's removed it as judge. And as a father, he bids us to come and say, don't hide the fact that you're a sinner. Come, confess it, that you might know my forgiveness, that you might know the removal of that stain and be cleansed and purified and have once again the renewed sense that I don't have to pretend that I'm not a sinner Because I can come to the Lord as a sinner and I can know his forgiveness. I can know his cleansing. Not to me, not to me be the glory, but to the Lord has done it. The righteousness is not mine. It's his. And grace is so embarrassing because all we can do is receive. Let's go there and say it and receive it. Let's pray. All our God. Further, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. That you would make this message to be a comfort to us your people. To those of us here who have been laboring and struggling under the illusion that we are a church of A-people And therefore become discouraged when they see how grave their own sin is, or disillusioned when they see that we act like sinners. For those of us who struggle here, Father, with our own sin, who struggled with depression. Because we think that since we have walked with you for a number of years, we shouldn't be sinning. And we're caught off guard when we are hit with things in your word that show us that we are dealing with such basic issues. Oh Lord, help us. Help us to confess our sin. Give us grace, Lord, to not hide our sin from you. But to be able to openly say, Lord, I'm a sinner. I'm dealing with basic attitudes. I'm still learning in the kindergarten of love. I'm still learning, Lord, in nursery school about being a servant. And Lord, you still love me. Yet won't be just where I am. Then I don't have to be in sixth grade or high school or graduate school to be able to look to you and to know that you accept me. Help us, Lord, to come right where we are, right where we are with all of our sin. And to know that you are faithful and just to forgive. To forgive sinners, not A minus people, to remove the stain from sinners. Not those of us who are defensive about our sin, who seek to hide it and cover it, and pretend that we're something that we're not. Oh Lord, speak to us, release us, forgive us our sin, and help us to accept the fact that if we're going to love one another and to worship you, And we're going to do it as forgiven sinners, and not people who have arrived. Father, we thank you that we know that you'll receive us just that way. Not because of what we've done, but because of what Jesus has done. To give you the glory of Jesus. To give you the praise. Hallelujah. Amen. Let's respond to the Lord with the use of hymn number one oh one. My soul forever.