Chapter thirteen, First Patients thirteen, verses four to seven Love is patience, love is kind, it does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it's just directed as all Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes. Always perseveres. Thus far. God's word. The husband husband is home late. We went to dinner for the third time. Disleep. He said thoughtless. He first called In fact, you could have been on time if it had really been enough of a priority to him. It's become a habit. Into your situation, you're beginning to feel taken for granted, as well as well as getting tired of cleaning up charge deals The Christian says is very dear to you. But essentially this person can be rather sharp and sickly Sometimes this person hurts you and irritates you by their why don't you just be like me attitude You're right. Has been a bit drafty lately. Uh no big deal. No great big explosions or major crises. You just notice that she's been rather impatient towards you and the kid. Her threshold for friction has become markedly lower than usual. And you're finding that it's alienating you. In each case, the question is, should you rebuke or should you forbear? How do we respond to such situations as we're all in front of us? In quiet forbearance or in confrontation? What is it that the Lord wants us to do? On the past week in a series on forgiveness, I've spoken of both the need to rebuke and the need to forbear. Last week we talked about how the forgiving heart is a heart that realizes that we have no rights. In fact, I cannot demand how a person should treat me I have no such right to do that. And further a forgiving heart speaks when hurt to discover the positive effect about a face, about intense training, and building faith-like characters rather than focusing on the negative attitude of the offender But does that imply that you and I should never rebuke? What does it say? How do we put these things together? If we should rebuke one another at certain times, how do we know when? And how do we know how But I want to get this issue in focus now because I think there is a potential for some confusion because of some of the things that have been said in the last week And so I want to get this mission very clearly in focus. Notice the question that we're dealing with this morning, if you follow along in the bulletin outline, the question that we're dealing with is when to rebuke and when to forbear. Now notice the question is not when to rebuke and when to forgive. This is not an issue of forgiveness. In either case, forgiveness is required of us. But the question is, in practical dealing with a person who is hurting or irritating me, how do I know when to rebuke that person and when I should simply forbear what they're doing? It's a practical everyday question every one of us faces. Try and give some helping the word of God as to what the Lord says about how to deal in these relationships But first of all, notice that there are three possible answers that can be given to this practical thing question. Three possible answers. The first one is to always rebuke. In any interpersonal conflict, this person will take his key from the text that you see listed there in the outline. Notice what they say. We've looked at some of them and looked in in depth at some of them before. Remember Matthew 18 we looked at a while ago. When Jesus said, If your brother sins against you, go show him his fault. Just between the two of you Luke chapter 17 verse 3. Remember where Jesus said, if your brother sins, rebuke him And if he repent, forgive him. Colossians chapter 3 , verse 16, Paul tells us, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach. and admonish one another with all wisdom. If you still found him spiritual sounds of gratitude in your heart to God. That word to admonish one another is the word mu beta. It's the word from which we get the popular term now, myself, counseling. Counseling that deals with confronting sin. Getting it head on and speaking a word of rebuke if it's needed to confront, to warn. This is what that word means, and we're to admonish one another in our fellowship. The same word is used in First Thessalonians chapter five. In First Thessalonians chapter five, in verse fourteen. We're told there I urge your brothers to warn or to review, to admonish those who are idle, but to encourage the children, not the weak, and be patient with everyone. In chapter in 2 Thessalonians 3, 6, he tells us that even you should keep away from the person who is idle. As it's uh a rather strong censure keeping him from fellowship. And then in verse 14 again, the same word just and tetra Jesus, if anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take special note of him, don't associate with him So they don't feel ashamed. But yet don't regard him as an enemy, but verse 15 word is used, but warn him or admonish him as a brother And so we see not only this instruction from the scripture, but we also see the examples in the New Testament. Paul, you remember, admonished and rebuked the Corinthians. He spoke strong words to the Galatians concerning their sin. He didn't simply forbear that. And we see in Galatians 2, for instance, the past says that when Peter was uh hypocritical. He was avoiding the Gentiles as soon as the big deals from Jerusalem came. And the big house was that he thought he might not uh storing forces because he was eating with the Gentiles and he withdrew from them. He Paul said that that was wrong and he rebuked Judah to the face because of that So we see again the example of Paul, who wrote 1 Corinthians 13, rebuked him. This is an example of Jesus, who spoke to us about love. And Jesus rebuked and admonished the Pharisees. Jesus not only admonished those who were without, but he even rebuked and admonished his own disciples. Do you remember that time where he told about his going up to Jerusalem to suffer and dying Peter recoiled in horror and said, No, that'll never be, Lord. And Jesus rebuked Peter. He turned to him and he said, Get me behind me, Satan. Because you don't favor the faith of God. You must go any God's way in this And so Jesus needs you. And in an age of assertiveness such as we live, an age that tells us that we should never hold anything in, that all resentments should be let out lest they build up. We can take a look at these texts as a means for us saying, yes, God wants us to forgive, but he wants us in every case where there's interpersonal conflict to rebuke it, to admonish it, to bring it to a point of confrontation Let us one answer to begin. Then there's the other side of it. There's the person who says no no no. That's not the way of Christ. The way of the Lord is to always forbear the interpersonal conflicts Now the word to bear appears fifteen times, this particular word that means to bear something, to put up with something, to forbear it, appears fifteen times in a new testing. We dealt with it, we were called when we dealt with first when we dealt with Colossians 3. 13, to forbear and forgive. And we looked at that word at that time A word that means to put up with irritations, a word that remember even means to suffer persecution, such as in 2 Thessalonians 1 4. Well Paul says, therefore among God's churches you boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials that you're enduring. That word enduring there is this word to forbear talking about interpersonal relations. That word of the fifteen times it's used in the New Testament is used two times, twice, with reference to relationships between Christians Not talking about persecution, but talking about interpersonal conflict. It's used in Ephesians 4. 2 and Colossians 3. 13. In Ephesians 4, 2, we read that Paul Eric's pleading with the Ephesians on the basis of the fellowship in the body, he says, Be completely humble and gentle, be patient. staring with one another in love. Remember he goes on then a few paragraphs later to talk as we looked at against some weeks ago. about being kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as Christ, in Christ, God forgave you, verse 32 That's the context that he's then saying. Forbear, put up with, bear with one another in love. This idea of forbearing and forgiving are even more closely associated in the passage we looked at in Colossians 3 13 because they're linked immediately together where Paul says they're bear with each other and forgive whatever grievance that you may have against one another. Do you remember when we looked at that? Bear with each other and forgive whatever no exceptions, grievances , may have with one another. And so this person says it's very clear that we're supposed to bear in every case. You add to this the fact that we looked at before we don't have any rights, to Jesus Christ, who had all the rights, the only one who really had rights in the universe, that means two peasants gave up those rights took upon himself the form of a servant even to the point of death on a cross. When you look at Matthew 16, 24 and 25, right after Jesus was reduced, Peter, what's he going on to say? He says And now if you're gonna really follow me, you must deny yourself and take up your cross and follow me. If you're gonna seek the story of your life, grasp yourself, your rights and those things you should possess, then you're gonna lose it. But he seeks to lose his life for my sake. Shall then find it. And so Christians say, This, you see, is the way of Christ. To always prepare. We should pray that that husband will come home on time. Don't make a scene about it. You say, Lord, I'm going to take the case to you. This miserable character is coming home and learning all these things, but Lord, I'm going to take that before. I'm going to pour it out to you in our Lord. You make him come home. Well now whatever he's doing, you just get him out of a seat and get him to come home here and what it could be. And you make that person to be less sharp and prickly, and give that over to you Lord, you deal with my wife. I can't, Lord. Nothing I can do. Lord, I'll give it to you. You take my wife and you deal with her patience And that's the way of Christ, some people would say, to always forbear. But what I want you to notice about this now is that one of these two ways that I have just outlined is your natural tendency. The only you know which way you incline personally according to your own personality. Some people incline to be redeepers. Others inclined to be forbearers. Some of us at some times inclined naturally to rebuke, and at other times to shy away from the confrontation and to forbear. So what I want you to notice is this. Whatever our personality and natural tendency is, is what we as Christians will tend to baptize as being the Christian way to respond. interfirst the relationships. And those were redeemers, we take a look at Matthew 18, Luke 17, Colossians 3, and these others, and we say That's the word of God. He says, if your brother stink, you rebuke him. And if the ghost is famous for bear, but you rebuke him, you see. We read those in large capital letters. The others sort of qualify it. If they tend to be those who shy away from confrontation and any kind of confrontation makes us very nervous and we would rather just paternalize it and put it in and say, well what the Lord said was to bear with one another. And he said to forbear and to forgive. And he also said to rebuke. He says, so we tend to receive the other as a qualification in small letters behind what is our natural tendency. But before we can go any further in really understanding the Word of God, what I want you to do is examine yourself. Which is your natural tendency? What you need to do is work how to understood among yourself that your own natural tendencies in general To then say, now Lord, this is what I will incline to in an imbalance, and I pray that you will bring me into a balance But not a balance by a mixture of the two things. Phenom will review through ought to just add a little more forbearance in Well I tend to be a forbearer so I ought to just jack up my uh levels to be able to front people in the middle more. That is not the way but rather by a radical reorientation of both tendencies under the control of Jesus Christ. And that means this appointment state. What you see here, you see, is that either one can be right Either one is right in certain circumstances, but the essential question is what motivates you to reduce or to forgive, is to reduce, excuse me, or to forbear But these are our wrong motives, and there are our right motives for each. Now, what we need to do is to take a look at both. What is a wrong notice? Well, first of all, then the wrong motives for rebuking are irritation. The wrong motive for rejecing is irritation. Do you have a notice that the New Testament speaks of Jesus getting angry, but it never speaks of Jesus feeling irritated or dogged? Irritation, you see, is sin. And any rebuke which stems from irritation is simple. Irritation, by irritation, I mean that impatient annoyance Respectful, petulance, that kind of exasperation, that kind of anger that wells up in you because your father's knees Because it fed on my rights. It is self-centered and therefore seeks to strike out in punishment. Irritation is essentially self-centered. And if I rebuke a person because I'm irritated with them, that is always the wrong motive. It denies the very mind of Christ. But on the other hand, that is the wrong motive for forbearing. And I would suggest from the scripture that the wrong motive for forbearing is what I call worried theology. You know what worm theology is? Well, I'd say the best way to understand worm theology is from that classic victorious life example of the contrast between a worm and a snake. There's that example. The pastor says, right, you know, you walk along and you try to step on a stake, and what does it do? Rears up its head, kisses at you, and it tries to strike back. That's always what a state will do when you try to step on it. It's gonna strike back. Well, uh contrast that. Did that 's the perfect picture of stuff. That's what it says. In contrast, worm theology says that a worm They'll allow you to do anything you want with it. Did you ever see a worm roll up its head and try to strike back at you when you pick it up and see if you find one in the garden? You look and there 's a land and after you've decided which age you should say hello to. So which age you should uh begin to try and deal with this thing is, uh you try to pick it up and then give us your land to gear it up and coil the table trying to strike you. No, Roman practically lets you do anything you want with it. You can step on it, you can squash it under your heel, you can do anything you want. Well you see this theology says that that is a perfect picture of brokenness. In fact, I'll give you a quote from a book on this that says Jesus then calls us to take our rightful place as worms for him and use him. Picture of brokenness, allowing people to do whatever they want with us because we're worried. And what's wrong with this? Sounds like a pretty good attitude, doesn't it? Doesn't that sound good Christmas? Well, sometime in the future I want to get into this whole picture of the biblical understanding of self-image. Uh but we don't have time to do that this morning. Let me just deal with what is wrong with this right now in terms of a reason for forbearing. And I would suggest that there's three things wrong with this. First of all This kind of theology would never be dope. You see, uh, if I were to take that to a total of conclusion, I allow people to do anything they want with me, anything that has to do with an interpersonal relationship, I won't say I have no rights And that becomes an excuse for avoiding confrontation , whatever reducing sin. It's uh something which Uh we s we see as being uh a way of following through a path of law often becomes simply the least resistance. In the same Psalm, Psalm ninety four, if the psalmist calls upon God to avenge him and take up his case and says, My rights are yours, Lord, you must do it. In that same psalm, the psalmist rebukes those who are silly so he says, You stupid fools So fun do you think that you can sin and God won't see it? And he calls them to repentance. And that's gonna that's a picture, you see, of his own persecutions he's undergone. And so the scripture requires. Rebuke on certain occasions, and therefore we must realize that we must have a theology and understanding of ourselves that allows for this, that allows for rebuke. According to the lines that the scripture speaks of it. The second thing that's wrong with the one theology is that uh it has no zeal A person who takes seriously this kind of view can be very pietistic and very withdrawn, but will seldom have a zeal for public righteousness. Such a person will seldom cease to to uh act on behalf of wrong to be righted in society, because that requires a certain amount of aggression I mentioned to you at the beginning of this service about the church in San Francisco that is being sued because it took disciplinary action against a homosexual, an avowed homosexual. Well if that church and that past we say, well but you know we don't have any rights, we just sort of have to let them do what they want with us they 'll just have to if they're gonna do that, well then uh we simply lie down like lions then there will be no deal for righteousness. But what have they established? They established a fund called the Christian Rights Defense Fund. Not for their own rights, but because of rights that relate to the kingdom. But it's a zeal that comes from saying that we must speak to this. We must stand up and have a zeal for righteousness. It's not a passivity. But it's a sanctified aggression. And so uh that's the second problem. The third thing If we take this world theology really seriously, I would suggest we need to not only know the dealing or know heal, but also know goals You think it's the kind of view this doesn't my life is simply responding to the demands placed upon me by other people And if in fact you live that way, you'll never say no to anything. If you start never saying no to anything, you'll never have any direction. Therefore, you can never be a leader to influence other people through Jesus Christ. Jesus himself was not like that. Jesus himself, indeed, had his face set toward Jerusalem. And he walked toward Jerusalem, meeting people's names as he went. But he didn't just go when somebody said, Hey, I want you to come on over to the capitalist you know we've got some things to do over there he said, Oh well that's all right, you know, I was gonna do this, but I'll go on over to the capitalist for a couple of weeks Jesus knew where he was going, where the Father had what his father had sent him to do, he had goals and he had a direction to take. And in moving in the ministry God had carved out for him, Jesus met needs, but he had goals. The soul to see that priorities involve a certain kind of direction and not simply lying down as well. Well then if these is this is the dilemma, then what is the right lady? What is the right motive for rejecting and forgiving? I would suggest that we find that, the clue to that in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. We read from Well for the first case is chapter thirteen. We see just those few words there, an outline of the attitude, the forms of proper foundation for deciding when to rebuke and when to forgive That is a fascinating development of the thought in verses 3 to 7, and I plan to do a series on that, hopefully next year. Um see when we can get to that. But uh that I would like to take each phrase. as a message and show the relationship between them as well as what they're saying. I think it's a it's a very, very valuable and a fascinating study for me to do But right now I want to notice one thing from it. I'm just going to focus on this one thing. And that is, notice in verse five, that you see their diagrams in the ability In verse 5 you have the beginning of a progression. Actually it begins all the way at the beginning. In fact the whole thing you'll see if we go through this eventually, hopefully, is a whole circle. It ends where it begins and it just revolves around as a circle as love. But picking it up at verse 5, he says there that love is not easily altered, or it means not easily provoked. Why? Well, simply because it's not primarily concerned with its own interests. Because not primarily concerned with his own interests, but rather in the interest of Christ and his honor, in pleasing him Because love is not easy to provoke. It's hard to get love all bothered and dumb. Because love just isn't all that concerned about its own interests. Love is free from the attitude that says, I need to protect me. I need to protect my interests and my rights. And therefore, you see, it leads to not dwelling on wrongs suffered. Because that's this attitude, it keeps no record of wrongs. It 's been focused on. But it's it there keeping an account, writing up a list of the things that have been done wrong today. But Laver says that's that kind of attitude is petty because So what if I don't get consideration that I believe I deserve? Neither did my Lord. And if my master didn't get that, why should I expect that I would? The same love is able to move on without keeping the record of wrongs. It move on then to you see the third thing focusing on what is true and good. Love focuses on the true and good. It's not critical. Most of the things that I must uh think about these days so that I can keep them straight and know how to react to them. But love rather would rather look at what is good. He would rather not see The wrongs that have been done. Love says, How can I? I've been forgiven all the wrongs that I have done against Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ took those and he bore them At the cross. But Jesus Christ took upon himself those wrongs, but he suffered and he died, becoming obedient to death. And because of that, I am forgiven. God has forgiven me all my life. Against him. How can I then, with that kind of phase and that kind of grace dwelling up in my heart, focus on what is wrong? Providing you see them levels optimistic That's the fourth stage it used to. I love, you see, rejoices with the truth. I love always just protecting and bearing. It's always trusting, always hoping, always persevering. Love is able to see what God is doing in the situation in that person. I'm able to do right and do anything by his love. The point, you see, that I'm making is my love. is only as big as the thing which gets it down. And so then, when do I prepare? Well at least left as blank the usual right in your words. Oh that's why I do this just so you got something to do there. So you make sure that you're active in this. Don 't you forbear? I would suggest that I forbear when I'm irritated. If what has happened to me in my interpersonal relationships irritates and exasperates me, that's what I need to forbear. If I'm bugged because my rights have been trampled on If I'm dubbed and critical and petty because of what has been done to me, that's when the passages that deal with forbearance come to play. If that's when the Lord speaks to me about my attitude toward that other person, and I need to confess that. That attitude. I need to bring that before the Lord. I need to meditate and I need to pray on the mind of Christ. I need to ask God to give me that mind that's here pictured in 1 Corinthians 13, 4-7. Because this is the mind that is not irritated, because it rises above that into the mind of Christ. Well, on the other hand, then, if that's the case When do I ever rebuke? Or when do I ever confront? I would suggest that a good line guideline to take is that you and I confront or rebuke when we're motivated by the great commandment. What was the great commandment the Lord gave? Remember, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and your neighbor as yourself. It's fine two parts here, you see. I've broken this down into my must for God and my must for my neighbor. If I am motivated by my must for God and his honor , And that's being trampled on. I have the responsibility to rebuke that. The Lord of Jesus in the temple on two occasions, at the beginning and at the end of his ministry, dwell down And he drove them out and he said that the heel of his house of his father's house, that's because the zeal of his father's house had consumed him. Why? Well not because Jesus likes to be camped alone, but because his father's honor Was being compromised. Paul reduced Peter concerning his actions with the Jews and the Gentiles. Fine Not because Paul's rights were being trampled on, but because the gospel was being compromised. It was the gospel that was at stake, and so therefore Peter, Paul, with freedom of conscience, rebuked Peter What about in our end day? Do you have friends, neighbors, or people that you work with that constantly take the Lord's name in vain? Constantly say, Jesus Christ. Every time they're irritated. Use it in a way that they don't even realize. But keep them, take our join that way. Such a rebuke. And that case is not for my rights, but because of the honor of my Lord. But just simply so on that occasionally, you know, I wish we could keep Jesus out of your language when you use it like that, because he used it off a lot to me. But a word that may, whether or not it opens up an opportunity for witness, nevertheless be a rebuke that is God directed. By concern and love for the other person. Fear and concern for his good. The Colossians three sixteen, which told us that we're to admonish one another in Psalms, hymns, spiritual psalms, follows right on the heels of chapter one, verse twenty eight, where that same word is again used, and what is the purpose of it? In Colossians one twenty eight Henry proclaim admonishing and teaching of Islam with all wisdom. Why? So that we may present everyone perfect in Christ. By motive, you see them is to produce in you a greater Christ likeness. What about that husband then, who's been late three times this week? Do I reduce or do I forbear If my attitude is to pick up a non -habit out of irritation, I need to pray that God will give me. Rather an attitude that is in which I know my irritation before him. I may not be able to get rid of it before him, but I love it before him And then I will still realize that because of that person's thoughtlessness, that needs to be dealt with. I need to speak to that person in consideration. is not going to help that person if it's allowed to continue. So I bring it up to that person. Having prayed about it, having thought about it, so I don't simply bring it up as a stingy rebuke, something to get back into place and to punish them. Threaten whatever else, the things we've talked about in the past. But nevertheless, it must be dealt with. And I can't simply say that I just forbear it so as to avoid the confrontation. It's a spiritual issue. That person will use short and I just pray that that person will somehow soften. God will deal with them in the quiet time. Don't use me though. Because that attitude is be like me is a wrong attitude Now that's something that God wants to deal with in their life. And so God may want me not out of a not out of a uh motivation of irritation or simply being bugged, but at some point when I'm not bugged You see not at the point when they just bothered me by that. I just sort of laugh back. But I think that's too many, do it in. But rather, having thought about it, thought about, without that kind of tension, I come to the person to the concern. Not about the wife. Who 's been sort of uh watchy lately? It's probably not gonna help if I simply say I've been so rocky lately. Progress the understanding of the need too far. Rather what I need to do is to give it the root problem. What is it that's bothering her, that is causing her to be impatient? Before I need to forbear reacting so that I can take the initiative in getting at the root problem Finding out at some point over a cup of coffee or something uh uh if not again a tense situation. What seems to be the matter What seems to be getting her down, what it is that seems to be causing disimpatience, and then speak to that problem. But in each case, you see the matter must be dealt with. Also, I must say that there are sometimes we must speak to the person simply because we're alienated. We may not even be sure why we're alienated. We may not be able to come into the most Christ-like attitude before we say what we need to say, but we do need to say it because we must speak to the person in order to come to a reconciliation. And so it can't use forbearance as an excuse for not affecting the reconciliation. Now let's come finally to the application of this and just five points and let me just briefly touch my leads on the back. Five steps to a right attitude. Light suggests that uh to use as a uh acronym. Try and remember this, uh I couldn't come up with anything better than WOPS. W-R-O-P-S doesn't do many uh associations to my mind, uh think of wraps or something, I don't know, whatever you want. But at least the what I'm thinking of is this W-R-O-P-S These are the steps that I have in mind. The first step, then, is to worship God. This I would suggest is the true starting point, not death to self. A lot of fishers get in trouble here, in which their focus is on denying my rights, mortifying myself, dusting myself, because that can become in a very subtle way self-centered. But rather the scripture tells us to turn our eyes upon Jesus Christ. And if I get my eyes on Him and begin by worshiping Him, my focus then becomes on Him And there's a direct correlation, I would suggest, between the time, the amount of time that you spend in worship of God and the ability to forbear I suggest that speak for at least two reasons. Number one, because the more time you spend in worship, the more you begin to get an entire perspective on things and not a petty moment by moment getting carried up with all the new irritations. The second reason is because it's simply a fact that we become like what we worship. Anthropologists will tell us this The people who all over the world they say, Tell us what their gods are like and we'll tell you what the people are like. They become like what we worship And to the story, and so many times he looked for principles and solutions and practical answers, and he's overlooked this one. But what God's calling us to do is to begin to spend more time in worship of him But that has very practical effects. But it's like thinking worship because of what it will produce. We worship because of God. But that's the starting point for our interpersonal relationships. The second thing is that we don't recall the extent of God's forgiveness to us. Remember Colossians 3. 13, forbear and forgive just as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. In forbearance, the context is forgiveness. As Christ forgave you. In rebuking, the context is forgiveness as God has forgiven you. Remember Matthew 18? He says, Go tell your brother his fault, reveal him. Then he goes right on to talk about the story of the king who had forgiven the $10 million debt, and he says, That's how your father's forgiven you And then he speaks about your relationship with your brother. In every case, again, the motive for our forbearing and for rebuking is out of the context of a forgiving heart And that's because God has forgiven us. Now I've said that week after week after week. But sometimes it takes four or five times for us to begin to capture that and say, Yeah, that's true. And so if it hasn't hit you yet, I think it will hit you this morning. Enough for forbearing and for rebuking in the context of forgiveness is always the forgiveness of God toward us. Nothing else is more basic. Not any effects it produces in my life. Not any of the goodies or baddies I get out of it or don't get out of it. It's because God has forgiven me in Christ. I need to recall that as I think on that That was produced in me a forgiving attitude. Often what happens, you see, is we begin to think about our sin. We begin to feel lousy about thinking of that sin, and so therefore we begin to criticize other people to feel better about it And that's when then we begin to get into this cycle where we can't prevere and we reduce from irritation. You and I should never think about our sin without thinking about our justification in Jesus Christ. Once we think of how we've been forgiven by Him, then we've got to lose our hearts to grace. The first step then is to be optimistic about the person's life and God's work in that person's life You read the beginning of Paul's letters, whether they're problem-oriented or whether they are joy-oriented, every letter begins with a positive note of God's word from the people. But Paul always, in some case, Galatians he gets to the point pretty quickly, but in either in that case, in every case, at some point, Paul expresses a keen and deep optimism about God's work in the lives of those people. You see, the principle is the people tend to become what we hope for them. And if you and I are problem-oriented in our relationships, That will produce problems. If the possibility early on it in terms of what God is doing in the person's life, that will tend to produce what we hope for And then in number four, what we can pray for. They are not now what they will always be. But God is in the process of changing them, just as he's in the process of changing me, then I can forth pray expectantly for them Amazing how much you and I claim to know about other people's problems and how little we use that information before the throne of grace And yet if we claim to know what the problem is, why don't we turn that to effective prayer? And claim that need to serve the Lord. We go around saying, oh boy, this person's problems, well this, this, this, and this. You say, well, let's pray about that person now. Well, I don't know what to pray about. We need to turn that knowledge to effective prayer and expect that God to be healing and answering and working in that person as a result of that. I try to have a rule in my life and in our house that there's no criticism without rebuke And there's no rebuke without prayer. Expectant prayer. Then finally the fifth thing is the willing to speak directly to the person. speak directly to the person. If I seek to forbear, I can't I can't forget it. I can't put it out of my mind, then it's something I need, I must speak to that person about it There's two reasons to at least why I must speak to that person about it if I can't forget it. Number one, because of their good, Colossians 1028, admonishing one another So that represent each person complete in Christ. The second reason is perfect to be reconciliation. Because in all likelihood we're alienated Those two reasons, their good and for our reconciliation, I must speak directly to the person. I can never use forbearance as an excuse To not speak to a brother or sister that I'm alienated with. Let's speak to Joe, you know, race for Baron And a godly rebuking is his people here in Colombia. Let's pray.