You have your Bibles with you today. Please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke will be looking at chapter 8, beginning with verse 26. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, and Lord, we thank you for its truth and its beauty. But we also confess, O Lord, that we need enlightenment from you. Lord, we need your help. Eyes that see and ears that hear, the Lord God has made them both We pray, O Lord, that you would help us to see and to hear wonderful things in your word about who you are, how you call us. What you call us to do, who we are. Lord, so many things in the scriptures that we read that are so important for our thriving, our life. Our happiness both now and forever. And so, Lord, bless the reading of your word. And Father, in the preaching that follows it, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, We ask your blessings on that as well. Amen. Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 26, the Word of God. Then they sailed to the country of the Garasenes, which is opposite Galilee. When Jesus had stepped out on land, there met him a man from the city who had demons. For a long time he had worn no clothes, and he had not lived in a house, but among the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him and said with a loud voice, What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For many a time it had seized him, and he was kept under guard and bound with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demons into the desert. Jesus then asked him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, for many demons had entered him. And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss. Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him to let them enter these. So he gave them permission. Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and drowned. When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country. Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone. Sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. And those who had seen it told them how the demon-possessed man had been healed. Then all the people of the surrounding country of the garrisons asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned. The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him away. saying, Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you. And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him. This ends the reading of God's Word. As we've been moving through the Gospel of Luke, We have noted that how beginning with chapter 8, we have a new section in which Jesus is preparing his apostles. the disciples, the twelve, to go out and engage in their first missions trip, sent away from Jesus to do Jesus' work And that begins in chapter 9, verse 1. And this is the second of four events, accounts, narratives in which Jesus is showing them something. of the truths that they need to understand as they go out. Now you could preach many, many sermons from this text There was a Puritan who lived in New England in the 1600s, the late 1600s, named Thomas Shepherd. And he one time on one parable preached 72 sermons. That could be done with this, but I'm not going to do it. I'm going to preach one sermon, and I'm going to focus on the biggest, what I think is most obvious yet most frequently missed truth Take a look at this text for a minute. It breaks into three parts. Jesus lands On the opposite side of the Sea of Galilee from Galilee itself. Galilee is in the land that would have been the inheritance of God's people. Right there, about roughly where the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh would have been camped out. And he gets in a boat, he goes across the lake, of course that's where the storm whips up, and Jesus calms the storm, he lands on the other side. And he's met by one man who is naked and raving. He's a demon A demoniac. Someone possessed by a legion because many demons have taken up their homes. Legion. That is a word that doesn't come from anything Jewish or Hebrew or even Semitic That is specifically a word that was used to describe the military unit of Rome. And a legion consisted of roughly 6,000 soldiers. We are talking about someone who is utterly and thoroughly drenched in wickedness. He is extremely, even obscenely powerful, able to break chains and shackles. He is utterly unworthy of society, such that even a culture and a society that had close association and connection to the Jewish people who thrived in raising unclean animals, pigs, Had him living among the tombs, a castaway, a throwaway, a reject, someone greatly feared because of their great power and aberrant behavior. There are two places in this text that I read for us where the timeline reverses itself. Did you notice how strange it was that in verse chapter 29 , Chapter 28, we read that this man possessed of thousands of demons comes to Jesus and says, What have you come to do to me or with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? Don't torment me. And then we jump backwards on the timeline. We read, For he, Jesus, had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. So the story goes along, jumps back. That also happens later. All of the people of the Garasene region gather around, they hear the account, they see what has happened, and they're terribly frightened, and they say, Depart from us. And we read, so Jesus got into the boat and returned. Jump back on the timeline. The man who had been cleaned begs to go along. You see how we have these three separate sections that in a way much like the book of Revelation, one section completes. And then to tell the next section, we have to back up a little bit and get a running start. Then we have to back up a little bit and get a running start. And that signals to us as readers of the Bible that each of those sections is trying to make a specific point to us. And if we look at what's happening in each of those sections, if you will, or each of those parts of this broader account, Jesus and the demoniac. Jesus and the garrisons, and Jesus and the man who was healed, we see that each of them ends with a question, a request made of Jesus. The first is made by the demons themselves, these thousands of demons who say, and they the word is used beg, the same word that's trans, the same word that is translated the same way in the Translation I'm reading. He's using the exact same word the man who's healed of these demons will use. He begged, can I go with you? These demons are begging that they not be sent to the abyss, but instead be sent into these pigs that just happen to be handy. And Jesus says yes. Secondly, the people in the town having been notified by the herdsmen who had just lost their livelihood. They're terrified. They see what has happened. Maybe they're thinking about what it would be like to have someone so powerful living in their community. And despite the fact that he had healed this person who had no doubt been a menace, they're more afraid of Jesus than they were of the menace. They don't say to Jesus, hey, why don't you just live here among the tombstones? Don't come into town. No, they say, please leave. And Jesus says, okay, yeah, I'll do that. And then this man who had been healed, this man who had been set free from thousands of demonic torturers. Now clothed and in his right mind, he says, please, Lord Jesus, please let me come with you. And Jesus says, No. That framework is essential to looking at this broader text. And it is a point that is of particular importance to people like you and me. who are called in different ways to be engaged in different aspects of ministry together. You see, that denial is surprising for a couple reasons. First and most obviously, what I've just observed. He said yes to demons. He said yes to a town of unbelievers. Sinners. People who rejected his covenant. His claim. His person. Imagine for a moment that you went to a family reunion and your uh your dad, uh, and my dad just happens to be here today. Welcome uh dad and mom. And what what if I went to my parents' house and we 're hanging out, just playing cards like we usually do. There's no money on the table. We're just playing just a whole lot of family pride and bragging rights. So that's uh we're sitting there playing cards, someone knocks on the door and says says, Hey uh Dr. Birkas. Uh Would you help me um jumpstart my car? It just broke down in in front of your house. And he said, Oh yeah, absolutely. Um, here, let's hey, let's remember whose turn it is the deal. I'm gonna go fix this guy's car for him. He goes and fixes his car. And let's suppose that that guy was Dad's next door neighbor. And let's just imagine that my dad had a next-door neighbor that regularly threw rocks at his house and broke all his windows. And then later another guy came by who just made it a point to consistently ignore my father. consistently ignored him. Let's imagine my dad would walk up and say, hey, I'm Al Burkus, and this fellow would just be And then that guy came by and said, Hey, hey, my my car broke down in front. Would you help me change my tire? Imagine my my dad saying, Oh, sure, I'd I'll I'll do that. Yeah, absolutely. Hey guys, let's remember whose tournament is the deal. I'll be back in a minute. And then let's suppose that Isa 's son, sitting at his table, said, Hey Dad, I just got a call that uh my wife's car ran out of gas. And uh could we go help her with that? He said, absolutely not. Just imagine that for a moment. How irrational that would be How unexpected that would be. If here you have somebody who has set a pattern of agreeing to help and to meet the needs or grant the requests of people who were either his enemies or wanted nothing to do with him. And then somebody who bears the closest of relations to him gets denied. Sometimes we think of Jesus and we think of God Himself as if God simply exists to grant our requests. And we we look at the things God has done in the lives of other people and we think, oh, that's awesome. He did that for that person, that person, that person. What about me, God? And we run the risk of being like Asaph in Psalm seventy three. Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart, verse one, verse two, but as for me, my feet had almost slipped because I envied the prosperity of the wicked. I saw what God had done in the lives of others, and I assumed He would do it for me also. And when I realized that he was blessing other people, even wicked people, in ways that I wasn't being blessed. My heart grew heavy. It burned. I could barely sleep. Those are the words of Asaph. What about this man healed of demons? I want you to think for a moment of what his life must have been like. Because even though we recognize that this is a surprising denial, we have to Take a deep dive into his life to really appreciate just how surprising the denial was. The place this man has left. Here is the baby brand new follower of Jesus. And Jesus has just spent his entire ministry saying to people, follow me. And here's this guy who's healed of thousands of demons who says, Lord, I'm ready. I want to follow you. Let me in the boat. And for the first time in Jesus' earthly ministry, he says, You're going to follow me differently. You are not coming with me. You're not allowed in the boat. Instead, you're going to stay among people who were afraid of you. Instead, you're going to stay among people before whom you are horribly embarrassed and have been deeply shamed Do you remember those Snickers commercials where there's a guy who just finished painting an NFL stadium end zone and he looks back on it and it says Chefs instead of chiefs. Anybody remember that? And the commercial is ever want to just get away? Where you've done something super embarrassing and you're like, oh my goodness. I just don't want to be here anymore. I'm too humiliated to see these people again. Imagine what it would be like if you had been possessed by thousands of people, lived among tombs, undoubtedly fought with pigs for food. And we're regularly naked, like literally naked in front of them. And then you come to your right mind. You want to go hang out with those people on a Friday night? I wouldn't. I remember one time when this church used to meet at the Long Reach Stone House. Some of you might remember that. That was several stops before here. We used to meet at the Long Reach Stonehouse. We rented that place, and for some reason the deacons thought it would be a good idea. To let people take turns carrying the key to unlock the church on Sunday morning so we could go in and set up and get ready. And for some reason, the deacons thought it was a good idea to allow a teenager, to allow multiple teenagers to have that authority to carry the key. Notice, definite article, the key. Not a key, like there were others, the key. Now imagine for a moment that your name is Bobby Björkes, and one day you had the key. And you roll up to church one morning, and everybody's standing outside, locked out of the Long Reach Stonehouse, and Alan Harris is standing there. Got the key, you're late. I did not have the key. The key was somewhere in a 16-year-old's bedroom Full of jazz sheet music, hunting rifles, and science fiction books. Somewhere in all of that was the key to the church And I had to run back home, find that key, and run back to church. And I was humiliated. There's no place I would rather not have been than church that morning. Everybody at church knew that I was the reason the service started 40 minutes late. Now I'm the reason churches go 40 minutes long. Every time someone turned around and looked at me or saw me, I was imagining that they were thinking the worst of me Just for the record, we will never give keys to sixteen year olds. My humiliation My embarrassment, my discomfort of being notoriously the big sinner in the fellowship that morning would be nothing compared to what this man would have felt every time he had to go into the marketplace to buy bread. He couldn't just stay home and order it from Amazon. Every time he wanted to go get potable water to drink, he'd have had to go to the well and see all these people that had seen him in his shame. Naked and insane and wicked, he would have wanted to get away. And he was told he could not. Why would Jesus do that to somebody? Why would Jesus not let this man into the boat? Jesus' denial of the man's request was surprising. It was also very intentional. Notice what he says. He doesn't simply say, no, you can't get in the boat. I'm cutting you loose, you're on your own. Instead, he said, return home. That's very specific. Go back to the place where it started. Go back to the place where people knew you Go back to the place where people experienced and were perhaps even victimized by your wickedness. Go back to the place where your shame was most manifest. Go back home. And not just redirecting, but refocusing. You have undoubtedly been focusing On all that you had done and all of the horrific, embarrassing, shaming, awkward baggage you carry. Jesus instead says, return home and declare how much God has done for you. Jesus says to this man, go back home. where the people who know everything about you, and almost all of it is bad, go back to where people mistreated you and threw you to live in a graveyard. the most unclean place in an ancient culture with unclean animals. You would have been a spectacle and a byword among the people. Go back to them. And instead of focusing on your past, I want you to look upwards and forwards and declare all that God has done for you, the changes He has wrought in your life. And think about that for a moment. If that man had gotten in the boat with Jesus and gone to Galilee. He could have stood in front of those people in the town of Cana. And he could have said, let me tell you what Jesus has done for me I was once a raving lunatic, possessed of thousands of demons. I used to be able to break chains. I lived in a graveyard. I had pigs for companions. They would have been really impressed by that. Some of them might have been skeptical. Some of them flat out died. Some of them might have said, yeah, here's a chain. Break this. Now imagine that same person telling that testimony among the garrisons. When they knew exactly what he was, and they could not deny what he had become by a powerful grace By an undeniable truth, by a God who is real and speaks and acts. Many times in ministry I have wanted what would be best and most convenient and easiest for me. And God has on many occasions said no We don't know exactly what this man was thinking, but instead we know what he did. And he went away proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him. He said, okay, Lord, you have set me free, you have washed me, you have made me whole. I'm going to go back to the place of my shame and my misery And I am going to be the brightest burning light. I'm going to be the saltiest piece of mineral that that community ever had after you left. And this is in some respects the beginning of what we might call a Gentile mission. These people weren't Jewish in any sense that would have been recognized at the time. And this is the first time Jesus has sent someone to declare the kingdom of God and all that God in Christ does for people. And it's this man. It's the demoniac. We don't know his name, but we know his story We don't know how he felt or what he thought, but we see what he did. He heard Jesus say no, and he allowed Jesus to redirect him and refocus him. to direct him to the people he could most impact and to focus him on what God had yet to do through his witness. And that is a lesson for all of us. That is a lesson for us that God doesn't always let us leave awkward positions and situations and circumstances. Sometimes he won't open those doors. Sometimes he does say to people, because his mission of which you are a vital part requires you with the uniqueness of your experience. even the uniqueness of the scars and the wounds you bear, to go and be a witness. In Jerusalem, Judea. Galilee to the very ends of the earth. Now, here's a man who did just that. And he started in his Jerusalem. when that was the last place in the world that he wanted to be. So what about you and me? Do we find ourselves in a difficult place? Wishing we could just get away, have a snickers and mystically appear in a stadium where the words are spelled correctly. God has a reason in that. And his purposes might not include you getting away, but working through and rising above. He might be calling you to stop focusing on the past, but instead declare what God has done for you now and move towards the future of kingdom building that Jesus Christ would see us engaging. Do you find that God is saying no or not now to some deep spiritual desires? Do you find that there are things you desperately want or need, some boats you would give anything to be in, and God is either saying no or not now? Allow God to redirect and refocus you. To redirect you to whomever you can most impact right now and refocus you on what God has already done for you. You see, we tend to focus ourselves on the people we would prefer to interact with, and we tend to be thinking about our pasts and what people think of us in light of that. And what Jesus is doing in calling people to partner with him in the gospel is radically different than that. He's saying, go where your impact can be greatest. And he's saying, live in a way that reflects the present work of the power of God in your life and what he's called you to moving forward. And that begs a question. Has God done anything for us? Has God done anything for you? I hope that he has. This passage is remarkable for many reasons, and it could be the subject of 72 sermons. Let me just observe that here in this text we have two evidences that Jesus is indeed the divine Son of God from all eternity. Notice what the demons themselves say to Jesus in verse 28, where they say, Jesus, Son of the Most High God, I beg you, do not torment me. Now, if you carefully consider that, Jesus, son of the most high God, and what that son of the most high God would have meant. The demons themselves recognize that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. Jesus in verse 39 tells our friend, the man with the shameful past and the glorious present. He says, Then return to your home and declare how much God has done for you. And he went away proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him. God in Christ Jesus, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, God made flesh. sets us free from the power and the dominion of evil times evil times evil. And he does that by the power of his blood. He does that by the fact that Jesus Christ goes to the cross in the place of sinners like this man. And by faith in Jesus and in receiving and embracing and following Jesus, even if he had to stay in the garrisons. This man is included amongst all of those for whom Jesus Christ goes to the cross and says, I am dying in the place of all of the sins that opened all of the doors for thousands of demons to come in and make camp. And that man's soul, I'm dying for all of that, paying the penalty for all of that, that he might be utterly cleansed and forgiven. Completely reconciled to his Maker, His God, our Heavenly Father, that He might become no longer a residence for demons, but a vessel for the Holy Spirit. That's what God did for this man. And that's what God would do for you. Whatever sins are in your life It's hard to imagine that they would be the equivalent of 6,000 demons possessing you, driving you to horrific evil violence. And yet people just like that are the objects of Jesus' care, concern, and command. And he is calling you to be set free from that. And he is inviting you to draw near to him that he might draw near to you, the book of James. He is calling you. To live your life no longer shackled by your past, but empowered by grace And what does he call you to do, Christian, in light of that? Never be ashamed. Never be ashamed. I can get embarrassment. But what is to my shame has now strangely become my boast for this reason I have a Savior who forgave me. And I'm boasting in him. And I will go and make that boast. In the places even that I was most embarrassed and had most cause for shame. Won't you as well? Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you for this man. We do not know his name, but Lord, we know his story. And Father, we are so humbled by the fact that he took your no. And he took all of his reasons for desperately wanting to do anything but stay. And he stayed and he did exactly as you said. He declared all that you had done for him. Lord, it is my prayer that you would remind me daily of all that you have done for me. And Lord, it is my prayer that you would remind all of us in this room of all that you have done for us, the depth of the forgiveness and the freedom that you have given us in Christ, that we might live for your glory. And truly be a blessing to others, even others who chained us and cast us out and hated us and mocked us. Lord, may we bless them deeply and abundantly and sacrificially. Lord, show us the gospel and help us to live it more boldly and fearlessly. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. As you're able, please rise and rise not just on your feet but in your hearts, church