In his latest book, A Perkin Whitney 's, which right now is on the New York Times top ten bestseller list, Billy Glenn asks a very important question about the meaning of the four horsemen of the Apocalypse in Revelation chapter 6. The question as he puts it is quote from his book, are these judgments which John foresees inevitable? Or can these judgments of these four horsemen somehow be delayed or even completely averted? In other words, are they unconditional judgments definitely going to take place no matter what happens, or are they conditional judgments? judgments, able to be diverted if certain conditions are met, such as our repentance and faith. And Glenn says that after much consideration, prayer and study, he's come to the conclusion that the answer is both. That's the thesis of his new book. But on the one hand, there is going to be a final judgment at the end of history, for God will in fact carry out his wrath and his justice as well as his vindication of his. people. We talked about that last week. But he says there are also many judgments. There are lesser judgments in history that we see carried out from time to time among nations and peoples in the course of history. These judgments, he says, are conditional. They are dependent upon having respond to God's warnings. An example of that is none of them that are guilty God's judgment, then they responded to the warning of the prophet Solomon. And these kinds of judgments, which are terrible in themselves, but nevertheless just a give purchase of what is going to happen at the end time, are persistent. Precisely to the point of Amos chapter 3 and the situation in Colombia in 1984. So let's look at our Bibles at Amos chapter 3. The last passage of the first major section of the book, the first major section runs from chapter one one to three eight. This is the last section. I will begin our reading of God's word from verse one and we'll consider Together verses 3 to 8. Let's hear then the word of the Lord, as Amish himself describes this. God himself now is speaking to us. Let's give our attention. Here this word the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel. Against the whole family I brought up out of Egypt. You only have I chosen of all the families of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your sins. Do two write together Unless they have a greed to do so? Does a lion growl in the thicket when he has no trail? Does he growl in his bed when he is caught mopping? Does a bird fall into a trap on the ground where no snare has been set? Does a trap stain from the earth when there is nothing to catch? When a trumpet sounds in a city, do not the people tremble? When disaster comes to a city, has not the Lord caused it? Surely the sovereign Lord does nothing without revealing his poem to his servants' deposits. The lion has roared. Who will not fear? The sovereign lord has spoken. Who can but prophesy? That sounds the reading of God's word. Now let's consider it. But I see you as a very amazing principle and directive that is given here both the Amos And also to you and to me, the 1984 here in Columbia. It's a principle which I believe the Holy Spirit has been confirming in our experience. But now I'll not see how it is articulated in the The principle is simply this that God reveals his ways to his people. Now that's the principle. God reveals his ways to his people. Look at this. Verse 7. Surely the sovereign Lord does nothing without revealing his plan to his servants, the prophets. That word for revealing is an interesting word which means to open of his fellowship and to take someone into his counsel. It's a word which refers to drawing someone into his confidence. You see, the purpose were not basically forecasting or predictors. Some people read the prophets this way simply as those who wanted to foretell the future, and they missed the important central purpose of the prophets. The prophets, rather, were men who were close in God's fellowship. So close in this fellowship that he had opened his ways to them. He had given them the signs of the times, and he had told them what he was going to do so they could preach that and mark that to the people, so that they could warn the people on the one hand if the threats to respond, if the people did not respond to God, so they could comfort the people, on the other hand, by the hope of God's salvation that He was going to send and His son. But these brams and these comforts and these or the threats, these things that deny what is coming, were for the purpose of immediate action. They were practical. They were messages. They were messages of people who were close into God's confidence. And that's what Amos experienced. He was in God's fellowship. And so Amos says, God does nothing without revealing his plan to his prophets. But listen, there's a more generalized principle here than simply some insight on how God worked through his prophets in the Old Testament. The more generalized principle has to do with you and me. Because the same principle is true for us. God draws you and me into his fellowship. And as we become close to him, as we come into this conflict, Evidence, by drawing near in Jesus Christ, God opens up his ways to us. For instance, in Proverbs chapter 3 to verse 32, God says, He detests the perverse man, but takes the upright into his confidence. In Psalm 25, verse 14, the Lord confides in those who fear him, and he may makes his covenant known to them. And so you see, you and I have also a prophetic ministry, because we have God's word. God is revealed to us, as he says in verse seven. He's revealed to us his ways. And in revealing that in the Old Testament, if we see that the faith in Jesus Christ in the New Testament, we have the book of Revelation to open up to us, what that in the last days is that great. climactic conflict between good and evil, you and I have inside information on history. You realize that. As you draw close to Jesus Christ. Now I'm not just talking about going to church once a week and just sitting and listening To Christian radio or a few messages you're there. I'm talking about coming in to the intimate fellowship of Jesus Christ. As you do, God reveals his ways to you, he opens up to you the middle of your The Old Testament and his pockets. He opens up to you the meaning of Jesus Christ, the meaning of what liberation is saying to us in our day. And so when you and I look about us at our current situation, we realize That we know something about the future of America. We're not infallible purpose as Amos was. But we have inside information on what's going to happen to America. Why? Because you and I know that America's future Depends on her response spiritually to Jesus Christ. America's future depends on America's spiritual health. Why? For two reasons. Not because America is a Christian nation. Not because of that. I do not answer that. It is not that America is a crucial nation. But for two reasons, the future of America does depend on what she does with God's words. The first reason. is because all nations are held accountable to God and have a hand of his word. We saw that in chapter one and two. Do you remember? Amos Month II, Damascus, and Gaza, and Tyre, and Edom and Adam. And Moab. He goes through all those secular nations, non-Christian nations, and he says their destiny is determined by how they have the law of God. They were accountable to them. And God judged them by what they know. But then the second reason that we know the future of America depends on its spiritual health is because the Church of faith has been so prominent in the history in America that God cannot judge and chastise And deal with the church of Christ in America without dealing with the country. Because our histories are so inextricably far. The church is so feminine. America is known as a Christian nation. It bears the name of Jesus. Jesus Christ to those outside who look at us. And so as God deals with the Church of Christ, as God deals with those who call themselves by his name, as God deals with the United States, the history of the Church, that is the professor. External Christian Church and America are so in a quarter that we know that there must be a binding together of their destiny. Not because America is Christian, because of the identification of America. America is Christian. Now, how does this work out? To see how this principle works out, look at how it worked out in Anis's then. Look at the history then. Look at what God revealed to Amos. And you see that in verses 3 to 6. see what God in taking all this into his intimacy, into his confidence, into his fellowship, revealed about the situation of the church in that day. First of all, he revealed the lays of his covenant in verse 3. Notice what he said. This is an often quoted verse. Can two work together unless they've agreed to do so. But what's that referring to? The way to agree means to make an arrangement with someone. It's what God did. At Sinai. He made an arrangement with Israel through covenant. He established himself in a relationship with Israel so that the two would walk together. And God said in Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 2 that neither young bride you followed after me in the desert. The word they followed after me is the same word that's used here in verse three, to walk together. You followed with me. You came after me because we had an abuse. meaning. And Amos is saying, well, Israel is walking in a different direction. It's no longer walking after God. Are the two of them still walking together then? Can they continue to walk together? Israel is saying God still walk and what is he said and we name his name and we're his people. And here 's the sign of the warning he's saying, Don't presume to think that when you go your own direction that God's still walking you. In order for the two of you to walk together, you've got to To maintain that agreement. It was established by covenant. And so then it gives them three pictures, three vivid pictures in order to describe the danger of this God of the covenant to the church. The first picture is of a lion. He describes a lion, he's roaring and about to pounce on his bread. And he says to Israel, That God is not a lion who is about to swing upon you because of You're walking around there and ignoring him. Now a number of people say that these three pictures are simply to describe to us cause and effect. Is there a pouncing without playing? Is there a trap without a bird being caught without the trap? go to swim and as uh somebody blows a trumpet there's got to be a cause that's an invading arm and those things are true. But he's saying a lot more than cause and effect. There are pictures here of danger. Pictures of a layout about to swim. Pictures of a trap about to spring on a bird. A picture of an invading army about to overdown a city. Now you see those three pictures were sort of calculated to get the people's attention. He's saying God's like a lion about to spring on you. His sins are like a trap that's about to enslave you, to to uh spring and not let you escape. And God is going to use nations to carry out his job. They are about to take you. They're about to invade you to capture you. But I want your attention. And if you do, if I have your attention, then it says, notice three other things about these pictures. Not only are they in a picture of the danger. to the church, but there are pictures of the description of the church. Notice the beauty of this symbolism, how bad of his richness, in his worth, draws these two things together. Not only a picture of the dedicated to the church, but of the description of the church. First of all, in the lion picture you have in the Earth Bull, there's a picture of the helplessness of the church. He says there, now does a lion groan a picket when he has no bed? Does he grow is dead when he's caught looking. Here's a picture of a lion about to spring. And when a lion roars and he's about to swing, it's all over. See, you just told me happens. Remember one time when I was down in the National And at this uh moment that I happened to pass the tiger's cage, big Siberian tiger there, this little sparrow flew into his cage. And he had some thumbs on the floor, and so the sparrow thread and got himself a premium, and he went and landed on the floor. The tiger's sort of head birds, you know, you see his eyeballs go up, you know, and he sort of looked there, and all of a sudden you noticed that the two of them had different ideas about what new is. And just as I stood there, the tiger looked at the spark. 30 seconds, and all of a sudden there was this tremendous and our tire tired like a flash across the cave and in an instant had a spark on his paw. Dead. Just an instant. Can we try to catch a sparrow? No. You just can't do it. No matter how close they are. We're going to be sitting right here on the pony and we reach for it and we kill them. Why is that time we're able to catch the sparrow? Because of the war. The war paralyzes its prey. That's the purpose of the war, of a lion, or a tiger, you see. A lion doesn't really just show it's a big shot when he's about to take the play. Yeah, look at me, eh? thought to take it anymore. You think you don't know who it is, it's going to eat you. The idea of the role is that it paralyzes the fear so that that spell is absolutely paralyzed and couldn't move. In that instant that took it to snatch it And God is saying here, you are helpless, but I roll in my judgment. And I want you to see my people, your helplessness, before me. I want you to feel in that helplessness and your turn. But then less the people say, Yes, we're helpless, and how did we get into this mess? And oh, why did we do why did we get into this? Well, so the environment's happy. That is in the second picture. We say to helpless but you're foolish. And so he gives him the picture of a trap. And he said, now notice that you either helpless or not useless because the bird is attracted by the bee and it traps itself. The verse five does a bird fall into a trap on the ground where no snare has been sought. The word snare is perhaps better be translated bait. It refers to bait that is used, to draw the bird by its own desires. Into the trap. And so God is saying you see this bait, and the bird now is drawn in by its own desires. You foolish people who are about to be destroyed because you are entrapping yourselves in And then he gives the third picture. And the third picture is of the church as apathetic. You see here a city, and there's a trumpet that sounds, and the trumpet sounds in a war a war, the alarm that a nation or a army is about to uh attack it , and uh you can tell what state the city is in by the people's response. It's not a call for arms and we'll show them and we'll be waiting for but everybody's It's terrible. God, because they haven't been expecting it. They're totally unarmed. They're totally unprepared for the attack. So it says that when the disaster comes , hasn't the Lord caused it? And he brings together that image. You see, this is tool in the invading army to carry out his judgment and the fact that it's the Lord himself who is behind that. And so see the progression in these pictures. God is saying, You are helpless because you are And you're foolish because you're apathetic. You confuse your uh you confuse complacency with comfort. And the problem with the church today is if so many of us think of the Lord, then yet there is no more thirst for God. There's no awareness of spiritual danger or of battle. And so because we think we're the Lord , We say that the Christian life is a life of comfort and ease in Jesus Christ. And we have confused the contemptment that comes with the gospel with a complacency that God never intended for his people. And because of that, God saved your life. Now, this is the message that he has of the church for the church in that day. Now, what does God do to a church that's in that torbed angel? Notice God's solution. He says, I'm A man who is in fellowship with him and only with his wound. You see that? How simple? Amos is saying you've seen this head of anger, a lord about to spring, a trap about to slap shot, and a woman and army about to attack. When what if God sent one man, a man who is close in his fellowship, who understands his ways, and therefore sees the signs of the time, to have spiritual perception, and is able to come only with the word of God to the world. And God calls him to speak up. Look at verse eight. He picks up the picture once again. The Lion has roared. Who will not fear? Who would be so stupid as to not fear? Ray of the Lion. The sovereign God has spoken, paradox thought. Who can but prophesy? Who can but prophesy? They knew. Amos means ordinary. Amos says, I understand the ways of God and I understand the danger to the church. And so I have got to respond. And what is the response? If you read through the book and the successive weeks, you'll see that there's practically nothing mentioned about the response of the people. In fact, the only clue that you had is it thirty years later or so, they were destroyed. And so we know from this thing that they did more, in fact. He was warning, and they did not repent. And God did judge them by bringing in the nation of Syria. But there is one response that we're given, one response that God tells us in this book. And that was spiritual. does is active opposition. The active opposition comes from whom? From the religious leaders of that day. In chapter seven, you have the picture of the priest of the religious center of Bethel. In chapter seven, verses ten to eighteen. We'll look at it later. We won't look at it now as we get down to that point. But I want you to see that right now. That it's the priest who sharply rebukes illness. It's the priest who says to him, Go back where you came from and shut up, because you're disturbing the peace. Your message is a message of division. And we're disturbing the people. We're disturbing the unity of the people here. That is the one response that we have as a record. And 30 years later , Disaster fell. Now what does this mean for us? I'd say that there's a general principle here. This is not simply a principle to the Old Testament prophets. The principle is that God reveals with good. To his people who are drawn into his confidence by seeking his fellowship. And we have the Old Testament record. We have that word of God. But we come to understand as we're drawn into his fellowship. We have a record in Jesus' From the New Testament. And we have that record which we can say with the author of Hebrews, as he looks at that record and reflects on the fullness of it, and says in Hebrews chapter 1, in the past God spoke to our forefathers. Through the prophets at many times and in various ways. But in these last days he spoke unto us by his son, who he appointed heir of all things, and through whom we made the universe. This Son is the radiance of God's glory, the exact representation of His being, sustaining all things by the power of the Word. After he, the Son of Jesus, had provided purification to service, he sat down. At the right hand of the Majesty in heaven. So you have the prophets. They've come. And they've given their warning. And the people have refused to listen. And then the further prophet comes, Jesus. And Jesus That famous prophet of Deuteronomy 18, the prophet of all prophets, comes and issues the warning. And the people don't listen by and large. But this prophet comes and lays down his life for the sins of his people. He comes. That he gives his own life, that he himself will do the sacrifice, so that it wrestled him, you and I would see the very curse of God go upon Jesus in our place. we're prophets. We're his prophets. We're his prophets to declare that hope that is in Jesus Christ in a dying world. We're his prophets to tell his ways. And save the early church. were the prophets of Jesus Christ. And he declared the reigns of God to the Roman Empire. And by and large people didn't listen to them, but a number did. And the church was built. And Rome was destroyed. The prophets of God's people came to Europe. And they declared Jesus Christ and their word that they're comforted in the message of God's word, that word which you and I have, and through the history of Europe. Many rejected, but many accepted. And in any of them there was revival. And in earth there was revolution. And the ways of God were vindicated. Then the people of God have done the same. in colonial America. There was the declaration of the warnings, the threats of the God of the covenant, and many heard of their revolvers. Many others refused to hear. And there were been the judgments. Back to this very day, and you and I stand in their training. You and I stand in this course of history with the same word of God. And the question is to you and to me, what are we going to do with it? The line has Let me give you a few examples of how I think God is calling us to do this in our time. First of all, I believe that we were Public justice. We see the example of that in chapter 2, verses 6 and 7, where Inus had told about the problem of the nation and the church there, where they saw the righteous procedure in the meeting to a pair of soldiers, they trampled on the heads of The world is upon the dust of the ground. We and I are called to be prophets, to declare that God is a God of justice, and to declare that publicly. Ourskinnus in his book, The Great Big Right Bible. Refers to an incident back in the 1830s in England when the five ministers were Lord Melbourne listened to a poet sermon and made the indignant remark in response: things have come to a pretty pass when we Religion is allowed to invade the private life. The game is remarkable is that things have come to a pretty pass in America in the nineteen eighties, if we don't allow religion to invade the public life. For us, religion is simply matter of the private life. And as Theodore Rosak said in his book Where the Wasteland Ends, concerning the Christian faith in America, his summary statement was, it is socially irrelevant, even if privately engaging. Socially irrelevant while privately engaging. And he just gives examples of this. He talks about the many Bible studies that have gone across the nation and all the various things that we do. How word those are, but he says, in every case, it's the pride. And then he says, look for the place where the Christian faith makes a difference at work, beyond the one of purely personal things such as witnessing the college and fellow , or not swearing, not fiddling with one's income tax returns. Look for a place where the Christian is thinking Christianly and critically about the substance of growth, about say the use of profits and not just personnel, about the ethics of a multinational corporation and not just those of a false man. family business, about a just economic order and not just the doctrine of justification. And you'll look for a very long time. He or she may be into religion, but so is colleagues in the golfing. Theater or a score of other hobbies. And Guinness concludes that Christianity has become the hobby of the evangelicals. Pocket-sized discipleship, he calls it, which is no threat in the public sphere as As long as we keep it to ourselves, that the Lion has ruled it, and who will that not fear? The sovereign earth has spoken. Who cannot prophesy and speak out? And you take the area of sexual immorality. Davis had gone on to speak to that in chapter 2, verses 7 and 8. The gross arrogant lust and sexual practices of his dead. And don't you realize, and I ask yourself, The question to look at that, but what has that got to do with the future of a nation? What's that got to do with what we're called to declare as God's people? And then we remember the words of Leviticus chapter 18. In Leviticus, chapter 18, we have a record of sexual activities, perversions, the kind of corruption that could be cataloged in the slickest sex magazine today. Everything is listed there in Leviticus chapter 18. Everything, homosexuality, bestiality, every kind of sodomy and perversion. You have the whole thing listed there. And then you have this statement, verse 24. Do not define yourselves in any of these ways, because this is how the nations that are going to grow out before me became defiled. Even the lamb was defiled, so I punished it for its sin. And the lambed out its inhabitants. That's not talking about the church, brothers and sisters. That's talking about secular nations. God says when the perversions and the immorality come to such an extent that they be buy the very land, the land itself will vomit them out from God's judgment. When we look at television and we see the Grammy Awards, I don't know how many of you saw that. But you have a perfect portrayal of what I'm talking about. You have Coon Cut John Duncan, this national television spectacle, a family program for all the sea, who will get rewards for the current music. Productions of our day. And you see there , video after video, the women looking like men with crew cuts and sideboards, and imitating in their dressing in every possible way. Like men. You see the men who take female heroes so that they can raise their voices and sound like women and look like women and imitate women. And you see the country club and their board who is a transgression. Who grows in his image. And you see a man come out from one of the nominees, world great production now, one of the top of the country, the Kajov. And a man comes out with a deep voice dressed as a woman. All of the makeup and all of the drag, and he comes out and he looks down into the camera and he says, I am what I am. And life isn't all the burn and from here. You can stand up and say, I am what I am. And don't you Pity me. And don't you tell me to go back into the closet and he stands in the bloodmost arrogance against the laws of God in public television? And he stands there glorifying the provision of the. Of transgestrialism, of fetishism, of homosexuality in the whole culture that goes along with it as the models for our kids. And then there comes the gospel record. Comes the rewards for the Gospel Records, and you have this black woman who comes out and she sings about her faith in Jesus. And you have the Norman East for all the Gospel recordings, many of whom may be familiar, many of the many of the records. John Bentley records. hearing the gospel recordings says, praise the Lord, doesn't that make you feel good? All of a sudden you think that you're in a surrealistic society. A society that has got is so debased and so hard of conscience. That not only can it put fold the kind of perversions that we put, but it can put them right next to the gospel with no sense of contradiction. Do you see that that's even worse than the demonstration? of those things. The gospel of C in our day is so absolutely powerless that there's no contradiction between calling Jesus Christ and the faith in Jesus Christ and having been a part of all the rest of the The lion has roared. Who can but fear? The Son of the Lord has spoken, and who can but prophesy? And then you see Romans goes on in chapter two. With a unique claim of salvation in his God. He says in chapter 2, verses 10, 11, 12, and says, God said, I am the one who have brought you out of Egypt. I am your rebuke. Look to me. I'm the one who has saved you and brought you as my people. Then we realize that when we make a statement that Jesus Christ uniquely is the way to be able to face the judgment. foot of God unafraid through his finished work on the death, in his death on the cross and in his resurrection. And when you say that that basic tenet of historic Christianity is something that we stand for , realize that people look at us with amazement. And people say, I don't mind if you believe that. But how dare you speak publicly? That's arrogance. And you realize how far you have come. When you stand in a room with 1630 you realize that you are the only person that holds that position. And all of a sudden you realize the line has rolled. Who can but fear? The sovereign God has spoken. Who can prophesy? Before it's too late. Before it's too late. Let's pray. If any of us Think of a scripture that we would like to read. Feel free to read us as we look to our God, or to offer a prayer as we cry to him for lesson, and cry to him for boldness. Declare Jesus Christ.