Several years ago there was a new one. Newspaper account, the strange experience that a woman had while driving at night. As she was driving along, she noticed in the rearview mirror that a truck was following particularly closely. And so being a little uneasy about that, she stepped on a gas. it and sped up, but so did the truck and it stayed right on her tail. The more she did this, the more the truck stayed right on her. Instead of getting a little nervous about this, she took the next exit off the threeway and she went through town trying to lose the truck. It took the exit, it kept right on her tail, she tried to lose it in traffic. The truck ran a red light in order to stay right on her tail Finally, panicking, the woman bolted into the gas station, stopped the car, pulled from the door, and ran out screaming for help. The truck pulled up right behind her. The man got out of the truck, yanked open the back door of her car, and pulled out a man who was. You see, the woman was fearing the wrong man. She thought that the trucker wanted to do her harm And she had limited perspective. What she didn't see was that there was a man lying on the back floor of her car who was waiting for an opportunity to rape her. The trucker driving behind her from a different perspective. was able to see the man, and he wanted to Savior. So often when our lives We need a different perspective, don't we? We're afraid of the wrong thing. We see things happening in our lives, and we think that those things are simply evil. And we don't see the perspective of the loving father who wants to use a situation for our good. And we need a different perspective when we go through difficulties. We have got to have a different perspective in order to be able to maintain the joys that Jane talks about in chapter one that we need while going through trials and difficulties. We need a different perspective. The Wreckers needed a different perspective, though recently they lost the third of their babies to hydrops disease. The Cliffords need a different perspective as Anne continues to fight cancer and its silence. effects in her life. Marquette needs a different perspective to see things that he can't ordinarily see on his own in order to continue to fight the cancer that ravages his body. last week or so, uh things have gotten more difficult for Mark. He's had a little more difficulty with pain and tiredness. Uh pain has gotten to the point now with him that uh he's in pain whether he's summing up or lying down. He's got pain in his muscles if he stands up. He's got pain in his bones if he lays down. And when you're going through something like that, you need a different perspective. What do you need? You really need to see whether God is in control of you. You need to see if behind what you can see it seems like things are just chaotic and out of control, whether it's the of the chaos that's described in the cartoons, you know, and you see breakfast, you know, and you've seen all these cartoons, you know, toast is bouncing off the walls and the kid is screaming in the high chair with a bolt of oatmeal on his head upside down, you know, and just something totally chaotic and out of control or whether it in fact is a major crisis in your life. Perhaps for you now things seem out of control in a much more profound way. Perhaps in your job things are out of control and you wonder if What is God doing? With this massa I just heap today to working. What's God doing through all this difficulty But perhaps things seem out of control in your family. Some of you may be especially aware of that after the Thanksgiving holidays you've spent time with relatives. And perhaps things seem out of control in terms of your relationship with your relatives. don't know how to restore things. Maybe things are out of control in your relationship with your kids. They seem out of control. It seems like there's nothing you can do to to restore order and harmony and and you just don't know what to do. Perhaps things are out of control in your relationship with your husband or your wife. Or some very close friend Perhaps things are out of control because you don't seem to be able to have children. And you said the stories because you wonder what is God doing in this? He's not really faithful to his promises. What do we need to see? What's the perspective that we need? So that we can see beyond the things that cause us to fear, so that we might really be at peace. Wouldn't it be nice if the scripture described a situation that is totally out of control? And then we can get a perspective from that where God showed us how, in fact, He was perfectly in control all along to bring about His perfect purpose. I would suggest to you that's exactly what I'm saying. what we have in Psalm 2. Now why are we going through Psalm 2? We haven't finished James yet. They're probably not going to get back to James for a couple of months. But why Psalm 2? Because those of you who've been around for a while know that this is the beginning the Christmas season and therefore as part of our Christmas series that we do each year is to go through a messianic prophecy, starting at Genesis and working our way all the way through the Malachi. And we're now up to the Psalms. The first messianic Psalm, Psalm two. Let me just remind those of you who have been around for a really long time, you may remember that I began the series back in 1979. And I remember still when I began that series that day, I said, I'm going to begin a series now, and some of you know me for some of my lengthy series. And I said, this age is going to last about 48 years. Saying by laugh amount to lift us. You want to feel like you're going to work for a while We are one six through that series, as is this Paul. You know, this is the eighth messianic prophecy. And we've heard it before, hang on. But I went up to the Psalms. And there are eight messianic Psalms that I want to cover in the next few years. Let's just take a look then at Psalm chant and Psalm 2, in order to see not only the hope of the plan to come, but in fact a perfect illustration of God in control in a situation that's seems utterly out of control. Why were the evens nations conspired and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of Earth take their sand and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed one or his Messiah. Let us break their chains, they say, and throw off their feathers. Them enthroned in heaven laughs. The Lord scoffs at them, and then he rebukes them in his anger, and terrifies them in his wrath, saying, I have installed my king on Zion. my holy hill. I will proclaim the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son. Today I have become your father. Ask with me, and I will make the nations your inheritance, the ends of the earth your possession. Who will rule them with an odd scepter? And you will bash them to pieces like pottery. Therefore, you kings, be wise. Do warn, you rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear. And rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and he be destroyed in your way. For his wrath can flare up in a moment. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. This psalm is a very neat and orderly psalm. Twelve verses This week I'll cover the first six verses. Next week, verses seven to twelve, because it breaks weakly into those two halves. Of the six verses that we're going to consider this morning, they break weakly into two halves, verses one to three and verses four to two. Two scenes. Verses 1 to 3, the scene on earth, the screen of autonomy. Verses 4 to 6, the scene in heaven, the secure response of sovereignty. Let's look at these two. parts now and learn what the Lord himself has for us because this is his word. The first food is the food on earth, the screen of autonomy in verses 1 to 3. Who is doing this? It's talking about the nation. and all peoples. Everybody's included in this. The focus in verse two is on the kings and the rulers of the earth, those who are powerful and who are in authority. And their screen is against the Lord. And against his anointed one. Anointed one is the word Messiah. Messiah simply means anointed one. And so in the Hebrew this is Mashiach. And so this is a very definite reference to the Messiah who is to come. Notice that it's a personal scream. They are screaming against the Lord. It is their scream not simply of a big independence, but it's directed against the one who is the ruler of the heaven. Heavens and the earth. What is it that they say? And it is verse 3. Let us break their chains, they say. Throw off their fetters. You see, autonomy is a screen of independence. God's rule over them is seen as chains and fetters. And so it is for anyone outside of Christ. God's law always seems to be binding, restricting, chains and fetters to the person who is at This has been stated again and again in various ways. You don't need to see Psalm 2 to know this is true. But you see this worked out in much of literature, much of any college campus, or much of media today. A lot of the classes. statements of it is from a poem by Will Ernest Henrik, which I think almost more than anything else that I know depicts the scream of autonomy of Psalm 2. It's called Invictus. Out of the night that covers me. Black In the fell fletch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud, under the bludgeoned Of chance my head is bloody, but unbound. Beyond this place of wrath and tears looms but the horror of the shade, and yet the menace of the years finds and shall find me. unafraid. It matters not how straight the gate, how charged with punishments the scroll. I am the master of my fate. I am the captain of my soul. Do you have in that precisely what Psalm 2, verse 3 is talking about? Let us break their caves and tear off their feathers. God is not going to rule my life. I'm the captain of my soul. And you see the same thing in today's society. You see those who advocate alternative lifestyles so that the scripture really is a bunch of fairy tales. It contradicts itself. And how many have been in college courses where the professor Who was the freest thinker and advocated whatever was slaves being cast off as the first one to criticize and mock any kind of authority of the Bible, who undermined any shred of confidence in Scripture that the kids in his class wouldn't have. He will say that the Bible uh really is not uh anything that we should pay attention to, that it doesn't really matter what you believe, uh that if there was a God, how can there be suffering like there is with There really isn't any God, there isn't any life after death, there are no absolutes, there are no aughts. Any lifestyle can be lived and no one can judge it. Christians are arrogant who say they had a quarter on the truth. And so there's this scroll of autonomy, there's this tumult, there's this this raging that says that no one can use the word aught Unless perhaps they're quoting the Washington Post or the New York Times or Sixty Minutes or Psychology Today, but these are the authority of our day, the authority of research, the authority of consensus of a humanistic society. And that's the only way aught can be. But no aught in which there is a God who speaks from heaven and says, This is my law This is the way things are to be. And they say, Cast off those chains. They're better to find us and rob us of our fund. And so you see this picture of tumult on the earth. This picture of chaos. This anarchy. in the hearts of the world's authorities. And as you see this, the psalmist then takes your eyes and he must go to another scene. You see, here you see down below, all these little creatures, and they're all running around screaming. They're going to go in and they're shouting about how they want to shake off the authority of the Bible and of the traditions of our uh forefathers that speak of an absolute disreveal in scripture. And if there has to all these things off, our eyes are lifted from the tune to a scene of utter tranquility. A scene where there is no disturbance. No noise. See the contrast between verses one to three and four to six. Tuna in contrast to tranquility. And far, far above these tiny creatures who were all All shouting and screaming, they're all telling me. Comes the secure response of sovereignty. There are three parts to this response God's life, God's wrath, and God's reign. Verses four, five, and six. It's so easy to see the parts of this thing and all this layout, you know. Verse 4, God's Lad. You see, in verse 4, the woman throned in heaven laughs, the Lord starts at them. It's not a laugh of humor. It's a laugh of one who is totally unthreatened by all these threats. It's the laugh that you might uh enjoy if you were to come upon a four-year-old on your way home today and just keep standing in your driveway saying, I am going to punch your life. Yeah. And what he did, I said, well, can he jump it up and down, you know? And he's going to assault you. And then this kid's going to beat you to a pulp. Well, what do you do? You laugh. Why do you laugh? Because it you never laughed, you know, you what if you saw it? Because it's so unconverse, he said. It's not a laugh because of the things of humor in particular, but it's the laugh that you feel in being so threatened by this threat. And so this is the laugh from heaven. The laugh from God who is totally secure in the midst of all this Chaos and all this were done. But barely verse 5, the lamb turns to wrath. Then he rebukes them in his anger and he terrifies them in his wrath, saying, I have installed my He rebukes them and he terrifies them. This is not irritation or simply some arbitrary display of power. That's hey you guys think you're a big deal, but let me show you what power is. Not that kind of thing at all. It's a wholly fixed wrath against destructive autonomy. You see, God sees what in fact is in the hearts of these men who are shaping their distant heaven. He sees all the misery And all of the suffering that has been the result of this kind of autonomous feeling of man-died through the ages. God sees the misery that's the result of this. God sees that he's over Honor is being assaulted, and that that honor cannot be so assaulted and the universe continue in its course. And so God Response to this has got to be in His Holiness a fixed wrath. And so this is now the matter. If you are outside of Jesus Christ, then you are essentially saying, God, let me live my life the way I want to live it. And you may say, that's not the screen of verses one to three. Yeah, you know, you 're getting kind of heavy about this. I just did heaven. So I basically say to God, God, look, you just remember me the way all of them, I don't bother you, you don't bother me. Yeah, I'll come to church on Sundays, but when it comes between Monday and Saturday, the Rod Honor is the more like the way it is, and no best God. I I really don't mean to insult you or you know just let me live the way I want to live. See, that's sort of like somebody he'd come into my house and he would eat my food out of my refrigerator, he would uh shower in my shower, and then he comes into my baby say, Yeah, believe it, he's got I don't want to disturb you. Just let me live my life the way I live and you live your life the way you live. I say, yeah, but the problem is you're in my house. See, the problem is we're in God's house. We're living on his land. We're utterly dependent for him. to him for all that we do and have. And so you can't live in God's universe over which he exerts authority of every square inch of it and say, God, I'll just let you do your thing and I'll do my thing, because the two can't coexist. Unless you submit to him , you are in rebellion in precisely the way that verses 1 to 3 described. And his wrath is fixed upon you. That is no lap and battle. If you're outside of Jesus Christ this morning, You don't have to be shaken for the realization of what that wrath is. And I don't mean the fire and grimstone kind of preaching his caricature today. We get more sophisticated than that. We stand before the living God in his wrath because of the rebellion. Those creatures who think that they can live apart and outside of his authority. That wrath is a fixed and holy and destructive wrath. God rebukes them in his anger And he terrifies them in his Santo Rand. And there we see his rain Because he says, I read, I have installed my son, my key. Calls my son in verse seven. My key. On Zion, my holy hill. But in order to understand the impact of this, you need to see three things about it. The when, the who, and the how. The when, the who, and the how. have of this installation. First of all, notice the whim of it. He says, I have installed my case. Well, who's this referring to? The second point is referring, of course, to Jesus, who is to come hundreds of years later. But there are hundreds of years before Jesus Christ, God says, I have inside. I have made them my case. Now why is that? Because you see in the Hebrew language you don't have tensions. You just have what's called the perfect and the imperfect. Either something's been done or it hasn't been done. It's either a bird States that something's been completed and accomplished, or else it's still incomplete. There's still some tenuousness about it. It's being done, or sometime in the future it will be done. And what God is saying here is that so sure So complete, so finished, so certain since the fact that I have established Jesus Christ hundreds of years later as the king of my kingdom, that I say it in the perfect tense, which we can only translate in the past tense. I have installed him. Some commentators call this the prophetic perfect. That is to say it is it is prophesying something in the future as if it's already been done in order to emphasize its certainty of fulfillment. And this is what God is saying. You see, some hundreds of years later, the babe is born in Bethland, and Herod is threatened by that rival authority. Herod seeks to have every one of the babies in Bethlehem over the age of two killed in order to be sure that he has frustrated God's purpose. And all three thighs. But Jesus was nowhere to be seen. See, he walked in Egypt. Because it is impossible to frustrate God's purpose. It's impossible that what God has said will happen could happen in any other way than what He has said. And He says, I have to install my king who doesn't violence. And all these little creatures down there screaming and yelling about it. That can also change in my studies, and you're going to assert your own authority is laughable. Nothing can change my purpose. Because the room, Jesus, is coming. And he is going to face every foe. He is going to face the final array in the screen of autonomy of Satan and all his hosts. And he will defeat them on the cross in order to save you and me from the of verse five. So that you and I would be able to face God and be able to take refuge in him, as we'll see in verse twelve. rather than to be destroyed by this terrifying wrath. The non thing that I most want you to see is the house. This is the most important thing of all, and it's the most amazing thing of all. Because this is what will give you comfort when you're life. out of control to have the verse 6. You see, the most amazing thing of all of this is that God uses the very rebellion of verses 1 to 3 in order to accomplish their Now that is a standard. God doesn't simply tolerate the rebellion of verses 1 to 3. He uses that precise rebellion in order to accomplish his purpose. This is what they do, for God to use man's wrath and rebellion to accomplish his purpose. You see this throughout the Old Testament. For instance, in the case of Joseph, you remember Joseph's brothers hated. They thought he was arrogant. They decided to kill him. But then on the slightest turn of events, one brother, Judah, decided to have mercy. He wanted to go back and rest and place and don't kill him, throw him a pick. Because you've got to go back later and get it out. Can I follow the pit? But all come some slave traders, and the slave traders say, Well, we'll buy this guy and we'll take him to Egypt and sell him to a slave. And so Joseph's delivered out of the pit, but he's taken as a slave to Egypt. In Egypt he's put in prison. But later on he rises and he becomes the secretary of agriculture of the largest and most powerful nation on earth at that time, Egypt. He then is used by God to give Egypt some good advice known only by prophetic revelation from the Lord. about a coming famine and stores up an immense amount of grain in order to save Egypt and the nations around and also of course to bring them into a tremendous balance of trade deficit toward Egypt during the seven years of famine. During that time, his brothers come back to him from Israel, seeking to buy food. When Joseph reveals himself to them, he then states the same principle in Genesis chapter 50, verse 20. But he tells them, You intended to harm me. Yeah, first you're going to kill me when leave me in a pit and someone is asleep. You intended to harm me. That's where I remember statement. But God intended it for good, to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. See? God use the very rebellion and the hatred of his brothers allowing to bring Joseph to Egypt to accomplish his purpose. You see the same thing with David. Yes, Saul thought this is right to be king. And so David now is anointed by God to be the king of Israel. So what happens? Saul wants to flirt that. He wants to kill David. He determines to kill David. David. He will frustrate and work God's purpose. And so for nearly twenty years David is a fugitive in caves and wilderness, hunted on by Saul as a wild animal, in order that Saul's hand may not be taken from him. 2 Samuel 22, Jacob looking back on his life, realizes the whole thing was used by God to accomplish precisely his purpose in David's life, to train him to be a godly king, to train him to trust God, to train him in. humility to train him to look to God as his only resource and strength through that whole time. And so again, man's evil purpose is used by God precisely to accomplish his good different perspective, you see. David Last Thanksgiving service at a box church on Thursday. Here's another example of Daniel. And Daniel uh determines to repair outlaw in Babylon, continue to pray to God. And so those who have uh put that law into effect In order to destroy Daniel, find that God uses that to put Daniel in the line of men, deliver him, and rather than destroying Daniel, the evil that was intended by those men, in fact, precisely glorifies God more than anything Daniel himself. Because Darius, the heathen king, was the soul of praise to Jehovah as a result of Dana's deliverance. And Daniel's seed, and then desire for him to be put on the lion's den, they're throwing with their families and we're impeding eating. And then we come to Jesus. Now here's where we get back to that question. Where in history did things seem most out of control? Was it when a Philippa Hun swept through Europe ravaging and pillaging every town and civilization itself being ready to crumble? Was it when Stalin in his ruthlessness arbitrarily starved millions? of people and caused others to be banished and many to die and torture and punishment? Was it at any other time during World War Two when civilization seemed on the brink of an abyss Was it the fall of Jerusalem, described by Scripture as the most devastating act of man against man? What was it? See, the Bible is very clear about this. If you have the right perspective, not have the women in the float seat looking. and only the lights in the rear. But if you get different perspective a little higher, you see that the most fragile moment in all of human history Was when common evil men murdered the Holy Son of God That was the worst thing that ever happened in all human history. And the Bible tells us In Acts chapter 4 , that was the fulfillment of Psalm 2. Turn to Acts chapter 4. In Acts chapter 4 , you see, after Peter and John have been Delivered from prison. They're uh sent out and the disciples are meeting for prayer. And they begin their prayer in Acts four and verse twenty four Sovereign Lord they said, You who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them, you see, they begin by addressing God's sovereignty. And as an example of that, look what they do. Verse 25. You spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our Father David. And what did they kill? Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed one You see there it is, Psalm two in verses one and two, precisely through verse one there, precisely quoted. Now how was it fulfilled Verse 27. Indeed, the fulfillment ultimately has in Herod and Pontius Pilate. Herod and Pontius Pilate met together, Rinzagenthaz, and the people of Israel in this city to conspire. Against your holy servant, Jesus, whom you anointed. Do you see the preciseness of that? The New Testament tells us what happened between Pilate and Herod on the day that Jesus was crucified. They became friends. Gathered together, just as you see in Psalm 2. And what was the purpose of their gathering? To conspire against Jesus Precisely what Psalm II, hundreds of years ago predicted. Do you see it? Herod becomes the archetype, the representative of all of the rebellion of the church, and of Israel in particular. He is the representative of religion , conspiring against the authority of God. The Gentile becomes the representative of all of philosophy and irreligion in its conspiring against God. You have in these two men representative fulfillment of exactly what Psalm 2 is talking about. But now you can think that that's precise. The next verse will blow you away. Because verse 28 says that this is the fulfillment of verses 4 to 6. Right after you see you have the declaration, the string of authority, you have then God 's rest, verses 4 to 6. And look at what Acts 4. 28 says. About that. They did what? What your power and your will had decided beforehand should Happen. You see what that's saying? That's saying that when God said in verse 6 of Psalm 2, I have established my faith on Zion. That God will do it that was to take the very rebellion of these people, which was epitomized by Herod and Pilate. And to use that in order to accomplish what his power, the Greek, there has been So it's more personal, you see. They did what your hand and your will had foreordained or predestined would happen But does that mean that Pilate and Herod weren't free to do this? That somehow they were acting out as puppets? Of course not. They were perfectly free in what they did. They did what they did by their own free nature. But does it mean that things were out of control at that point and God was nervously watching to see if his son would make it and what would happen? No, a thousand times no, and beyond that, in a way that we can't understand, God was Using the very rebellious acts of Bisman to in fact accomplish his purpose Isn't that amazing? The vilest thing in all history was used to accomplish the greatest purpose That God had for mankind, the establishment of his kingdom, and the salvation of your soul, and the forgiveness of your sin, and the adoption of you as his own children in Jesus Christ. There we got one. Praise God. You see the best illustration I know of this is in C. S. Lewis in his Lion Edition of Airdrie. Do you remember in that scene where Edwin has been the creature for his own greed and sideth with the witch against his friends and Aslan. He finds out the true nature of the witch, set it up, and he's taken prisoner. Aslan sends his friends to free Edmund. But then when Edmund's taken back into camp, the witch comes in the wrong. Remember she had a claim. She says, There can be no treachery and I not get blood. Because if I don't The deep magic, which is simply justice, declares that murder itself will perish in fire and water. And Ashwin agrees concerning that claim. But in the never the scene, Ashland goes off with a bitch, and in private he agrees with her about certain arrangements. And that night Susan and Lucy see Aslan with his head hung low. slowly walking up to the council at the stone table. And at that castle we see the description of every foul fiend and creature. So the CS Bill says, if I destroyed them if they really were, your parents wouldn't let you Read this book. Mary Bowhag , Mary Venus is there array about Afro. He could knock them as good as all of Paul, but he doesn't resist that they bind him with cords and they take him. And they bind him to the stone table. And they mock him. And they cut his name and they call him little pussycat. And they say, How did a nice to get caught today? And they scorn him And he allows it. Passive and permits it. And then you remember that scene, in which the rich with her hand raised with a knife First asked him at the end, and now who has won? Who did you think that by all this you would save the human traitor? Now I will kill you instead of him as our act was and start. the deep magic to the appease. But when you are dead, what will prevent you from killing him as well? And who will take him out of my hand then? Understand then, that you have given me Marian forever Did you lost your own life and you have not forgiven in this knowledge despair and die? She plunges the knife into Aslan and kills her. Bomb that born. The stone table cracks with a mighty crack. If Aslan is again alive and has merely restored , And if you greet Susan and Lucy, they say, But how can he be alive? And what has happened? And you remember those memorable words from C. S. Lewis, how he described that. Her knowledge only went back so far. If she could has seen further into ultimate purposes. She would have known that when a woman victim who has committed no treachery was killed in a traitor's stead The table would crack and death itself would start working backwards. You see, the witch with her evil purposes has been used in fact to save Lornia. From ourselves. Do you see now by any time that you and I seek to minister to one another in personal tragedy, by quoting Romans 8. 28, we should never do that glibly. But we should do that with a certain sense of awe as we realize the profound truth that's being described to us there. The Bible says We know that all things work together. God works, excuse me, the personalness of it. We know that in all things, God works for the good of those who love him and who have been called according to his purpose. What is that purpose? It's his eternal predestinating purpose, verse 29, to be conformed to the image of the of his son. I have established my son to reign on Zion 's hill. And I have established you and you and you and every one of you who are in Jesus Christ to be Jesus and nothing in heaven or on earth can frustrate that purpose. And when things came most out of control in our lives It's at that point that God is probably in the deepest way performing the most profound mood. If we can but have the perspective. Because he has purpose. Let's pray. Lord, help us to see this. Help us to see in our own lives what this means. Help us to see the school of history as we look at the politics of communism and totalitarianism, what this means. Nothing can shake your own different. And beyond that door, you are working in the very suffering and tragedy and evil in order to accomplish your purpose, that the wrath of man itself may praise you. So if you are so much Greater than we have come to believe. You are so much greater and more magnificent than our pinny view. Expand our view of you, O Lord. That those without Christ here might tremble under your wrath and take refuge in Jesus and find themselves forgiven. That all of us Lord might take comfort in the fact That you are accomplishing your perfect purposes through our lives in every circumstance.