Now in order to consider this matter of inadequacy this morning, I'd like to turn and go to 2 Corinthians chapter 12, and I want to look at verses particularly verses nine and ten of second Corinthians chapter twelve. And in these um two verses What I'd like to look at are three things you can see on the bulletin outline here. First of all, Paul's experience. Secondly, the principle that's articulated to that experience. And then the practical application to us and how to live by brain recognizing our inadequacy. First of all, consider Paul's experience and how he learned about his own inadequacy. We 've seen one of those signs around that says it's hard to be humble when you're so done good, you know, something like that. There's certain areas where you and I I find that we can cope with our inadequacies by realizing well here's at least an area where I feel like I'm somewhat adequate. I've gained some expertise, I gained some skill, I'm I'm artist in that area. In fact, I've realized that it it's easy for other people to feel humble because, you know kind of losing and it's kinda harder for me to be humble in this area because I see that I'm pretty dead. And so in in that area we begin And the areas that we look at that we feel like are so very inadequate. Rather than to look to Jesus to see adequate to me and the power of the spirit, we begin to look at what We kind of focus on our own abilities in that. And now if Paul were with us sitting here this morning, he can identify with us. And we need to see that. Because in this letter, 2 Corinthians, you had a group of superapostles who was part and called with being a rather mediocre apostle. not very adequate as an apostle. We can outdo you in miracles and we can outdo you in all kinds of things. And so Paul had to answer this call, was he really adequate And if Paul were sitting here this morning and they said, You're pretty mediocre, Paul, and you say, Well, maybe so, but let me ask you guys something. That's coming. Which of you guys was invited to heaven for a personal visit with God? Anybody here? Well, you know, God invited me up to heaven a few years ago and we had a personal cat before he sent me back down here to work on. Nobody here can claim that, right? Paul could. Look what he said In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 1 to 4. Here he is entering this charge about his being mediocre and inadequate. He says, I must go on He talked about his suffering and what he has put up with because of his commitment to Christ. And then he says, although there is nothing to be gained, I will go on to deacon a revelation to from the Lord I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body, I don't know, God knows. And I know that this man, whether in the body or apart from the body, I don't know, but God leaves, was caught up to paradise. He heard inexpressible things. that man is not limited to things. Over years ago, I had an absolutely unique experience that no one, as far as I know, here has ever had before Paul or since. Paul was invited to go Paul says that this was so vivid that he thought, I might even feel whether it was a vision or whether in the body I was in heaven. That's how real it was. So I said, I'm not going to quibble about that. Only God knows whether I was there physically or whether I was simply there as a vision But the fact is I was there. God called me into heaven in order to reveal to me things so wonderful that there are two spaces to be seen. He's been there comes back and he can't put into words. feelings he had of that totally different paradise world that he visited. Is it like this? Well it's really not like that. It's kind of like it's really not like that. You just can't achieve Explain it. And Paul says, even if I could explain it, it would be too sacred for me to speak about the experience I have there, I cannot even talk about That's how sacred specific it was. When you begin to understand that it makes sense, doesn't it, when we look at Paul's life, how he was able to endure beating stoning, how he was able to endure all the things that he put up with and serving the churches, being suppressed and persecuted and on and on and on. Be so dedicated to Christ I can't identify with that. Well have you been to heaven? I mean what would you be like if for a half hour in this next month God took you in half And you saw the faith of your faith in Jesus. If you saw what heaven was like, you would be able to See the feast at the end of the finish line, the victory banquet at the end of the war, and you know I'm going to be there. And so everything I do for Jesus now is Worship, I know it, I've seen it, I've experienced it. What about your life? Yes, came to life, didn't you? And it's good to fall. He was never the same again after that experience. But so powerful was that experience. Remember How could Paul not say Unless it's been special about God. I mean, nobody else was ever invited to heaven to visit with God. And I know that he did this because he was going to put into special trials and sufferings and so I had to have a special revelation that would carry me through that. Of all the people in all the world God picks people. I must be pretty special. Anything that's happened in your life, you can feel how much we're pretty special. But that's what happens Many people have uh mystical kinds of experience. Perhaps you've had some sort of thing that you consider to be a vision or a special visitation of God in your life and you have Makes me feel pretty special. Well, that is used you in some way. Something you've accomplished with you. It makes you feel like you may be a cut above other Christians. At least in one particular area very hard to have some experience being very central to them and not to be conceived as well. What does Paul say? What did they say? He says, to keep me from becoming confused. Because of these capacity, great Revelation There was given to me a storm in my flesh, a messenger of Satan to tornation Why a thorn? Why did God give him something in time to form? Okay , beginning of verse 7. See? Somebody coming to seated. Now Satan wanted to use this thing to torment Paul. God intended to use it in order to humble them And so this thing was so painful that he says in verse 8, three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. Three times it was So bad, I cried out to God, God, take this thing away. I can't stand it anymore. So what was that affliction? What was the thorn in the flesh to call it sin? Not only are we not told, but I believe that we're very purposefully not called. And I really believe that the reason that we're not called is so that we can be in your experience in the poet. Because whenever any of us reads it, we tend to think, yeah, I know what that's saying. It's just like what I have. physical disability, some health problems, some physical affliction, or some relationship problem. Whatever it was All we know is that it is very personal and that it is common. There was something that particularly afflicted Paul in the most personal kind of way and he could not get rid of it. It wasn't a template. It was something that he was stuck with. It was something in real life, isn't it? Very commonly far as you know. You have to live with it. But something that's a thorn in your side, and when you recall the spirit, you're able to add identify, be right into that, yeah. Whether it exists or not, I can feel the false part of it because of this annoying is here And at least three times in his life, it was so bad that Paul felt like he was going to come under the hot threat of hell upon him so that he tried to out to God. God, take the thing away. I can't stand it anymore. You ever call that to God like that? God takes this away. Chapter one called God the God God, if you care for me, how can you let me continue to suffer this thing? Why don't you care enough to remove it and be comforting about it Why? What sense is this to leave me in this situation? I praised you for months and for years to think you're filling away. And you don't seem to care And if the bad thing , Paul said , God read it back through. Great mind. In response to my client asking , you could be allowed to assist into you The thy power is made perfect in the power. Not the same to Paul Paul, that very thing that he said So want to get rid of I intend to use to reveal to you a deeper blessing. To use that very thing as a means of showing to you my grace in a way that he would not have known it otherwise. And so for Paul, the experience of heaven it intended to make him confited. the first one thing. The fear of his being humble tended to make him content. That's what he says at the end of the world now. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. the principle. What is the principle, profound principle in the 50 lives of these views in both of my plants? And the principle is simply this I've given it out Do you have it very clear? Only when I realize my inadequacy and dependence on Christ am I strong and successful. Take that again, take it on the outline. Only when I realize my inadequacy and defensive From trust, am I strong and possessive? More I'm aware of my inadequacies, the more I am able to experience the power and things of God. I called this in the evangelist and telling me that we used to do another varsity and other patients where I'll do this and there was a pattern that we feed it so often it became very predictable. And the pattern was this. I would talk to the group that I was working with about the fact that we're going to go out and we're going to do a vandalism in some sort of cold person. The fact is I was going to take people who said that they have not had experience in doing this and doing the law and we're going to talk to unbelievers in some public place about Jesus thought And the fear the response there is generally pretty predictable. I remember one guy when I went to tell him that we were going to do this He was hiding in a barn. And I caught him. Come on out. He talked to him. I had another guy that you know he was because he was ready to do this whole thing and this is what you got to do. He said, Well you know I've been wondering about the real nature of biblical evangelism. Can we discuss this? I mean what does it really mean? Yeah, here we go. All of a sudden We're really going to get into a long, about two-hour long discussion here about the nature of biblical events. We're going to go out and do it. Then we'll talk about what it is. On and on and on. Well, they're gonna laugh at us, they're gonna take a knife at us, they're gonna be put one time we were threatened to be arrested, you know What what are they gonna do? And so, boy, I'll tell you this with some pretty intense cramming. And then we go out. And as we went out, we would talk to people and And the people would find something very amazing. God's spirit was the organism. Now sometimes they came back and they say, I can't believe I can see people why they don't trust Jesus. And I I I thought that'd be pretty heavy arguments. Yeah, of course. I mean these people aren't even thinking through their position and they're living by it. And other times people would find that people were very responsible. Some cases we saw conversions, other cases we see people want to meet again and talk further. It was all kinds of things they come back and they were excited. That's tremendous. really wasn't so bad. It wasn't nearly as bad as I thought it was going to be. God was with us. That's great. I said, Great, we're going out next week. Oh, okay. Well, you know. And then they come back and you know, you know, we committed to do this. And always I'd see the same thing. They come back the next week and we say, okay, let's pray. Oh yeah, we've got to pray. All right. Let's pray. Well it's got to be pretty good. And we get, you know, it'd be kind of a perfunctory prayer this time Because hey, it wasn't so bad. And we go out the second time and it was always a negative experience. It was amazing. And they come back and say, Well, hey, what happened to some Yeah, well it wasn't like the first time. So how come people didn't respond to them? You know, I never got into any real good conversation. Yeah, I I can't tell you that was a hundred percent, but I'll tell you over the years I saw that pattern so much. It really impressed me. The first time we went out and we were feeling so inadequate. And if we were inadequate, we were saying, God, you have God to work in it. I can't do it. The second time we were going out and thinking , hey, it's not too bad. I did it. I can get through it this time too. And no matter how much we take Tell ourselves we really are not able to serve God in whatever role he's placed us, in whatever he called us to do. If we find some success, we begin to to think that we are able to do things. We begin to forget that it was only as I recognized my utter inadequacy power of flesh rested upon. It's what you can call the manna principle, which is that God brings us into a desert where we are unable able to feed ourselves so that we see that we are utterly dependent upon him to to feed us daily. That's why we call talk about daily quiet times. Daily grace. We are daily dependent upon them. Remember Exodus chapter 16, God said to go out and to gather in the manna and he said You gather it every morning. You said don't think that you're gonna save any up. Remember some people, oh yeah, well, you know, it says that it's not gonna be any horse. So they go out and they get two days' supply and they s Save it overnight. Remember what happened? Shh. Stunk. Worms were in it. Rotten. They realized that God was teaching them this. that daily I want you to come dependent upon me. I want to keep you close to me. I want to keep you consciously dependent upon me, recognizing me Your weakness and my strength. Day by day, daily. Remember that old hymn that expressed it so well by uh Lina Sandel Berg Day by day, and with each passing moment, strength I find to meet my trials. Trusting in my father's wise bestowment, I've never No cause to worry or confuse. He whose heart is kind beyond all measure gives unto each day what he deems best. Lovingly, it's part of pain and pleasure, mingling for us with peace and rest day by day. Thus he wants us to learn corporately and individually our dependence on him. Corporately. God's blessed us as a congregation, hasn't he? We realize uh we don't think we're very large or powerful, but our congregation is about five times the size of the average congregation in the United States. And we're growing, not shrinking. Sometimes in the summer you wonder, but you know, it comes back up again. God has given to us a a facility that we're looking forward to entering into this All that will be a tremendous enjoyment and pleasure, a base of ministry for us, a sense of God's blessing and power. We see that God has given to us a known of gifted people serving him in various ways. People remark on that when they see us as a congregation. How many gifted people there are God has given to us Peace. Not a congregation that's divided. Just listening and hearing about a congregation this week that that whenever they had a congregational meeting, always tear it up on the sides. They always knew who was gonna sit on the left left side and who can't sit on the right side. Then they'd yell and scream at each other all through the congregational meeting, you know. Then they'd patch things up and they'd go on and continue to stir together for the rest the rest of the year. But they always you know when any issues came up everybody I always had their parties and they fight the spirit. God has blessed us in that. So it's very easy for us to think that we're a better church. We're attitude. And so what does God do? He gives us certain areas to show us that we're not so apt. Budget deficits to show that we have to depend on for our The fact that Vision 91 is not up to where it ought to be, so that we may need to cut back certain things in the new facility. We can't just sort of shell out what we need. and say it's gonna be there, we can take care of it. But God calls us to look to Him, to ask Him, to work in Him. We don't have people to leave all of our ministries We don't have the Sunday school and the pioneer girls staff and the new ministries we're trying to start. God needs to raise up the people today. We're a weak congregation And it's only as we realize our weakness and understand God we cannot go forward. You know, in Intervarsity we used to have a saying with any chapter is only six months from extinction. Any any chapter, you know, anything can happen in any chapter and blow it apart in six months. Any church is probably a year. You got about, you know, a year you can close before things finally come apart the soon. But God has a way of showing us. When we begin to think we bought it together, the humble us Show us we don't. One of my concerns, and Steve and I talk about this a lot, is that when we don't see uh evidence that we as a congregation coming to concerts of prayer beginning conscience of prayer, meeting together for prayer for the congregation. Is that saying that we begin to that we're beginning to think that we're adequate? God wants us to enter into When we come to the Lord's Supper, to recognition we are inadequate. We need his grace to meet them. How many of us will be there tonight. And how many of us will say, I don't really need that? I'd rather do something else to relax. It's a statement about my sense of adequacy. We'll see next. Individually. We've been blessed. There are things that you've accomplished. You're very gifted people. And so there are many areas that we can look at and we can say Well maybe I haven't accomplished here, but at least I've accomplished something over here. I'm recognized for this. I'm seen as having some expertise in this area. I've done something. has to bring into our lives the form of the thought. In order to show you as he shows me, there's an area that you are overwhelmed with And you see that you are not able to function only. What's the practical application of this? Practical application You see in verse 10. Practical application, as Paul says, that is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insight. In hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties, but when I am weak, then I am strong. Here is what I long for each one of us to see. God's been impressing on my heart. And I hope that you can see this. Take this one thing away. Again, it's written out in the boulder so you can't miss it. That very thing that you are most ashamed of in your life. Some area of failure? Some weakness. Some inability. It is that very thing that God is designing for your blessing, so that you will know Christ's That very area that you wish that you could get rid of, that you could blot out, that you could say, I I would give anything God says it's that very thing that I have designed in order to increase the blessing in your life of knowing my path. Without that, you would be in spiritual danger, vulnerable, walking in your own sense of accuracy. Paul saying, when I am wit, then I'm strong. What do you mean by wit? Well, if you look at verse 10 there, you see that the five things that Paul mentions. Put the first letters of each of those spelled whip. I'll gladly boast about my weakness He says, I delight in weaknesses, and then you reverse the next two, in hardships, in insults, in persecutions , in difficulties. There any weakness in your life struggling with this morning? Any hardships that you have that you're saying, why doesn't God take that away? Received any insults lately that were either deserved or undeserved? Put a finger on a raw nerve in your life Maybe it was even persecution. Something that you've been suffering because of standing for the Lord Jesus in your place of employment or some public situation Well if none of those fit, how about just difficulties? That kind of covers everything else, right? Any difficulties that you're saying, I just wish that I could be rid of this thing. Something that's It's not working out. Something I wish was going different. Some relationship, some plan, something in my job, something at home. We can't get rid of it. God is saying, I'm intending that for a blessing which you would not have in that. You see, when you and I come and we Look at those things, our tendency is to complain, isn't it? What's your response to that? Put up with it, minimize it, get around it, ignore it, compensate for it Go shopping, buy yourself something, whatever it is. Get around it. Look what Paul's response was in verse ten. Unbelievable. That's why for Christ's sake I felt I delight. So I delight in that thing. I delight in it. Because my tendency is to walk in my natural abilities. And Jesus is saying, I died and I have risen so that you would live in my resurrection power in the realm of the Spirit, by his assistance and by his adequacy. And so you come and you say, Lord, I thank you for this thing in my life because it's keeping me From walking in my natural ability. It's keeping me from walking like an unbeliever, so that there's no evidence of the power of Christ in my life. And I want so much For Jesus to be honored in my life, the people would look at my life and they would say, There's something in that life that I can't explain to them after that. That I am willing for this thing to be in my life so So that I will know your path. It forces me to rest in your assistance in a way I would not do in my path. Have something like that in your life Do you see the difference in that? I remember vividly back June 16, 1992. I was out praying in the woods. I went out and I said started praying for my family, I started praying for my small group, and I was praying for us as a congregation. I don't know, it was something I ate or my city pattern or something, but one of those days when I started praying And every area I prayed, I began to see how I had failed in that area. You ever have that kind of thing? Yeah, because you start praying Praying and as I prayed for my family, I realized my utter inadequacy and failures as a husband, as a father, as a pastor, as a And the more and more I was praying about God's work through me or in these people that I cared for, the more I saw how I had failed them in certain ways. And as I saw that, I began to get more and more depressed. And I was being overwhelmed with that sense of fear. I wanted to quit. Pretty hard to quit as a father. Some people say we can quit as a husband, but I didn't see that as an option. I can quit as a pastor, maybe. God wasn't freeing me in that either. No, you you want to quit, you want to walk away from it, you say, I can't do it, I am not up to this. I don't have the resources. And so what do you do? You begin to look at your background, right? You say, Well, it was my parents' fault You know, from my background, I can see how I was built for failure, dysfunctional, and to begin to excuse all that stuff. Then the Spirit of God doesn't let you there until it begins to move you to you. Look at your heart So I began to look at my heart. I said, no, no, I can see reasons in my background. But ultimately I'm responsible for that thing. And it was overwhelmed by that. And it was at that point, I remember standing by this rhododendron bush, and I was walking past, and I just was feeling overwhelmed by that thing. And I sensed One of those times when I sense God's presence in a powerful way as if he was saying, Good, Alan, good, very good. You know, and I got so upset I cried out, Lord, what do you mean, good? Here I'm feeling ready to sweat my throat, and I'm feeling overwhelmed with failure and inadequacy, and I want to quit the whole thing and walk away from it And I don't see anything good in all this, and you're saying that's good. And then all of a sudden, he brought my mind vividly. I hadn't been reading this. He brought my mind right to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Verses nine and ten. He said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weakness. Weaknesses so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why for Christ's sake I delight in weaknesses and insults and hardships and per Persecutions and difficulties. For it's when I'm weak, it's when I'm whipped, then I am strong. I'll tell you. My whole attitude became so utterly transformed, it surprised even me. And the area that had driven me to the greatest despair was Six weeks later, God dramatically answered. And I began to realize that God had to place me in a position of feeling utterly inadequate because I was kidding myself and thinking I was really turning to. There's some area in your life this morning you think you're trusting But he's bringing you lower and lower and more to the end of your sense of adequacy. What are the powerprints of your unleash through your life in ways that you have not seen. Can you trace God's hand in your life in one of these five ways? Weaknesses Hardships, insults, persecutions, different things. How are you responding? How is God leading you to respond in the way of his word? Lord, we want to come to you now. We want to see our lives from a new perspective. Lord, I believe that there are some people here who could identify with my experience that time there by that rhododendron growth. I was feeling so depressed. And all of a sudden you revealed to me that my sense of failure and inadequacy was exactly what you wanted me to be to see where was the step to freedom. To not think that I was adequate, that I was going to be able to do it, that I was able in myself to be a right kind of of husband, father, friend, master. That I am in fact very inadequate and therefore the better I see that, the more in touch with reality I am Lord, there's some of us here this morning who are feeling that same kind of thing. There's some here this morning that are feeling very inadequate in an area, but they've been compensated by feeling adequate in other areas. You're wanting to show them now, Lord, that the hearts are evil, they are inadequate. For Jesus has been worthy on their behalf. And your spirit is available to assist them as they realize that inadvocy. We bring that area to you right now, each one of us. He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater. He sendeth more grace when the labor's increase. To add an affliction He addeth his mercy to multiplied trials, his multiplied peace. And we have exhausted our store of endurance When our strength has failed or the day is half done. When we reach the end of our hoarded resources, our Father's forgiving is only His love has no limits. His grace has no measure. His power has no boundary known unto men. Proud of his infinite riches in Jesus. He giveth. And giveth. And giveth again.