I prayed about for a while, Lord, what should this word be? And I was reminded of one of my favorite stories of John Calvin And John Calvin went to Geneva to bring Reformation there in a very corrupt city. In fact there were so many problems there that they finally drove him out and he had to flee for his life and Probably thought he'd settle in Strasbourg for the rest of his life, but after a few years he was called back to Geneva. And when he went back to Geneva, he entered the the pulpit the very first day that he was back. A great occasion of victory for God's people there. And you know what he preached on? When he had left some years before, he was preaching, I think, through the book of Deuteronomy. The first day that he was back, he just picked up on the next verse and went right on. It's sort of like, you know, well now before we were interrupted here, let me pick up my thought, you know. But I thought we need to actually have something that addresses this occasion as God speaks to us And as I thought about that, my mind went back to the verse that we claimed at the very beginning of this project or this mission that we've entered on in constructing this facility as a base of kingdom operation. And that was Psalm 115, verse 3. Do you remember we claimed that verse all through what we have been doing here? Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And so as I thought about that verse, I was reminded that when we come to God's Word and we attempt something, some project, some faith venture for Him The primary question that you and I are to ask is not the question, is it possible? The primary question to ask is, does it please him? Does it please our God? Is it his will? Is it what he wants us to do? Because if it is, then he dwells in heaven and he does whatever pleases him. We're not limited simply to what we can conceive that we're able to pull off on our own ability. And so as I thought about that, I remembered that I preached three times on this message, on this verse and this psalm, from 1987 to 1991. Three times we've considered this text, and I believe it's appropriate for us today. I believe that it's appropriate to continue it next week. And then as we have the dedication on next Sunday evening where we have our grandmother church, Knox from Silver Spring, and then our mother church that started us, Covenant Church in Burton's, come to join us for this dedication. I believe God wants to address us through this passage. And so I want for us to consider together the first thing of three things, three points that I want to make from this passage today, next Sunday morning, and then Sunday evening, three things to consider. And the first today is that I believe that this passage focuses us on the opportunity and the challenge that's before us in this facility. This building represents to us an opportunity and a challenge, and it focuses us on that because you see the challenge in verse 2 of Psalm 115. Why do the nation say, Where is their God? And then you see the response of God's people in verse 3. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Now it's it's kind of uh disorienting to preach from you from up here. I I try to focus my thoughts here and Steve trying to capture this for posterity You know, 'cause most people have a place that you sit over at Smith Theater and and uh Tom mentioned this before, you know, and some of you gotten real radical and you've changed, you know And I you know, I'm not used to seeing you over on this side or you know, you're supposed to be over there. So I'll try to orient myself as to where people are. Maybe this is a time for new beginnings here for you or something. You want to try a new spot of the auditorium. But I'm not looking up at you either. I'm looking down at you and all this is really different. So pray that I'll be able to focus my thoughts as I try to help us to understand something that God has for us out of this. That's the opportunity. That's the challenge that God gives us. Where is our their God, the nation, say? And we respond, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Now, the occasion of this psalm is probably that it was on in the wake of a victory that Israel had won some war or some battle, some great occasion And as they did , they came to the end of that, and they came with the attitude that we need to have in the wake of this victory, of this war, in verse 1, not to us. Oh Lord, not to us. But to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness. You know, and you can sort of liken the building of this thing to a war If you don't think so, just ask Chuck Greenslit or Jerry Myers or the trustees. Thursday I still didn't still didn't know if we were going to be in here this morning I talked to the supervisor of the construction project, building this thing, and he said, you know, this is the most difficult construction project I have ever had in my life I said, come on. I said, you've got problems all the time. I said, I figured you'd say, oh, you know, we got problems with pliers and all this kind of stuff. He said, no, no. And he looked me right in the eye and he said, This has been the most difficult thing I have ever built No, you know, well we just got some screwy design here or something. He said, no, he said, all kinds of things have conspired in this, suppliers and weather and all kinds of things That have made this a very difficult project. Number of decisions that were very difficult that they had to make and things that were mistakes they had to go back over. And there's a sense in which You see the spiritual warfare even in the construction of this. And I began to think about that, and I thought, well, isn't it true that if this is a base of kingdom operation for the Lord Jesus Christ To make a difference in Howard County, that there's going to be resistance. The evil one is not going to appreciate this place being constructed. And so I believe there has been spiritual warfare. But I believe that in the victory of that, that we sense God has brought us through that, that we need as a people to say, not to us, not to our cleverness. Not to all that we've been able to do and all the skillful people we've been able to marshal with all their abilities. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. No person is to get the credit ultimately in this But to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. Then having stated that that's our attitude We then look at the challenge that's being hurled to us from outside. And the challenge that was given to Israel, I suggest to you, is the exact same challenge that we're having put to us today. Why do the nations say, Where is their God? And that is exactly what secularistic Howard County and its region around here is saying to us, isn't it? They're saying, Where is the God of Christianity? Where's the God of the Bible? I don't see him. I don't see his reality. I don't see his power. Where is this God that you people talk about? And our response is the same as Israel's. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. One of the saddest things I believe about our culture today is that I believe this nation sees evangelicals as a political force, an ideological force to be reckoned with, but they do not see us as a group of people that compel them to face the reality of the God of the Bible. They look at us as a force that can be explained sociologically. They do not look at us as a people whose existence and who we are and what we're accomplishing says to them, we must say. When we ask where is their God? That maybe he is in heaven. And maybe he does do whatever pleases him. I recall the Fuhrer of 1983 and 1984. Do you remember those days in the meeting house? When we as a congregation said that no one in Columbia or Howard County or anywhere around or anywhere on earth can stand before the searching righteous judgment of God The Creator God who knows and perceives all things from global affairs to the inner recesses of your heart. No one can stand before Him. Without the forgiveness based on the unique, transforming work of Jesus Christ at the cross and the empty tomb. No one is able to come before him safely on any other basis. And that's why when we design this, that we Asked Sandy Meyer Haas Dad to design for us a pulpit that is the shape of a cross. So that every time you look up here and you hear a message, you realize and you are reminded that the preacher stands behind the cross. That the message is based on the cross. And that everything that we seek to proclaim is to lift up the Lord Jesus Christ and his power to say to the nations, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. You who say, Where is there God? You who say that you people have your own ideas, but it's not something that we need to reckon with Just as back in those days when we made that statement, and that statement became a uh dis uh debate for months in the Columbia Flyer, uh just uh a couple of weeks ago when Diane Brown interviewed me about that. uh incident she said why were you guys expelled from the meeting house and right back again I didn't raise it it was on her mind they remembered ten years later you were the people Who said that no one can stand before God apart from Jesus Christ, and without him you go to hell. We remember you guys And I'll always remember that day when there was a special meeting called of the Howard County Clergy. And there were 16 of us in that room, rabbis, priests, Protestant pastors. There was nobody else allowed in that room except clergy. And on that particular day of those who were in that room, I'm not saying that there were other clergy in Howard County that wouldn't have been agreeing with me, but in that day on in that room It was 15 to 1 against the need for Jesus Christ to be right with God. I was the only person in that room that believed that you needed Jesus Christ to avoid God's judgment and to avoid hell. And so we live in a day and we live in a place where the nation says, where is their God? Where is this God that you people talk about? And so we consider that question. Sometimes it's asked in anguish. And people who say, I've been disillusioned, I've been disappointed. There may be some of you right here this morning, for the first time here Who are saying, I've almost given up on church. I've almost given up on Christianity. And I've wondered, is there a place where there is the reality of God to be known? Is it really true that the Bible has answers for my life and that there's a community of people who seek to live that? Some people ask it in arrogance. The Bible says that all of us have that degree of arrogance in us that says, where is there God? Some people seek to actually discredit the Bible. Some people seek to rob us of any sense of confidence in the fact that the Bible is God's Word. But however you ask it If you're asking, if you're saying, where is your God? Because we don't see him, that's the first blank. Because I've had professors that I've taken in college who have sought to undermine any confidence I had in the Bible or in Christianity. The professors seem to have a messianic zeal to do that. Many colleges I've seen. One professor recently was quoted in saying in a major university, Christians are neither intelligent nor thoughtful. How's that for a sweeping statement? We don't see him. Or whether it's the statement that says, we don't see his power. That's the second blank. We don't believe that this God that you talk about is true because we don't see his power. I doubt it, I'm wondering, or I'm simply saying in arrogance, I don't see his power recently a TV show in France, they were listing a number of things that a number of myths that French children outgrow as they come into adulthood, such as fairies, Santa Claus, and Christianity. And that was stated as one of the myths that every child has to outgrow. Media here in the United States Seems to whatever it portrays Christians put them in a light of either being naive or hypocritical But never, almost never, shown as as people who believe in a reality of truth of a supernatural God, because it really is true Now what is our answer then? What is the answer to those who say to us, Where is their God? What is the answer that we're able to give on which this becomes a base of operation for us? The answer, of course, is verse 3. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. We're saying that our God is in heaven. He's a spirit that you can't see. What is the evidence that I should believe? What is it that should compel me to say that this God exists? And we say because He does whatever pleases Him. He's sovereign. And he reveals that power here on earth. Now, how does he do it? And this is what I think we need to focus our attention on this morning as we think about this. Is this ministry center the definitive display of God's power? I think we could make a case for that. As I mentioned, we were expelled unanimously from the meeting house in 1984 because we believed, and it was very clear at that time, it was in the flyer, it was all over, very clear that we do not refuse to renew your contract because you're nasty people, you're unpleasant to live with, or you've done anything that we don't like. It was always and only ever the issue that you have said That a person needs Jesus Christ to avoid God's wrath and judgment for our sin. And that is offensive to us. And so we were expelled, but without missing a beat, without a single week. We were invited into the stone house where the Long Reached Church of God had been meeting for twelve years, and at just that point finished their facility and they moved out into their facility and we moved into there and God provided for us. And then when we outgrew the stone house we needed another place and one day Chuck Greenslit went over to Howard Community College And he asked if they would rent to us as a church. Chuck had asked me oh, it had told him don't bother going. I know they had a policy against that. Fortunately he didn't ask me. Of course they told him the same thing. We have a policy, we don't rent to churches Two days after Chuck was in the office, the president of Howard Community College said, we need to change that policy about renting to churches. We need some more income. You know of any churches around here we could rent to? He had no idea that we were asking. Now who do you think came to mind? We'd just been in there. So they come back and they say, Would you guys like to write? God provided for us again He's provided for us as a pilgrim people step by step. Then in 1986, after looking at 20 different properties, having finally become convinced if we were going to make a difference in this community, we had wanted always to rent. But finally decided that the only way we would really be able to do the ministries that we believed God was calling us to do was if we had a facility 24 hours a day, seven days a week to operate out of. And in April 1986, we as a congregation met together and we said, we believe that these almost seven acres, which are highly accessible and highly visible right across from the park on Route 108, is the place God has for us. But at that point we said, we're a people who tend to know more than we do. And so we said, God, we've seen many churches get into bondage by having some great debt, and that debt drives their priorities. So he said, if you want for us to have that land, almost a half a million dollars, with when you added the settlement fees and all the rest of that, if you want us to have that land, provide it for us debt-free. Now that was a major step of faith for us at that time. In 1985, our entire budget was $175,000. That's what had been given in this congregation. We're only seven years old as a as a church. $175 ,000, and we're going to come up with a half a million dollars Before settlement. We talked to the owners of this property, they agreed to delay settlement for two years, to hold it off until the summer of 1988 for full payment. Of course they had some incentive for that. We said, well put the money in escrow. And if we can't come up with it all, you get to keep it. How's that for a deal? Everything to lose, what can we gain? Except we would be out of debt and there'd be no interest And so between 1986 and 1988, God provided through this congregation, there's another service too. They got more people. Provided through this congregation almost $500,000 in addition to the regular budgets of those years. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. That was not because we were rich and wealthy and all the rest of that. That was the work of our God because He was in this to bring us to this place. And so you could make a case for the fact that when we see this place, it's a testimony to the fact that God is real. But then you stop and think, Mormons build buildings. Jehovah's Witnesses build buildings. The Muslims are putting up mosques left and right The building isn't really the definitive declaration of his presence, is it? It really doesn't prove that the God that we worship is the true and living God. What then is the demonstration that our God is in heaven and does whatever he pleases? And I'd suggest that it's B. The real answer is transformed lives. Transformed lives. God's power is seen in a loving community of weak, transformed sinners. As the Lord Jesus prayed in John chapter 17, in verse 23, he said, Father, I am in them, and you are in me, talking of us, the church. And then Jesus prayed, May they, the church, be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me, and that you love them even as you love me. Jesus is saying when there is a transformed group of people who can live together from all kinds of backgrounds, racially, ethnically, economically. In all their different experiences, and these people can join together and be a loving community that worship me, then the world will know that you've sent me. Then the world will know that our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And so we as a people here are committed to the fact That Howard County and this region desperately needs the presence of the Church of Christ. That we are in fact bold enough to say that we are by the grace of God, the only ultimate solution to the problems of race, to the problems of dysfunction, of broken families and homes, of various kinds of abuse within this community And that this facility exists as a base of operation in order to demonstrate the reality of the transforming Christ. Now, this question that's asked in Psalm 115 where is there God? Parallels another place in Scripture that that's asked. And I think it's instructive for us to consider it for just a moment. Can't consider it at any length. I suggest that you go look at it on your own this week. But in Joel chapter 2, you have that same question asked, and God Himself gives the answer to it. In Joel chapter 2, you have a weak people, a people who are so despised that Joel says that they're a scorn, that their name is a laughing stock to the nations. And then he says at the end of Joel chapter 2 and verse 17, why should they say among the peoples, where is their God? Same questions you have in Psalm 115, verse 2. And the rest of the book of Joel, chapters 2 and 3, is God's answer to that through Joel. And it's a fourfold answer. What is it that God says to them? God says, first of all , I will restore your brokenness. I will show you my reality. I will show that I am the living God to this community because I am going to restore the brokenness of my people. In Joel chapter 2 and verse 25, for instance, he says, I will repay you for the years that the locusts have eaten. What God is saying here is, because of your sin, there has been waste and devastation in your life. I've brought locusts, plagues. And we live in a culture that is broken in plagues and devastation in our lives. And so the message to you this morning is that Jesus Christ comes and he stands before you here. The symbolized by this cross to say, the brokenness in your life, I will not only forgive if you come to me, but I will restore to you the years that the locusts have eaten. I will give such abundance and joy in your life that you won't even feel cheated by the sin that has robbed you of all that joy and of all the right relationships you wished you could have had. I will restore the brokenness of your life. And I will bring you into a community where you can experience wholeness. And there will be transformation, there will be renewal, and you will see bit by bit in your relationships, in your habits, in your thought life, in your patterns. You will see newness. You will see a wholeness. You will see transformation beginning to come. Secondly, God says here that he will pour out his spirit in power. He is going to, through his people, pour out his spirit in power. And you see that again in Joel chapter 2, in verse 29. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days. Verse 32. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be delivered, will be saved. The New Testament tells us this began to be fulfilled in the book of Acts. When God poured out his Spirit on all flesh, and we see the transformation of a community of people, weak people like you and me, who were formed together as a loving community A community of people from all kinds of racial and ethnic backgrounds, and they declared with boldness that there is a Savior who's died on the cross for sins and he's risen from the dead And he can transform your life as he's transformed our lives. And this Jesus was preached with a boldness that demonstrated that our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And that same message comes today. As we seek to form together here a community of Afro-Americans and whites and Latins and Asians were joined together to be able to say our God is a God who transforms a people into a loving community and can do what nothing else can do in this county. I rejoice to see what Dave Anderson is trying to do and the group of people that he has was reported on in the flyer this week to form such a community. And our longing is that we together with them would be that kind of a community Because when we are, then Howard County has to look and they say all the things that our seminars and recovery programs and and on our racial programs and all the things we're trying to do in the school and they're not doing it and we're going backwards rather than forwards and we say That's because the ultimate solution is not in the programs of man. But it's in a living Savior who transforms people. Amen? I mean, somebody ought to say amen to that. And so that's what we're here for. But we're here to demonstrate that that's not only true. But the third thing that God says is you're going to know my reality because I'm a God who will judge sin. I'm a God who's going to judge sin. Chapter 3 talks about that in verses 1 to 16. He says, for instance, in verse 14, Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. The sun and the moon will be darkened and the stars no longer shine. The Lord will roar from Zion and thunder from Jerusalem. The earth and the sky will tremble. You say, I don't believe there's a God the Bible the Bible talks about. I believe I can have my own do-it-yourself religion, a God who I designed to meet my needs Psalm 115 talks about that kind of a God. Verses 4 to 8 describe them. A God made with our own hands, by our own minds, and our own designs. Who have no power to do anything, and verse 8 says, and they who make them will be like them, dead in vain. God says about the sin in your life and the sin in my life, one day we're going to stand before Him, and every knee is going to bow, and we will see the God the Bible talks about is the true and living God. And there will be no doubt about it on that day when we all stand before his majesty. And he says, On that day I will war with my judgment against the sin that has not only ignored me but has brought such hurt And devastation in the lives of people on this earth. Then he says, in the fourth place, I will be a refuge to my people. The end of verse 16, after he says, The Lord will roar from Zion and thunder from Jerusalem, and the earth and the sky will tremble. But the Lord will be a refuge for his people. Brother and sister in Christ, on that day when you see the roaring of the Lord in his judgment, there will be nothing to compare with the sense that He is my refuge. From all of this judgment, how glad I am that I am hidden in Him. And if you are outside of Him this morning, there is nothing that will compare into your life. Nothing that you could have or to ex- that you could experience that will compare with what you will feel that day if you were without Jesus Christ before that judgment. But he can be a refuge to you. Because he's a refuge to all of his people who come and turn and say, I have no refuge anywhere else. And look to the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done on the cross and say, that alone is my hope. That you are my substitute and you took the judgment in my place. So our hope, brothers and sisters, is not that people will look at this building as they drive on 108 and say, Wow, hey, you know, God must be really, you know, the God of the Bible must be true, 'cause look at that building. Come on, give me a break, you know. They'll say, hey, you know, man, it must be a pretty wealthy congregation. They won't know the sacrifice that went into this. Oh well, you know, there's another building going up, you know, another one of those churches, probably too many of them around here anyway, but there goes another one up Our hope is that God is going to use us as a base of operation that people's lives will come in. People who will drive past and say, there's a Presbyterian church, and that's about as comfortable to me as walking into a Buddhist temple I have no truck with churches. But they'll say, but I like to play basketball. I like to play volleyball. I need some help on how to parent my kids who are growing to be teenagers I need some help because of somebody that died in my family, and there's a grief growth group over there, or there's a recovery group from some abuse that I've been involved in Whatever kinds of things, and they'll come. And through that, Jesus Christ will move through this community to transform lives. The glory of us as a body is not what we build. It's the lives that are transformed at Columbia Presbyterian. You know, just in the last month, I've received four letters From four different people who have talked totally independently, weren't solicited, but just talked about how God has been transforming their lives through this body. One was written by a woman I have not seen for years. And she wrote, I haven't uh had any contact with her, and she wrote simply to say, you probably never knew how Columbia Presbyterian affected my life Somebody in Columbia Presbyterian Church was teaching a class, and in that class they shared Jesus Christ. And that began to get me to think. And so this person writes how they thought and then they talk about a conversation that I had with that person one day. I don't even remember the conversation, but she says in that one conversation, you said, you've got to make a decision. Are you going to live for the world or are you going to live for the Lord Jesus? She said, I was trying to put the whole thing off. She said, that day I gave my life to Jesus Christ. She said, I was such a raw, pagan, secular person that when you said, now be baptized and come to the Lord's Supper She says, I didn't eat the whole day because I thought we were having a pot and love dinner. She says imagine my surprise when I came up and I see this little loaf and I said, That's for everybody? You know, this is the glory, people that haven't grown up knowing all about Christianity, who come and and this woman then went on to marry a Christian guy and she says, and we've planted a Bible-believing church and we're now telling other people about Jesus Christ because there was a discipleship seminar at Columbia Presbyterian and I took that seminar and it taught me how to study the Bible And it taught me how to get into God's word, and I've been feeding myself and seeing God use me. And I just thought I would say thanks. Another person wrote and said that they become a Christian here also. And they talk about how God has been working in the messages and various things in their life, and then she says I've been encouraged to know Jesus more deeply, to apply my faith on a daily basis, and to serve him where I'm called, to obey out of love and to find my confidence in him. That sounds familiar Just as often I have stood, or rather sat, convicted of my own sin, both old areas that need to be confessed or new areas that need God's power applied. Along with my endless shortcomings, God's infinite mercy and his grace becomes clearer on many Sunday mornings. A third person wrote, said I'm writing anonymously, just so you don't think that I'm trying to flatter you. Wrote to Steve and to me both. And she talks about how God's gospel has come so fresh to her each Sunday morning. I never tire of hearing the good news of the gospel. And what a glorious relief it is to know that here at CPC we can strip away the faces of false fronts, to know that I'm not alone in seeing the hideousness of our individual and collective sins and faults. how good it is seems to share the burden and with one voice to rejoice in the day when this corruptible will be made incorruptible. Amen And a fourth person wrote just recently. And remember I challenged you to think about ways that you had experienced Ephesians 1 in your life in the last year. And that prompted this letter. And this person writes about experiencing his power. And he says, in an effort to grow as an intercessor, I chose six or seven particular items that I had the highest priority in my life. And I determined that if I prayed for nothing else, I would pray for at least those items as often as I could, hopefully daily. And I've begun to see some very specific and significant answers to specific prayers, not stuff that would have just happened anyways. I've also experienced some significant victory over habitual sins. Whereas in the past the strength of my fleshly desires have frequently made obedience, if achieved at all, most almost exclusively, a grit-your-teeth self-denial. In recent months I think I have begun to taste some of God's pleasure in my obedience. That has set up within me a new motivation for resisting temptation. I think this new motivation is more powerful than the old because it inclines me to close the door of my heart to temptation much earlier in the process than before. It's just not as fun anymore to entertain thoughts that rob God of his glory, because it's more satisfying to know and to share his pleasure. Brothers and sisters, that's what shows this community that our God is in heaven, that he does whatever he pleases. So we dedicate this as a base of kingdom operation, a tool for our God to be able to have a place to transform lives. that will demonstrate to this community that it's not in man's programs, but it's in the living Savior, that lives are transformed. Let's pray. Lord our God, we pray for each one of us here this morning, for some who may be saying, I would want to know that transforming power in my own life. Lord, we pray that you would show them the Lord Jesus who has died, that his death is sufficient for all their sin, and that you want to restore to them the years that the locusts have eaten. That you would draw them to see and to trust Jesus. Lord, we pray for those of us who want to see more of your healing in our brokenness. Lord, grant to us faith to believe you, to know that you are the God who is in heaven, who can not only provide a place for us to meet But that your main interest is in changing lives and you want to change ours and bring healing to a more complete degree. That you would help us, Lord, to be joined together as that community of loving people. We together serve and worship you and demonstrate to this community by the ministries that you will raise up that our God truly is in heaven, and he does whatever pleases him. To you be the glory forever. Amen. If any of you want to discuss any more of this, we'll be having a lunch over at the Potter's house down in the basement there at one o'clock. Feel free to call