Come now to the last a series of size method books and instructions for a new thing from the Book of Ephesians. There will be in fact a next week an appendix to this view , a kind of first method method dealing with uh subject matter that we'll continue to listen. We can talk to Boris and appeal of that. But my purpose today is to alert you to the reality and to the power of faith to then anticipate the particular ways that that power may connect us as a case, and then to remind us again of the power of Jesus Christ in overcoming Satan. He actually wrote in his classic little book Precinct letters, these words. There are two equal and opposite errors into which our rooms can fall about together One interest is to disability in their to disappoint in their existence. The other is to believe and then to feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them. Well now I think that uh historically the problem of the orthodox Secretary and Purge has not been an excessive and unhealthy interest in social Rather I come into it maybe, but in a very practical way, we don't use as much as my speech to use reality as we say. But we can capacity ignore him. And that can be a great mistake. Because we must be very prudent and aware Satan is a real person. The evil points are not real personal ultimately in this world, but points. A Satan with a real person with whom we're immortal country. I think may seem in some sense the contradictory over the last couple of weeks to talk now about struggles. But didn't I say the last couple of weeks that uh God has told us in the book of Ephesians that we have a prediction that we are simply to work out But the message of the book of Ephesians is to be quite. The Christian life is really nothing more in that than working out in my experience than if it's already But you see we must be careful not to draw the wrong conclusion. The fact that the Christian life is simply the working out of our position in Jesus did not elegance in what passivism. An unvisible pacifism. There's a property teaching that you know that there that the secret to the Christian light is simply to let go and let die to stop struggling, to simply let him, give to his control, so that God will work out in us the position that we have in Christ. But in fact all struggle is really the flesh. And you think you're struggling with a person and you're probably living in the place. And you see that's a high speech Because God has called us to a very active light in the Christian life. But there's a subtle difference And the difference is that if I'm struggling in my own strength, that is the place. God is called the But the trouble in Christmas. In the place of the spirit. And I think it is a board of the Christian light more and more but largely The difference is a matter of realizing and perspective. Not only ministers, we need advances One of the uh most exciting hands that I saw very very clearly , down in the was a fellow who painted place from the background of a motorcycle dress Now this fella was a sight to behold. He lost a gun over 300 pounds. He had a multi-inceptible left. When he left, he just had a multi -infective Not only because the buildings building generally pushed when he began to last, but because he came interesting as very impressive, very enthusiastic of his early person out of a background of strong And they recycled down with all of the rest of it. And yes, we went to TV at a fire to smoke. So this fellow and I, as we began to go on and I recycled relationships. Uh soon he became involved in a reason board. And through that became involved in the health If you came to one night and he came over to discuss this quite upset, that he wasn't quite agreed. I always remember that night as he discussed. international occurrences that were going on in his life. Things that he could not explain away with any mass or phenomenon. And it became quite serious to be in touch with a secret I remember it's a blue eyes towards midnight and we still expect the paperwork, but I was still exploring just what we going on. But both of it, if he was thinking about something, had a very dear and very clear coach of a very purpose. It's a very weak experience in my life. I've never had any things before spirits. Quite like that. Both of its independentness, final things had the very re effect of the amount of force that was in that room. What I want to tell you then, we didn't have to talk about that Well, if it was hit the floor, quickly, then it would get discussed by another. And we say Not because uh this is out of place in situations like this. I want to tell you we came because we've had a place. We came because we had a file out of the gas of his protection And in the next two or three days, I had a whole bunch of suspects on my life. Not that I didn't think all that suspected. But as I was living, I was aware of the future battles that I was involved in in a way that I covered it. I was aware that every Everything I do, I do by God's mercy and in this place against the spiritual forces away against me and against the social sense. So it wasn't as if I took a different path in my social But rather it was a realization, a profound realization, that the battle of the words flowers against something that I could never handle myself. And if Jesus Christ must deliver it, so I was lost. Then that's the point of value that we consequence. That was hard to describe him in the book of Ephesians. He described you, we call in the first we are to be written in Jesus Christ. He was written in the heavenly praises. He looks that up with our classical living by chapter four verse one in the way he talked to about bringing out classical The point is no contradiction between making that statement and then going on in chapter You fixing it about tender a fight. So not only to put this up, or flipped this for this morning, but if you Chapter 6, beginning with verse 10. Hebrews chapter 6, verses 10, the 20. After having talked about relationships in the home of the husband and wife, the children of their parents, a slave of their masters, employees of employees. He then goes on to say , silence be strong. In the Lord and in the space of truth. Put on the full armor of God that you may be able to stand firm against the tree of the devil. The eye solving is not against mic and death , not against matrices, but it's against the rules, against the power, against the world of this darkness against the spiritual sources of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the full armor of God, that you may be able to resist with evil day and having done everything to stand firm. Stand firm, therefore, having burnt your mind with fruits, having put on the graphics and the righteousness, having In a bit of all taking up this fear of faith, with which you will be able to exceed it by the flowing lift of the evils We take the harm of the Father , the word of the Spirit, with the Word of God with all prayer and prayer at all times. And with it from you, feel the awaits, with all truthful work and participants to all the saints. And pray on my behalf that utterance may be given to you Openeth my mouth, make known with boldness the victory of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador of things. But in concern, I may speak boldness as I offer peace. Very good. Very good to the Prince of Columbia. That what may it take? Again for the book of the team. And to these words. And in this if he was telling me to beware for these words of the oppressed. He would come upon us The coast in the beginning in Colombia. Remember, I had just seen the very promising case in seriously Why? Are they collapsed to the seed of a fallen thought? And I had to ask myself at that time What is it? That's going to present to death our own conservation from following the same meteoric course I would suggest there are three things that we should consider physics money. And then the bulletin interface. Three things concerning this happens. First of all, we need to have a proper attitude. Then secondly, we need to have proper application And thirdly, proper armor. So first we have the watchword concerning our attitude, the warfight concerning our application and then the word of hope concerning our armor. Notice that you are consumption of this whole pattern, you have used in character Truth that we will find ourselves in a slab. That is the truth in everything we say. I will tell you about the Christian because that living the crystal life is easy. And it uh it's a it's a kind of a glider experience. I've never found it that way. And I don't think my Bible teaches that You see, the Bible is very clear on the fact that we're involved in a warship, a deadly warship. And there's something terribly wrong if we're not in conflict with a The fact is I've written in there that we do not find ourselves under attack individually and if it takes in the microheads. It's probably because the last about us. So what if we struggle in our lives, individually, and as a positive reason, we can rejoice We don't put it to happen. You're going to put it potential destruction. First. So that's probably me that I've ready to admit He's ready to show his power in a way that we would have never seen that we have become to that concept. And he's ready to display his power in a way that will be a great use of the kingdom that I arrived in the night space and in this community if we apply this power. So let's look through these these subjects now first then considering the walkway and our attitude. So watch this. I want to focus on just three words from this passage. Three words of Paul Jesus and there are his imperatives. And you know we talked about The matter that the imperative, the commands are based on statements of facts, the indicatives. So now in this section, there are commands. The first one in verse 10 is to be strong. Be strong. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of Isma. Now what is the strength of Isma? Well , because when we began this Chapter 1, verse 19, God purposed for the church. Remember, He purposes first to know Him, and then secondly to know the riches of the glory of inheritance. And the third purpose was the language power. Now that same word power using Ephesians 610, literally be empowered in America, is the same word using Chapter 1 verse 93. Let's take a look at that as well. It's kind of remembering version, right? But we would be enlightened to know both my three Chapter 1, what is the successful greatness of the power? The same words as in chapter 16. And this power is for us to believe. We can appoint it for the working of this place of respect, which is brought about in Christ. When he is since the death, and still we work at a right hand in the heavenly place far above all law and authority and words all power and believe what all commanders not all they And he put all things in subjective under two feet and gave him a terrible all things to the surface of his bodies before it begins to go by at all. That is their dead. You and I have this power. This is the power desire to serve us. The power that they received from the dead. And with a spending minute absolute authority. That's the power of the professional. The place of being power in the place of speak money This life that I told you about earlier in my letter. Now I'm telling you for cooperation. Now I'm saying that that's the only power that's going to be sufficient in the battle that you have is lost in good place. The second word is then suspend first. Stand first. Have you seen this? This is one word in the group. We see this Three times in this lecture. Verse 11, put on the full armor of God if you able to stand firm against the food of the devil. Earth for two. Therefore, take up the full arm of God that you may be able to resist them the evil day and having done everything. Just stand firm. There's forces. Stand firm, therefore. But it's pretty hair, that's a very concerned part. It is very important. Now this word is a word which literally means for holy ground. offer resistance in a struggle. It's the idea of faith. It's the word used in First Timothy chapter two, verse nineteen, where we use the the firm foundation of God. It's removable. It stands, it's just it where we're at. It's only worse. So how are we going to do it? about the farmers. I reached the first. The same thing. Family. Same with farmers. Same thing therefore don't have to be Having the owner good with feed, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, having the star with peace, with the preparation of the gospel of peace And we're just that we are putting up the fear of the case. We just be able to see how the flavoring myths of the evil. We put on a humble foundation before you experience. the word of God. But that's the orange. Did he decide? I would be saying first. One of the best pictures I know of this honor. is given to it designed by you for the product. Where the purpose of the product that is described to these verses to phase it If I'd like to say it, that question would be next. You remember is when Christian comes to the valley of humiliation. And when he comes to this valley, he meets the soul , Christian, and the remaining humanity. No one was very familiar with this whole system with our systems. We have gone but a little way before we spy the fire three. Then the system is going to be a case. And the pastor is mine ready to go back with a fair choice. But it's considered the But he had no value for the facts for all the people. And also it 's not to turn the batch of them, make it in the blue again. would be successful with his life. Therefore he resides and firm firm. What do I do? Have I no more put my eyes in the paper of my life with the best The same word. And a power in the moment. Otherwise he was true to be voice. He was praying to serve as a person when you try. Whenever you come up to this, you could explain to your happiness. And again, cut the written. The substance goes on if someone is surprised, take his friends. And what did he do? Both and he writes, we see him something And the power and tell him by the very is a good time to attend comparing what you have to offer to go to anything For those that do teach to work without insulin , we call them a fool that we do his work And talking about the end of the modern and those who have followed this way. At least to my creation hardly to lose this way. Yes, sir. So then he turns to accusations. And he brings up before pushing all his sins and reminds him of all those things he's done wrong. God says, Surely your Lord would be third as more acceptance as you are on us. The system describes him said it's In fact, I could ask you any things besides. If it's not appeared, so I have a party from the place. And that parity is true. Well at that point, a poly falls into To a deep ring. Then upon the person to a grievous ring saying, I am an enemy to this person. I hate this person who laws and evil. But I have come out on purpose to explain This is how you know what to do. Fine in the clean pilot, the way of doing it, therefore it's an easy time. But if I travel quite over the whole breadth of the road, that I am boarded with fear and things, the curious thoughts of eyes, as far by my internal members And the body feel soon in his breath. The system had a feeling in the face. They took his off when he was talking to the storage. I was back made out of it. Well God just took his hair By the which notwithstanding all the systems agree to avoid it, the following wounds of him in his head, his hand, in his foot. Different means Christians get a little bad. A following therefore followed you for Christians again prepared and this is the same thing as we say. This thing I found out now for about half a day. We just have Christian is almost twice. What apparently the fire gives our opportunity to go to gather up course to fix. And that will even do an approach with that And with all this story, it flew out of his hands. Then put up all of it, I assure thee now. And that we had almost touched him to the death. So the people began to despair life. The required habit by a positive inspector of the class whereby to make a fellow of your two minutes, this will really use by the character and stored in tax. So he won't find a gentleman When I said, I tell us. And I can give them a dead request. He gave them a good fact because what it is more than good. It was proceeding that made out of the grace and knowing all these things in more than part of the limited budget. And we've got a part of those things without the things. The triple feet call him no list. Bring it some masses. No else can imagine the left and thirty-five years, but yellow and visit royal And only every time they're called and growing, books, and good heart. I never saw them all the way. But if the three that you have moved with our three as a place, then you smile on the subject. But if you want to fight Whatever I pass. The Bible is here. They have the picture. The same is the past. The same part of the past we see here today are And other kinds of attacks are very good. The obvious attack will remain confirmed because we've Sometimes overwhelmed with despair, with disparity, for more than you can do. As a court, individuals. If you lose any of the effects of the legal work that concentrates has been involved in for many years Many times. The people of that world were simply overwhelmed by what they contributed nothing more. They simply take it on to the series of The practice. Things are continually to slaves get to review them, rob them of their motivation to the rest. But other other times far more awesome because attack are very, very covered. You see, it doesn't seem like an attack at all It's easy if it's very dramatic. At least then we can recognize it's force. It's almost romantic. But when your plastics are very subtle, they don't seem like things. It always seems so uh nasty. That's a part of this. It's a disease. It's just interesting. The family fire. The robbing of any time or motivation to get into God's way Those passes which reduce us to living on a natural level, rather than even being able to keep us from God's protective, robbing us of What is it? It like that. Review they look at past and temptation. Behold, but on the one hand, you have given it in all the places in a way that God knew of any responsibility. But on the other hand, beware that you see it only as a matter of time and lose the perspective that recognizes the patient in here. And if you're involved in a spiritual battle, not simply a psychological battle, or a battle against circumstances and broken appliances And housing happens, and money problems, and marital concepts. But in fact, all of these things have a fearful perspective with things will use against us, or God will use us. And the Paul is to stand firm. Stay already thinking. The third whiteboard here That was healed for the subtle attack. And that's the earth was true. The word be on the alert. Now the first one , this long, related to our strength in guys. The second white word, the same term, referring to the honored subject This word, the PRB alert is like one word in the group, the PRB alert relates to our pair Pap We must be perfect, we might as the enemy look into our midst while we're not missing. The word alone itself is I had a friend who was used to standards in Vietnam during the Vietnamese War. And they described to me the difference in standing guards when you were on the flight. He said, When we were staying garden, we knew because the F only a couple miles away. There was no problem staying away. I knew that any moment somebody might come to me Sometimes I had to defend myself again for eight minutes. He might be on front, to come back and uh That was also. But I knew that the danger is very bad enemies. And I was very very awake. And he said we were going to be five alone. And we declared away from the evil There are the noise. And all how hard to cut people. Then I was finding it impossible to stay away. Well what is the difference? The difference is completely aware of the belief. Paul is saying here that you and I must realize we're on the front line, we're not behind And if we're on the front lines, we're part be on the alert. And we will be on the alert if we're aware that the danger is very imminent. It's not a problem there. with a rule and the call, you have to be on the alert. But you never connect this word alert with fair. The two are inseparable, alert and firm. They must be together. You can care without watching in an alert place, he's simply mentioning things to that without any except some words And wrapping and working without prayer is simply anxiety. It is not an trusting God and human effort. But we must list these two things together in our Christian life. Prayer and alertness. Watching and praying. battle. So I told you, as a new conversation of the Lord Jesus says, will we together be alert in the battle for Columbia? We're assure that Satan will not allow progress without resistance and without trouble. I tell you in the name of Christ that we stand firm together to resist the attacks Did we recognize him and that we hate him as the fail struggle against us? And I find him as a conversation of Christ to be saved. In the face of the world. It will appropriate good money when I resist. That's how we're going to have. Did we go? We put your people, but now we're going to try this for any situation. Well, now we come to the water Because to win any war, you and I must like think to be able to talk about the subject of strategy. But we must practice and anticipate the strategy of our enemies in our battles. It struck me as I was saying about this last day But that would have you to begin to look things. We begin to anticipate what is going to be the battle point that you and I are going to be called the A small Is coming. Where will that at where will Satan attack us here? Because I sat by that screen of a hundred foot waterfall behind me, I'd be going to making things less. What is it that would be discovered in closing? You can think of all things off the question. If you were table, where would you attack? Well you kick yourself in the enemy's feet. If you don't think why would you ask like this? Besides what possibilities besides taking them And what we see on other systems. What things are you going to think about in selling out this? The first thing needs to be progress The first thing that I think we have to be aware of, in our case, is the possibility of the reason over the development of the new state Maybe it's deep and over a touch minor line. What name would be? And uh I'm not hitting it for high school I'm simply saying that that's the kind of interest that something may want to use. Maybe that we all come from difference to difference of worship This is files that were used to. And we will want to lobby for our files. Because that's you right now and not be happy with something else He will say but the Spirit of God I'm convinced that leading us in this direction of a church and will be disobedient to him if we don't follow what I have as the word of the Lord. lead to the reason. Some issues are worth pointing for. Others are not. Now there are a number of issues I could do as illustrations of this and I tried to grow up but I thought how So I won't do that. But let me just tell you one thing. I studied a lot about what has got these these purchases that have honored him And it's been new flooding by it. It's one of those. The two reasons, the most first flip and the fit races , not after, the two biggest battles here are the first quiet and the blow. Really can be two biggest attitudes to be playing with. Now, I just wanted to be aware of that There is no difference. It will reject something in any sense of the body. It was these kinds of issues. So it is not exactly And you 're thinking to use it in an attempt to divide it and be kind of things. One of the things you see and the main thing I would show you is is what is pertaining to a solutions. Here I notice I have solutions written down with no solutions written up. Because I want you to write out the solutions. I want you to think about that is write to just a couple of things. I want you to What do you think about his case about these matters, these kinds of solutions? But I think that three things about a policeman of the first matter, the different over the direction of space The first thing is the UNI specifical priorities of perspective. The UI because automatically reports them distributed programs. And if we have to keep on ourselves and they're claimed to be asked. And all of those principal are the things that you sit from, think about it. So if you have to avoid three of things kind of things are and divide it Because it's the beginning of our in this beginning because I have no good. I'm not looking at anything, I'm not telling anybody who responded. I know I'm nobody who has. I am quite content I am not trying to squeeze out some sort of a rejected or something that I have that I'm trying to say with human rights. I'm feeling an anticipated, but say we couldn't. In fact, I am delighted with what I see in the social perspective of the people in I think it has to do with a healthy eventualistic partner, of a close control of our work with God, and of our community to God But what not a thing that we will conclude? That it will process. The second thing, where it is concerning us, this matter of goodness, second thing by what is It is that we always maintain that the unity of our bodies is a priority under priority enough that we can purchase But we need to realize that that is something very clever. could be God without carefully considering the implications and beauty of the Bible in the government states. And then further, and this is We make a habit of working all of our objectives by response. Gosh still exists. Would you have some complaint or objective about the direction of the church or what seems to be the priority for the state? And by this we can resist things in many effects. It isn't so much as it reasons. And we sick It speaks about you as opposed to them in the business. We don't have that match as far as I can speak. Hold that for The second thing, the second attack, the second possible battlefield that I It is a matter of our doing over business leading to the process. Well, yeah, that's I tell you that if I or anyone in this case, this could be overcommitted with this. This would be it a very slow person. You see, there are two problems here. The first is that every one of us are saints, and therefore God is in a process of hearing and working with our lives individually in order to read our code and make us more like the Lord Jesus. So what we're going to leave us is you and I have time to say To meditate on those things God is doing it and to heal without eyes. We can't do that if we're just running around without feelings And God wants us to have that time with this so that we can aim to reflect where our lives are going. And not the core in an overly bigness that hides what in fact God is able to do with us personally about. He can cover over those things that the Lord Jesus is speaking to us about by turning And that can be a part of that. That 's existence. Secondly, those of us who have studied because We have to be careful that we locally drive quality time together because we become overly busy in our activities A first ministry of one kind or another. Pretty soon began to feel like we're sitting on a covenant. And we don't enjoy our families anymore. They become one more demand, we're burning on And we must resist them. We must preserve and guard very carefully and jealousy. Rather than case , that I found it. Because if there is value in our lives as a service. Well the third thing. The third attack, the third part of the stuff. I would suggest that our solar system can become consensual quick. Our solar systems could become consensus quick As very easy things now to get that started. So I 'm playing softly with their views. And then we call it tomorrow by one of their complications. What is a very normal pattern for these kinds of reef And I've been working with these boots for some years, perhaps we've been focused. I've seen a number of boots, why is it false? And I can tell you they could go far. There's a lot of excitement, a lot of expectation about what God's going to do in our days. going to have and the perfect fellowship we're going to have together and what we're going to do in our communities and all the goals we're going to set. People are added to our group to get new members. And things are terrific Way come to live , first sickness wise , things level off, and remember them And uh we settle down into the same old group. There's not quite the same expectation about what's going to happen. I mean, after all, every group, and this is necessary, every group has to come through a regrouping process That's a that's an important dynamic of grace. Any group, the goddess beef that I've ever seen, and this is seen in throughout the world, I think in throughout A group will grow and then it must solidify. And then it will grow again. We solidify and grow and solidify. So we'll see this in our group. But the problem is when we're in the solidifying process, we become comfortable with that. We want to become a little more solidify. We see the notification becomes kind of. And we don't want to break out of it. We don't want to call anymore. We become concessive and comfortable and very speech that we're relating to And we don't want to break up that old dialogue. Some people begin to drop out of these roots because they don't fit into the inner crest. It begins to develop into small groups of cells And so if those drop off and you don't make the fact for a while but they don't come anymore, that after all these guys then the group is We don't have the expectation that we're going to divide this region to continue the growth of family and penetrate climate. We're comfortable where we are And it's a foil patient. I see there's nothing left and anticipating it. Acceptances must be aligned with God's mandates as well, and to continue to go, to divide, to group, and continue to multiply as that have it to go again. And if we quickly become big and flat hair, then we've lost the cut of air. So I would suggest Getting police into this? The first thing we need to do is take care of the care to all of the members of our team and guard against any innocent. That's what we say Yeah, same thing. But in the clip that three who have five distances, three who have six. Secondly that we pray for God to continue to give us praise in our small group. And then the longer that we pray for more leadership so that we can divide these groups and continue to Firstly, I would say that there is a danger of fire in what three are The problem is called is what we are doing. That is in very good. We can look at how we're growing and and how God may give us rapid growth for some time. And if we do that we begin to write and we look at ourselves and we begin to compare ourselves. We begin to feel secure. We begin to think, Oh, we really got it together up here at this. And if we begin to look at ourselves, we think ourselves We no longer look at him , but the concern for what he did in our life and tall and by his sequence. And then that leads to the fifth problem. The problem of failure. Failure. In other words, I'm saying here, no genuine repentance from calling upon God to say please I'm not just saying that we don't have time. I'm saying that we don't learn in preaching in a way that becomes more and more effective what it means to qualify God to be fine. I mean Satan will do anything to keep us from pre-person. We can simply letting us think it was things, by man doing things in faith, without our heart really being in. Let's think all of us have a lot to know about sin. We have a long and God. And God wants to keep it with the truth. What can I think that these loans are four minutes? Hold on, good friends. Four minutes to around 100 to be a higher And let's not think that we've learned about failing because we need to fail. We need to go on and learn what it means to see that become thankful with a good work and saying with comments and so we can work on that. To learn what our helplessness really is that I decided to begin and God's favorite But I have this with really you and I've grown through the body for his glory The last thing then, the last possibility and suggestion is techniques, technical systems to guarantee some stuff. And every third clearly is I put in along that screen thinking, well, what what other thing can I add to this list? What other thing can I put down? Can I make sure I have it on All of a sudden I convicted me. That's exactly the point. I want to do it all. I want to be able to have a list that's all complete and then I can So now we just do these same things and that we can just anticipate these problems. They're not a guaranteed successful for the case. The faith that we can do anything in our techniques that will guarantee successful success That suggests the whole attitude that comes before God and say, No Jesus, you must