Is there children's church? Looks like there is, so you don't need to creep out as if this is not official. If kids are continuing downstairs in their worship, now's the time to take off. Those of you who know me know that I uh rarely watch TV And uh so when you all get together and talk about your favorite programs, I kind of feel left out. But uh sometimes I do watch TV, and sometimes when I watch That provokes a sermon. Such was the case back in November 1997. Which was not the last time I watched TV, but sometimes I wonder. But it was a time that I I watched a PBS special. It was a six-hour special called Liberty the American Revolution. And uh it was uh wonderfully, movingly done, portraying the Declaration of Independence, the circumstances of it, and the American Revolution. But after the six hours, I was angry and upset. Why? Well, because I felt like they had really distorted history and they had sanitized the things so that it looked like there was no influence of Christianity. Or anything of the hand of a sovereign God in the affairs of history. Now I'm not about to argue that America ever was or is a Christian nation. Or that America is basically good, the way that we treated Native Americans, the way that we treated Africans forced into slavery. is absolutely shameful. However, it's also true that there has been An unusual influence in our nation of the gospel and the Bible, in its effects on our view and understanding of liberty and freedom. On our form of government, on the basic motivations to rebel against the tyranny of England. It's absolutely clear to me that God's hand was sovereignly and evidently involved. In bringing uh a number of ragtag militias from basically thirteen countries. They called them colonies, but they had in some cases very little to do with each other or anything in common, take Massachusetts and South Carolina, for instance. To take those militias and to enable them to defeat The trained army and navy, and the full determination of the mightiest power on earth at that time And so I want to take a break from our study in Ephesians on spiritual warfare and the armor of God for just one week. For us to be able to this Sunday before the Fourth of July to be able to uh look at uh a message about this. Now, this message, as I say, was prompted back uh about four years ago uh by that special and I wanted to preach it ever since then. Every time we come around to the Fourth of July I would postpone it because something else preempted it And I decided after the events of last September that I really was going to preach it this Sunday before the 4th of July. That was further reinforced in hearing about the threats That have been detected and launched on our country for this Thursday, terrorist threats. And then this week The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals declaring that the Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional. That is, technically, it's unconstitutional to say it in public schools. But the particular point that's unconstitutional, of course, is the phrase under God, which they said crosses the line of the establishment of religion, which is unconstitutional. And when I heard that, I thought this sermon's all the more begging to be preached. And so now you're going to get it. Now, uh there are three basic views about the place, the participation of the biblical God. in the events of the American Revolution. You see in your bulletin outline there, the first view is the PBS Public Broadcasting Systems view, which is basically, what God? Where? The secularistic view is, of course, there isn't any personal sovereign God that's involved in the affairs of nations, or in our nation in particular. It's embarrassing to believe that kind of thing. It's sectarian and uh gets you in trouble. Then there there's the second view. Uh the second view is held by some Christians, which is that America is God's nation and he's intimately involved because we're his people. There's two kinds of views on this, the one I call the civil religion view. And that is the idea that when we say one nation under God, God is in some special covenant with the United States. uh similar to his being in covenant with Israel excuse me that um this God, however you define him, you know, don't de get real specific about that, very personal, very private. A few claims No dogmas. This God is on our side. And we don't know who he is or anything about him, but you know, it's kind of a feel-good thing, you know. I mean, whoever God is, one thing we know is he's American. Yeah. Whatever else you say, I'm not too sure. But you know, then there's the other view, the evangelical view, which uh is that The God of the Bible, defined as Scripture defines him, this God is in a particular covenant with the United States as a chosen nation. He thinks more in biblical terms And here the comparison is that he is in covenant with God as he was in covenant with Israel. And so the events can be interpreted, similar to when you read the Old Testament. God is involved. He's called us into covenant with him. Now I would suggest a third view, which you could either call my view or the scriptural view. You know, I'll it's my view and I'll be so you know and I have been given the pulpit and responsibility. I'll call it the scriptural view and I want to try and uh demonstrate that briefly, but I believe that the biblical view is that uh God is working out his plan for the nations. Through uh in part America, not as a Christian nation, but as a nation that has had unique privileges and has had unique influence of the Bible in its origins, in its early leaders, in order to serve his name among the nations and to be a powerful agent for the fulfilling of the Great Commission. So that it's because of America's unique spiritual and material privileges that there is a special relationship. And I believe that an example of this in Scripture is Psalm 22. So if you want to turn back to that. Psalm 22, obviously, we don't have time to do any kind of in-step in-depth study of this. I have done more of a study on that in the past. So if you wanna you know if somebody's really interested in this you check out the tapes when I did this and series on messianic prophecies. But all I have time to do today is just call attention to a couple of things about that and then try to apply this. I remember the psalm is divided into two parts that you heard Tom read, verses 1 to 21 and 22 to 31. Those two sections, if you notice, the verses 1 to 21 deal with the humiliation of Messiah, his suffering, then verses 22 to 31 deal with the exaltation of Messiah, his glory. And so uh the first part deals with the cross, the second part deals with a crown. The first part you see Messiah poured out in fasting, in the second part you see Messiah celebrating in feasting. Now, those are the two parts to it. The first part you see Messiah offering himself as a sin offering for sinners like you and me. For everyone who admits that they need someone to substitute before God to take their sin, because I can never Obey and glorify and please God in my own strength. I will serve and honor myself. And because I am guilty, I need a substitute, I need a sin offering. And the first 21 verses describe some of the depth of that suffering that Jesus underwent for everyone who asked him to be their savior. You this morning Last week I offered that, somebody did put on a gray slip. I want to know if I'm saved And I plead with you, make sure that you know that Jesus is your sin offering. And if you want help in that, put on a gray slip again. I'll get back to you. Then after that, what you have here is this wonderful statement where Messiah is at the end of that first section calling for deliverance. And he who then is the sin offering, in the second part you see, is now the thank offering. He's now calling together his friends, and he basically says in verse 24. He has not despised or disdained the suffering of the afflicted one. He has not hidden his face from him, but he's listened to his cry for help. But what God did was he didn't save him from death, he saved him after death. And so you have the death of the sin offering, and now you have him standing up and saying, I'm fulfilling my vows. Now fulfilling the vows meant I've prayed to God. He has heard me. I made a vow that, Lord, if you will answer my prayer, I'm going to throw a feast. We're gonna have a cow and we're gonna divide them up and have steaks and hamburgers and I'm gonna have all my friends and we're gonna celebrate that you are a good and faithful God. And so you see there in verse twenty two, all you you who fear the Lord, praise him, all you descendants of Jacob, honor him, reveal him revere him, all you descendants of Israel. He's gathering them together. Excuse me. Verse 22. I said 22 and read 23. Verse 22: I will declare your name to my brothers. In the congregation, I will praise you. Now Hebrews 2, 11 and 12 clearly state the fulfillment of that, what that's referring to. It says, Jesus says to his brothers, and quotes from that verse. So this is speaking of Jesus, who now alive from the dead, is saying, I'm going to declare God to my brothers. And he says, and Hebrews is saying, that's the amazing thing. He's calling you and me as brothers. And he's declaring God to us. He's showing, he's revealing God. But what's he doing? He's having this feast. And who's in the feast? Well, it's his people, verse 25. From you comes the theme of my praise in the great assembly. This is the church, God's people. Before those who fear you will I fulfil my vows. There it is, the thank offering. Now, who is it that's invited to this feast? Who's participating in this? We look at verse 27. All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will bow down before him. Four verse twenty-eight dominion belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. So you have two principles there. Number one is the statement That the church is celebrating the fact that God, the God of the Bible, a God who is identified, who is a unique, the true and living God , has dominion over history and the nations. He sovereignly rules. We talked in the Shield of Faith about God being all-wise, all-knowing, and all-loving. All-wise, that's all-knowing, and all-powerful, and all-loving. But that's not just individually. It's also true in the larger scope of history and the nations. That God is ruling sovereignly. Therefore, verse 27, all the nations are to acknowledge, to bow down, to worship. And I believe that it is those two verses that give you the key to the understanding of American history. That God, in his sovereign disposal of the nations, raised up the United States And by his hand brought into being, brought great influence, preserved, and brought into being the nation, so that With the unique spiritual and material privileges and resources given to this nation, we would be an agent for the fulfilling of the Great Commission for the nations to acknowledge Him. Now back up for a moment and see just you know two minute History of the church for 1800 years. This is pretty brief. You look at the start of the New Testament. And Christianity is at that point a Jewish sect. The gospel goes out from Jerusalem to Samaria to Judea to Antioch, crosses the boundary to the Gentiles. From Paul, missionary to the Gentiles, Asia Minor, has a vision of a man over in Greece saying, Come preach the gospel here. He goes over to Greece. And from Greece, the gospel goes to Rome, and secular as well as Christian historians say that was one of the most significant turning points in all of history. Because that was the gateway for Christianity to move into Europe and change the course of the history of all the barbarian nations. It's because of that that our heritage for most of us, most of us here from a European background, have that as part of our background. Part of that was England, Great Britain, and Ireland. The gospel goes up there, and so you have then at the time of the Reformation. uh a tremendous split and tension between not only the Protestant and the Roman Catholic But then between the Church of England that carried out a partial reformation at that point and those groups which were called the separatist groups that wanted to go further in that, in following of Scripture. You have such congregations as one little congregation from this little town of Scrooby, England. That in order to be able to practice a biblical Christianity, flee to the Netherlands to escape the persecution, That doesn't work out. They go back to England, still not working out. They say, let's get out of this whole place. And they head over to America. They headed around so much they call them the pilgrims. They wind up in Plymouth, Massachusetts, along with many others, the Plymouth Bay Colony, Massachusetts Bay Colony, the rest. And you have there an unusual, extraordinary assemblage of brilliant people both in terms of their understanding of scripture but also as political leaders. You have men like Cotton and Increase Mather, Jonathan Witherspoon. Samuel Adams, on probably heads and shoulders above any of those, Jonathan Edwards, the primary leader in the First Great Awakening. First Great Awakening takes place in the 1730s and 40s. And raises out of that a whole generation of spiritual leaders, pastors and spiritual leaders, who are astute not only in understanding biblical principles, but in understanding civic affairs and history. So that when you come to the time of the American Revolution, the result of this is that the revolution is a climax both of spiritual as well as political tensions. And that's reflected in at that time the increasingly corrupt Church of England and its hatred of American Puritanism. The English at that time were saying, if you want to put down the rebellion in America, get the pastors. They're the leaders. Just an example of how the British leaders at that time saw this as a spiritual struggle and not simply as PBS, some political struggle, look at what they did to the church buildings. Old South Church in Boston, Massachusetts. General Burgoyne moves in, burns all the pews, and makes out of the church building a a riding stable, puts a bar across it, and has his cavalry jump over the bar to where the pulpit would be, destroys the church. In fact, they destroyed over fifty church buildings and desecrated or damaged dozens more. So it was a spiritual as well as a political struggle. The issues of tyranny and Christian liberty were joined together. And a case could be made that if the colonies had at that point capitulated, the distinctives of biblical Christianity would have probably been erased. But what happened in the revolution? Where was God in that? Do we see his hand in any particular way? Well, several stories could be told of God's amazing deliverances. One book, The Light and the Glory, by Marshall and Manuel, gathers together a number of these. And I have found that book to be basically accurate. The things that I'm no historian, but the things that I uh uh know Time after time. There's a lot a lot of other sources that you can go to for that, some of which are in our library. Light and glory is in our library. Of course the library is closed. That doesn't help you. Someday you can get it. But time after time when it seemed like all was lost in the American Revolution, when everything was hopeless You would see God moving in, intervening in some dramatic way to protect or preserve the American colonial army. In a way that appeared supernatural. A number of those were significant turning points, and PBS simply left them out. For example, the uh selection of George Washington as the commander-in-chief, a man who it turned out was just the right man for the job at that time, a man who had had his life miraculously preserved in a number of battles, so that one Indian chief traveled several days to see him Because he was so in awe of this man that the great spirit protected, and though all of his warriors had taken dead aim at him, none were able to kill him Uh you have in Washington um the event of the recapture of Bunker Hill in Boston after it had been held by the British for about a year and a half. Washington came up with this plan that seemed foolhardy. It was a plan that on paper looked pretty good. The only problem with it is everything had to work exactly right Anything go amiss, and they were done. Even the weather needed to cooperate significantly. Had to be calm in the evening and a little stormy the next day would have helped. And as they approached and built these fortifications to take the hill , turned out that night was crystal clear, calm. The next day a terrible storm came up. And the British were driven out without the loss of a single life. Many stories could be told, but let me tell you just one. Have you ever heard of the uh rescue of the army at Brooklyn Heights? It's not as well known as some of the other events, but it was absolutely critical in the Revolutionary War. The British correctly assessed that in order to take the colonies, they would need to divide the North and the South. That's pretty standard procedure, and they decided that New York was the place to do it, take the Hudson River And so the uh British under General Howe landed 20,000 British troops on the western end of Long Island. Understand George Washington never had more than 14,000 men under his command at any one time. So you have twenty thousand British troops. George Washington at that point has eight thousand, a ragtag group of people, most of them recent, untrained, not been in battle. Against one of the world's most brilliant generals with a very well disciplined and trained army, over twice as many They were joined in battle in Brooklyn Heights, and the Americans were driven back, they suffered losses, and they were trapped on the northern end, northwestern end of the island. All it needed was one last attack to finish them off, and there they lay, waiting for the attack. And waiting. And waiting, and wondering why it's not coming. But how hesitates for some unknown reason And then the next day, a torrential downpour comes and everything is halted. During that day, Washington comes up with one desperate plan. This was before Dunkirk, but it was the same plan. He was going to get all the Cape Cotters and anybody that knew how to row a boat expertly and get rowboats From a mile across the East River and try to pull the whole army of 8,000 across the river and escape in rowboats. But how are you going to do that with all the British sitting in their fleet right out there in the water to watch them? It was a desperate and foolhardy measure, but there was no alternative, and so they began to do it And with the rain, there was some cover, they did it that next night, and they didn't quite understand why how or why, but no one seemed to see them The boats kept going across the two mile round trip, picking up another group of soldiers practically down to the gunnels, back across to the west bank, back again to pick up another load. They come to dawn and there's still Thousands of soldiers. They need at least three more hours to be able to get the rest of them off. And they think it's over. Dawn's coming up. We're sitting ducks. They'll see us. The leaders are still there. It was a good shot. We gave it our best. It was a shot at glory. The 56th signers of the Declaration of Independence will now surely be hanged, and it's all over. But at least we tried. And then something happened that no one could have predicted. As the dawn came up, a fog came up off the water. A thick fog all across the East River. A fog so thick you couldn't see ten feet in front of you. And through that fog for the next three hours, the boats continued to furry the colonial army from Long Island to the west side, to Manhattan. Just as the last boats were going across, the fog lifted and the British fired, but they were just out of range. Washington took the army, marched them south down into Pennsylvania. December came, and the morale of the colonialists was never lower. There had been no major significant victory against the British. The recruits had only signed up to the end of the year, and they would all go home, and he would have no army. There had to be some kind of victory in order to hold things together. And so he decided, just before Christmas, that they would attack the Hessians who were encamped in Trenton. Now, why were there Hessians? Because the army was so unpopular in England that the Crown had not been able to raise enough recruits. People were saying this is not right to do, and so many resisted and refused to serve. And so King George wrote to other nations asking, would you? Uh give us mercenaries, we'll pay to fight with us and force. Russia didn't even bother to answer. Other nations said, no way. This is wrong. We're not going to participate in it. Three German princes said that they would give them their armies who were Hessians. They were encamped in Trenton. Washington decided to cross the Delaware on Christmas Day. He crossed, and just when he crossed , A terrible blinding snowstorm came up, which gave the Americans a rough crossing, but it gave them all cover from the sentries on the east bank. They crossed over the night of Christmas and then the next morning attacked, and just as they had expected, the Hessians had indulged in too many schnaps. And the war was over, the battle was over in just minutes. Time after time, just in the nick of time, just in the nick of time, the French decided to join with us. Just in the nick of time, one thing after another. Now why did God do all that? Who is in charge of the weather? Who's in charge of the affairs of nations? Psalm 22, 28. Dominion belongs to the Lord, for He rules over the nations. Why? So that we can indulge ourselves and play with stock market prices and have corrupt CEOs indulge in ludicrous greed so that we can serve ourselves and celebrate with hot dogs and hamburgers and this Thursday, simply hope that things will work out and our luck will hold and not be attacked again, so that as a nation we can ignore God and his law and his ways and continue to serve ourselves. I think the answer is in Psalm 22. Dominion belongs to the Lord. He rules over the nations So that the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will bow down before Him. God has, I believe, given to the United States A unique identification with the Bible and with the gospel, and unprecedented resources to be stewards of. rather than simply to indulge ourselves, so that the Great Commission would be advanced. That was clear in the understanding Of some of the early leaders. I think we have lost that vision by and large, even the church today And so I have four suggestions for you in the light of this. Number one, that we would give to God his proper glory for his work and recognize this Thursday, that we weren't simply fortunate or lucky to win our independence But rather to thank God for his provision, for his preservation, to worship him as the God of history and look perhaps at some of the accounts of what happened in the revolution. To spend even just a few minutes as a family or with your friends To say, let's just thank God for what he's done and give him credit. Secondly, to then repent of the ways that we have selfishly ignored this admission. uh to ignore this and to admit with sorrow that um we have lost our sense of dependence upon God. It's interesting you look back at last fall. And after 9-11, how much you saw under every overpass on interstates and everywhere the sense of God bless America, pray to God, and you know, and uh the the sense that we're dependent on him. And it's still, you know, vaguely defined who is this God, but At least the sense of dependence and how that has so quickly evaporated for the most part Do you have any idea how many attempts there have been since 9-11 from terrorists to wreak mass destruction on us? Many, I don't know where, how, how many. We can't talk about it. We can't hear about it. But let me tell you, from what I understand, God has been very, very gracious to us in protecting us time after time in these last months. Do we just keep our fingers crossed for this Thursday and for the times after that? Or do we come back with a conscious recognition, God, we don't deserve your protection? One of the things the early colonialists did. was time after time called days of humiliation, fasting, and prayer, to be able to acknowledge we are dependent on God for what we need Him to do. We need to recover something of that. And then thirdly, to pray for Jesus Christ to have his rightful place in our nation, beginning with that place in Your heart, my heart, our church? Do you acknowledge your dependence on him? Have you come ever in your life and said, God, I am so dependent on you. I need your forgiveness. I need you to take care of me. I'm dependent on you for my next breath. Where do we live as if we're self-sufficient? And then to be willing to pay the price to Express our convictions to our friends, to hold Jesus up and give him his rightful place publicly, not just privately, personally. Not to be known as right-wing radicals, you know. Some party line that can stereotype us, but as a humble follower of Jesus, to simply be able to state convictions, convictions that we have that can't be stereotyped into some political party. But to renounce our hopelessness, the sense it really doesn't matter. We've really lost, the secularist have won. The idea that homosexuality is acceptable, nothing wrong about it, or the immorality in other areas, or the greed and all the rest of that. Well, why even bother to try and do anything Is the Psalm twenty-two says, Dominion belongs to the Lord. He rules over the nations. Who of us can say that it is not in his perfect will to bring about another revival To bring about another time where our nation would be humbled, perhaps economically. I mean this this latest turn of events has people saying, you know, this is this is a little more than a few corrupt CEOs There is something systemic that threatens to bring down our economy. So people look at terrorism, they look at the economy, they look at various other things, and they begin to say, maybe we're not as immune as we thought. Are we willing as Christians to speak to that? So when you have an issue like the Pledge of Allegiance that comes up, you know, I'm personally ambivalent about that whole thing. As a movement on the internet to get Christians, you know, or anybody to just say the Pledge of Allegiance at noon on Thursday All right, so you know, so we say under God. So what does that mean? Who is this God that we're under? You know, the Pledge of Allegiance was not written with that originally in the last part of the nineteenth century. That was added under President Eisenhower in nineteen fifty-four. It's interesting the reason that he gave for that. Let me quote him. From nineteen fifty four, President Eisenhower said, quote, In this way we are reaffirming the transcendental Of religious faith in America's heritage and future. In this way we shall constantly strengthen those spiritual weapons which forever will be our country's most powerful resource in peace and war. That last part sounds pretty good. Spiritual warfare, weapons, all right, yeah. But you know what does this mean? We're affirming the transcendence of religious faith in America's heritage and future. Now it can mean one of two things It could either mean we are reaffirming the transcendence of religious faith that has been part of America's heritage and will hopefully continue in the future. Or it could mean the transcendence of religious faith in America's heritage and future. Well, either way, there's nothing distinctively Christian about it And so I want to be careful that I don't fall into the civil religion superstition that says, well, we just say this pledge, you know, and somehow God's on our side. On the other hand, I'm not very excited about them taking that out, because at least it's an acknowledgement of our nation that we are under God, accountable to God. Under his dominion, Psalm 22, 28, and that we are therefore a people who are accountable to a sovereign God in our actions. But as a Christian, I need to, as I did with some friends on you know, this past week when we talked about uh some neighbors. Talk about well here's how I feel, here's where I'm coming from, here's what I see that the Bible teaches. Are you willing to say that? Are you willing to speak? Speak your convictions and pray that God will use this, to pray God will bring us together to to do something that we desperately need at this time. You know, this this afternoon there is an emerging sense of the unity of the churches in Howard County. This is something new. I've seen it in the last few months. And it's exciting. Different pastors that have never been involved are being involved and this afternoon they're calling a prayer meeting in three points of the county, the three extremities. Howard County is kind of like a triangle, you know. So if you're part of Howard County Even if you're not part of Howard County, hey come. They're going to drive stakes into the three corners, th those three corners of the county and declare that Jesus owns Howard County. If you're interested in joining with your brothers and sisters from the various churches in Howakai this afternoon. There are yellow sheets, half sheets on the church the chairs that are at the each exit. And that'll describe exactly where those locations are. It's from 3 to 4 this afternoon. That's all it is, 3 to 4. Is that the kind of thing that you want to be involved in? We need to recapture that vision of America as not a self-serving nation for me. but as an instrument to bring glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, the day that the Declaration of Independence was signed, July 4th, 1776 , After the vote was taken, it was 12 to 0, one abstention, New York State. We don't hold it against them After that was taken, they said there was a dead silence when it settled in what had just happened. They were no longer Englishmen. But citizens of a nation just a few minutes old. And the first one to break the silence was John Hancock, who already had a price on his head from the British government, and he said, Gentlemen, the price on my head has just been doubled. And then Samuel Adams spoke, and this is what he said. We have this day restored the sovereign, to whom alone men ought to be obedient. He reigns in heaven, and from the rising to the setting sun may his kingdom come. That's what happened on July 4th 1776. Amen. May his kingdom come. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would restore to us a sense that we are just one small part of what you are doing among the nations. That we would have a concern for the glory of Jesus Christ, whose kingdom will spread from shore to shore. Lord, give us that awareness of our dependence upon you, the courage to speak for you, and that offering of ourselves to you. That the Great Commission would be fulfilled in Jesus' name. Amen.