This morning a sermon that we are going to hear is entitled, Where is Your Fruit? Now, if you're like me, you don't like to hear that question. I don't even like to ask it. There's considerable concern as we look at our lives and evaluate, trying to determine where indeed is our fruit Some of you have been involved with the navigators, and like me, you've heard the legends of a man named Dawson Trotman who founded the Navigators. He used to have people over to his house all the time. As a matter of fact, hospitality was one of the mainstays of the of the Trotman household. And what he would do as you came to his house was sort of a mixed blessing. It would be a wonderful meal and great fellowship, but he would look at you in the eye. And he would ask you three questions. Who's your man? What's your verse? And who have you ministered to? And so you'd have to point out the person sitting next to you was your disciple, or something along those lines, and then you'd have to share the verse that you'd memorized that day. If you didn't, his four-year-old would share the chapter she had memorized. And then you'd have to be sharing what you'd done in ministry. Now that intimidates me to no end. But so does the question, where is your fruit? And this morning, as you heard the passage read and you heard Verses 9 and 10 where Jesus says, As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my father's commands and remain in his love. The verse preceding that says, this is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit, showing yourself to be my disciples. That in Greek is actually a more convicting statement. It says, becoming my disciples, or being my disciples. There's a one-to-one equivalency. If you are a disciple, there will be fruit. So this morning, as we look at our lives, if you're like me, undoubtedly you have periods of frustration, undoubtedly you have periods of doubt, because you look at your lives and they seem fruitless. You perceive the powerlessness that you really have. And you fear that perhaps you might not be a disciple. But the truth of this passage is that this is not a condemnation. This passage in particular should be one of confidence for you. And hopefully this morning as you leave you'll realize that. Because this is what you need to hear. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, we do know that we are weak, that we have not the ability that we desire to offer to you the things that we want to give you. Lord, that as we look at the wondrous commands that you give, we are intimidated, we are frightened, we are convicted. As you say, love each other as I have loved you. As you say, bear one another's burdens. As you say, serve one another as I have served you, we look and we realize we cannot meet your standard. It's not within our power. And so we pray this morning that you would give us comfort, that you would give us an understanding of what you are trying to tell us as you give these commands. And Father, we ask that as we leave this morning, we would have the desire to please you. We would know where the power must come from to make that pass. Make that come to pass. And Father, we ask that you would even as we hear and as we contemplate, you would accept from us the worship we offer. Speak to us now in your power. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think there are three major thoughts, or actually three major commands from this passage, that we need to be able to focus on this morning. And those are on your outline. They are to focus, to obey, and to trust. Jesus says in verse 1, I am the true vine. He builds on that for the next several verses and talks about that if you are in him, you have life, you will bear fruit. He says over and over again, the branch that remains in me will bear fruit. And the corollary to that is the branch that does not remain in him will not, cannot, and shouldn't even hope. To bear fruit. Jesus, as the true vine, as the one who is the source of our life. Is the one upon whom we must focus. And this morning I want you to think of Jesus, maybe in some ways you haven't reflected on him for a period of time. Can't open the service with the picture of the body with many parts, with the building, with many living stones, and then also the vine. But I want you to think of another image we have of the church and of our Lord Jesus. And that is the bride and her husband. For you see, Jesus is our husband. He's a person we can know. He's made that abundantly clear. And I want you to think for a minute of some of the characteristics of the husband that we need. First and foremost, he is a good listener. You can be confident that he will listen to all you have to tell him. It's a little hard for me to think of my husband, since I am a husband, and when I think of this I am very convicted. of my own failures and weaknesses. As I speak to you this morning of my husband who is a good listener, I'm frightfully aware of my wife's husband who's not. And I can assure you that as you come to Jesus, he will never ask for the mail before he tells you that he's glad to be home. He will never be interrupted by other people crying for his attention as you try and share yourself with him. He will never be distracted. And he will always make eye-to-eye contact. Heart to heart contact. Jesus is a good listener, but more than that, he's a constant companion. Jesus will never send me away, and he will never send you away if you are his. He's a compassionate healer. You see, Jesus will never trivialize your pain. He won't look at you and complain that the thing that has you so broken up is so minor. That why are you even worried about it? He won't give you a stiff arm instead of a warm shoulder. He will comfort you. He will draw you to himself. He will give you his presence and his healing. And he will care. And he's also an incomparable provider. He has provided for you the most unbelievable future. And it's not a promise. It's reality. Jesus is someone we need to focus upon. He is the vine, and our hope of fruit is in being in the vine. And it is so easy to lose our focus. There's a lot of other ways you can think of Jesus. You can think of him on the cross as he suffered and died for you. You can think of him in the tomb. You can think of him ascended in glory. You can think of him as a child in a manger. But please think of him. Meditate on him. Dwell on his love for you. Because if you are not in the vine, you will, by definition, be fruitless. Jesus also wants you to see Him clearly. This very conversation we've been studying for the past four weeks Is an example of Jesus speaking to his disciples at a time when it would have been much more convenient for him to think of himself This is the night upon which he is betrayed. This is the last dinner he has with his disciples. This is his last opportunity to prepare himself for his arrest. And he spends the time talking to his disciples, letting them know him, letting them know his heart, preparing them for the future they will have without him. Not only does he talk to his disciples, he talks to us. For you see, Jesus made sure that his life was recorded in four different gospels. So that you can go firsthand to him. In this passage, as he's communicating with his disciples, he says of the Holy Spirit, Whom He is sending, that the Holy Spirit will bring to your remembrance everything that I've said to you. He also says that the Holy Spirit will testify of me, and you also must testify of me. The point of the Holy Spirit is to prepare the disciples to continue the ministry, to reveal Jesus. The Holy Spirit, as we studied last week, main purpose is to draw our focus and our attention on Jesus. Now, just a corollary application of this, and I'll pass on this quickly, is that we too were told or to testify. And there's a very specific thing you can be doing between now and September 22nd to act on that. And that is we have in front a number of yellow brochures These talk about the sermon series coming up about who am I? It's a series of sermons on self-image. And it also talks about what about the family. See, these are opportunities that you have to testify to people around you of Jesus. And I would encourage you, as I shared in the beginning of the month, to take a number of these brochures, and there's also a sample letter out front as well. Write to your neighbors, your friends, your family members. Invite them to come and hear about Jesus. Fulfill the command to testify of him. But moving on, we also need to know him more. We need to continue to focus on him, and we will not be satisfied This side of heaven. But there are things that we can do specifically not only to share and testify of Jesus, but to know him better ourselves. You can read his love letters. You can read the scriptures He went to great pains to make sure that they were given and that they were accurate and that we can trust them. Talk to him through prayer, let him know your concerns. Don't face your concerns and your own abilities. Face them as you focus upon Jesus. But I think perhaps for us the most effective way to know Jesus better is to know him with each other. As you hear others testify of their love for Jesus, it gives you a new perspective And I think that we need to, as individuals, as families, and as a church, be sharing with one another our love for Jesus. In small groups, in laugh communities, in the worship service as you come today. But you need to know Jesus. You need to know him because you need to know that he's not someone Who will give you a command you cannot fulfill and sadistically watch as you attempt. He is one who loves you. He will care for you. And he will give you the power you need to obey him. And that's what this morning's passage is really about. It's obedience. It's about fruit. It's about demonstrating the reality of your love for Jesus. And you need this morning to know how you can obey Him. Jesus is frustratingly repetitive. In chapter 14, he tells us, and I will quote, I wouldn't have the audaciousness to say this on my own. If you love me, you will obey what I command. And again, whoever has my commands and obeys them, he is the one who loves me. And again, if anyone loves me, he will obey my teaching. And then in our passage this morning If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love. There's a definition of love I'd like to try and read for you this morning. Someone has illustrated love as the fulfilling of the law. And there's a particular illustration that they've used of a woman who was married to a husband who gave her rules. He made her get up every morning at five o'clock. She had to cook his breakfast and serve it precisely at 6 o'clock sharp. He made her wait on him and was exacting in his demands on her time. Needless to say, she was miserable, trying to satisfy the requests of a husband she didn't love. Finally, this husband died. A few years later, she was married again. One day while she was clearing out some old papers, she came across that strict set of rules that her former husband had written for her. Carefully she read them over. Get up at five, serve breakfast at six. On and on she read Then she stopped and took account. You see, she had been doing exactly those things for her second husband, but she'd not even noticed it. Not because the habits that her first husband had set, not because he had been an excellent trainer But because she loved her second husband and she did those things voluntarily for him. You see, love has an unusual characteristic of transforming burdensome commands into joys. But love isn't enough. Jesus tells us in Matthew 11, chapter 11, verse 28. He speaks of rest for the weary, and he says. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened. I'll give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. But his burden is this: love each other as I have loved you. Serve each other as I have served you. To me, that doesn't seem light. As you reflect this morning upon trying to love the person sitting next to you in the same way that Jesus has loved you. Take a moment and think. Does that seem light? Those of you who are not sitting next to anybody can't opt out. There's somebody down the aisle somewhere next to you. Does that seem light to you? It doesn't to me. And it doesn't matter how much I love Jesus, the commands are impossible. Now, Jesus has not misled us. Jesus is not communicating something that's false. And I don't mean to leave that impression with you. But the secret isn't in the burdens. You can look and look and look and try and find commands that Jesus has given that are easy, and you won't find them because it's not in the commands. See, the secret is in the power of the Spirit. Think for a moment of a bow and arrow My son's fifth birthday was yesterday. One of the presents that he got was a little toy bow and arrow, and he was excitedly shooting this morning his arrows at the window as we left for church. But think of the bow and arrow as you go and you try and launch that arrow into a target some distance away All of the power that you put into that arrow comes from you because you pull the bow back and you hold the string. You're creating the energy that moves the arrow. And if you've ever tried to hold an 85-pound pole bow for any period of time, you'll know that you're creating that energy because it hurts And I would say that that is the Christian who, operating out of love, tries to obey Jesus in his own power. You cannot sustain him. You cannot hold that bow for any period of time. You begin to shake and quiver, and pretty soon it all falls apart. But I would give you a different illustration this morning of a Christian who is working in the power of the Spirit. And that would be a rifle with a bullet. Because the only thing you contribute to launching that bullet is to pull the trigger. The energy that that shoots the bullet is already there in the gunpowder in the cartridge. All you do is release it. And that's what we have to do as we try to obey Jesus. We have to release the power of the Spirit by submission. By being in Christ and being the branch that remains in the vine. It's automatic. Don't limit the power of the Spirit. But briefly we need to look at what the commands that Jesus has given are and try and understand what that means for us this morning. What fruit should we be looking for? Well, the commands are really summed up in this, and Jesus does so in other places. The commands are to love each other as Jesus has loved us. Now to understand that we have to understand what it means to love one another. It is not a warm feeling or a positive affection. It is not a warm feeling or positive affection. Our society has taught us such trite statements to define love. As love means never having to say you're sorry. We've been trained to think that love means making the other person comfortable, making them happy, satisfying them A long time ago, when Katie was a year old, we were in California and she had a fever and we didn't know what was the cause. So we went to the doctor, and the doctor didn't immediately discern the cause, so he sent us to the hospital for a blood test Now Katie won't remember this, but we went to the lab and we sat her down in a chair, and she wouldn't stay in the chair. So we held her down in the chair. And the nurse had to come at her with a needle and a test tube to take enough blood to run the tasks, and she wouldn't hold her arm still. So now we're holding her in a chair, we're holding her arm still, and she's screaming at us If you were to ask her that moment, were we loving Katie? She would have yelled definitely no. If you were to ask her today and remind her of the needle, she'd probably still say no. But if we hadn't done what we needed to to take the test, we wouldn't have found out what was wrong with her and given her the medicine she needed. Our society's view of love would be to say, it's okay. Get out of the chair, we don't want to hurt you. God's view of love is no, you sit there, you get the needle, and you have the task. And I will do what it takes to hold you still. You see, if we give societies love, we ultimately do more harm than good. But what is love? You don't have to write this down. It's not going to be the ultimate societal definition of love. But please listen. Love means doing what you know is best for the other person and being willing to pay the price that goes with offering such love. And that may mean you invite your friends to church, even though you anticipate they'll say no. Do you know that there's been a poll that says one out of four people would come to church if they were invited That's pretty amazing. One out of four people would go to church if they were simply invited. Now we're going to up the ante a little bit. We're going to hope that you'll invite at least six families We're not sure that we trust the results of the poll, and so we want to make sure that at least one family comes. We'd love to double our worship service for these for these uh series of sermons because the people need to hear About biblical self-image. And people need to come to understand how to raise their families and how to be part of a family in a time when it's falling apart. So please prayerfully invite people for their sake, because you love them. But love means being willing to sacrifice things and sacrifice yourself. Jesus' love sacrificed heaven. Your loving in the way he loves means willingness to sacrifice so that you can clothe the naked. Christmas time comes up and there are a lot of homeless people in Washington in the wintertime, and if you have spare clothes, it could mean life and death. It means you need to feed the hungry. That also is an issue of life and death. It means you need to provide housing if you can for the homeless. But that seems a little distant from us. I mean we understand the needy, we understand the naked, the the hungry, the homeless, but they're not here They're not the people we rub shoulders with day to day. Love also means being willing to sacrifice friendships, status, popularity. In high school, it means being willing to do what's right, even if it costs your reputation. It means being willing to share with people truth. Even though they think it's foolishness. And it means the same thing in our neighborhoods and in our work. When people invite you to do things that you know are not right and that you know are going to be hurtful to them It means being willing to say no. It means being willing to help them to understand what they need to do in order to come to know the one who can give them hope. But even closer to home, it means knowing each other and serving one another here in the body. Doing a good, especially for those who are the household of the faith. This morning we're going to really load you up, because on the same back table that has the letters and the bulletin, uh the the brochures for the for the uh coming worship services and laugh communities is a part of a spiritual inventory that's really more aptly named an inventory of gifts and talents. We're trying to combine and collate information that says, I can do this and this. So that we have that on file and know when somebody comes and says, I need an electrician. Can somebody help me out with some electrical work? We know who can do that. Or somebody needs help, as Scott did this morning with woodworking. Or computers, or any other talent that you've got, that we can have that on file. So please, as you go out the door this morning, collect those handouts so that you can take them home, fill them out, come back, and turn them in. Love means doing what you know is best for other people and being willing to pay the price that goes with offering such love. Love, therefore, is not merely an attitude. It is an action. And to say serve one another and to say love one another is synonymous. But you know that still leads us to our sense of powerlessness. If you're with me this morning and you're simply hearing of focusing on Jesus and on obeying and bearing fruit. You still have the same problem you came in with this morning, and that is a feeling of fruitlessness. That's all well and good, but what in the world does it mean for me? How can I do it? Well the answer to that is simple. Painfully simple. It means that you have to trust that God, who has given you those commands and has focused you on Jesus, Has the power and will use that power to accomplish the bringing of the fruit. You see, one of the things that I think is confusing in this passage is in verse 2. I disagree with the translation that he cuts off every branch that bears no fruit. There are two ways to look at the Greek verb that's used. It's to lift up, either in the sense of lifting up to take away, or in the sense of lifting up to support. And one of the truths about the grapevine, which is what is pictured here, is that the grapevine will not bear fruit on the ground. It has to be supported. And so this Greek term that's used means to raise up, to place on support, to allow the opportunity of bearing fruit. If he leaves the vine on the ground, it cannot bear fruit. It's subject to inf insect infestation. It's simply not able to bear fruit. So he lifts it and he cleans it. It says here, he lifts up every branch that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, so that it will bear even more. It is not your responsibility to bear the fruit. Don't cut yourself off from the vine in your attempt to please Jesus. God is the farmer who tends the vine, and he will make sure the vine that's in Jesus bears fruit. You may not see it. You may not see the fruit that God uses you to produce. That's why you have to focus on Jesus. But you need to focus on Jesus as he reveals himself, and you need to focus on him with a desire to please him. I want to focus your attention on another story that Jesus gives us. You recall in Luke, where Jesus discusses the widow in her might. He's at the temple. His disciples are with him. And what he does is he points out to them as the people collect around the temple treasury box to give their money. As he looked up, Jesus saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury. He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins. I tell you the truth, he said. This poor widow has put in more than all the others. All these people gave their gifts out of their wealth, but she out of her poverty and put in all that she had to live on. I want to help you to see a different side of that. I'm not going to explain the whole passage. I don't intend to do that, but I want you to see that in that widow putting in her mind, she did indeed give more than all the rich. Because that might, those two coins, have been so mightily used and have stimulated so much giving to the kingdom of God that there can be no accounting. Not only did Jesus make sure that as she in faithfulness gave that might was seen, not because she blared trumpets, not because she drew attention to herself, but because she was faithful. That has been recorded in Scripture and used for nearly 2,000 years to point out the true nature of giving. Now, if you'd asked her that morning whether or not she was able to do much with that might, she would have said no. Certainly the temple isn't going to buy any gold with it. Certainly the temple isn't going to buy any animals for sacrifice. It's not enough. Might have been better for her to keep it and buy some food so she could live. But she didn't. She was faithful. She obeyed. And she did indeed please Jesus, as he tells his disciples. Now you may have gifts and talents that you think aren't large, can't be used. Why even try? That passage tells you this morning, you must, out of faithfulness, not because you're going to accomplish anything by doing what you attempt to do, but because Jesus will use it, multiply it, and make it amazingly fruitful. That widow never saw what Jesus said. That widow never heard the teaching that her life illustrated. But I guarantee you, it's been used to give more money than any of the rich could had they given everything they had. I want you to think of yourselves as a new employee. There was a man who came around looking for a job. He went to a factory, a plant. And he went in to the owner and he asked if he had any work and the man said, Yes. As a matter of fact I do. I want you to take that stack of bricks and move them over there. So all day long this man picked up brick after brick, moved it, stacked it in an eat pile, and did his job. He went in that evening to collect his pay. Asked if there was any more work to be done the next day, and the man said, Yes, please come back tomorrow morning. So early in the morning he came back and he spoke to the owner and he said, Well, what would you like me to do today? He said, I want you to take that stack of bricks and I want you to move them over here. The man was, you know, why? It's kind of futile and useless. And so he went out and he moved the stack of bricks. All day long he carried brick after brick and stacked it in a neat pile. Went in that evening, collected his pay, and said, Do you have any work for tomorrow? And the man said, Yes, please come back. Went in and the next day, for the week, every day he moved a stack of bricks across the yard from one side to the next Now, the next week when he went in, the owner of the factory sent him to an auction. He said, Here's what I want you to do. You've proven that you will obey what I tell you to do, even if it doesn't seem sensible. This is what I want you to do, exactly this, no more and no less. And so he went and he bid on something that the owner needed. Now because nobody could recognize the man as he went in to bid, nobody bid against him. And so he bought what he needed At a fair price. And he took it back. And finally, this man came up to explain to the auctioneer that he was the one who had indeed bought it, and this man had been acting as his agent. And he said, as long as nobody knew who he was, I wouldn't have to fight because people wanting to raise the price. See, we are like that man. We're told to do things sometimes that don't make sense But we need to be faithful. We need to move the bricks from one side to the other. And we may not see what God is doing either in our own lives to create character. Or like the widow in the lives of others to use our faithfulness. Lastly, I want to leave you this morning with a couple of ideas about my own pastorate. I am not a pastor with the view of changing the world. I mean, I'd love for God to use me to change the world, but that's not why I'm a pastor. I'm not a pastor for that reason. I'm not a pastor because I expect that this church is going to become a wonderful place, a picture of heaven on earth where everybody is doing everything right, and that God will use me to stimulate that. He 's beginning. We're making some progress. I would encourage you this morning that God is using you to do that. But that's not why I'm a pastor, and that's not why I'm here You see, I have one simple reason for being here, and that is to please Jesus. I want to please the one who has called me to the pastorate, and as long as I can do that here, I'll be here. And as long as you can do that here, you need to be here. But your goal needs to be to please Jesus through obedience and bearing fruit. Have you met Jesus? Are you focused on him this morning? Do you know who he is? Is he a person that you can say you know? If you've known him as your Lord and Savior in the past, do you focus upon him this morning as you face the frustration of fruitlessness? As you face the reality of powerlessness, are you focused upon your powerlessness? Are you focused upon your missing fruit? Or are you focused upon Jesus? Because you won't bear fruit if you're not focused on Jesus. And do you trust Him to take your obedience and make it fruitful? You see, this whole series of sermons, this whole conversation that Jesus gave with his disciples, has got one point. That is the salvation demands, a spirit empowered service. But underlying that one point is this. The disciples of Jesus must please him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we do thank you for this morning, for your word, for the truth that you revealed to us. We thank you that you are a God who is loving us enough that you not only will act in our lives, but that you will show us yourself. And Father, we do pray that we would all focus upon you. Knowing you as our Lord, our Savior, our husband, the one who loves us with an unbelievable love. Father, we do pray that you would stimulate in us a love that says, I want to please you. I want to do what will make you happy. Help us to be like the widow, like that faithful employee. Help us, Lord, to be vines, branches plugged into the vine. Use us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.