I am gonna get this and bring it up here. The cup reminds me of a uh story I have been fighting a little bit of a cold and I'd asked to have some water here and Tom and George have all been very gracious in making sure I got the right water. But a couple years ago back in in uh in Houston, Texas I was speaking and probably fighting the same thing and asked one of the elders to get make sure there was a cup of water up there for me just in case I stumbled a little bit and He said, no problem. I went up there. Sure enough it was there. I drank it. I it was great. It helped me get through and everything. And after the service I found him and said, Thanks so much for doing that. That really helped me got this real sheepish look on his face and said, I forgot to do that. That was Pastor's Water from last week. So uh I am uh have relative confidence that uh This is this week's water. It is a pleasure to be here. I bring you greetings from our President Clive Calvert, who is uh actually speaking at uh National Presbyterian Church in DC this morning and then heading off to uh to London this afternoon for the next four days. Uh Gustavo Crocker, who spoke at your missions conference last year on behalf of World Relief, uh leaves today for Cambodia with Clive's wife, who is bringing a group of women to Cambodia to see our program. So Uh they're going pretty far away. I came to Columbia, Maryland, so it's I I feel like I got the better deal of that. So uh it is a pleasure to be here. You know, there has been a lot of discussion over the last few years uh about what the church should look like here on earth. Uh how should the church be involved in its local community And how should the church be involved around the world? Uh is the tragedy that's taking place in Africa with the AIDS epidemic really the concern of the church here in the United States? Do we really need to be concerned about all those refugees that will be flooding out of Muslim countries in the event of war with Iraq? Are those homeless people on the other side of town really our concern in this church? These and many other questions are causing many churches to take a closer look at themselves and to evaluate where they stand in regard to the Great Commission and the Great Commandment. And there's a story told of a family in northern India who, after returning to their home from a family vacation, finds that a giant python had taken up residence in its live in their living room. There was no way to chase the snake out, and so after several hours of waiting, the father retrieved his gun and the one bullet that he had And he took careful aim and he fired the gun and the bullet struck the python directly in the head, because the father knew that was the only place that he could hit that would kill the snake. However, with the bullet lodged in its brain, the snake became enraged and for the next hour and a half thrashed around the inside of that home destroying furniture. knocking over lights, breaking windows, and wreaking havoc in the home until finally the python ceased moving and died. And friends, today Satan has the bullet of the resurrection of Jesus Christ lodged in his head. The battle is over. The victory has been won. He's dying, and he only has an hour and a half left before Christ's glorious return. But in that hour and a half He's thrashing around our world and he's destroying as much of God's beautiful creation as he can, and he's wreaking as much havoc and chaos as his strength will allow, and he's blinding as many people as possible to the saving grace of Jesus Christ. And until Christ returns, his church must stand in the gap and respond to the destruction that Satan is causing, and that response will look different for each and every church. You and I are here this morning because our job is not complete. We all know that there's something more that can be done. We can't rest during this time. The Python Satan is flailing around uncontrollably, and we must respond as Christ would have us to as his church here on earth. This morning I'd like to challenge each of us to take a closer look at what our responsibility is, both in our communities and around the world. Let's look at how Christ would have us minister to those that He loves. Locally and on the other side of the world. But before we do that, let's pray. Father, thanks for this day. And thank you for those that are here. Thank you for your goodness to us. And Lord, many of us this past week have had very stressful weeks, and many of us are looking forward to or anticipating very stressful weeks ahead. And Father, I would ask that even now you would clear our minds and that you'd help us to focus in on you and what your Holy Spirit has to say. Father, I would ask that the words of my mouth today and the meditations of my heart over the last few weeks would be acceptable to you, and that your church would be challenged today in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to read from Matthew chapter 14 this morning. Matthew 14, I'll be reading verses 13 through 23 When Jesus heard what had happened, he withdrew by boat privately to a solitary place. Hearing of this, the crowds followed him on foot from the towns. When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he had compassion on them and healed their sick. As evening approached, The disciples came to him and said, This is a remote place and it's already getting late. Send the crowds away so that they can go to the villages and buy themselves some food. Jesus replied, They don't need to go. You give them something to eat. We have here only five loaves and bread of bread and two fish, they answered. Bring them here to me, he said. And he directed the people to sit down on the grass, taking the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven. He gave thanks and broke the loaves. Then he gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people. They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over. The number of those who ate was about five thousand men, besides women and children. Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowd. And after he had dismissed them, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. It occurred to me recently that I am rapidly approaching the 22nd anniversary of my being ordained in the Christian Missionary Alliance, March 11, 1981. And as I reflected on what that meant I was reminded of the charge that I was given by the district superintendent almost 20 years ago. His message challenged me to a ministry that I would need to have in order to be all that God wanted me to be. To the kind of ministry that would catch God's attention, if you will, and make him proud to call me one of his children. And I know that there's been a lot of focus on the Muslim world lately But I want to say to you this morning that this church or any other church won't reach the Muslim world or any other world unless we have certain things, unless we do and have certain principles that we build our ministries upon. Rick Warren, pastor of Saddleback Church in California, says, everybody needs a ministry in the body of Christ and a mission in the world. A non-ministering Christian is a contradiction. But you know what I've learned over the last twenty years? I've learned that you don't have to be a minister to have a ministry. And you don't have to be a missionary to have a mission. But in order for us to be the kind of servants that Jesus Christ wants us to be, and in order for us to be the kind of church that Christ wants us to be We must have a ministry of seeing, a ministry of sighing, a ministry of supplication, a ministry of service, and a ministry of sacrifice. First, a ministry of seeing. We must be aware of and genuinely see what's going on around us at all times. And as we look at Jesus' ministry, we what does he see? What did he see in his ministry experience? He saw certainly the multitudes, but then he also saw the woman caught in adultery. He saw the widow of Nain, the blind man, he saw children, he saw Zacchaeus up in the tree. He saw the man at the pool, he saw the porn spirit, the sick, the lonely, the outcast of society, the elderly, and on and on and on. He saw everyone, not just those he liked being around, not just those who fit into his peer group, but also those who were not easy to be with. Part of my responsibility with World Relief is to travel around the world visiting some of our programs and our projects in order to come back. and be able to report to churches like yours or individuals or foundations uh what's going on and and what the needs are. And I've had the privilege of traveling to many countries around the world, but A trip that I recently took to southern Sudan literally has changed my life. You don't hear a lot about Sudan on CNN. The country is located in what we would call Eastern Africa. It's a beautiful nation of people who have been devastated by years of civil war and then alternating floods and famine and drought. Southern Sudan is roughly the size of what we would call the Southeast, from North Carolina over to the Mississippi and down to Florida. It's a vast territory. And yet in that great expanse of geography there are only about ten miles of paved highway. There's no infrastructure as we know it. There are no schools, there's no transportation systems. There are no medical facilities, no medicine, and no doctors. There's no electricity in most of this area, and there are no gas stations anywhere. Within these conditions, there are approximately 7 million people struggling for existence. Satan only has a very short time, but he's wreaking havoc in Sudan. I went on this trip expecting to see the need for food, expecting to see the need for clothing and the need for housing, all of which I did. But in the midst of all their desperation, in the midst of all their poverty and their suffering, and in the midst of all their daily inconveniences that they must endure, do you know what they asked for our group for? They asked us for Bibles They asked us to pray for peace and for people to come and disciple them in the Word of God because you see most of the people in southern Sudan are our brothers and sisters in the Lord Most have been forced from the Muslim North because of their beliefs, and they are systematically being eliminated because of their faith. In one area, there is one pastor for 65,000 believers. What we saw were a people who, in spite of adverse conditions, loved the Lord their God with all their heart, all their soul, and all their body. And I have often, often wondered what I may have asked for if I were in their position. We visited another area, a little town called Vietnam, an area where we were only the fifth airplane ever to land on their grass runway in the history of their world. An area of Sudan where we saw land that had just experienced its third failed crop in a row, where people were eating the leaves off of trees. The devil's thrashing around because he knows his time is limited. So what's our responsibility as the church in the United States to Sudan? As I said, most of the people in southern Sudan are actually our brothers and sisters in the Lord. They have fled the Islamic government of the north And have congregated in the south. And the Islamic government in the north is hoping to extinguish their faith by simply ignoring them in their time of need and hoping that the rest of the world will do the same thing We need to see the persecuted church in Sudan. I love the kids' choir. Did you hear the first song? Open your eyes and see your neighbor. What a great song. In the first service they sang at the end of the service and I thought, whoa, what a great way. Forget everything I've said. Listen to the song that the kids are singing. When we have a ministry of seeing, we will see the hungry, we'll see the hurting and the lonely, we'll see the needy people of the world. God sees them, He knows every one of them. He knows their names, He knows their fears, He knows their joys and their heartaches, He knows every hair on their head. He knows what they ate or didn't eat for breakfast today. He knows the names of their children. He knows what they're that they're being persecuted for their faith. He knows whether they'll survive until tomorrow, and he also knows what our response will be to them. We must see what's going on around us even as Jesus did. We must have a ministry of seeing. Now I know that we don't have these kinds of conditions around us here in Colombia. We don't have people dying because of their faith or because of a lack of food. But we do have families who are struggling. We do have homelessness all around us. We do have those whose families are crumbling around them, and we do have people who do not know that Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone Is the only way to obtain eternal life. These problems, though not as obvious as famine or drought, are just as devastating to those who are dealing with them. We as the body of Christ must be sensitive enough to see these needs. It's not hard to see them. Take time to get to know the people that are around you here today. You may be surprised at the depth of their pain. Take time to get to know your neighbors. Those people that we casually wave to as we get our mail every day. You may be surprised how open to the gospel they are. Satan only has a few minutes left, but he's wreaking havoc here in Colombia as well as in Sudan, and he's hoping to blind us to the needs around us. When we truly see, it will cause us to have a ministry of sighing. When we have a ministry of seeing, we see the person. When we have a ministry of sighing, we recognize the need of that person. Verse 14 of Matthew chapter 14 reads, When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he was moved with compassion. And I can picture Jesus arriving on the shore and seeing the crowd and just sighing. Not because of the numbers of people that were there But because of the needs that he saw represented among all those people. What is this compassion? What is it that makes Jesus so passionate about what he does? Jill Briscoe has said that compassion is your hurt in my heart. What moved Jesus? What made Jesus passionate? Well we know that the money changers moved him to anger. Many times the multitudes moved him to various forms of compassion. Hunger moved him. The homeless, the unlovely all moved him, sickness and blindness and leprosy. Children all moved him. Sinners moved him. He wept over the sinful state of Jerusalem. And certainly death moved him. The death of his friend Lazarus moved him greatly. And I can remember sighing out loud when I was walking through a slum cluster in Delhi, India. The Kaliampuri slum cluster, as it's known, is a small community on the outskirts of Delhi where there are approximately 1,500 families. 1,500 families living in an area about the size of a Home Depot parking lot. Seeing over 5,000 of the inhabitants being children I immediately thought of my own kids. And I thought about the kids in all the churches around the US and how they have access to VBS and Sunday school and all the advantages they have. And I sighed for their place in this world and I sighed then And I sigh now today when I think about their lives to this point. God needs to help us all have a ministry of sighing. What about the tragedies of war in Pakistan and India? Hurricanes in Nicaragua and Honduras, the earthquakes in Turkey and India, people losing their homes on the west coast from from forest fires. The uncertainty of Afghanistan and the imminent war with Iraq. There are many circumstances that move Jesus to sigh deeply. And we need to have and develop the ministry of sighing. I think that we as a nation have sighed over the events of September 11th But before the World Trade Center tragedy, try and remember when the last time was that you actually sighed over another person's misfortune. Is it because we don't know people well enough? I'm afraid sometimes we don't take the time to see past the person and recognize the need. Sighing is identifying with those that are in need. Sighing is feeling their pain. Sighing is putting yourself in their place. When we have a ministry of sighing We are generally called to action, and that action leads us to thirdly a ministry of supplication. Now Supplication is just a big word for prayer. But it starts with an S. And I needed another S for my five points that had S's in them. So that's why I use supplication. When I talk about supplication, I'm just talking about prayer. John 17, we read Jesus' high priestly prayer, where he comes before the Father and prays for himself, but he also prays for his disciples and for all believers, both current and future. And likewise, we as the church need to make time in our busy schedules to bring the needs of others before our loving Father. By following the example of Jesus. There's no time to waste. People in Sudan and Nicaragua and Honduras and India and Ethiopia and Macedonia and Albania and Mongolia and Afghanistan and Iraq in Iran and Baltimore and Washington DC and even Ellicott City have priorities that they need to meet. And they need to be our priority. They have needs They're wondering if there's more to life than the doctrines that they're following in their current various religion that they're looking at. They are wondering what's going on, and who's going to tell them if it's not us? Now I am a realist, and I know that we can't be everywhere physically to meet the needs of all these people around the world, but God can We can't touch every person but God can through our prayers. Ask and it will be given above and beyond what we ask or think or even imagine. You can impact the world right now. You can have a part in touching those who have lost hope. through the ministry of prayer. But I'm afraid that in many churches around this country this is a lost ministry. Prayer has lost its significance in this very, very busy world of ours. There's an old saying that says You can tell how popular a church is by who comes on Sunday mornings. You can tell how popular a pastor is by who comes on Sunday nights. And you can tell how popular Jesus is by who comes to prayer meeting. Jesus saw the need of the people on the shore. And what did he do? He prayed a very simple prayer, and he thanked God for the loaves and the fish. He prayed. It was a vital, vital part of his ministry, and he never ever neglected it. We need to pray for the needs of the world in a very systematic way. When you pray for your neighbors, when you pray for your community, when you pray for your nation and your church, your hands start to reach out and your feet start to move and you follow your heart. You're compelled to make a difference and to become the vessels that Christ uses to touch others through prayer. Satan only has an hour and a half left And he's wreaking havoc, and we can only combat him through prayer. And when we have done that, we can take the next step, and that's to have a ministry of service. Jesus got involved and served people in a very, very practical way. In Matthew 14, we see that Jesus healed and took care of their physical needs. In Mark chapter six he taught. In Mark chapter one, he touched someone when no one else would touch them. In Matthew chapter nine He challenged people and met them on their own ground, and in our own text he met the needs that the people had. He gave the bread and the fish to the disciples and had them distribute them. We live in a world now that is full of terror. It's full of disasters, both natural and man-made. What can we as Christians, what can we as the church do? I think a lot of that goes back to how thankful we are for the many blessings that we have here today. Sometimes we get caught we get so caught up in what's going on around us That we forget how really fortunate we are to live where we live, to worship where we worship If you've never experienced a war, if you've never experienced the loneliness of imprisonment, the pain of torture or hunger, then you are more fortunate than the 500 million people experiencing those things right now. If you came to church today without the fear of being threatened with imprisonment or death, then you are more fortunate than the three billion people who cannot go to church without that fear. If you have food in your refrigerator, clothes, a roof over your head, and a bed to sleep in, then you are richer than 75 % of the world's population. And if you have a bank account, money in your pocket, or small change in a jar, you belong to the 8% of the wealthiest people in the world. Every day, over thirty thousand children under the age of five die needlessly from hunger and malnutrition around the world. Today there are more than 36 million people worldwide carrying the deadly AIDS virus. There are 15 million AIDS orphans in Africa alone, and that number is expected to triple by the year 2010. There are 830 million people suffering every day from severe hunger, including 200 million children under the age of five. Well, what does Christ say our responsibility is for all that? He says that our responsibility is to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. We must touch the suffering. And that's not an easy thing to do. A quick look at 1 Kings chapter 17 tells us the story of Elijah acting upon his faith. When a widow's child dies, she asks Elijah what he has against her that would that this would be allowed to happen to her. And his response was this. He didn't change the subject. He didn't shift the blame or the responsibility. He didn't blame his schedule for his not getting involved more in her life. Instead, he says, give me the boy. And then he asks God to do something that neither he nor anyone else in the history of the world had ever seen done before. Raise someone from the dead. And God does it. We need to have the kind of faith to see God move in our world in ways that we have never seen before. We need to say, give us the boy, Lord. Give us the outcast, give us the spiritually blind, give us the poor, give us the Muslims, give us the Hindus, give us the New agers. Give us the refugee. Give us the homeless. Give us our neighbors. Give us our children's teachers. Help us to rediscover prayer. Let's say, Lord, I want you to do what I have never seen you do before, and I want you to start it with me. What this world needs is for Christians to light the world with compassion and say, give us the boy, Lord. When we take these kinds of steps and we begin to have a ministry of service, we're showing God's love for his people. Christ's desire for us as a body of believers today is to be a strong body working together to do what the world sees as impossible. Jesus had a ministry of seeing. Question this morning is: will you open your eyes to see the world around you as God sees it? Jesus also had a ministry of sighing, and the question is, will you sigh over the world and take a genuine interest in it and care about it? Jesus also had a ministry of supplication or prayer. The question is, will you bow and pray on the world's behalf? And Jesus had a ministry of serving. Will you serve those in need by doing something, by doing anything? We must be individuals and we must be a church that has these kinds of ministries if we are to have any kind of impact upon our world or upon our community. Satan only has a very short time left, but he's wreaking havoc all over the world. What will your response be? Where in the world is your heart? Finally, Jesus had a ministry of sacrifice. And we must remember that Jesus gave his life for each one of us here this morning. Scripture tells us that greater love has no man that he laid down his life for his brother. And this is not just a random verse stuck in Scripture to conjure up images of heroism. This is a principle that we need to live out on a daily basis as an individual and as a church. Let me close with this illustration. The story is told of a young concert pianist who was given the opportunity to play one concert in a great hall in London. And he played Bach that night as they had never heard Bach play before, and the audience was became very un-English like, and when he was finished they rose to their feet and they stamped and they clapped and they yelled for him to play an encore The Empressario ran backstage and told the young man to play an encore. They loved you, he said. The young man hung his head and said no. When he was asked why, the young musician said that they weren't all standing. There was someone in the balcony up on the third row who was still sitting. The stunned friend said that that man obviously didn't know music and that you shouldn't pay any attention to him. The young pianist replied, He's my teacher. If he were standing, I would play again But he's not standing, so there'll be no encore. Two thousand years ago a man named Stephen died. He was stoned for his faith, sacrificing his life. And as he was dying, he forgave those who were killing him, and Scripture tells us that his face shone as he looked towards heaven and saw his Jesus waiting. But Scripture doesn't say that he saw Jesus sitting at the right hand of the Father. Rather, we read that Jesus was standing. And I believe that was an acknowledgement of a life lived and a death died for him. Those of us who are part of the church should want to get Jesus to stand. And I often ask myself, what does it cost to get Jesus standing? How much should I pray? What should I do or what should I give? And then I remember that Jesus' mother said it so simply when she said to the steward at the wedding feast of Cana, just do whatever he tells you to. God has something very different for each one of us to do here this morning. We just have to do whatever He tells us. Charles Coulson in an editorial on Christianity Today last August Says that he frequently hears and is frequently asked what difference can one person make? The problems around the world are so huge we feel helpless and so we oftentimes do nothing Colson says that response is a cop-out. God sets each one of us in a particular time and a particular place for a precise purpose. We must strengthen our resolve, no matter what the obstacles may be, to fulfill that purpose in a fallen world. Each of us here this morning has to be willing to sacrifice whatever it takes to bring others to Christ. Some may have to sacrifice their lives, others may have to sacrifice dollars Some may have to sacrifice their comfort level, and still others may have to sacrifice possessions. But whatever we are asked to do by our Lord, we must do Let's get Jesus to stand by what we see, by how we sigh, by what we pray for, and by what we do in response to the needs around the world and right here in Columbia, Maryland. And by how we sacrifice in our day-to-day living, then and only then will the world recognize that Christ in us is something that they really, really need. Together we can make a difference. Let's give Jesus a reason to stand as recognition of the ministry of this church here on earth. Amen.