I want to conclude this morning this twentieth anniversary celebration of this past week by revisiting a message that I delivered to you as a congregation back on October the 15th, 1978, nearly 20 years ago. It was my fifth and final message on the book of Ephesians at that time, if you can believe that. Next week Lord willing, I will come back to our study in Ephesians with the 56th message of this series, and we're still in chapter five. I was a lot quicker when I was younger. Uh Twenty years ago I began uh uh these uh five messages, uh just as an overview And on this message on October 15th, when we were doing Ephesians 6, verses 10 to 20, I began by saying that we are now entering a new level of spiritual warfare as we plant a church here together in Columbia and the Howard County area. Then I said these words. If we don't find ourselves under attack in the months ahead, it's probably because we're not in the battle And so I want this morning to jump ahead to Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 to 20. I will deal with this in more detail sometime in the next millennium, but uh I want right now to cover it all in one message. And hear God's word to us as he speaks from Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 to 20. Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world. and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground And after you have done everything to stand, stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist. with the breastplate of righteousness in place, and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith with which you are which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and pray in the Spirit on all occasions, with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the saints. Pray also for me. That whenever I open my mouth, words may be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains. Pray, that I may declare it fearlessly, as I should. I spoke then and I speak now on four A 's out of this passage. We see here first our adversary, secondly, we see our attitude, thirdly our application of this, and fourthly our armor. First of all, then notice our adversary He is named with four descriptions, you see, in verse 12. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. We need to remind ourselves, in this stiflingly secularistic world, that the spirit world is real. And that your ultimate adversary is not your boss. It's not your spouse. It's not mom and dad. It's not the kids. It's not your neighbor. But rather, your ultimate adversary is the evil one in a spiritual realm. It was C. S. Lewis who wrote years ago. There are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is to disbelieve in their existence. The other is to believe and then feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them. I experienced and saw both of these on 60 Minutes of all places back in August. They had a segment on the ministry of Exodus, Christian ministry to homosexuals offering the gospel and the change that can come in Jesus Christ. The reporters spoke of this as conversion therapy. Hadn't heard that term. I thought that was kind of interesting. They practice conversion therapy. And I thought, how neat to reduce the work of the Spirit and the gospel and the saving power of Jesus Christ to a psychological technique. Conversion therapy, totally oblivious to the spiritual world, to the power of Jesus Christ. In fact, Jesus Christ was almost not at all mentioned in the entire broadcast, not because the staff of Exodus didn't want to. A couple of them valiantly tried to introduce spiritual perspectives, but you could see that this was not the agenda that 60 Minutes had in mind. On the other hand, there was one homosexual who was against the Exodus ministry. And he said he was against it because when he was a teenager and was trying to change, to shed his homosexuality, a group of evangelical Christians gathered around him. And they diagnosed him as being possessed with the demon of homosexuality. And so they laid hands on him and tried to exorcise him, cast out the demon of homosexuality. That's all he needed. And everything would be okay. But it was the one extreme to the other, you see. There was no spiritual sanity in saying the spirit Spiritual world is real. Jesus Christ is a real person who claims to do certain things. You can take them or leave them. But we're not talking here about a technique of conversion therapy. And we're not trying to identify every sin with a demon, a demon behind every bush of a sin that you and I commit. The two opposite extremes, you see. And so uh you'll hear in a few minutes after I'm finished from Mark Hartzel, who I'm delighted to say is one who was an intern here, is involved in a ministry to the homosexual community. That is simply and clearly by the gospel and the power of Jesus Christ. And it's so easy to miss that And so Paul gives to us here four descriptions of the powers that you and I are up against. Look at this. Rulers, he calls them, authorities. powers of this dark world, spiritual forces of evil in heavenly realms. Rather intimidating titles, wouldn't you say? And so the temptation is for you and for me to by and large ignore the spiritual forces that we're up against individually and as a congregation. And then when we read things like this to see them, to become intimidated by them, and to believe that what we're up against is something that is too scary, and we back off from it You and I need to take Satan seriously, but we also need to see that Jesus, at the cross and at the empty tomb, declared himself victor over every power. on heaven and in on the earth. Therefore, the second point is our attitude toward The spiritual forces and the battle that we're in. Three watchwords, brothers and sisters, that you and I are given. First of all, be strong. Look at it in verse 10. Finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. You see again that pattern it runs through the whole book of Ephesians. I'm getting worked up here. I don't know. I thought it was going to be too cold and damp around here Didn't know if they'd have the heat working, but they do, so let's go. You see there in verse 19 and verse 10 the command Be strong, but it's based on a fact, based on the indicative. Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power, which brings you right back to chapter 1 In verse 19, you remember where he was praying that your and my eyes would be opened to see his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power which raised Jesus from the dead and seated him in the heavenly realms above all rule and authority, every force in the heavenly realms. Chapter 3, verse 20, to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all that we ask or think or imagine according to his power that is at work in us. And so Paul is saying here in chapter 6, verse 10, be strong in that power. You see that power that conquered Satan, that has reduced him to a minion beneath the rule of Jesus. Be strong, don't underestimate him, but don't overestimate him. Conquer in the name of Jesus and what he's able to do. And maybe in your life this morning you're feeling a little beaten up by Satan. You say that's nice for you to say. The stuff I've been going through he seems awful powerful to me. Somebody said, Christian, remember it's always only half time And so sometimes the Lord uses the first half of the game to show you and me how very weak we are, and how we cannot win this in our own strength in order that we will depend on him the more vigorously, earnestly, consciously in the second half of that game, so that then Jesus can conquer And we're very aware that he conquered, and it was not because we had such skillful plays or were so strong in ourselves. Be strong in the Lord. The more you understand your own weakness The more you go to him and are thankful for his strength. Even as we saw last night, how we have been assaulted So many battles that we've been through individually as a congregation, in order that the Lord would teach us to depend on Him more fully and completely and to show Himself sufficient. And so the second watchword that he gives to us is to stand firm. You see that repeated again and again. It's the fourth posture of the book of Ephesians. Sit, kneel, walk, and stand. You see it there in verse eleven. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Verse thirteen. Therefore put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground And after you've done everything to stand, verse 14, stand firm then, with the belt of truth and the rest of the armor. Reminds me of the picture that John Bunyan painted in Pilgrim's Progress of this standing of the Christian. The next day they took him. Oops, wrong page, sorry. But now it is now in this valley of humiliation. Poor Christian was hard put to it. For he had gone but a little way before he espied a foul fiend coming over the field to meet him, and his name was Apollyon. And then did Christian begin to be afraid and cast in his mind whether to go back or to stand his ground. But he considered against that he had no armor for his back, and therefore thought to turn his back to him might give him the greater advantage with ease to pierce him with his darts. Therefore he resolved to venture and stand his ground. For thought he, had I no more in mine eye than the saving of my life, it would be the best way to stand I read that 20 years ago, in that message in October 1978. The truth is still the same Bunyan goes on to describe four strategies of Satan to keep the Christian from advancing. First of all, he says he entices him. And he says, you really don't want to follow that harsh master. Indulge yourself. Come my way. Live it up. When that fails, he seeks to intimidate him. You fool, denying yourself, following this Jesus. What are you going to get out of it? And then that fails, he turns to his third tactic to accuse him of all his failures and of all his weaknesses. And when even that fails, he finally simply reveals himself and rages against him with all his fury to intimidate and to frighten him from going forward. But Christian stands his ground. And he stands in Jesus, and Jesus demonstrates himself faithful and defeats the evil one so that Christian is able to advance. That watchword comes to you and to me, brother. We don't know what the days ahead hold for us as a culture. Talked about some things last night, for us as individuals, as families, as a congregation, as a community But we do know that Jesus says, before you see whatever the enemy is going to do, stand and determine to stand. Determine in your life you will not yield one foot to the evil one and his distractions and temptations. That you'll gather together within yourselves and your small groups in heart to heart partnerships as women with men encouraging one another that we will stand and we will help each other to stand in the days ahead for Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. That leads us to the third watchword. Be alert. Be alert, he says. Pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert. And always keep on praying for all the saints. Your strength is in God. Your armor is from God to stand, and your prayers are to God. There's nothing like a close brush with death to revitalize your prayer life, is there? Recall hearing in August of the bombings of the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania Why were they bombed? We heard that they were bombed because they weren't on the alert. They were vulnerable targets. They were soft. And so the enemy took advantage. And on August the 20th, our government retaliated by airstrikes into Afghanistan and the Sudan. And what happened as a result? Every public building in Washington, D. C. went what? On alert. Why was that? Why was something that had been done simply perfunctory by those security guards just days before all of a sudden was done with new earnestness, new zeal and a great sense of concentration because all of a sudden they realized we have an enemy that wants to destroy us We have someone who's looking for a weak spot, who wants to find that place to intimidate us and to rob us of our sense of morale and power. We have a real enemy who is looking to retaliate. We have assaulted his ground and he is not going to take that lying down. We expect retaliation Twenty years ago, Columbia Presbyterian Church was established here to take back ground from Satan, to take and to enforce the victory that Jesus Christ had bought with his precious blood and his death and his walking forth out of that tomb. And as we have begun to take some of that ground, Satan has retaliated. And some of us have felt the bloody blows and the hot breath of hell on our back. We have seen that we're in a battle, that Satan isn't going to take this lying down. Whether as a congregation, whether as families, whether as individuals, you've sensed, haven't you, for many of you, you are in a battle. The word comes to you. See, brothers and sisters, be on the alert. Don't be surprised. Satan is going to allow us now or in the days ahead. To take ground that he has been in possession of, the secularistic mindset, the marginalization of Jesus Christ as any one to contend with within this region Without trying to intimidate us, to entice us, to put us into lethargy, the word comes to you and to me in Jesus Christ. Be on the alert. Now how is it that we're to do that? Twenty years ago I offered six areas of battlefronts that you and I would probably be encountering in the days ahead. That came from another day of prayer in upstate New York along a stream. Where I tried to anticipate what might happen to uh make our work ineffective as we would begin And so these were areas that I came up with in, and I simply offer them to you to consider once again the battlefronts. uh that where they were true, however true they were twenty years ago, we consider how true they are in nineteen ninety-eight The first one is division over the direction of the new church. Division over these are direct quotes. In fact, if you don't believe me, here's the message from 20 years ago. There it is, October back on the old Mimeo, October the uh 15th, 1978. And so those of you who are good at this, come up afterwards, I'll let you check the outline. And uh these are the exact same areas just to reconsider Division over the direction of the new church. God has been very kind to us over 20 years. He has spared us from any such division, from a split. That doesn't mean we've always been together on issues Certainly, not only as sinners, but simply as people with different perspectives. We will differ on a number of issues. In 1981, a number of people left The congregation, not in mass, but we just found a number of people were leaving at that point because they realized the church wasn't going in the direction that they had hoped when they were part of it from the beginning. There's always been the potential for that. And the danger for us as leaders, as for the elders, that we need your prayers for, the danger and the temptation is to lead by polling. And you know how that goes. You see that in the current administration. Find out what people want, then give it to them and call it leadership. Find out what you're willing to tolerate. What do you as a congregation want? In terms of worship and evangelism, discipleship and restructuring. And then we'll say, well, we'll simply poll you and find that out and then say, okay, well, that's what we're going to do. And the thing that can only be done by the power of the Spirit is for you to feel cared for, shepherded, listened to. But that you are then led by elders who are listening to the voice of God as we seek to lead you that we are able to somehow go beyond what we're all aware of to lead us, shepherds lead, under -shepherds are to lead, hearing the voice of the shepherd. And so as we do that in terms of worship format, as we do that in terms of our structures and strategies for discipleship and fellowship and mobilization for evangelism. Pray for us and seek to understand the difference between your preferences and your principles. So that together as a body We can walk mobilized as God's people. Satan's number one strategy continues to be in churches division and a critical spirit. If you find that ever rising within yourself, don't talk to somebody else about the elders. Talk to the elders directly. And let's work through those issues. I thank God that is not an issue of danger that I see right now, but it is an anticipation of his strategy that continues. To certainly be what he will use in the days and the months and years ahead. Secondly, the second temptation I warned is an application of the spiritual battle back then, it's continued now, overly busy, leading to depression. Being overly busy leading to depression. I'd like to talk about that more, but I don't have any time. So besides it's not a problem here, right? You got that. That's good. You know, there's a temptation when uh we have come to a church of uh 20 years and 500 or so. Uh, for the newer folks to say, I like being part of this church because there's a core that does everything and I can sort of be carried along and don't have to worry about getting involved. That would be deadly to us as a congregation. The important thing that is that as we grow that we continue to think as a small church. We continue to realize that we are all needed to do the ministries that God has given to us to do. There are several ministries right now. that could be very much enhanced, whether it's a children's church or whether it's a number of other things that are going on, that would be aided and enhanced By more participation from more members of the body. If you're interested in finding well, what are some of the others just fine? I won't go over them now. This is not a recruiting talk This is simply saying that the temptation is for us to think that the battle is for those that are the core here, and it's really nice for me to be able to come and be blessed on Sunday. And that's really the extent of my involvement. If that happens, then certainly those who are the core will become overly busy and tempted by depression and self-pity. Satan will use that. We must stand against that. Thirdly, fellowship groups that become complacent cliques. That's what I said in 78 , still true. Fellowship groups are small groups. Our cells and smokers becoming complacent clique cliques. Every small group goes through a honeymoon period Where you move into that group and you're excited and you say, Oh, this group, these are fresh new people. I think this group's going to be great. I think something's really going to happen here. After six months, you find you're still the same sinner And you're still dealing with the same sins, and you say, what happened? This group doesn't work any better than any other groups. They're a bunch of rotten sinners like all the other groups I've been in, and I'm not so interested in this group anymore And so the honeymoon period's over. And you begin to lose a sense of expectation. You know, the things we're praying for to God do in the beginning of this group Ah, you're still praying the same stuff six months later. It's tired of praying that. Maybe I'll go pray for something else or find another group, get some new stuff to pray for, but you lose that sense of expectation Of change in your own life, change in one another's lives, and change in the lives of the unbelievers that you're seeking to reach for Jesus. Brothers and sisters, that's of the evil one. He is tempting us to give up Let me ask you a question. What in your small group are you asking God to do together beyond what you could do on your own? What are you asking God to do as a small group or self together beyond what you could do on your own? Is there something that you're saying, if God were to do this, my faith would grow? We would be able to see the power of the gospel. We would be encouraged that Jesus is still changing people. He's still bringing people to himself. What is it that you're looking for God to do between now and the end of the year, in the next months, if there isn't anything? I would suggest to you that Satan has gotten you where he wants you. He's put you in that complacent position of maintenance, meet together, and pretty soon the joy will go out of that. Become ingrown , maybe even critical. In order to be on the cutting edge, we must be always looking for some faith-stretching experience that the Holy Spirit is leading us into, something that we can't do. It's going to fail if God doesn't bless. Fourthly , fourth area, pride in what we are doing. Pride in what we are doing. Columbia Presbyterian began 20 years ago. We began as a church that was involved in the renewal movement. We were one of the early churches to put such an emphasis on small groups. 100% of our people were involved in small groups as we began. That wasn't because everybody was so committed and spiritual, it was simply because our policy was to assign everybody to a small group. And we found that you didn't just accomplish that by assigning people. So we changed that. But we from the very beginning have placed A very large emphasis on small groups is a priority of our discipleship strategy. The mobilizing of lay leadership, unleashing uh lay leadership in ministry, trusting you in the Holy Spirit to use you to be creative and design ministries was something was a hallmark of us as a church in those early years. Abuse of overheads, a praise band in contemporary songs, was something that I remember when we started that uh caused a a number of rustl rustle ruffles And uh people were thinking, you know, this is getting pretty radical stuff. And you know, who would think that now? But when we first started that, it was unusual, uh particularly within our own theological circles. As a result of that, it's very easy for us to think we're the church of what's happening. And for us to begin to think, you know, CPC is really a great church. Um, but you know God's humbled us. We're not growing in the way we would expect to be growing. We you know, in this kind of community you've got to grow at a pretty good rate just to stay even. Because of all the people turn over and leave, move and all that. But the fact is that we have three pastors now. We have a building very viable, very tempting for us to say, you know, we've we've got pretty decent church here after last night here and how God has blessed us and what a family we are. That's great. You know, it's really nice to be part of this group. And to just begin to think we're pretty good. And we'll be very qu very surprised how quick the blessing of God could depart. We must always humble ourselves, not to flagellate ourselves, but to simply acknowledge that this consciously, you know, we all say piously, that's the work of God, that's the grace of God, but to really consciously be aware This is nothing but the undeserved blessing and grace of God in our midst. And if we're to continue to be useful to Him, And effective for him, the congregation that is blessed and a blessing. It is because we recognize we need Jesus. We need his power and his protection of his presence. We need to claim his promises for our needs And that leads us to the fifth thing, the temptation of prayerlessness. No deep heart repentance and crying out to God because He must bless us. The temptation of prayerlessness, Satan wants so very much to keep his prayerless. Paul spends the last three verses of his exhortation here on prayer. Pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, keep alert, be alert. Always keep on praying for all the saints. Then particularly for me, and he talks about his own need for prayer. Nineteen eighty-nine we began a Thursday morning concert of prayer, six thirty to seven thirty. It's it's continued every week. From that time to this. And I was encouraged to see that in this month, this year, 1998, five of our first nine months of this year set records in attendance More people than any other year. It's not a large group. We're not talking about packing out so that nobody has a place to sit. So if you think there's no room for you, don't let me disabuse you of that notion. Come, you will be sure to find a seat in a place. But it is growing. There is more of a sense of our need to see God at work. And I'll tell you, you come to those, we keep a record of what God does, and it's a tremendous blessing to see the answers to prayers. in specific ways. Very thankful for Rob Craig's ministry, beginning that email so that now as a congregation we're able to keep up and get updates on prayers. It's been exciting to see How in in watching with Betty de Grasdad and with Jacob Garvey and other situations, how as a congregation we can be praying intelligently. And uh you know, I'm not saying if you're don't have email then you're out of it on, you know, but it does help. To be able to log on and be able to see what's going on and to use other means for us to pray together, to see expectantly what God would do. With a Sunday morning prayer team, I mentioned to you last week about a dozen people involved and added one last week. Praise God for that. I'm praying for eleven more to double by the end of this year Come to one service to worship, use the other service to pray for the power of the gospel to go forward and lives to be changed. And I give you feedback every week on what God did as a result of your prayers in that service to see God's power. If you're interested in that, talk to me. Not expecting anybody to do it all the time. Once a month is all we're asking. Each person to be involved, one service per month, so that we're seeing God's work in power because we believe That prayer changes what will happen. It really makes a difference what God does when we pray. And I've seen that in this year. In the times that we have been praying, the sense that I have of his power and authority in my life and my preaching and what God does that you could never know but how they see the prayers answered in particular ways that they've prayed. Finally, the techniques such as this to guarantee success. That is the technique of of being able to identify all the ways that Satan might attack us to say, okay, if we can just if we can just identify them all, then we've covered the ground I remember f sitting by the stream back in nineteen seventy-eight and thinking, okay, was there anything else I missed? What else might he do? And thinking, this is ridiculous. I mean, you know, what I think if I get them all down that that's gonna that'll protect us, some sort of a charm at superstition. It's not a technique. It's simply his armor. And that's the whole emphasis of this passage. Fifth point, our armor. Five defensive and two offensive. We'll go over those when we get back to it later on in the series on Ephesians. Don't have time to cover those now. Let me just read them and notice how each one of them focuses you on Jesus Christ. Because the point here, the issue, is that Satan wants to get our eyes off of Jesus. Individually and as a congregation. Your armor is in every case and every piece the armor of Jesus Christ. And the armor connects you to him. In verse 14, stand firm then with the belt of truth. You saw back in chapter 4: the truth that is in Jesus. is what he spoke of, as opposed to the error of delusion in which you live apart from him. The belt of truth, understanding reality as opposed to your own self-deception, buckled around your waist With a breastplate of righteousness. What righteousness? His righteousness. The fact that the life that you live, God doesn't look at your record and how you live. He looks at the record of Jesus. And it is his record that is given to you for your account. His righteousness, his right living, which is given to you. The best breastplate of righteousness in place, with your feet fitted with a readiness that comes from the gospel of peace That gospel that declares to you you have peace with God and therefore the Spirit ministers the peace of God in your heart as you every morning stand up and say, This day I live in the gospel. I don't live in the law. I don't live under the law. I live in the gospel of Jesus Christ, in his righteousness and his power. And that gospel gives to you peace. Then it goes on. In verse 16, in addition to this, take up the shield of faith, that faith which binds you to Jesus, connects you to all of his promises and provisions. with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows, the attacks, the discouragement, the temptations of the evil one. Then take the helmet of salvation And the sword of the Spirit, that helmet of salvation which pictures his deliverance both eternally as well as day by day from the evil one in every assault By his spirit, the word of God, and by prayer connecting it to his promises. The church at Ephesus was a strong church. This was not a weak church that Paul was writing to. There was no rebuke in this letter. And yet, less than 40 years later, Jesus had one last word to the Church of Ephesus. It's not an appendix to Paul's letter. We're given that word in the book of Revelation, chapter two, verse one To the angel of the church in Ephesus, write, these are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your deeds, your hard work, Columbia Presbyterian in Ephesus. Your perseverance, I know that you can't tolerate wicked men, that you've tested those who claim to be apostles and are not, and you've found them false You've shed liberalism, you've rejected new age thinking, you've persevered and you've endured hardships for my name, and you haven't grown weary yet. This one thing I hold against you. You have forsaken your first love. Remember the height from which you've fallen. Repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place. But you have this in your favor. You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in a paradise of God. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, having done everything, wanting to stand, we pray that you would not allow our gaze to shift from Jesus. That's really what Satan wants to do After the 20 years to look at ourselves, to congratulate ourselves, to rest, to be complacent, to turn inward, because we've lost our first love. Lord Jesus, if there's any of us here this morning, we recognize you're not as conscious in our thinking. You're not the central thought of each day. That you would refresh us, that you'd cause us, Lord, to repent That we would come back to you in the gospel. That we would see our need for you, and we'd see your provision and your love for us. The Lord you'd restore us to that passion for Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen.