I 'd like to thank John Watts and uh Jaime and the choir. That was really uh that was that was a blessing. For those of you who are on the live stream, I don't know how well live music always translates electronically, but that that was really remarkable. I hope you were able to enjoy that as well If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 7. Now, earlier you would uh remember uh Dick had said there was some confusion And I want to make it very clear that that is entirely my fault. Now I'll tell you how that happened. We have a church planning website. that has an area where I can enter a sermon text and I enter the title of the sermon, themes I'm going to address, other scriptures the worship leaders might consider using. And I don't work from church planning, because that's kind of hard to do. I work from my own spreadsheet where I have planned out the sermons I'm going to preach for six months at a time. And then I take that as things get adjusted, for example, when Steve Green preaches, and things slide, then I have to go back and erase and delete and recopy. And I forgot. I just looked right past today's sermon. So you almost didn't get this sermon at all. I went in and looked and when uh I believe it was Beth, the administrative person said So is the text right? Luke eight, one through three? And I was like, whoa, whoa, that's not right. And uh so that that's the source of the problem. And sadly, I just used up one of my minutes. Well, so you have found Luke chapter seven. I'm going to be reading for us, beginning with verse thirty-six. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day, and we ask that you bless this reading of your word to us. Lord, we confess that we don't think highly enough of your word. Indeed, it's not possible that we could. Lord, you have exalted your word, the Bible, above all things but your name itself. And Father, this word is a surer and truer guide to life, to peace, to happiness. To success, than all other books, all other accomplishments , all other facts. all other experiences that the entirety of humanity have ever catalogued Father, teach us to value the Word of God, to read it, to reflect on it, to accept it, to embrace it, to allow it to call us to repentance. Lord, to be moved to faith and even greater faith as often as we encounter you in it. And so, Lord, we come humbly and ask that you would bless this reading of your word to us this morning in worship. And Almighty God, the preaching that follows, in as much as it is true Lord, we pray that you would use it in our lives to accomplish your good purpose. We ask these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter seven, beginning with verse thirty-six, the word of God. One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisee's house and reclined at table. And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment. And standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus, answering, said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he answered, Say it, teacher. A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed 500 denarii and the other 50. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more? Simon answered, The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged rightly. Then turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house You gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore I tell you her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who has forgiven little loves little. And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this? who even forgives sins. And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. This ends the reading of God's Word. Luke, in weaving together his account of the life and ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ He's very careful, as are the other gospel writers, but I would say in some ways Luke particularly, he's very careful to give us sections. Units of text that bind together. And so there's a cycle of Jesus teaching between his baptism and his great sermon on the plain, the equivalent of the Sermon on the Mount, that shows us to use the word uh Dick Stung used earlier, this crescendo leading up to clarifying, building Jesus' ministry until we get to that great point at the end of chapter five. Where the people ask, who is this who even forgives sins? And after the Sermon on the Mount, we have the exact same thing. This crescendoing building slowly developing Question of who is Jesus, and this section ends with the very same exclamation. Who is this who even forgives sins? You see, Luke, in giving us this gospel, inspired by the Holy Spirit, wants us to understand without a doubt That the very essence and the goal of Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God's ministry, was always aimed chiefly, preeminently, most gloriously at this one great accomplishment. the forgiveness of the sins of people who repent. You can look to Jesus for many other reasons. Academic interest, historical inquiry, ethical guidance, philosophical peace And missed the entire point. You know, this narrative of this very, very peculiar dinner party comes on the heels of John the Baptist wondering, who is this? Is this the one we were to expect or is it another? This narrative comes on the heels of Jesus condemning this generation, saying, you rejected John the Baptist because he didn't eat or drink, you thought he was possessed. You reject me because I come eating and drinking, and you say I'm a glutton, and I eat with tax collectors. And it's interesting that the very next thing Luke shows us is Jesus eating and drinking with a Pharisee named Simon, at which A sinner is present. And as we understand and kind of look through this strange dinner party, we're going to look at it through the lens of really three three people, if I can use that loosely. Simon, the Pharisee Then Jesus in his response, and then the responses to Jesus, including perhaps that of the sinful woman. Well, what do we know about Simon? We know that Simon is a Pharisee, and we know that the locale is still the great The scene of the great miracle of Jesus when he raised the son of the widow of Nain. So they're in the town or the village of Nain. It's called a city here, but it was not likely more than maybe two, twenty-five hundred people, two thousand twenty-five hundred folks. City in that day just meant it had a wall It's called a village elsewhere. And it wasn't big. It wasn't on a major thoroughfare. It wasn't on the banks of a river. It was just the town. And Simon was a Pharisee in this town, which meant he was a person of some importance. He probably had great reputation. He was learned. And he certainly would have known the characters passing through the town on a given day. You know, you and I live in a very different context. You know, we can go to Costco to buy our bulk goods or BJs, or we can go to the mall to buy whatever we're shopping for at the mall. We can go to uh Walmart or to to to giant or wegmans, and we cannot see a single person we recognize. That is not how Nain would have worked. That's not how the ancient world operated. First of all, we did all of our shopping or trading in that one area, and we were dealing with all the same people, and we knew everybody, at least by face. And so when you had a banquet or you feasted a local person traveling through, there's a sense in which these are public events. And this woman who walks in, who is a woman of the city, A known sinner, Jesus himself says she's guilty of many sins. She was there because it was understood you could attend these things. She wasn't trespassing There's not an inkling of suggestion that she shouldn't be there, except for the social moray aspect. The fact that she came would have been a little bit scandalous. The fact that she was almost certainly a prostitute based upon this description, woman of the city, a notable sinner, guilty of many sins. puts her in that category of untouchables. People that you would not want to touch you because they are unclean. And by touching you, you become unclean. And Simon 's concern, and you can think of Simon the Pharisee as being in a similar boat or condition as John the Baptist. Is this the Messiah? Is this the one we should expect? He is inviting this Jesus of Nazareth to his home for a banquet. They're reclining at the table. Remember in the ancient world, if you were uh at a table, you weren't sitting in a chair like the famous picture of the Last Supper. You were resting on your left elbow lying down at a low table and eating with your right hand. So picture these people reclining at this table And this woman comes in who is known to be unclean with capital letters bold fond. And she starts standing at the feet of Jesus. Remember, he's reclining, weeping, getting his feet wet, drying them with her hair, and anointing them. With ointment from an alabaster jar. And Simon is thinking, well, I wanted to know if this was the Messiah, but I'm not even so sure he's a prophet now. A prophet would know who it is that's touching him, and a prophet wouldn't accept it. And here's Jesus Blithely allowing this weeping woman to wash his feet and anoint them with oil. Clearly he is not the prophet He's not even a prophet. And he's thinking this in his head, the text tells us, and I'll come back to that in a moment. Jesus answers him directly. Now notice what he's doing here for Simon's perhaps eternal benefit. Simon thinks he must not be a prophet. Simon thinks he, Jesus, must not be a prophet, because Jesus can't in effect Clairvoyantly read the woman's mind and know who she is. Remember, Jesus is a stranger to this town. And Jesus responds to Simon by, in effect, reading his mind. Something we know from the scriptures, the Son of God was indeed able to do, knowing what's in the hearts of men. He did not entrust himself to them. And so he says to Simon, I have something to say to you. And Simon's answer here and later is a little bit ambivalent. Go on. Just like he says, I suppose it's the one who is forgiven much, very qualified, very cautious. Simon is a is a careful thinker. He's not an easy sell. He's not a low mark. And Jesus tells them the parable about a certain moneylender with two debtors. One owes 500 denarii. A denary is about a day's wage. So that's over a year's close to a year and a half worth of working salary. And one owes them 50, which is, you know, almost two months worth of salary. And they couldn't pay. And so the the the the The one who gave them the loan cancels both of the debts. Which one loves him more? And here Simon, who perhaps is beginning to sense he has walked into a trap by thinking things that the real prophet read out of his mind, says, the one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt. See, Simon's concern was that if Jesus really knew what was going on, he wouldn't associate with a certain class of people and he wouldn't be touched by them. And Jesus' parable. Kind of flips the script. And he says that the way people treat Jesus is a measure of what Jesus has already done for them. Our treatment of Jesus reveals who we are. Our treatment of Jesus reveals whether or not we are forgiven. Or whether or not we are not forgiven. This woman, as this parable is applied, was forgiven much, and therefore loved much. It's been said that this narrative, this account of Jesus at this dinner party, begins without backstory and ends without resolution. Clearly, there has been some other involvement between this woman and the ministry of Jesus. Whether she was in that funeral procession, which is almost certainly the case, as would Simon have been, and watched the widow of Cain's Son raised from the dead, whether she was there seated and listening to the sermon on the plane, somehow she has encountered the grace of the Lord Jesus and repented And when Jesus says your sins are forgiven, the effect of that is this is the evidence that your sins are forgiven. This is not, your love isn't what forgives your sins. It's not the mechanism by which you earn forgiveness. Your love is the evidence that you had much debt forgiven. And so here's this sinful woman who loved much, demonstrating that she'd been forgiven for much. And indeed, Jesus says she has many sins. But he goes beyond that, and he juxtaposes this woman with Simon. And the effect of this would be to suggest to Simon Simon. It shouldn't surprise you that I'm allowing her to touch me and kiss my feet and anoint with oil. It should rather surprise you that I'm at a table reclining with you. Because according to the customs of those days, you didn't have to, but it was considered a gracious thing to anoint a guest with oil, to kiss them on the cheek. To give them water or have one of your servants wash their feet. That was something only a slave could do in the Israelite culture. And Jesus makes the point that Simon. You didn't show me any love. You treated me like a stranger who you happened to be willing to have over for dinner. You showed no deference or deep respect. You showed me no joy and humble gratitude for my presence. You're treating me as if I have done absolutely nothing for you. But this woman. She hasn't stopped kissing my feet since I arrived. This woman has washed my feet with her own tears. And dried them with her hair. This woman has anointed not my head, but has poured out a whole jar of ointment on my feet. And that's when Jesus says, therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven. For she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little. How do we respond to this? How was it responded to by Simon, by this woman, by the crowds? Well, the woman, we don't know her name. Some early church fathers thought it was Mary Magdalene, but we have no idea that that's the case And this appears to be a different scene altogether from the anointings we read about in two of the other gospels. She is told that her faith has saved her, past tense, she can go in peace. She has been saved. She has loved Jesus Christ. That love has been evidence of the fact that she was forgiven much. And she is able to go restored at peace. And there is an overtone there that suggests no longer as a woman of the city, but as a daughter of God. The crowds that watch, they are driven to that great burning question that ended the great section of John 's Jesus' ministry between his baptism by John and his delivering the sermon. Who is this who forgives sins? Who is this who is worthy of such love? Who is this that admits The presence of sinners, even allowing them to do something as personally intimate as washing his feet and kissing them. Who is this? Simon, we don't know about so much. But I want to give you a I will, in the spirit of Paul, who says, this is not the spirit, but me speaking. I often wonder how is it that we have this account at all? How is it that we know this Pharisee's name? How is it that we know what he's thinking and the details surrounding it? if not for the very strong likelihood that he was affected and became a follower of Jesus. And when Luke was recounting and putting together under the influence of the Holy Spirit and under his infallible guidance, compiling this gospel for us, he included this account of a guy who said, you know, Jesus came to my house. I invited him. And this is what I was thinking, and this is what Jesus said. I'm not alone among Bible teachers and preachers who strongly suspect that one day we may see Simon in heaven. It is the best and simplest explanation for how we have all these details, although they could have come directly through inspiration. That is certainly a possibility as well. But think of the powerful effect of Simon very discreetly and very gently being called out by Jesus. You notice how Jesus Tells a parable and encourages a question that would cause Simon to reflect upon himself at his own dinner table, in his own home. He was able to ask himself the question, do I love Jesus? Why not? When I was in middle school in seventh grade at Columbia Presbyterian Church We were meeting in the Oakland Mills Village Center. And my Sunday school teacher was an elder's wife. Her name was Ruth Olson. And it was February. And I walked into Sunday school class with Danny Olson and Paul Dudek and Guy named Tim Silas. They separated the girls and the boys back then because we were very poorly behaved And the table was covered with red and pink construction paper and white doilies. And I can remember thinking, great I had to make my parents a Valentine at school. Now I've got to make one at church. And Ruth Olson said, Today we are going to make Valentines for God. And on the inside, we're going to list all the reasons we love him. That was the most elaborate Valentine card I ever made. But there was nothing written in it I spent all my time trying to craft the card because I realized that day that I didn't love God. I was angry at God. I had freckles. I had big ears. I wasn't very tall. My best friend was being a chump at the time. I won't say his name. He might still live in Colombia. I was going through a typical thing that kids typically go through in middle school, and I was angry. And that began. About six months of not being able to sleep at night, wondering what would happen to me when I died. And it was only cured By a sermon preached at that same village center on Genesis chapter 9 that invited me to leave the tents of Ham and enter the tent of Shem and become one of God's people and be forgiven And much to Mike Milligan's chagrin, because he was joining the church that day and my dad was his elder, who was supposed to stand up there with him. Uh I had pulled my dad out of the service because I needed to pray to receive Christ. All of this was set in motion because a Sunday school teacher dared to ask me, do you really love Jesus? And I had to realize that I didn't. And I want to ask you, do you really love Jesus? If you saw him reclining at table Would you, in light of the enormity of your sins that have been forgiven, weep? Would you out of concern for his feet then dry them with your own hair? Would you take an alabaster jar of ointment that would have cost you the better part of a year's wages? And break the neck of that soft stone alabaster jar and poured that ointment out? Do you love Jesus? Have you been forgiven much? Are you mindful of that? Love? Are you willing to declare that love In your workplace, in your neighborhood, on your cul-de-sac, in your family. Jesus offers himself to people like you and me. He would come to your table if you were Simon the Pharisee. He would delight in your touch if you were a woman of the city. Jesus Christ came to offer himself to all who would believe, any who would repent. And that free offer to come to Jesus for forgiveness in life is the commission of the church. It is the job of the preacher. There are many other things that preachers and churches can do and should do. But if we fail in this greatest task , of declaring the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is that Jesus, the Son of God, died for sinners, that we might be forgiven, because he paid the penalty for the sins of all those who repent and believe. If we fail in that, we have become nothing more than a social club. That's why the great theme of this pulpit has been The proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And different ones of us will find different applications of that in various downstream ministries of this church. But the heart and soul, the lifeblood of this church is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ and the fact that He reclines at table with us. He has done everything for us. We are forgiven of much And therefore, beloved, we love him much. Amen. If you find yourself thinking the thoughts and feeling the feelings of Bobby Bjerkis , Back in nineteen eighty one, I feel ya There will be members of our prayer team here in the front of the sanctuary after the benediction, and they would love to meet with you and pray with you. And help you love Jesus, who loves you more than you could imagine. He gave his life for you that you might live. We can't anoint his feet with oil because he's not here physically. We can't weep over his feet and dry his feet with our hair. But Jesus Christ did say, as much as you've done to the least of these, you've done for me. We can demonstrate our love for Jesus Christ by loving each other well. Differences in all. And showing that love to the world. Amen. Almighty God, we pray that you would help us as your people ever to keep the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ before us. Lord, may the cross of Jesus Christ and the empty grave of Jesus Christ and the throne upon which he is seated right now in heaven be the great symbols by which we read and evaluate and judge the things of this world. Make us a gospel people, and teach us to love you even more as we recognize more and more just how much we've been forgiven. Lord, why don't you in your kindness and grace and goodness and mercy make us a gospel people? Make us a gospel church. Make this a gospel pulpit. Make this a gospel city, county, country, and world. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.