Please turn with me in your Bibles if you will to Isaiah chapter forty. Isaiah chapter forty. For our scripture reading this morning, I'll be reading from Isaiah chapter 40 beginning at verse 12 and reading to the end of the chapter. And I will be reading from the New American Standard Version of the Bible. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the heavens by the stand, and calculated the dust of the earth by the measure? And laid the mountains in a balance and the hills in a pair of scales. Who has directed the spirit of the Lord, or as his counselor has informed him? With whom did he consult? And who gave him understanding? And who taught him in the path of justice and taught him knowledge and informed him of the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are like a drop from abucket, and are regarded as a speck of dust on the scale. Behold, he lifts up the islands like fine dust. Even Lebanon is not enough to burn, nor at feast enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are regarded by him as less than nothing and meaningless. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare with him? As for the idol, a craftsman casts it. A goldsmith plates it with gold, and a silversmith fashions chains of silver. He who is too impoverished for such an offering selects a tree that does not rot. He seeks out for himself a still. craftsmen to prepare an idol that will not totter. Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been declared to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the vaults of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tent to dwellings. He it is who reduces rulers to nothing, who makes the judges of the earth meaningless. Scarcely have they been planted, scarcely have they been sown, scarcely has their stock taken root in the earth, but he merely blows on them, and they wither, and the storm carries them away like stubble. To whom then did you liken me? That I should be his equal, says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these stars, the one who leads forth their host by number. He calls them all by name. Because of the greatness of his might and the strength of His power, not one of them is missing. Why should you say, O Jacob, and assert, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and the justice duly escapes the notice of my God? Do you not know? Have you not cry? Sir, the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, does not become weary or tired. His understanding is inscrutable. He gives strength to the weary, and to him who lacks might he increases power. Grow weary and tired, and vigorous young men stumble badly. Yet those who wait for the Lord will gain new strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run and not get tired. And not become weary. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Let us pause for a moment in prayer before we hear God's message. Lord our God and merciful Heavenly Father, we come before you this day as your people. And we pray, O Lord our God, that our worship will be pleasing in your sight. O Lord, by your spirit of promise and of grace. Enable us now to hear that message that you have for each of us in your word this morning. O Lord our God, thy word is truth. Sanctify us now in your truth. We ask this in the name of our Our Savior Jesus Christ, the righteous one. Amen. One of the more unpleasant responsibilities that many of us have as parents is that of discipline. Our children. Despite what most children think, parents really don't enjoy having to meet out punishment. Proverbs 1324 tells us that he who spares his rod hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines himself. Diligently. And that is true. But the rod is only part of the whole process of discipline. After their punishment, children must know that they have been forgiven for their sins. After the rod must come reconciliation. Reconciliation, the restoration of the broken fellowship between parent and child. After the rod must come the reassurance of our continued love for our child. After punishment must come comfort. And that is very much the situation that we have here in Isaiah chapter 40. Up until now, the prophet has delivered a message of condemnation upon Israel, a message of judgment, a message of the coming. Anger and wrath of God to be visited upon the nation of Israel for their sins. But now in chapter 30 of the prophecy of Isaiah, we find a shift, a change, so to speak, in the whole Message that Isaiah is bringing to the nation of Israel. Isaiah chapter 30 served almost as a hinge. And it is that where there were two separate books almost. Two completely different messages almost. Before. In the first 39 chapters, the message has been one of condemnation. But now, Isaiah turns his prophetic gaze to the distant future, and he begins to bring words of comfort, of pardon, forgiveness. He begins to bring a new message. A message that God will return to his people. And that although they will be punished for their sins, he will restore to them the fellowship that has been broken. Like a good shepherd. The Lord will return and shepherd his flock once again. In the second half of Isaiah chapter 40, the prophet reassures Israel of the Lord's ability to do this by reminding them of Of who it is that they call the Lord. He paints a beautiful and inspiring picture of the Lord God as the sovereign creator and the gracious redeemer of his elect people. Message to Israel is a message of hope that is based upon one question that is repeated in verse 18 and also in verse 25. To whom then will you liken me? Who is Like your God, O Israel. Although the people will be punished, the Lord will not utterly destroy nor forsake them. The Lord will return. He will deliver you, Israel, as at the first. He alone will be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of can do this, for there is none other like the Lord, the God of Israel. And that is the message that God has for us this morning as His people. The message that God alone is worthy of our worship. and our devotion. For he is our only creator, and only he can serve as our redeemer. Who is like our God? Stop a minute and think about that. Question. Who is like our God? Who is like the creator of the universe? This is the question that Isaiah asks the people in verses 12 through 17, verses 21 through 21. Who has eternal power to create all things out of nothing? Who is omnipotent like our God? This is the God who speaks, and the universe comes into being, all things created out of nothing. In these verses, Isaiah calls to mind familiar scenes and images of the daily life of the people that he is addressing himself to. And he uses these scenes of familiar life and applies them to the Lord God and his creating activities. In verse 12 he says, Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? And he uses language to describe a man bending over to scoop up a handful of water out of a bucket, from a well, or out of a stream, to drink, and to quench his thirst. Thus the Lord God has helped. All the waters of the mighty oceans in the very cupped palm of his hand. As a carpenter marks off a length of board, using his fingers, a span, the distance between his pinky and his thumb, will mark off the board. Thus the Lord God has marked off the very heavens that are above. As a farmer estimates the size of the crop that he has harvested by measuring it out in baskets, in bushel baskets, or in epods, as they were used in in Israel. Thus the Lord God has measured out the very dust of the earth, and he knows it all. As a a farmer or a businessman will lay out the amount of produce that he would sell to someone in the marketplace on a pair of scales, putting weights on one side. Side and the item that is going to be weighed on the other. Thus the Lord God of all the universe has weighed out the very mountains and the hills. And he alone it is that knows their weight. And in verse 26, Isaiah uses a particularly beautiful passage. A particularly beautiful example, as a shepherd leads forth his flock in the morning to take them out to pasture, give them good green grass, and leading them to the still waters, as David tells us. Thus the very Lord God has led forth the entire host of the of heaven, very stars of the universe, as a shepherd leads forth his flock. And just as a shepherd knows his sheep by name and can identify every one, so the Lord God leads forth the stars and knows their names. And he deserves not lose even one. Who is omniscient like our God, Isaiah Hans, who knows all things. No one has taught God, neither is he subject to the categories of thought that limit and structure his His creation, who has given God understanding? Who has been his counselor? Isaiah asks. Who is exalted in honor and glory, in perfection and blessedness? Who is altogether righteous and holy like? this God. In verse 16, Isaiah says, What sacrifice is good enough or big enough to offer to the sovereign Lord of all creation? And the language that Isaiah uses there would remind us, a similar example would be if I were just say, take all of the redwood trees in California. Very, very massive trees that grow out in Northern California. Some of them are so large that you can you can drive a car through them. They have tunnels cut out. And you can drive a car through a tree. Imagine. It just takes dozens of people with their arms still together to surround one of these trees. Well if you were to take all of these massive revue trees and cut them down and just pile them up, they'd make a big bonfire. And then if you were to go to the state of Texas, and slaughter all of the cattle in Texas and bring them and pile them on top of this huge bonfire. I don't know if Texas has the most cattle, but most Texans like to think that they do. But if you were to take all of these cattle and pile them on this this leadwood bonfire to build a huge barbecue as it were, and then to set the whole thing on fire and burn it up. Can you imagine the smoke? Can you imagine how much how much room that would take? Well Isaiah says if you went to Lebanon and cut down all of the cedar trees Of Lebanon, and if you slew all of the beasts to offer this as a burnt offering to this God, would it be enough? Would it be enough? Who is exalted in honor? Who is great? Like this God who has said, every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. What sacrifice will you bring before me then? Who is high and lifted up in majesty like this God? Who will I be? The very universe as mere men struggle to control nations and kingdoms that pass away with time. Rulers like Nebuchadnezzar, the great king of Babylon, who boasted and said, I have built Babylon, the great city by My power and by my strength and for my glory. And a voice out of heaven said, Today sovereignty has been removed from you. And we were told in Daniel chapter 4 that that king Nebuchadnezzar never. He was driven into the forest. He lost his sense and lived as a wild beast eating the grass and the dew of the heavens covered his body. And so he knew that it was the Lord God Almighty who lifts up and who casts down. Men like Pharaoh , Senecherim, Shalimaneser, Cyrus, Darius, Belshazzar, all of these men were kings, mighty men of valor and power, who claimed honor in the world. Dignity for themselves without recognizing that authority comes only from the sovereign Lord of the universe. And God says to these men, they are nothing before me. I bless. upon them and like the hot desert breeze blowing upon the grass. It is withered, it is shriveled up, it blows away. This is the God who has created all things, O Israel. And who is like this God? This is the same God who now says to you, Comfort, Comfort, O my people. This God who creates is also the God who redeems. his elect people. In verse 27, Isaiah addresses the nation specifically as the covenant people of God. Jacob, Israel, this is the seed of Abraham. The seed to whom God has said, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout your generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God to you and to your descendants after you. Moreover, this God has given Given to Jacob, Abraham's seed, a new name, a covenant man, Israel. And he has revealed himself by his covenant name. This God is the Lord. This God is the eternally self-existent one. This God is Jehovah. This God is Yahweh. This God is the eternal I am that I am. This is the God that has revealed Himself to Moses in the burning bush by that name. The name which he has said, this shall be my. Covenant name for all generations. This is the God who has revealed Himself and said, Yahweh, Yahweh, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundance and goodness, truth. This is the God who has God who has said, I brought you out of Egypt with a strong and mighty arm. I delivered you from Pharaoh and his taskmasters. I parted the Red Sea and destroyed the army of Pharaoh before your very eyes. This is the God who has led you in the wilderness. 40 years is right. And this is the God who has fed you with manner from heaven and water from the floody rock. This is the God who keeps his covenant and loving kindness to the thousandth generation , those that love him and keep. His commandments. And this Israel is the God who has loved you, and the God who has kept his faithful covenant promise to you as he swore to your father. This is your God, Israel, and who is like? this God, who is a redeemer like Jehovah. How then can you say he has forgotten us? He has abandoned us. The Lord does not forget his covenant mercies to his people. Neither does he grow weary or faint. This God strengthens those who are cast down. This God strengthens those who are afflicted. This God remembers his people. And keeps covenant. This is your God, O Israel. This is your creator. This is your Redeemer. Who is like this God? So the answer is obvious. And Israel knows the answer is obvious as they hear these words spoken to them. There is none like this God. There is none. So that Isaiah's question. raises a further question. The question who is like God? It raises a second question for Israel. And Isaiah presents this in verses 18, 19, and 20. If this God is the creator, and If this God is the one who redeems his elects covenant people, then why, O Israel, why do you wish to bow down before these idols? Why do you wish to worship metal and wood? Of the Almighty God. If there is none like God, then why do you act as though there were? These holts of silver and of gold, can they deliver you? Will they help you? Who is it that is Created the gold and the silver. Who is it that has made the hand of man that has made fashion these into form? This stump of wood before you, O Israel. Is it your father? Well, that is calculated. Of need? Who is it that has made the very trees and sends the rain from the heaven to water them so that they might grow? These are not your gods. And this is a theme that runs through the entire book of Isaiah, the theme of idolatry, the theme of God's people turning to other gods who were no gods, Israel's sin of covenant faithlessness, and that they made themselves gods. Who were only vanity and breath and emptiness. This was the sin that led to Israel's exile and punishment. From the beginning, Israel had been warned not to look to the nations which surrounded them. They had been warned not to serve these gods that were in the land in which they were to come. But they disobeyed. And they served the Baals and the Mil Palms and Chimos and Afteron. They sold their sons. sons and daughters to be called prostitutes to these gods. They exchanged the festivals of the law, the Passover, the Feast of Tabernacles, and instead participated in the public orgies and abominations of the Canaanite people. They worship Moloch, an idol so horrible, that in the in the Old Testament law, in the Pentecost, the books of Moses, there's a specific injunction against the worship of just this one idol, Moloch. You can find it in Leviticus 20. Look at Edicus 20. Moses writes, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, You shall also say to the sons of Israel, any man from the sons of Israel, or from the alien sojourning in Israel, who gives any of his offspring To Mole shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones. I will also set my fence against that man and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given some of his offspring to Mole, so as to defile my sanctuary and to profane my holy name. Isn't that strange that Moses would take the time in writing the law to point out that just this one particular idol was not to be worshipped? Well why is that, do you think? Why would Moses take time in writing the law to say this one idol shall not be worshipped? And if he is worshiped, that person will be punished by death. So you see, Moloch was the god of the Ammonite people. And Moloch was a particularly heinous god, a particularly awful idol, because of the particular manner in which he was worshipped. You see, other gods, other idols were worshipped by sacrifice. But Moloch was particular in that he was worshipped by a special kind of sacrifice, by human sacrifice. And Moloch was special because he was worshipped not just by human sacrifice, but as Moses tells us in Leviticus, by the offering of children. Moloch was worshipped by the sacrifice of infants. And in biblical archaeology , very interesting because a lot of times archaeologists will dig stuff up out of the ground and uh they really don't know what it is. They just find things and so does say, well, uh this looks like some kind of a religious uh worship item or looks like something we don't know what it is, so we'll we'll call it something. But one of the things that uh they've dug up has been these these bronze statues and it uh looks like the body of a man and it has the head of a bull with horns and it's in its position standing with its feet together and with its arms outstretched with the hands tucked like this. And they have uh determined that these are actually uh copies Of this uh idle mullet. One of the things about these these bronze figures is that they're hollow. And the back is cut out so that it's open. And they figured out that what was done with these things was that They were filled up with wood, other things, and they were set on fire, the wood. And the idol was heated, the bronze was heated until it was hot, red hot, blowing hot. And then the children of Israel would bring their infants , would bring their children, and they would place them in the hands of this idol. And the children would be roasted alive. This was how Moloch was worshipped. And this is what the people of God did with the covenant seed that God had said you would bring into my tabernacle and present before me. Of Abraham roasted alive in the hands of a figure of God. This was Israel's sin. How could Israel fall? How could they wander so far away that they could forget? God, and that they could worship such an abomination, that they could do such a terrible thing. The covenant seed that belonged to Jehovah gives to vanity, to emptiness, to the foolishness of the world. Of man. What Israel looked for in idols, they sought in vain. For there is no one, no one, like the Lord God. There is no one. Except the one whom God Himself has sent to be His likeness and to be His image. And that is precisely what the writer of the Hebrews, the writer of the epistle to the Hebrews, tells us from the very beginning. of his letter. He says, God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, by many fortunes and in many ways, in these last days, has spoken to us in his son. When he appointed heir of all things, Through whom also he made the world. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. And the word that the writer uses there for representation of the The word is unique in the New Testament and literally it means the die stamp. Take a coin and you look on it and it has a a picture of George Washington or Abraham Lincoln or someone on that on that coin. Well to get that impression there you have to take a die stamp and you have punch that die stamp into the coin. Well the word that is used here by the writer to describe the image on that die stamp is the word that is translated representation. And literally it means likeness. The Son is like God. The Son is like the Father because he is God. He is the creator through whom the world were made. Or as John tells us in his gospel. All things came into being by him, and apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. And the Apostle Paul explains this thought for us further in the book of Colossians. Turn with me, if you will, in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 1. Colossians 1 verse 15. Paul writes to us there, and he is the image of the invisible God. The firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Who is like God? Who is like God in that he is the Creator? The Lord Jesus Christ is like God because he is God in God. This is not some weak, effeminate do-gooder, some nice teacher of law philosophy, as a liberal theologian would portray him. This God, this man Jesus Christ, is very God. God. He is the Lord of glory. He is the King of creation. Just Jesus is fully and equally God with God the Father. God the Holy Spirit. Fully and equally God. Think of that. And yet taking upon himself the form of a man. Who is like this God? Who is a creator like the Lord Jesus Christ? And more than that, Paul tells us this same Jesus Christ is a redeemer. In verse 18, we read he is also the head of the body, the church. And he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself might come to have first place in everything. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness who dwell in him. And through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross. Through him I say whether things on earth or things in heaven. And although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and blameless, and beyond reproach, if indeed you continue in the faith, firmly established and steadfast, and not Moved away from the hope of the gospel that you have heard. Who is like this God? Who is a redeemer like the Lord Jesus Christ? Who else can say, I and the Father are one? He who has seen me has seen me. in the Father if He is not God. Friends, have you seen this Jesus Christ with the eyes of faith? Are you resting in Him alone for salvation? Are you trusting in him for your hope of eternal life today? Is your hope in him, in this Jesus Christ? Who is like God for you? For you see, if you are trusting in someone or something who is not like the Lord Jesus Christ, then you have no hope. Who is like the Lord Jesus? Lord Jesus Christ that you can believe in him to be your creator. Who is like the Lord Jesus Christ that you can believe in him to be your Redeemer? You see, if you are not resting in the Jesus Christ, the God of spirit, Scripture. You are resting in vanity, in emptiness, in breath. And if you are a Christian, if you are trusting in Christ, if you are resting in this Who has died for your sins. This Jesus who has reconciled sinners to himself through the blood of his cross. This Jesus who invites us by faith to accept the righteousness that he has purchased for us. This Jesus who promises us eternal life. If you are resting in this one, then Isaiah's second question comes to you. If this God is your creator, if this God is your redeemer, is the worship and devotion that is due to him and him alone truly given to him in your life? Is the Lord Jesus Christ finding competition in your life, Christian? Is there another that has become His equal, as Isaiah says. Are you worshipping idols? You see, what is an idol anyway? In its essence, an idol is anything that takes a place of priority in our lives. in any sphere of our lives that rightfully belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ, our Creator, our redeemer. And like Israel at all, we too are surrounded by a nation who worships idols. But they have different names. We no longer hear about Dale or Moloch or Himos. Now we hear of different idols with names like materialism, self-interest, Leisure time, amusement , convenience. The idol convenience is one that's probably very familiar to all of us. worship him in our culture. We have convenience food, convenience stores. You know if you're too tired to cook one day, you say, okay kids, file in the car that's went into McDonald's. But then instead of cooking you have a Big Mac and fries. Although that's really not a convenience, that's more in the order of necessity, so we won't we won't put McDonald's down too much as a convenience. But if you're watching a football game and the wife's out shopping and you don't feel like uh getting up and cooking yourself or something during halftime, you just get up during the commercial or throw a TV dinner in the microwave, come back and you've got food right there. I worked uh as the cook for the dining club up at Westminster and uh the guy who was there last year used to He would bake all of his own bread every day. He could bake bread every day. And one of the first things that people asked me uh when I got this position was, oh, are you gonna bake that home-baked bread every day? And I said, no, you must be kidding. I don't have time for that. I've got to go to class. Bake bread. Not convenient. Who's got time for that? Eating dough? Put the stuff in the oven, you've got to wait for it to rise. Look at a piece of wonderbread in the place. But convenience. You see, and the idol, convenience, like all idols, has a much darker side. Molech, when you first see that idol, it looks like a looks like a funny toy. But when you find out the darker side of Molek. It's not funny anymore. And thus it is with convenience. You can laugh about CD dinners or wonder bread, but convenience as an idol also has a darker side. And you hear it in people's conversations. Something like this. Well, you know, it's just not convenient for us to have a child right now. After all, we didn't plan to have a baby. We've got other things that are more important to us right now. My wife's career. We were planning on buying a new condominium or a new car. The kids just aren't convenient right now. They get in the way. Well, we better have an abortion. Because it's not convenient. And so we worship Moloch. What could be more monstrous than the abomination of our time? The wholesale slaughter of unborn infants. And if the thought of sacrifice to Moloch was Revolting to you. What about the case a few months back of Baby Joe in Indiana? A child that was born with Down syndrome and some other birth defects. And it was decided that this child's life would be too inconvenient. For the parents. And so the doctors advised them to let the child die. And they did. It took six days for the child to die of stone. It was not fed, it was not given water, it was merely left to cry. While people listened to its cries. Sacrifice for Mole was merciful by comparison. And so in the name of convenience in our society, we pass from murder and abortion to euthanasia. And where will it stop? Where will it go next? The convenience as an idol has a darker side. And it's not enough for us as Christians to sit by and say, well, I don't condone abortion. I'm totally against it. It's unbiblical. No, it's not enough for us to wash our hands of it and say it's it's wrong. It's not enough for us even to write to our congressmen and say support this amendment or that amendment. We in our own lives and in our own communities must be active in destroying the authors of mold. We have things that we can do. right here in this area. Bethany Christian Fellowship, Bethany Christian Services. An excellent and excellent ministry. It provides support , provides care for unred mothers, it provides an alternative to abortion. They have a home right in Annapolis. And we need to pray for that ministry. We need to support it with our money. We need to visit it and find out about their work and how we can help as a church and as individual believers. We need to get involved in their work. Christian, are there idols in your home? And the magazines, then the books that you read, do they help you to be a better servant of the Lord Jesus Christ? Or do they cause you to bow down before the gossip? idol. Christian young people, in the music you listen to, does it help you to make melody in your heart to the Lord singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs? Or does it cause you to bow down before the idol point? Is your TV set a source of rejoicing? Praise to God through the creative power and authority that He gives to man? Or when you watch it, are you seated before the altar of the idol lust. You see, there are idols in our homes. And we need to be aware of these idols which surround us and the danger that we face in giving them places in our lives that rightfully belong to Christ. Christ alone. We are serving idols. We need to repent and rid ourselves of them. Israel was warned, and Israel failed to heed the warning, and Israel perished. Paul tells us in Romans 1121, speaking of national Israel as the natural branches of the olive tree, he says, they were dropping off for their unbelief. But you stand by your faith. Do not be conceited, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. The Lord Jesus Christ has come to deliver his people from the bondage of sin and death. He alone is our creator. And our Redeemer. And he alone deserves the full worship and devotion of our lives. The Apostle John reminds us of this very thing in his little book, 1 John. John is John is the Apostle of Love, and his gospel is the gospel of love. And this book is sometimes referred to as the Epistle of Love. And in it, John talks about what it means to love God and to worship him and to serve him. And it's interesting how John ends. His book. He says, We know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding in order that we might know him who is true. And we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal. Life. Little children, drave yourselves from idols. Brothers and sisters in Christ, we need to do that. We need to do that in our lives. Let us pray God that by the power of his Holy Spirit who will enable us to do that. Let's pray for the first time. The Lord our God and merciful Heavenly Father, we come before you this day. Lord, we come before you acknowledging that we are sinners. We have been disobedient. We have failed to worship you as we should have in all of our lives and with all of our hearts. We have disobeyed your commandments. We have done things we should not have done. We have failed to write the wheel. to do that which we ought to have done. And yet you are a merciful God who keeps covenant with his people and does not punish us entirely for our sins. Oh Lord, this day cause us We worship you, and to devote our lives to you entirely, as you deserve, and as you call upon us in your word to do. Lord, we ask that you would do this for the sake of our Creator and our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, that we might present ourselves as your people holy and blameless. In his name we pray. Amen. Yeah, I think it's