Hello. There we go. Thank you. I do want to change the tone a little bit though as we get started. Because I think many of you have found yourselves in situation like the one I'm about to explore with you. I do have to admit that some of the facts have been changed and the names have been changed to protect the guilty. But perhaps you've gone through an experience like this. Uh Steve Did you have anything to do with the crumpled fender? Well Did you have anything to do with the fender on the Chevy? I could say that it's clearly crumpled. Did you do this? I'd like to explain. Did you do this? Yes. I did. We all have made mistakes. We've done things that we wish we could either hide or fix. And some things that you do you can't hide. You can't fix them, you can't make them go away. And so you try to justify and explain. You may be on the other side of that situation. You may be the one whose things have been damaged, who has been wounded, and what you want is to control your circumstances and the events in your life so that those wounds don't happen again. Sometimes when we're in those situations we will act in ways that will try to exert that control. And we will want to make sure that it doesn't happen again. We'll do that in ways that are confrontation without grace. Like that experience when I was a fifteen year old with my father, whose car I had damaged And if we can't control the circumstances, we at least want to control the confrontations. And so my response to my father was to run to hide. To disengage, to withdraw, and to become angry. I was angry with the way he treated me when I should have felt sadness for what I'd done to his car. He was angry with me when he should have been sad about his car and concerned to deal with his son's heart. But I have to admit, I've been on both sides of those interactions. I have been the one who's done the damage and I've been the one who's tried to exert the control. And when when we can't manage that control, when we can't take care of our things ourselves, what we do is we look for ways to avoid the confrontation. Because confrontation without grace, we know, is is is a horrible place to be. And so we'll look for ways not to need to be confronted. We'll work really hard to be good. We'll also look for friends who, if we need to be confronted, won't confront us because they're more concerned about our comfort than our good But the passage we're going to look at today is Jesus doing more than we want. He is a better person than the friends we look for. And he's not willing to leave us in a place where we are comfortable. He wants to take us to the place where we are redeemed. Let me open us in prayer. Jesus, we long to hear you speak to us. But I have to admit that at times my unbelief leads to a fear of hearing your voice. And so I pray this morning as we come to you, as we come to hear your word spoken, that we would hear your voice. We would not only hear the words, but we would hear your voice, and that we would hear the tone of your heart for us. And so we ask Lord Jesus, be here, open our eyes, open our ears, open our hearts and our minds, and feed us. That we might love you more, that we might see the work you are doing deep in our hearts, and that we might delight in you and thereby honor you You alone are Lord, you alone are glorious and good. And we come in dependence upon you. For your work in us today. And we pray this, Jesus, in in your precious name. Amen. The passage we're going to look at is Luke chapter 6, 43 through 45, where Jesus is the one who speaks. And before Before we get too far into this, I want you to know two things about this passage. The first thing is that Jesus is the one who's speaking to you. The things that you hear in this passage are Jesus' words to you. And I want you to hear not only the content of the words, but I want you to hear the tongue. Jesus is speaking to us with compassion. Jesus is speaking to us with love and with a purpose of redemption. So hear Jesus' words. No good tree bears bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit. Each tree is recognized by its own fruit. People do not pick figs from thorn bushes or grapes from briars. The good man brings forth good things out of the goods stored up in his heart, and the evil man brings evil. Brings evil things out of the evil stored up in his heart. For out of the overflow of his heart his mouth speaks So what does Jesus tell us? The first thing he tells us is is that what we are looking at when we look at our fruit is not Something outside of us, it's not something strange from us, it's not something distant, it's our hearts. Out of the overflow of the heart, his mouth speaks So Jesus is telling us what we do. And he's telling us that we do what we do. I want you to think about this last week. You know the events of your week, you know the circumstances of your week, you know the things that you've done, you know the hidden things that you thought, you know what your life was like You know it in detail. Was it good fruit or was it bad fruit Jesus tells us that our fruit is visible. The tree is recognized by the fruit that it bears. You can look at an apple tree and see that it is an apple tree because it has apples So this week, have you been an angry tree? Have you been a gentle tree? Have you been a selfish tree or a compassionate tree? You know the works that you've done. You know the fruit that you bear. You know who you are. You know. And if you're at all like me, you want to deny, you want to hide, you want to turn your gaze from those things that are bad fruit. You love to look at those things that are good, you love to be able to say Boy, I really did it right there. I was compassionate, I was generous, I was good, I was gracious. And there are things in my life this week where I can say, God bore good fruit in me. But I also know those events, those circumstances, those provocations that led me to reveal a bad fruit. What Jesus is telling us is that the fruit that you bear is you. But the second point that I want to make today is what we do, we do. And we do it because of who we are. Jesus says, out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. Who I am will be revealed in what I do. Who you are will be revealed in what you do. And we hate that. We hate that. There have been a couple of very prominent examples this week of celebrities, actually over the last month, celebrities who have been caught in public with bad fruit Two weeks ago, as Alan was preaching on Matthew 5, he talked about Don Imus. And he said, Imus said, I'm a good man who did a bad thing. You can't take what I said and believe that it reflects who I am. I mean it has a problem with what Jesus is saying. I have Comcast and when I do Comcast Internet, there's usually this webpage that comes up and it lists all sorts of really important, pertinent events in the world of celebrities. And the name Alec Baldwin has been coming up over and over again this week as as I go to check my email. And Alec Baldwin has said really reprehensible things in a phone call to his eleven-year-old daughter. That happened to be recorded , and broadcast. And so his response to calling his daughter a thoughtless pig was I have never in my life had a conversation like that before. I've never used those words against my child. And what I want to do is work harder to deal with parents who are alienated from their children by spouses I'm a good man. You can't take this conversation and believe that I'm a bad man because I am a good man. Jesus disagrees. Jesus says that the tree is identified, defined, and recognized by its fruit Figs bear figs. Grapes bear grapes. Thorns bear thorns. Now I want to say that I want to point out that I'm not at all trying to say that circumstances don't have an effect on who we are or how we demonstrate our fruit. Circumstances play a profound role. You can take a good plant and put it in bad soil and it will weaken. And it will bear less fruit, but it will still bear the kind of fruit that plant is So when I want to say that I'm angry because of what you did , if you didn't provoke me, I wouldn't be raising my voice If you hadn't destroyed my car, I wouldn't be yelling at you. But that's not true. It's not true. When someone sins against me and provokes me They demonstrate what's there, they don't create it For me to tell you that my response to you is a fruit of your actions against me is really comparable to telling you that in my yard where I have two Asian pear trees, three apple trees, ornamental cherries, that that this is the soil that grows cherry trees. And over here is the soil that grows Asian pear trees. So I toss a seed into that ground and out comes a cherry tree. I can toss the same seed into this ground and out comes the pear tree. The soil does not determine the plant. Your circumstances at most reveal who you are. And your circumstances are a gift from God When God uses someone's sins and provocation against you It is not a tragedy. It is not a horrendous event. It is a gift from God. Because what God is doing is showing you that beyond your resources, beyond your ability to hide who you are, your fruit will come out. And so when someone provokes you, when someone wounds you, when someone causes you pain Who you are comes out. The the mouth speaks from the overflow of the heart. And if you want to think about it, I had a conversation with somebody after the first service and he said, But I get so angry at the people that I work with. Why isn't my anger an appropriate response? And I said, I don't know whether it's appropriate, but the issue is, your anger is yours. What would Jesus do in your place? Would Jesus have been vicious in response? He may be angry, but he will be angry in a redemptive way. He wants for them what he's given to you. He wants them to know grace, not just condemnation. He wants them to know their sin. And he may use you to help them to see that, but not in in a in a mean way. Not in a sinful anger. And when he shows me my sinful anger, what he is doing is saying to me, I love you enough to show you your heart. And I love you enough to redeem you from your sin. And I love you enough to show you your need for me. Brothers and sisters, you do what you do because of who you are You do what you do because of who you are, regardless of the provocation. No one pushes you to sin against your identity. What they push you to realize is what your identity truly is. And you see your need for Jesus. Galatians talks about the deeds of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. And I want to turn to Galatians chapter 5 for a moment. Because I think this is an important point that illustrates that it is not the soil it's not the soil that determines the fruit Now we we see in chapter five that Paul is talking about the deeds of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. Let me read from verse 16. So I say, live by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. For the sinful nature desires what is contrary to the Spirit. And the spirit, what is contrary to the sinful nature. They are in conflict with each other so that you do not do what you want. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law. Now the acts of the sinful nature are obvious: sexual immorality. impurity and debauchery, idolatry and witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissensions Factions and envy, drunkenness orgies, and the like. I warn you as I did before, that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the sinful nature with its passions and desires. Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit. Now it may sound like if you are a tree planted in the Spirit, you will grow good fruit, but if you are a tree outside of the Spirit, you will do evil fruit. But what God is doing isn't saying that he's taking the same tree and planting it in different soil It is not the soil that changes the nature of the tree. God gives us a whole new identity Brothers and sisters, it isn't that we're planted in the soil of the Spirit, we're planted in the soil of the flesh. It is we are a new tree in the Spirit. And that tree bears fruit What do we do? What do we do knowing that what we do comes from who we are? What next? Are we hopeless? Are we stuck? Are we forever to bear evil fruit? No. No. Not at all. And Jesus doesn't draw your attention to your fruit with the desire to depress you. He doesn't draw your attention to your fruit with the desire to squash you. Jesus is not looking to oppress you. Jesus is pointing you to himself. Now, I want to draw a distinction between the way Satan works and the way Jesus works. Satan is the grand deceiver. In magic acts, there are a number of different parts to the magic act, but one of the things that's really crucial to a good magician is distraction. He wants you to be focusing over here while he's doing work over here. See, if you're looking over here, you have no idea what he's doing, and this makes the act work. And Satan is the grand deceiver. Satan wants you completely focused on your fruit. Satan wants you consumed with your fruit so that you're busy taking the thorns and getting rid of them and stapling apples to the tree. He wants you to be busy thinking about what you ought not to be doing. That's a bad thing, that's a bad fruit. I've got to get rid of that, gotta pull that fruit off the tree. But by the way, I've got to put good fruit on, so I gotta go to the grocery store and pick up the fruit, bring it home, put it on the tree, but you know what happens is it gets rotten. There's no life connection between the fruit and the tree. It's all stapled on. And Satan wants you thinking about how can you look good. How can you examine your fruit, recognize it really comes from the root, recognize that's who you really are, and at the same time make it look good He is the grand deceiver. But Jesus says no. Jesus says no The fruit the fruit is merely a demonstration. It's not the place where the work of redemption happens. It's not where I want to address your sin. It's not where I want to address your identity. Your work is a demonstration of who you are down deep. It's the overflow of your heart And your heart keeps chugging out thorns. And you keep pulling them off, and you keep cleaning the tree, and you keep putting on good fruit, and you're looking good to anybody who doesn't look closely And it's exhausting. And it's frustrating. And it is killing you And God says, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Stop. For you see, Jesus is the great Redeemer. Whereas Satan wants to deceive you and keep your focus away from your heart so that you don't do the work of repentance, Jesus says, no, the fruit is a result of the root. Who you are is the issue. Jesus tells us a story in Luke chapter seven And I think this gets to the heart. The story happens just in the span of a few verses after the account we're looking at. Jesus talks about the fruit and the root, and then he tells the story of Simon the Pharisee. And the woman who worshipped Jesus. See, see, Simon was a Pharisee, he lived in his village, Jesus was coming through town, and Jesus was a religious leader. So Simon invited him home for dinner And Jesus came in the house and he reclined at table, and he lay down and was facing the table, and his feet were cast out away from the table. And with Jesus came this woman. And Simon couldn't believe it. This woman who was a sinner came into his house and knelt by Jesus and wept. And wept and wept and wept to the point where she washed Jesus' feet with her tears. And Simon is thinking, if this man were really a prophet He'd know who this woman is. He'd know who it is that's touching him. He'd know who he allowed to come in my house. He'd kick her out. Before Simon says a word, Jesus says, Simon, yes Lord, I have a story for you. And he promptly tells the story of two debtors, one with a great debt and one with a small debt. And he asks Simon, who will love more? And Simon says, I suppose the one whose debt was greater He says you've spoken true. And then he says to Simon, Simon, do you see this woman? Simon says, I don't want him. I don't want to see her. I don't want her in my house. I don't want her here. And frankly, you allowing her to touch you tells me that you're not who I think you are And I wish you weren't in my house. And Jesus says, no, no. Do you see this woman? She has not stopped weeping since she came in. She's washed my feet with her tears. She's dried my feet with her hair. She's anointed me with perfume. Simon, I want you to see you. I want you to see yourself. For you think you are a religious leader who can judge me. You think for me to act the way I am with compassion and grace, to be willing to receive this woman's worship means I am a failure. I'm not worth your time. Simon, I'm so much more than a prophet. And I'm going to address your heart. Without your conversation to tell me what you're thinking, I will address your heart. Simon, this woman wept in order to wash my feet. You didn't even give me water to wash my own This woman has shamed herself in worshiping me by drying my feet with her hair. You didn't even give me a towel She has anointed my feet with perfume, and you didn't even give me oil to anoint my head. Simon, the point of this dinner is not to give you status. It's not to make you respectable in the eyes of the village. It is to address your sinful heart. You're not my peer, I'm God And you're not even this woman's peer. For she has known her sin. She has seen her fruit. And she's asking for a root transplant. She has sinned much and repented much and she is forgiven, so she loves much. Simon, you don't love anybody but yourself Simon, do you see your fruit? Brothers and sisters, we're Simon. We're Simon. We need desperately to see our fruit. We need to know that it comes from who we are We need to see that what we what we are trying to do is staple fruit and tear off the bad fruit. We want to be good enough. We want to be in control. We want to measure up. But Jesus says to us something glorious Ezekiel thirty six. Jesus says I give you a new heart. I put a new spirit within you I will take away your heart of stone, and I will give you a new heart of flesh. I will do a root transplant. And out of that new root will grow good fruit. The answer for our need is not to measure up, it's not It's not to compare ourselves to others. It's not to look at our levels of sin and say, well, at least I'm not like that person. It is to see our hearts and to recognize our unbelief and to repent So this morning as you come and as you look at your hearts, what you need to see is who you are. And Jesus says, it's it's clear, it's obvious, it's visible. It's what you do. What did you do this week? Where does God need to do heart level, root-level change in you? How is he going to do it? He's going to do it by showing you more of himself. He's going to show you who you are so that you can see who he is. And he's going to bring you to understand what he says in Isaiah 30, 15. This is what the sovereign Lord, the Holy One of Israel, says In repentance and rest is your salvation. And quietness and trust is your strength. Please don't be like the Israelites who said no. God continues that passage and says, You says, but you would have none of it And repentance and rest is your salvation, and quietness and trust is your strength, but you would have none of it Jesus has come, repent, rest, see who you are, delight in who I am. Worship me. Receive the forgiveness that I have already given. Stop nailing fruit. And start looking at your hearts. Because if you act in anger, you are an angry person If you act in greed, you are a greedy person. If you act in selfishness, you're a selfish person. It is a root-level issue. And it requires a huge Savior. Brothers and sisters, we are deep-level sinners. And we need a grand Savior. We need a Redeemer who can get beyond the fruit and deal with the roots. And that's who Jesus is. Let's pray. Jesus, I come to you I have to admit that I am frequently Simon. I'm frequently the person who wants to protect themselves from Provocation. I want to draw boundaries. I want to control the way people relate to me. I want to be a man who can distance from others and can demonstrate dominance. But Jesus, that's not who you call me to be. It's not who you are. And I'm not stuck trying to change my behavior without addressing my heart. Jesus, you have given me a new heart. Give me the faith to see you and to believe your work and to repent deeply, not of the behavior, but of the heart. Lord, I pray that you would focus my gaze on those places where you need me to partner with you in the work of redemption, my own redemption, where you call me to become fluent in the language of repentance. And I pray for my brothers and sisters. Lord, comfort them. Help them to see, cause them to see your love. Your glory, your work to transform them. And that that comes from an honest awareness of who they are and a delight in an honest understanding of who you are. You are amazing, and I neglect you You are my hope when I try to perform. You are my God when I try and tell you what to do. I'm amazed that you love me But you love us all. And you are at work to accomplish your purposes of redemption. in each of us. Lord, this week open our eyes to see our fruit. Give us the hope and safety and security that allows us to recognize that that fruit is much more than simply an external act, but it flows from the sap that comes from the roots. Lord Jesus, we want to be men and women of grace. We want to be men and women of redemption. We want to be men and women with compassionate hearts. We properly prioritize our circumstances and recognize your transforming work. Hold our gaze upon yourself. Show us more of who you are. Free us to cry from the depths and to know your mercy and your love, your grace and your compassion. And Lord Jesus, change us. We depend upon you. And you will not fail It's in your most precious name we pray. Amen.