Of Luke and this morning we're going to come to a text that is generally considered, rightly so, to be a pivot, a real turning point in the gospel. And it's an event that is not only a turning point in the Gospel of Luke, it functions in that same way. The same event, the confession of Christ by Peter in the Gospels of Matthew and Mark as well. This is an event of great significance. Yet I also think it's an event that we we we may not have mind for all that it is worth. We're going to be thinking about who is Jesus and what is important to Jesus about how we think of him and how we talk about him. So I want us to come to this familiar text with a bit of anticipation that just as your pastor Bob learns new things every time I sit in my office and start studying and preparing for sermons Perhaps we will learn new things as well. Amen. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 9. And I'm going to be reading for us verses 18 through 22. Let us pray. Almighty God, we come before you mindful of the great privilege that it is to have your words Father, we confess that they are true and that they are an authority. Lord, they Tell us who you are, who we are, and how we can be reconciled to you despite your holiness and our great sin. They speak to us words of forgiveness, of hope, and of life. And they warn us and caution us and encourage us and goad us to seek you. Lord, we pray that we would find you. And Lord, that as your word is read, you would be revealed to us by your Spirit, and we would hear your voice in these your words. Bless the reading of Scripture to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, we pray that you would encourage us by that as well. We pray these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 18, the Word of God. Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him, and he asked them, Who do the crowds say that I am? And they answered, John the Baptist. But others say Elijah, and others that one of the prophets of old has risen. Then he said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Peter answered, The Christ of God. And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things. and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed on the third day, and on the third day be raised. This ends the reading of God's Word. We've noticed if you've been here for the last couple of weeks that this s this smaller section of the Gospel of Luke, beginning with verse 9-1, shows us this great missionary push of the preaching of the kingdom where Jesus has for the first time having established in broad strokes who he is, he sends his apostles He sends the twelve out two by two to declare the kingdom of God. So they've already gone out on a preaching ministry, and this is important. Two by two, they've gone From one town to the next, learning how to depend upon God, not over preparing, not being sure that they had everything they could possibly have in their suitcase for any contingency, but just to simply go. With empty purses and only one shirt. And he tells them to wherever you end up, whatever home you get invited to, just stay there. Don't constantly seek for the upgrade. And if they reject you, just shake the dust off your feet, a symbol of renouncing, an act of condemnation, and move on. The disciples, when they engage in that, create quite a stir. We read in chapter 9 here, a few verses earlier than what I read now, that Herod himself hears about this. And he's perplexed. People are wondering who are what's going on here? And we read there that it was said by some that John had been raised. This is reading in verse 8 now. By some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen. So we have this state of confusion. And the region of Galilee, which is where we are, which is partly controlled by Herod the Tetrarch, the king, the king who presided at the crucifixion of Christ, not the Herod from when Jesus was born. And we find that people are wondering: who is this Jesus? What is going on here? The demons are being cast out, the people are being healed, that the kingdom is being preached. Jesus then feeds five thousand and his disciples Are impressed again with the fact that this is no mere prophet, no mere Moses who feeds people in the wilderness. And Jesus, after this great event of feeding the 5,000, is alone praying. And his disciples happen to be with him. And so Jesus asks them the question that was no doubt rattling around in their heads and hearts. But he asks them indirectly. He first begins by saying, who do the crowds say that I am? Throughout the Gospel of Luke, the crowds are the people who are following Jesus. They're the people who are coming and listening to his sermon on the plain. They are the ones who are observing the healing of people and the casting out of demons. These are people who are not the antagonists or the opponents of Jesus. These are the people that are trying to figure out what's going on. And they're unclear. The disciples answer and they say, Well, basically they think that you are a prophet. Whether you are one of the prophets of old come back , they don't know which one. But you're a prophet. And it's important to note that they were partly right. You ever as a kid play that game uh hot and cold? Where somebody hides something and you walk into the room and your brother or sister says you're cold, you're getting warmer, you're getting warmer, now you're hot. Nobody? Some of you played that game. I'm not the only guy in my fifties. Some of you are even older. That's a that's kind of what we see here. You see, the fact is that the crowds weren't entirely wrong. Jesus was a prophet. Now he was also priest and king. He was also God incarnate. But what they say, it's not that it's wrong, it's that it's insufficient to understand the person and work of Jesus. And that's an important point. When people say they understand that Jesus is a prophet, that is a wonderful starting point for you When people say that Jesus is a prophet, you can take them to Deuteronomy 18 and say a prophet sent by God. Everything they say comes to pass. Everything. There are, as the book of Joshua says, no falling words that drop idle and lifeless. Then you can point them to what Jesus, this great prophet, says, I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the gate. And you can lead them into a deeper and fuller understanding of who this Jesus, this great prophet, truly is. more fully is. But the crowds didn't understand yet anything beyond the fact that he was some great prophet. And it's as if they were they were waiting for other shoes to drop to get more data. Jesus then turns and he asks the disciples in general, and remember, the language of the New Testament, like the language of the Old Testament, has different forms for U plural and U singular. You see, we might read this text and think that Jesus then asked Peter, who do you say I am? Imagine that you're from Texas for a moment. Jesus says, who do y'all say I am? He's asking all of his apostles, all of the twelve. He's saying, Who do you guys think I am? And Peter, the interpreted spokesman , He says, You are the Christ of God. Or you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. In a more extended version we find in another gospel. You are the Christ of God. Isn't that a beautiful answer? You are the Christ, the anointed one, the Messiah. You are the one who is expected. You are in understanding him to be the Messiah, the Christ of God. And remember Christ and Messiah, two words mean the same thing. Messiah the Hebrew word, Christ the Greek word. The anointed one, the expected one, the son of David, the king. There's a sense in which there's a recognition that this Jesus is the one who's going to bring in the kingdom. The kingdom that these twelve had been preaching from town to town and village to village? Isn't that a beautiful answer? Isn't that exactly right? Isn't it absolutely true that Jesus is the Christ of God? He expected one who would bring the kingdom. And as godly Anna said on that scene of Jesus' presentation of the temple in Luke chapter 2. The one by whom God would redeem Israel That is true. And it is beautiful. And it is essential to know those things about Jesus Christ. But look at what Jesus immediately says. And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one. Hadn't Jesus just sent them out to preach his kingdom? Hadn't Jesus just given them instruction? power and authority in his name to do mighty action to declare the coming of the kingdom of God and to say that sweet, beautiful word, that command and invitation, repent. For the kingdom of God is at hand. Why is he now telling them, do not tell anyone? That is a question that we ought to wrestle with, and think about very carefully And in fact, I don't think we should look at verses 18 through 20 without also looking at 21 and 22. Because look at verse 21. And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one. Two things about that verse that can perhaps help you in your personal Bible study. First, the word and It's a word of continuation. Something that came before is essential to understand this. And then the dead giveaway, if you will. And he strictly charged them and commanded them to tell this. Well, what is this? It's what happened in the verse before. You see, verses 21 and 22 are really inseparable from verse 20. And you can't really make any sense of verses 21 and 22 unless you begin with verse 20. You are the Christ of God, and he's strictly warned them, charged them, and commanded them to tell this to no one. So I've been trying really hard as your pastor and uh and the one who's blessed with the privilege of preaching to you to confront you with a difficulty in the text that perhaps you, like me, scratch your head at and think, well, why not? I want you to go back with me to John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the forerunner of Christ. John the Baptist is the one who comes in the spirit of Elijah. John the Baptist is the one who, according to the Gospel of John, sees Jesus coming to the banks of the Jordan River, and he says, Behold the Son of God, the Lamb of God, who takes away his people's sins. John the Baptist is the one who baptized Jesus and would have heard the voice from heaven, this is my son, with whom I am well pleased. He would have seen the Spirit of God descending like a dove. He would have been privy to all of this. He knew he is the one who, as a babe in his mother's womb, leapt in the womb. And yet, isn't he also the one who saw the kinds of things Jesus was doing? And from Herod's prison sent his disciples to say to Jesus, Are you the one we were to expect? Or is there going to be another? Why did he say that? Why did he think that? Why did he fear that? Maybe he was wrong about Jesus. Maybe Jesus wasn't the Messiah. It all comes from a misunderstanding of the kingdom of God. See, in Jesus' day, his own apostles The crowds following him, even his kinsman John the Baptist, were expecting a kingdom in human earthly terms. They were expecting the overthrow of the Roman government that had its boot on the neck of the Israelite nation, the people of Judea and the people of Israel. They were expecting a restoration of all of their Old Testament religious rites and ceremonies They were expecting health and wealth and prosperity. And they were expecting these things because the Old Testament prophetically foresaw the fullness of God's kingdom as a time when children would laugh and play in the streets. Think of the freedom of that. without foreign soldiers on corners, uh giving stink eyes to children running about. Or think about freedom of every man having his own olive tree and fig tree, of everyone having their own place, of everyone having their needs met, of Of a new heaven and a new earth. And they conflated all of those kingdom promises with the coming of the Messiah in such a way that they were expecting that when the Messiah came Everything would instantaneously be heaven on earth. That is not what Jesus came to do. Jesus did not come to appear and ascend right then on a throne He did not appear so that he could take on Caesar and then pay attention to Egypt and to the remnants of the Persian Empire. He didn't come to do that at all. And this was very important to Jesus. There is a classic piece of literature that comes from my money. one of the greatest American theologians of all time, B. B. Warfield. B. B. Warfield wrote a little book on the emotional life of our Lord, and I commend it to uh to to to all of you. It is a book that will challenge you in many ways as it explores all of the words that have effective weight or emotional weight with respect to Jesus And when it talks about the anger of Jesus and the stern rebukes, he specifically calls out this word that gets translated strictly charged. You see, that word has the strong flavor of a hot rebuke. Turn back just a page. In the Gospel of Luke in chapter 8, we read this. One day Jesus got in a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, Let us go across to the other side of the lake. Sound familiar? So they set out, and as they sailed, he fell asleep, and a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in danger. And they went and woke him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing. And he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves. And he rebuked. He strictly charged. You see, this is the same word that appears here. And he rebuked. He strictly charged. There is not by this great theologian and Greek Greek scholars count B. B. Warfield, a single instance of this word that appears in the original text of the the the the New Testament in Greek, there's not an currence of this word in any Greek context that doesn't carry the idea of a hot reprimand This mattered to Jesus very much. Jesus said, You understand that I'm the Christ of God. But it is very important to me that right now you tell this to no one. It was a rebuke. There's no two ways about it. It was that important to him. Now I want you to think for a moment, if you are a parent About times that you used a rebuking tone of voice to communicate something of great significance to your children. I will never forget when I was in middle school, sitting at the Little round table we had in the Eden Kitchen in our townhouse, and it used to be called Marion Station. The townhomes right across Little Patuxent from Howard County General. And this is before we moved here to Runningbrook. And I can remember Dad came home from work, we were sitting at the table, my youngest brother wasn't born yet. And Dad would always, we'd sit down, we'd, whoever's turn it was to pick out music, we'd pick out the music, say the prayer, we'd try to guess the composer because we had to listen to music without words. Dad wanted us to learn classical music, which we did. So someone guessed that, and then dad will always say, So, how was your day? What did you do today? My older brother said, I learned this new game. We played it. It was uh it's called Ouija. My father cried and he got angry and he sternly warned us never ever play with the Ouija board. We uh Jim and I didn't even know what they were. Jim is my younger brother. But he sternly, sternly, strictly charged us. And there was a rebuke in what he said that the thought might even occur to us. And we never did again. We knew right then that this was something that was not to be done. Have you ever seen a situation when your kids Or perhaps running on the edge of a pier extending out from the shore of Malibu, and the water's deep, and the rails have large gaps, little kids can fall through, and you say, don't go near the fence. And you're very stern, and even there's a rebuke inherent in what you say because you're communicating the life and death importance of obedience in this situation. Well, Jesus is in that manner rebuking his disciples, saying, Do not Tell this to anyone. Now, why? Let's look at what the scripture says. We read that Jesus says, do not Tell this to anyone, he says, tell this to no one, saying The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. Now we know from Matthew's account that Peter immediately debated Jesus on this and said, no, no, no, you don't need to die. And what did Jesus say to him? Get behind me. This is that conversation. Where Jesus recognizes that their understanding of what the Messiah came to do was so flawed because of their misunderstanding about the nature of the kingdom he was bringing that were they to go in their ignorance and talk about the kingdom coming in merely socioeconomical political terms, they would be doing a great harm To everybody who heard them. And they would be setting their theological immaturity into concrete, going on record, as it were. With so partial a truth as to be wrong on the most important thing Until the disciples, the apostles, the twelve came to understand that the Son of Man must It is absolutely essential. There is an absolutely failure of the mission of the Son of Man. The Messiah will have utterly failed in his Coming and being incarnate in a human body, everything would have been a failure unless he suffered, was rejected, was killed, and then was raised. The passion of the Lord Jesus Christ is everything And if you preach a gospel that doesn't include the facts that Jesus, because we are sinners and because God is holy, he had To suffer and die, that we be forgiven and reconciled to God and thereby enrolled in his kingdom. To get that wrong is to be wrong on everything Literally everything. To give water to the thirsty, if it's not done in the name of Jesus, earns nothing. To clothe the naked, to house the homeless, if it's not done in the name of Jesus. And is not grounded upon a heart that has been touched by the living God and indwelt by the Spirit, and done for the sake of the glory of the Son of Man. It accomplishes nothing. There are going to be many, many, many people who live by our human standards very, very good lives Who will not be in glory. Because they never came to realize that the Son of Man had to suffer. and be rejected, and die and be raised for them. You see, this gospel is at the absolute heart of the proclamation of the Church of Jesus Christ, the kingdom of God, in whatever denomination you find. And until it is understood by the twelve, Jesus rigorously Hotly enjoins a silence upon them and limits them to that proclamation of the kingdom that John the Baptist engaged in. In simplest terms, repent to God, for the kingdom of God is at hand. It's interesting that in the Gospel of Luke, what is preached is the kingdom, what is declared is the kingdom of God. But in the book of Acts, it is Jesus Christ himself, the gospel. What in the world does that have to do with us? Back in the 19 late, well, it would have been the early 1990s, I was a seminary student, and I came across a book by a guy who'd earned his PhD at Wheaton. The fellow's name was E. Earl Ellis, and I have no idea what the E stands for. But E. Earl Edward Ellis wrote a book. He wrote a book, he's a New Testament scholar. He wrote a book on Paul and his understanding of the gospel and society. And he makes the shocking point, and he supports it with scripture. He utterly persuaded me to this day that if the gospel is not declared The New Testament doesn't call what has happened ministry. I want you to think about that. Ministry, the ministry of the church must be intimately connected to gospel. In the New Testament language, ministry means the gospel is proclaimed. It is that central to the mission of the church. This fact that Jesus, the Son of God, took on flesh, died for sinners like me, that by repentance and faith, he, having fully satisfied the wrath of a holy, holy, holy God, Would accept me. And not only accept me, but love me. And not only love me. But indwell me by his Spirit and use me for his glory to be a blessing to others inasmuch as I share this gospel and declare this Savior. This Christ of God, not one who is powerful and brings political reform or meets society's needs or establishes peace on earth but the one through whom peace does come to earth on those upon whom his favor rests. The one who brings peace on earth when the power of his suffering, rejection, death, and resurrection are declared. To people who will believe. This is the message of the church, and many things flow from it. But unless and until this message gets internalized and understood and utterly believed by the twelve, he basically says, hold your tongue. You don't understand the heart of the issue yet. Oh, but when they do, these very same twelve, when they do understand When that day of Pentecost comes and they are filled with the Spirit, they will spend their lives literally dying for this gospel. The proclamation of a son of man who suffered was rejected, was killed, and on the third day raised Do you, dear friends, listen to the whole gospel? Or are you taken in by partial, partly, sort of true versions of the gospel that leave out the heart that gives it life Do you know this Jesus, who suffered many things for you, was rejected by his very own? Died a horrible death to pay the penalty for your sins and was raised again to give us a sure hope of resurrection. Your faith must be rooted and founded on that. That is where God meets us and wins us and draws him to himself. And will you acknowledge that Jesus Christ's suffering and death, his great passion for you, was absolutely essential for you to have peace with God? Will you lay aside all vain hopes that, well, I'm a pretty good person? I bathe regularly and use deodorant. I say please and thank you, and I even wear a cross some days. If you have not repented of your sins and put your faith in Jesus Christ, that does not matter a bit. There will be many people walking straight into the fires of hell or the outer darkness of an eternity without the living God who wore gold crosses in this life. And cost even less than you do. We're faithful to one spouse. Everything comes down to who Jesus is and what he did for you and whether you put your faith in him Everything. And will we as a church? Here's the ten thousand dollar question. Will we as a church at Columbia Presbyterian Church Embrace and glory in the fact that our ultimate calling, if there's one thing we're going to be about, it is simply this. To declare that Jesus Christ died for sinners, that whatever else might be the case, whether they are rich or poor, Persecuted or elevated, healthy or sick, they have peace with God and will be with us, praising the great name of our living triune God for eternity. This must be the pulsing heart that innervates, inspires, that informs everything we do. The gospel of Jesus Christ. In 1991, that summer I was an intern in Abilene, Texas, and I felt a call to be a preacher. And there was this If I may say, little old lady named Linda Hardwick, who is now with the Lord for decades. And she said to me after I stumbled through my first sermon there, she said to me words that I will hear for the rest of my life. She said with her Texas draw, Bob, you might make a fine gospel preacher. And I thought to myself, that's all I ever want to be. A gospel preacher. Is that true of you as well? What about us as a church? Is it true that all we want to be is a gospel church Where the word of life rings out as if from a bell, that we are a city on a hill, a bright light without a basket over top, in which the gospel of Jesus Christ and the invitation to repent and believe. sound out through every channel, every ministry, every relationship. And what might that do To Columbia, Maryland, to Howard County, to Central Maryland. What if such revival hit the world and the denominations that represent Christendom in it? What if we were so blessed to be a part of that? Amen. Dear friends, repent and believe. Jesus died for you. And that is the one thing he wants you to know. Whatever issues or sins or fears and frustrations you're dealing with, the one thing that is more important than anything else. From God's own heart shown us in Christ to your own consciousness is this single fact. Whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever you have done or has been done to you, Jesus says, Come to me. Me, the one who died for you, who suffered for you, who paid the penalty for all of this, who will redeem you for eternity, who will love you forever. That's the one thing on the heart of God And the most important thing to Jesus in sending out his servants. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you that out of the many, many things that are so very important to you about who you are , Lord, the most needful thing is to understand, Jesus, what you did for us in that great holy week. That week in which you gave yourself as the sacrifice. That week in which you put yourself in the place of your people, that we can with eyes turn to you, come and have life and be forgiven. Lord Jesus Christ, make this gospel the theme of our lives. Make it the culture of our families, our marriages. Make it a message that rings out in the hearts of our kids for generations to come. Make that something that we, Lord, by any means at our disposal, model and declare. Lord, as carefully and as faithfully as we can. Bless us, we pray, in Christ's precious name. Amen.