To persuade you that just as in Hagi 's day, after God's people had been in seventy years of captivity in Babylon, and God intended I believe that God intends the our day for him to show in a special way a renewal of his power in the church in our lives to do a new and glorious thing that is beyond what we have experienced as a church or as individuals or as a culture Demonstrate that at that time there was a problem that was preventing that from happening. Strong priorities in the lives of the people. The people concerned was more for their houses and their comforts than for building the temple which God had commanded them to rebuild back in his the place where he had set his name, Jerusalem. And so I was saying that just as God spoke to his people through Haggai at that time to raise questions about their priority, consider carefully your ways you said so the same word comes to you and to me today right here in 1993 in a says consider your ways My spirit is sweeping throughout the world. In every continent, we're seeing God do unprecedented things in changing people and cultures and bringing people to Christ. faster than they can raise up church leaders to be faster than God is saying to you and to me, why is this not happening in North America? Why is our culture going the opposite direction? Increasingly secularized, the church seems to have less influence and less power. The word of Haggai comes to you and to me in the same way? What about our priorities as the people of God? Are we concerned more for our own homes, comforts, leisure? Than for the rebuilding of the temple, the temple in our day since Jesus Christ, the living temple of the people of God, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, I don't know about you, but I've been praying that God would cause you to be examining your life in this past week. raise those questions. I've been thinking about that. He's been searching me priorities. About where my heart really is. And you know I've got a uh kind of uh a a second mile to go because uh you know I'm kinda paid to be uh professional temple builder and holy and all this. So I'm what do I do not because I paid to do it, but because simply I love Jesus. I couldn't help but think as Tom mentioned about the struggles of the worship team this morning trying to get Together and I believe this is a very important series that we're beginning on now. And I believe that the evil one sees the strategic importance we begin to capture the priorities of the kingdom as so many others from other continents have done. When you talk to people from other continents, it's just amazing we can't we can't identify with the way they think they're just their thinking is kingdom thinking. They're whole lives revolve around what is going to advance the cause of Jesus Christ. We think, well yeah, that's that's an interest of mine, but it's not the center, it's not the passion of my heart. And if it begins to move in us, the evil one realizes this is a pitched battle. You know, la yeah last week I mentioned to you and uh and so uh And that is, you know, you see as the worship team discourages you, you see all kinds of things will be attacked. You may notice that in your own life as you become more serious about the things of Christ I mentioned last week that one of the evidences, I believe, of the fact that God may be in fact bringing renewal and revival is the fact that uh we're seeing the culture so rapidly distinctly We're seeing just a moral bankruptcy, a spiritual vacuum within our culture that is It's just showing danger signals to even people who don't believe scripture. I you know I said that, I and I and my point was again that when you see that kind of of spiritual vacuum when you see the culture beginning to say, well there's there's something here that's unraveling and we're we're we're in trouble. You begin to wonder Is that then the signal that God is bringing this culture, this nation to its need? You know, after I said that I went home. And um that afternoon I saw this this article was on the front page of the Washington Post. Many of you saw it. Front page. It's about respect, say students who curse teachers. How many float out articles? About respect to people who curse teachers? There are a couple of them do the same thing. Um the point of this article is uh Uh just a couple of quotes. In classrooms and school hallways throughout the Washington area, students are going off on teachers and administrators, cursing them and calling them names without Regret or restraint students report. Although virtually every school system has rules prohibiting students from cursing and verbally abusing teachers in the administrators, four-letter words increasingly have become the language of the classroom, particularly among adolescents. He goes on to say what used to be unc Questions authority in the classroom is now being challenged. Students say they don't want a teacher telling them to be quiet. They don't want a teacher telling them to sit in there assigned to seats. Who you think you are anyway? Or raising his voice at them. They get upset when they're told not to do something. So they'll say, flank you in a minute. Or get out of my face. Or you touch me again, I'm gonna knock you out According to a counselor at Glasgow Middle School in Fairfax County, the cursing school officials and specialists say is a sign that many young people do not respect adults and have no fear. He goes on to say every other word is the F word , the fund administrator says. Used to be certain things were assumed wrong. Stealing was wrong, calling a teacher a name. Was wrong at some point over the years there was a shift. Guys in touch. Now we have to explain what appropriate behavior is. Very interesting. For years the schools have been telling us Yes, there isn't any right or wrong. It's all culturally conditioned, you know, and so we have vast values, clarification, determine your own right and wrong. You'd say, okay, I I buy into that. I determine what's right and wrong. What's right is you treat me with respect. Let me do whatever I want to do without consequences, and I'll call you whatever I want to call you. They said, Well, wait a minute. No, we didn't mean that kind of value clarification. So now they say we've got to explain what appropriate behavior is That's gotten so bad, says this one school district. Francis Gabor, a Spanish teacher, Mount Vernon High School in Fairfax, said disrespectful students become so disruptive in the hallways and classrooms. It's now hard to teach. They curse so much, if we stopped every single time a kid cursed a word of referral, for every single curse word, I'd never be able to teach. As we're saying, things are breaking down. There's not even mutual respect. Now when you begin to read those kinds of articles, you and I say, hey, that's kind of scary, isn't it? On the other hand, you say, hey, that ought to renew our fervor and pray. Things are unraveling. And so as we begin to see that happen, it ought to excite you and me that God may be doing something in a culture that is becoming So bankrupt. He can't even teach in the schools. And so as we begin to pray, I think what we want to see now is that I believe that God may be on the brink of doing something so major, so mind-blowing in the next few years within our culture that he is now in the process of training the church in Two areas that the church has almost forgotten how to function. Two areas that are basic in the New Testament to who the church is and what it does that we've almost forgotten how to do. The first one is to pray. And so that's why we are having such an emphasis of Columbia Presbyterian. Thursday mornings, every Thursday morning, 6. 30 to 7. 25. If you can change your schedule at any point, not every week, once a month, every two months, whatever you can do. To join us, we're learning how to pray. We're keeping records of what God's doing. Learning how to pray for one another, learning how to pray for renewal and for revival and for the issues that are surrounding us and for the ministries God's giving us as a church. Tonight, the last Sunday evening concerning Of prayer. Extraordinary prayer time for the things that God is doing and laying that base of operation there over in Route 108. Come on over and join us then. A coalition for prayer. This year For the first time, we are going to be praying in the municipal building in Ellicate City May 6th, Thursday, if you can at all possibly arrange your schedule between 12 and 2. Noon to two o'clock in the afternoon. Churches from all over Howard County are going to be, people from the churches are going to be gathering. And we're going to be there at the District Courthouse. Right there at the step, we're going to pray for our government. We're going to pray for God to bring renewal. We're getting more aggressive praying this year. Third Thursday of every other month, May. is the next one, this one May 20th. Coalition. Central Maryland. Coming together. Long Reach Church of God to pray for renewal, for revival. God's teaching his people to pray. Want to know more about any of those kinds of things or how to be involved in the leadership, see Rob Craig. He's involved in the prayer mobilization team, hibs it up, and he's always looking for people who are saying, yeah, I really have that kind of stuff The other thing that God's teaching his people to do is to minister. And that's what this series that we're beginning on here now is about. Learning to minister. I believe that God is bringing his church into what's being commonly called now a second reformation You see, the first reformation back in the 16th century restored the word of God to the people. The second reformation is restoring the word of God. Work of God to the people of God. The first Reformation restored the priesthood of all believers to all God's people in terms of the vertical dimension between Between them and God through Jesus Christ and not any human priest. The second reformation is restoring the priesthood of all believers to the people of God in terms of the horizontal division. Mentioned, learning to minister to one another and to be agents of God's grace in one another's lives. And I believe that as we begin to think about this and the example Excitement that comes from God is on the threshold now doing something so major that he's got to mobilize his whole body, as he intended back from the New Testament time. As he mobilize His whole body to do this. I want to be exciting for you and me because we begin to see that God is on the threshold of something major. We believe that God can change lives and God can change a culture because He's the risen Christ and He's changing our lives. Amen. Anybody's life changing? A little slower than you might like, but we believe that Jesus the risen Christ is changing our lives and therefore he can change this culture as he mobilizes his people. And so our vision at Columbia Presbyterian is saints being equipped for ministry. That's our vision. Wish I'd put it on the bulletin outline so we'd see if they'll print I'll put it on the next week. Saints being equipped for ministry. That's our vision currently. So what I want to to do is going to take the next few weeks for us to be able to look at God's blueprint for how he intends to mobilize the church, through saints being equipped through ministry because that phrase is taken from Ephesians chapter 4 verse 12. And so over the next months, excuse me, over the next few weeks, relax. Over the next few weeks We're going to be looking at Ephesians 4, verses 11 to 16, in order to understand what it means for us as saints to be a That's what you are. You are saints being equipped for ministry. Now you may think that we're familiar with that. Yeah, well, we already understand this a Columbia Presbyterian. Of course, this is not Not something new to us, why do you have to take time to spell that out? Because I believe that even for those of us who are familiar with it, and I don't think all of us are really familiar with it, there are implications of this. That we need to understand as we begin to think about that base of operation on Route 108. We need our faith built and our expectations in Increased of the living Christ of what He can do through us as a congregation. And so my intention is to help you to increase your faith and to build your expectation of what Jesus is going to do. And for us together as the people of God to see how it is what he does in us. Not that we have to sort of say, okay, guys looking for more commitments, trying to get more people working. No, that's not not the idea. The idea is for the church to be what Jesus intended, which is by his power in you and me. It's the gospel. It's not, we're not reverting back to works now or law. Talking about the gospel. You see that in Ephesians chapter 4. And so turn to Ephesians chapter 4 if you haven't already. I want to begin today at verse 1 and just read. Those first 16 verses to see them in the context, and then I want to just start off with one thought this morning. Ephesians chapter 4, beginning in verse 1. As a prisoner before the Lord, then. I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Remember, we've looked in the past and what Paul is saying there is literally not to live a life worthy, but the Greek There worthy means to bring up the balance on a scale. He's saying to bring the balance of your experience in your life into equilibrium with a calling that you've received in Jesus Christ. Christ. So you could say verse one is as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium, to bring it into balance with the calling that you've received. That I've explained to you in the first three chapters here of this book: who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ. Be then completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean except that he also descended? To the lower earthly regions. He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fulfill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles. Some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service so that the body of Christ Christ may be built up. Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ. From him The whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Begin this morning by suggesting that basic to our reorientation into this second reformation that the Spirit of God is leading us into is a new way Of doing church, a whole new way of thinking about how church functions and doing church. And the basic to that is a reorientation, a correction of our notion about The minister. The minister. Now, let me confess to you right now, right from up front, I never wanted to be a pastor. And the reason is Because I despise the popular notion of what pastors are, the ministry, the reverend, you know. And because I so despise that insipid notion I fought from the Lord. Uh, for a long time, uh, the idea of my ever being in this calling, don't ever think I aspired to this. It was not something that I was inclined to The only thing that I think God ever actually used to really make me willing to be in this is the biblical notion of what it is. And that's why for a long time uh I I never took a church. I didn't take uh this is the first church I ever took. Uh I don't I forget how old I was when I took it, but I mean I you know, for a number of years I worked with students and did other things. Because uh I was looking for a a people Who would say, yeah, we understand what your role is and what our role is. And so we're going the same direction. And I could escape this notion of the traditional role of the minister. You know, um that idea of the Reverend Man of the cloth, I shared with you some of you a while back, a guy called me up on the phone. for a while back and he said, Are you the man of the flaw? I felt like saying, yeah, what do you wear? Plate armor? Uh you know, it's this idea that uh you're some separate category. And the word the Reverend, you know? Oh, I hate that. The Reverend. Are you the Reverend? The Reverend. You know, this idea of, you know. Another thing, this just this week, the guy on the construction site over building the building, uh, he said um, you know, this guy says, it's really nice that you have this call You know, and there's always the implication, you know, I do real work. And it's nice that there's some people like you that you know kind of set aside to study holy things and walk around with halos on their heads. You know, let's we'd had this discussion a few weeks ago. So then this week he was talking about some things and he kind of let on that he had this copy or had a carry in the thing was kind of heavy and unwieldy and so I said, well you know fine let's let's Bring the thing in. He says, Oh, do you lift? I felt like saying, well, not with my arms, but with my wings, I'm pretty tough, you know. And there's all these notions, you know, of of the separation of what we call clergy and laity. Now, let me say it, I wrote it out here on the bulletin, so we're clear from this right up front. Look at it right there. We are the first blanks are preparing saints equipped for ministry. All right, that's that's our that's our goal That's our vision. But right there underneath that, notice, nowhere underlined, nowhere in the Bible does minister refer to a particular class of people set aside. From the rest of the church. You can't find me one verse where there is the minister who is in any way set aside from anyone else in the body of Christ. Now, in order to understand that a little better, I want to unpack that idea of ministers. So I want to look at you real look with you real briefly at three ways that this word minister or ministry is used in the Bible. Notice who it is that is set apart. It's uh the apostles, it's the prophets, the evangelist the pastor's the teacher the pastor teacher is probably the same office it doesn't say ministers in fact the word is used there minister, but you may bet not be aware where it's used. Because after Ephesians 4. 11, where it says that here's some that were set apart now, some to be apostles. Some be prophets, some may be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, or pastor teachers. These people were set apart, verse 12, to prepare God's people. Now that word there prepare God's people, God's people is The Greek is saints. NIVs translated God's people, so it would be clearer that it's all God's people. But literally the Greek says to prepare saints. That's why we have the vision. statements what do you do to prepare saints and who are the saints well uh underneath that first blank there it says compare one three um that was my mistake should have said one one and you look at At Ephesians 1, verse 1. Paul says who the saints are. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints in Ephesus. The faithful in Jesus Christ or in Christ Jesus. So the The saints are everybody in the church who's faithful in Christ. That is all the Christians. So the saints are God's people. Everyone here who belongs to Jesus Christ is a saint. You are holy. We talked about that last fall. You know? St. John, St. Jim, Saint Allison, St. everybody else. Alright? We're all saints. Now God is saying that what he has done here is that he has prepared us for, verse 12, works of service Now the phrase there works of service is literally ministry. Works of ministry. And so who is it? It's ministering. It's the saints. Now, three ways that word minister or ministry is used in the New Testament. First of all, these are three S's to help you out. Three by three S's. First of all, there is the spirit of our service to Christ expressed to other people. The spirit of our service in Mark chapter 10, verses 43 to 45. Remember Jesus was responding to do decide two disciples who want to be top dogs in the kingdom. And uh he said, You want to be great? I'll tell you how to be great, be a servant. And then he goes on to say, and that word servant that he uses there is the word minister. Want to be great? Be a minister. He's not saying be somebody like me. He's saying you want to be great? I'm not saying be clergy. You want to be great? Then have the attitude of a servant. For even the Son of Man did not come to be ministered unto, and IB says served, but it's the word ministered did not come to be ministered unto, but to minister, to serve, even to give his life a ransom for many. And he said You see, what Jesus is saying there is when you and I begin to understand our sins, and we understand that the Lord of glory came to earth. As a servant, in order not to be served, but for him to serve us, even to wash the disciples' feet And to die on a cross so that he would take your sin and my sin, so that you and I would be brought into his kingdom, forgiven our sin based on his substance. for that sin on the cross. That he served us in that capacity. What else can you and I do but say, Lord, how can I serve you? Jesus Serve my people. But Lord, how do I serve your people? And he says, take on my attitude. The attitude of the servant. And so the word minister is used to speak of this attitude of a servant. And then right after that, Jesus illustrates it because right after that passage in Mark. 10 43 to 45. You see that they're going past Jericho, and there's this blind beggar Bartimaeus, who's crying out, Oh son of David, have mercy on me. And the other disciples respond, and Jesus Jesus just said this and the attitude of a servant. What do they say to the blind burger? Shut up! You're making a ruckus, we're trying to get past here. Don't bother the master. We've got more important things to do. And you remember Jesus Jesus rebukes the disciples and he stops before that beggar and he says, What do you want me to do? Follow Jesus. And I see the mindset of a servant. You see, our ministry flows out of our relationship to Christ. It flows out of our gratitude to Him. And it flows out of understanding what he's like as we emulate his character. So the two things there are that we express them, first use of ministry. He refers to the character of the Christian transformed , that's A. And refers B to the motive of the Christian ingrateful service. Character and the motion. Second use of the word is the particular service that I have been gifted to perform. The particular service The word ministry is used to refer not just to the attitude, but the particular ministry. For instance, in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, you read in verse 4 and 5. There are different kinds of gifts. But the same Spirit. There's different kinds of service. The word service there is ministries. There are different kinds of ministries, but the same Lord. And so just there are as there are different kinds of gifts, God produces out of that gift mix different ministries, and he has a ministry that is a compilation of the various gifts that He has given to you. Teaching or mercy or helps or faith. Whatever it is that God has given to you, a spiritual gifts. And that particular unique combination in your life will in a large measure determine the ministry. But now you notice he goes right on in verse 7 to say, but that ministry Ministry was for the common good. It's not something that you and I fill out a questionnaire in order to find out how we can be self-fulfilled in terms of our own expression of our gifts. You know, here I am just a bag of gifts looking around for some place to get that fulfilled. It's rather I am a Christian looking for needs in the body and how I can serve and as I do God gradually reveals to me the ways that I am more effective, and those become the contribution of my thinking toward my ministry. And so as you and I look toward God various kinds of capacities. We see the things that there are to do. We look at the nursery and we see the children's church and we look at setup. We look at ushering and we look at these things. And as we say, Lord, I'm available to you in this level, then God says, as you show your openness to be a servant in that level, I grant you Gradually reveal to you a ministry. It becomes what is the expression of my grace in your life to other people. And that becomes exciting as you begin to see God using that. Even in your own needs and limitations now. Me have a ministry. I can hardly survive what I'm doing. Can't imagine having a ministry. It's it's the grace of Christ that flows out of the relationship with Christ. In Acts chapter six, the word ministry is used the ministry of the word in verses two and four. But that's Same word ministry is used in verse 1 as the ministry of waiting on tables, and that's where we get the deacons. See, if anybody should be called a minister in the Church of Christ, it's not the pastor, it's the deacon. Because The word ministry is the word diaconos in the Greek, from which we get our word deacon. And so that's the idea that you and I are all the ministers. And so you see that blank there. Blank is a minister. What goes in there? Your name. Write your name. Put your name in it. And tell yourself, I am the minister. I am a minister. You are not only a minister, you are the reverend. Because the word reverend means a person worthy of respect because they are set apart into a particular class. That's what the word means in the dictionary. Look it up. That's what a single A saint is someone set apart into a particular exalted class because of the grace of Jesus Christ in your life. But finally the third thing. Look at the strategy for church growth. The word minister and ministry is used of the spirit of our service. It's used of the person. particular service that we perform and it's used of the strategy for church growth. And that's where you see it right here in Ephesians 4. Because Jesus says that he He gave as the ascended Christ in triumphant victory. He has got gifts to distribute. And he's distributed those gifts to the church. And those gifts he's distributed are gifts Gifted people, apostles, prophets, evangelists, and pastor teachers. And those people have a function. Look on the back side of your bulletin outline. The fatal comma there refers to the fact that if you read read verse 12 in the King James it says to prepare God's people for uh let me get the exact uh translation to prepare God's people. Oh, it's a word. Oh yeah. For the perfecting of the saints. Some to be pastors and teachers. For the perfecting of the saints. Saints, comma, for the work of ministry. That implies that the officers do all the ministry and you saints just sort of sit around waiting to be perfected by us or something, you know. But that's That's not of course what it says. NIV has it correctly, to prepare God's people for that's the key idea, for the works of ministry. And so you see that on The chart diagram there to help you see it more clearly. The apostles, the prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers. Jesus says these people have one focus. They're going to do one main thing. And what is it? Verse 12, to equip the saints. There, that remember that phrase, to prepare God's people could also be translated. To equip the saints. We're going to be looking at that word. prepare, which is the word equip , a little later on in this series. Very rich word. What does it mean to equip? We're going to be looking at that. But that's what we're to do. We who are the elders, all of the elders of Columbia Presbyterian are pastor teachers. And our job is to equip you so that you Your function then is to do the works of ministry. And those works of ministry are what build up the body. See verse 12. To equip the saints Prepare God's people for works of service, works of ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up. Now, what are the implications of that? Columbia Press materials. We don't have time to unpack these this morning. We'll be looking at these more in the weeks ahead, but I wanted you to just see them, at least to to read them. First of all It means that relation , ministry comes from our relationship with Jesus Christ. Just as I've said before. As you and I look at Jesus and his Ministry in our lives. Our responsive love to Him, as we are connected to Him, as we walk with Him, as we get to know Him better. He leads us into ministry. Secondly, it has implications on our pastoral visits and ministry. The fact that you, as you visit with one another, care for one another, those are visits of ministry. It's not that you need an elder or you need some staff person , Steve or me, to to visit you if you are in need to say that uh you know I was ministered to. We ministered to one another. We equip you Thirdly, the place of small groups for ministry, interministry, building each other up in Christ. Fourthly, the job of the elders to equip. As I said before, we'll be looking in weeks ahead of what that means. And then fifthly our outreach strategy. You notice one of those who prepare are the evangelists, especially people who are prepared particularly gifted in evangelism to prepare us as the people of God that we do the ministry of evangelism. Well when you say it all I want to say to leave you with this morning is this one simple idea. You are a reverend minister in the Church of Jesus Christ. If you belong to Jesus Christ and you're a part of our body, your ministry flows out of your relationship with Jesus. You may be saying to yourself, now, me, I'm over I'm overwhelmed with my problems. My problems at work, my problems with my kids, my problems with my marriage, my problems with my singleness, my problems with this and that. How can I minister? Where would my area of ministry be? And I say, you just hit on it right there. You see, whatever areas you're overwhelmed by are your areas of ministry. Thanks a lot. You see, as you and I bring our neediness and our brokenness to Christ, and he begins to transform us and show his sufficiency in the world. areas. Those become the areas that are the base of operation to minister to others who also are needy in those areas. But they don't have the resources. in Jesus Christ. They may be believers and they're not aware of those resources. We say, well hey, I certainly don't have all the answers, but you know I can identify with what you're talking about. And I went to the Lord And here's what he taught me. Here's what he showed me. That's ministry. You and I begin to talk to people at work about our marriages. We begin to talk about the things we're struggling with. And people begin to see that there's something different in it. The Spirit of God has done something in our lives and we're willing to share that and be open to the Lord. That's ministry. You know the funny thing about ministry? Because you think You don't have time, or you're you're not qualified, you're not trained, you're not prepared, you're overwhelmed, and you say, I can't really minister yet until I get out of this situation. The funny thing about the Spirit of God is it's exactly as you minister that your perspective changes. And that in itself helps you Get out of what is often a self-centered spiral of self-pity, of incapacitation, of feeling crippled. But it's as we minister and are available to Jesus Christ for his supernatural power in us, that God begins to change us in the process of life. You open to that? Slight impossibilities, listen. Lord, we want to see you do a new work in us. It's kind of scary to think of ourselves as the ministers and those that you are going to use to change this culture. We're still trying to change our homes. We're still trying to get our our own basis Habits to be more sanctified, more pleasing to you. Lord, we pray that you would strip away the deceit of the evil one in the lives of every person here this morning that thinks that someday maybe I'll be able to do something, but not now. I'm too busy trying to get my life together. It's only you who can change our lives. Therefore, it's only you who, as you change our lives, produce that transformation in itself to become the means of our ministry. Make us open. To see that, to believe it, to look to you this morning in Jesus' name.