Did you ever know or read somebody who was so wise that even when they were speaking or writing on a particular topic? They tossed in a couple incidental comments, not part of their main argument, but what they said struck you as having such insights that it was more helpful than other things that you've read. Where a person devoted their whole attention to that subject. The Lord Jesus is like that now. And in the scripture we see, in one occasion, one of the things that the Lord said Concerning worship. As an incidental comment, in answer to a question of a woman by a well on a hot day Who was attempting to derail him in the conversation? He answered her concerning worship. And the words that he spoke were some of the most significant ever uttered concerning what true worship is I'd like to look at those words now from John chapter 4. So let's hear the reading of God's word, as we just heard is right to do. We will begin John chapter four with verse one. John chapter four. The Pharisees heard that Jesus was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John, although in fact it was not Jesus who baptized, but his disciples. When the Lord learned of this, he left Judea and went back once more to Galilee. Now he had to go through scenario. There came to a town in Samaria called Picar, near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob dwelled with there, and Jesus, tired as he was, from the journey, sat down by the well. She was about the sixth hour, about noon. When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into town to buy Jews. The Samaritan woman said to him, You a Jews? And I'm a Samaritan woman? How can you ask me for a drink? The Jews were not associated with Samaritan Jesus answered her, If you knew the gifts of God and who would have asked you for a drink, you would have asked him if he would have given you living water. Sarah and the woman said, You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us this well and drank from it himself, as did also his sons and his flocks and herds? Jesus says everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water that I give him will never drink. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so I won't have to get thirsty. He'll be coming to here to draw water. He told her, Go call your husband and come back. I have no husband, he replied. Jesus said to her You're right when you say you have no husband. The fact is you've had five husbands and the man you are now have is not your husband. What you said is quite true So the woman said, I can see that you're a prophet. Our fathers worship on this mountain, but he does claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. Jesus declared, believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know. For salvation is from the Jews. The other time is coming. It has now come. And the two worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. So they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is true. And his worshipers must worship in true and in free. The woman says, I know that Messiah called Christ is coming. When he comes, he will explain everything to us. Then Jesus declared, I his teaching and he has that to teach us from us Lord, we want to learn about worship. And yet, Father, worship is not a subject that we can study in any kind of objectivity Rather we should say, Lord, we want to learn to worship. Keep us and leave words of Jesus. Holy Spirit , make us words, Lord, to work with you. Worship you in spirit and since it changed it. By your power now. You pray those God and through this program. Amen. I want to direct your attention to two verses in the scripture that you just heard, verses 23 and 24. Yet a time is coming and has now come when two worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. So they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit And these worshippers must worship in spirit and in truth. I love my work. Feeding sales is for me a very difficult task, and yet it's an exciting kind of thing You take the germ of an idea and you begin to formulate that and work on it until that germ of an idea grows into a full messy. But you know, uh sometimes it gets out of hand And uh this week it kept growing and growing and growing until finally I had an hour message here. And so I decided that uh since it wouldn't be appropriate or probably well received to me to speak for an hour on worship And therefore had that be the only element of worship that we would practice this morning, I decided to divide the message into two parts. Cut it right in half. And so you'll notice that your outline this morning has a one underlined and no two And then the Roman numeral 2 has an A but no B. Hang on and tune in again next week. Come back and get the second part of that because there's just so much here that uh we couldn't really give it adequate attention to be able to do look at this in a half hour or so and be able to really get what the Lord's saying. So look at the first part now in the conclusion that's week. Now picture. Here's a group of Christians. And these Christians come together to worship. And they're very creative and they're very spontaneous in their worship. Every time that they meet and gather to worship is a deeply moving emotional experience. There's no form, it's all freedom in the Holy Spirit Or you say that that's true worship. God truly achieves the action. That's the essence of worship. Is it? We 'll take another group of Christians over here. And these Christians are very concerned to honor God in worshiping in precisely the way He has told them to worship They say only Post. Every act and everything that they do in worship either has a biblical command or a biblical precedent for what they do. And they say that is surely worship. That's what Jesus are doing with His Lord. Is it? Is that the essence of biblical worship? So these key questions which are much discussed today are really scenarios that are that are addressed in exactly what he's associated. This is the question he's dealing with in John 4, 23 and 24. What is the essence of true worship? What is worth it always? Because he speaks to this as an incidental comment to what the woman and asked him about. Remember what the situation was as we just read it. He had offered to give her living water. And she said, Please give it to me. And he said, Well Go call your husband. And she said, Well, uh, don't have a husband. He said, Right? We have five husbands. The one you got now is not your husband. He said, Let's discuss theology. Tell me. Uh Do the episcoparians or the prostituteans have the better liturgy in worship? That's probably the kind of question she's asking. What what's really uh the place you're supposed to worship, you see? Because to the people of that time, the place was the all-important matter Uh he's really saying uh should we worship you in Mount Gerezim, where Jacob and so many others of our fathers have set up altars The way the Samaritans say you should worship, or where you say to worship it. Now Zion, in July. Where's the place? What's the proper way? The proper liturgy in worship And Jesus, remember, answers her in verse twenty -one by saying, Uh, Believe me, woman, the time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem Now he may be alluding there to the fact that persecution is going to speak the land in a few years and that nobody's given a worship anywhere around there. Uh but more likely what he's getting at is that that's not the issue Place is not the issue. It's not a question of where you are that determines whether you can worship. So then he goes on to say, verse 22, you Samaritans worship what you don't know We worship what we do know for salvation from the Jews. And yet a time is coming and now has come when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. So they're the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit. And worshippers must worship in spirit and truth. And in this, Jesus is telling us that biblical worship must involve two elements Spirits and fruit. Both those things held in balance. Now you notice that he doesn't say it's desirable It's better if you worship in spirit and truth. What he says here is that no matter how how um pious, how correct, no matter how fervent whatever you're doing seems to be. If it's not in spirit and truth, it's not worth it. It's not worth it. You don't worship God unless it's in spirit and free. These are necessary, not simply helpful additions. Therefore, it's just very important to the UN being to see what he's talking about. Because this is the bedrock, the basic necessity in worship. What therefore is Jesus teaching is necessary for us to worship him Well first of all we see the biblical worship must be in spirit. That's the first point. It must be in spirit. Let us tell the two qualities. that worship must have. The first that you see on the outline there is that Jesus is saying that worship is a matter of the heart rather than of the place or something else like that. Worship is primarily a matter of the heart. You notice that verses 20 to 23 have a contrast And they're contrasting place with spirit. Well that's a kind of an unusual contrast. Not this place versus that place. But the notion of place concerning the notion of spirit. Jesus is saying worship is not a matter of geography. Why is that? Well you see because in the Old Testament Jerusalem was the place, the only place where a believer could really worship. Why was that? Because God had set his name at Jerusalem Because the Ark of His Covenant was there, God had in a very particular way set his presence in Jerusalem. Therefore he could only do worship there. He can only worship where God is. He had set his name in Jerusalem But now Jesus has come, and we read in John 1. 14, that when the word became flesh, he tabernacle among us He's the true tabernacle, not the tent that we see set up in Jerusalem. But now we have the true presence of God in Jesus. John chapter 2, verses 19 to 21 tells us he's the true temple And so now we have not simply a temple made with hands, but we have Jesus, who's the free temple, when he said, destroy this temple and in three days I'll raise it up, speaking God says of the temple of his body. Jesus is the presence of God. And therefore Jesus is saying, the only place you can worship is where I am. The only place that you worship now that Jesus has come is at the feet of Jesus. But now what happens when Jesus leaves earth? How are you going to worship him? Jesus says you worship him in spirit. You worship him with your heart at the feet of Jesus. It's not a matter of geography. You don't have to go anywhere to worship Jesus. You know , be so confused. So let's make your confession of faith stated this, I think, very succinctly and very helpful. You have that document in the back of your hymn And if you want to follow along on page 684, there is a statement about worship that I think puts all of this together in a beautiful and succinct way. In the Confession of Faith in chapter 21, section 6, we read this. Neither prayer nor any other part of religious worship is now under the gospel either tied unto or made more acceptable by any place in which it's performed or towards which it's directed. But God is to be worshipped everywhere, in spirit and truth. As in private family, daily, family worship, as in secret, in quiet times. in other times alone with the Lord, each one by himself, so more solemnly in the public assemblies, which are not fearlessly or willfully be neglected or forsaken, when God by his word or his providence falls there unto Well that wasn't something somebody came up with ten years ago and they said, well, it's really not the place that matters, but really matters us if you worship and spiritual truth. It was written in 1643. They understood that And it's important for you and I to understand that because we often miss it. So a lot of people think that when I come to church and when I get in church, whatever we do in church is worship It doesn't matter what we do here now, just sort of run through something and we call that worship. Jesus says that's mindset. Worship is not simply going through some motions because you're in church The only reason that this is distinctive in assembly is because we are the church of God gathered together. Not because we're in any particular place. That's more obvious than we meet in a meeting house, you know. And we can still confuse that. We can still think that worship has to do with some motions that we make or something that we do. We're so as people pawn to externalize what God says is a matter of the heart. We're always wanting to think if I do this or if I sing that or I go through a motion of this or that, then I vote this The words of A. W. Cose, written a couple decades ago, speak directly to this. He says in his book, The Seat of God Thanks to our splendid Bible societies and other effective agencies for the dissemination of the word, there is a million people who hold great opinions, probably more than ever before in the history of the church Yet I wonder if there was ever a time when free spiritual worship was at a lower end. The great substance of the church, the art of worship, has been lost entirely. And in its place has come what is that strange and foreign thing called the program. This word has been borrowed from the stage and applied with sad wisdom to the type of public service which now passes for worship among us. Going to the nations. To a certain external things because we're sitting here at a particular time of the week with a particular group of people And we call it worship. How sad. How sad to think that God will be pleased and receive his worship. That would be purely mechanical on our part. No, I don't just speak to you in this. I speak to myself. I speak to my own heart. There are times here when we're gathered that I'm going through motion. I'm not worshiping with my whole heart before the Lord. I'm going through motions with you. Yet now I think one of the saddest things God takes today Is that the way we've constructed our worship, the shallowness of our worship and of our lives may not even be noticed in the average worship series? You can't tell the difference. We go through the motions, whether we have been close to the Lord that week and rejoiced in his settings, or whether we haven't even talked to the Lord since the last Sunday You can 't tell the difference because you're just going through the motion. The reason for two words has got to be in feel Now what does in spirit mean then? Primarily, it's not a reference to the Holy Spirit. It's saying with the whole heart. The word spirit there is used, that same word is used as the spirit of God and the spirit of man. And when it's used to the spirit of man, it means man's emotions, his heart, his attitude, the core of his being. That's what the word means. For instance, in the Old Testament, when Job in chapter 11, verse chapter 7, verse 11, cries out, he says, I spoke in the anguish of my spirit. He's crying out with his heart. Psalm 34, 18 speaks of a contrast spirit acceptable before God. Psalm 51, 10, David says that uh you look Lord for a right spirit or a right honesty in worship Some the Proverbs 25 -28 speaks of the man who rules his spirit. He says that if a man can't rule his spirit, he's like a city without walls, all broken down. No discipline. A man who can't rule his emotions or his responses, his attitudes. In the New Testament, we have the same kind of thing. Paul in writing in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 13 says that I was distressed in my spirit when I came to Troas and the divine tiger. In that famous passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, speaking of tongues and worship, Paul there distinguishes worshiping with his spirit from worshiping in his mind. He 's talking there about his emotions and his heart being wrapped up in worship. Jesus uses the word in the same way. That 's the same gifts in chapter four. The worship must be in spirit. You see the same word used just a couple chapters later when in John chapter eleven At Lazarus King, there is the statement that when they saw when Jesus saw her weeping, the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit And trouble. Same word. Doesn't mean he went through some nothing. Doesn't mean he simply had a thought or two about something It means with his heart he was moved. His whole being was moved when he saw Mary weeping. His whole being was wrapped up in that John chapter thirteen, verse twenty one, you have the same word used again. Where you see Jesus talking about his telling the disciples about his coming betrayal and all that he would go through in his sacrifice for them. We read in verse 21 after he said this Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified, I tell you the tree, one of you trying to be standing. You see to worship in spirit , to worship with your heart is to worship with your whole being engaged in that activity. To worship with spirit, in spirit, is not to worship mechanically. It's a worship with moves you I think one of the best examples of this kind of voices we see in the book of Nehemiah. In Nehemiah chapter eight And the people had gathered together for a festival. Ezra read from the book of God's word. And in Nehemiah 8, verse 5, we read, Ezra opened the book, and all the people could see him because he was standing above them. And as he opened it, the people all stood up, and Ezra praised the Lord. The great God. And all the people lifted their hands and they responded, Amen, Amen, and they bowed down and they worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. And as a reads to them God's word, they're struck in the heart. They're convicted. And they repent and they humble themselves and they cry out to God for mercy and they confess their sin. That's going to be some boat. And they're standing there listening propuncingly to somebody redo something that they're striving to pay attention to so they don't fall asleep or adjust the time and their watch The loser they turn to ease. And the response to this, the word, God's word grips them. Nehemiah Sentiment after all of this Uh to go in verse 10 and not grieve because the joy of the Lord is your strength. And so we see in verse 12 that all the people went away to ease the To drink and to send portions of food and to celebrate with great joy, because they now understood the words that had been made known to them. And all then had a great celebration And so you see a little later, after they've had this festival, they come to dedicate the walls of the temple, the walls of Jerusalem. And in chapter 12, there's two great choirs that assembled. Read in Nehemiah chapter 12 and verse 42 that the choir sang under the direction of Jezrehiah. And on that day they offered great sacrifices, rejoicing because God had given them great joy. And the women and the children also rejoiced. And notice this The sound of the rejoicing in Jerusalem could be heard far away. Three miles to Jerusalem. Why is all that rapid in there? Three people are singing in a sound that sounds like a madhouse in a people praising God. Why? Because they're worshiping in spirit, that's why. They're worshiping because God has given them great joy Oh do you worship a spirit? You worship spirit of the gates to the go to the motion We come and we simply spur through the motions of singing the hymn, following along, the things that are being done by the fellow who's leading us there. Oh using the fact that only a spectator without also being here We must worship with our whole being means in response to the greatness of our body 's love and its keeping us our health. You know this word has second lesson. Worship in spirit is also to worship in the Holy Spirit And that's not primarily what Jesus has in mind here. He's contrasting here, as we said before, the idea of spirit with geography or something external, anything that is emotion That is simply going through some mechanics. The Jesus here is referring to worship in spirit with a whole heart. But we understand as Christians But the only way we do this is by the Holy Spirit. For he says God is spirit. And God is spirit is distinguished from God is physical, and therefore some place you can localize him. And God by His Holy Spirit enables us to worship these spirits. That is a time when you and I could care less about worship There's a time when we didn't worship. It seemed like a big boar to us. Who wants to worship? Want to go play ping pong or watch television or something. The last thing I want to do is to worship I by the Holy Spirit lay hold of us. Be sowed if the true nature of what God is. We showed if our own needs. We showed us our own guilt. He told us that we desperately need Jesus. Showed us that Jesus had done for us. He brought us to Jesus. The Holy Spirit carried us to the feet of Jesus and he took us there to the cross. And when Jesus laid hold of our lives and he says, One thing I want to do more than anything else You can worship Jesus Christ supernatural. You don't want to do that on your own. But the Holy Spirit laid hold of our lives. And so we read in Philippians chapter 3, verse 3, that one of the marks of the Christian is that we are the circumcision, he's saying, I'm telling you, we're the true people of God. We who worship by the Spirit of God. Who glory in Christ Jesus, who put no confidence in the flesh. So I myself might think I had reason to say confidence. See that what Paul says? So either you're glory in Jesus or you put confidence in the flesh. Do this morning heaven is confidence in the flood. Confidence that what you do can earn some favor with God That what you can do will enable you to make it in this life. But you don't need Jesus Christ absolutely and totally in your life. That's confidence in the place, confidence in what he can do. If that's true, you'll call glory in Jesus. To be the Lord The only reason a person glories in Jesus is when they come to realize I don't have anything to put confidence in in myself. Only when Jesus is God, and I look to him and my glory is in Jesus, and my confidence is in Jesus. So I want to worship Jesus. And that's by the Holy Spirit. Only the Holy Spirit enables us to do that. Jesus is necessary and sufficient in our lives. Now that's saying I suggest you have two things in application. Number one, it's saying that you must be a Christian to worship It's not saying that it would you'd worship God better or be closer to Him if you gave your life to Jesus Christ. It's saying that if you are now outside of Jesus Christ, you are not worshiping this point. Whatever else you're doing, warming a chair, keeping somebody next to you warm, sitting here doing something better than you might do otherwise, I don't know what it is, but you're not worshiping if you don't belong to Jesus Christ Worship must be by the Holy Spirit. Only he can lift us up to glory in Jesus. Because we don't know Jesus, I see Jesus. Because you 're claiming his offer to use the forgiveness and salvation. Come with Jesus. Forget that is placing in your own work How do you glory in him? Gives himself to him. The second thing, this is saying an application to our life, is that we need to prepare for workers We need to prepare for worship in prayer and speaking the Holy Spirit's minutes. You see, you don't rush in Sunday morning If you have not spent any time in prayer, if you haven't talked to the Lord, you've spent much time in his word the past few days, and expect some great change and blessing to come over you. Some sort of a sweeping experience of spiritual fervor to descend upon you because you're here for some reason. Don't work that way In order to worship, you must worship in the power of the Spirit. That means you and I must teach Him and prepare ourselves for worship in that Let me suggest to you three things to do in preparation for worship. Three things to do in preparation for worship each Sunday morning The first one is get to bed early Saturday night. What's Saturday night? That's Sunday morning worship. Well, I'll tell you, you're up all Saturday night And you don't get enough sleep, and you come in here tired on Sunday morning, your body is connected with your spirit And you can't worship in spirit, and you can't worship if you're not able to think, if you're not on earth And yet so often we don't make that connection. We think somehow, as long as we get there and get our body physically there, then we can pray for God to enable us to work So I've got studying for an exam and then saying in some miraculous way, you know, that God's going to give you the answer. God says, if you want to know me, then be still and know that I'm God. And so you've got to be alert. And the first thing is to get enough sleep Saturday night. I don't know what that means for changing your lifestyle or what it means, but I said give attention to that Make a point of getting to bed early enough Saturday night so that the second point is you can get up early Sunday morning and spend some time in God's word when in prayer Make it so sad when we establish a kind of a lifestyle in which we get up and figure our Sunday morning schedule to give us just enough time to get the kids dressed, get everybody set, and then get the church to be here for Sunday school. Now I know it's difficult to get up earlier, it's you know, that's the time to like to sleep on Sunday morning to get a lot of time to sleep on the time. But it's not a question of uh whether you get enough sleep if you you get to bed a little earlier. It's a question of how much the worth of doing to you I'm not saying you should get up at 4 a. m. and fast and pray for the next four hours. I'm saying that if you're finding difficulty in worshiping in spirit on Sunday mornings, I'd like to suggest You can get up a half hour earlier, if you arrange with your husband or wife a way to do that with the kids, so that you can spend some time in God's Word on Sunday morning Sometime calling on him, sometime asking the Lord to help you to see the face of Jesus Christ, to glory in him. Pray for the worship service. Pray for the one that leads. Pray for me as I speak. If the Lord would give me utterance, I can't do this in my own sight. Pray for yourself. The Lord would make you accepted. He would give you a sense of awe to his presence. Then a third thing that I would suggest you to do. Is that if we come here, we seek to come early enough that we can come into the room about twenty after and that we begin to think that this is a room of quiet So that we can come before the Lord. Not because of some holy room, anything special about, but simply because of his time. But if the time that we come, we can spend five or ten minutes in quiet before the Lord. Put the piano music before that time. Music that's conducive to meditation. And do we come here and that we pray? Do we come and that we read the scripture perhaps of the morning? Perhaps look through the first pin and meditate. Could we be quiet before our Lord? I don't see the help people want to be still as becoming that guy. Sunday morning worship I believe could be the percentage of a symphony, of strands of music that God has been working in each of us individually and produced through the week. A strain of worship here and a flute or a clarinet or a piano, you know, and these various things as you've heard and individually get brought together in the worship for us. And as they're brought together, there's a crescendo of praise to our God because of the individuals who have been praising him before. Let's look at our worship in that light and prepare for it by God's mercy. Finally the last thing is the biblical words that must be in fruit. So just a couple words on this. I'm going to pursue this more next week But the other side of this, you see, is that worship is not simply in spirit, but it is also in truth. And there are two things communicated by that word in truth. Worship must be must have a true object. The true and living God must be the one we worship. And we must worship in a true way. Our worship must be in a biblical manner That's why Jerry had scripture read before the various parts of our worship this morning. So that you can see The dictate of the Lord, what pleases him in worship. He's telling us, here is what worship is. We do it in a manner that's biblical. More about that next week. Just a word or two about the first part the true object of our worship. The true God that we worship is the God who has revealed himself to us in Scripture. Man don't worship any God, word by any other name, is just as fleet and all the rest of that stuff. We worship God as He revealed Himself And so in doing that, Jesus uh said in John four twenty-two , and you Samaritans worship what you don't know. But we used, because we had the scriptures, the Samaritans only had the penacties, the first five books of the Old Testament, they didn't bother with the rest of them. The Jews accept the whole Old Testament. And Jesus said, we worship for the full revelation of God what we know. And you've got to worship what you know. You can't worship what you don't know. So many of us come here and we worship a God that we only vaguely know. And suggest some ways that you can come to know us. Know his means. What is names? God has revealed himself by a number of names in scripture. For instance, he calls himself Jehovah. It means the covenant-keeping, faithful God To have defined himself to Moses as I am who I am, the self-determining God. Think about that for a while. What God is saying about his man He calls himself Jehovah Sadayak, the Lord of hosts, the host of the armies of heaven. Think about that. Jehovah or El Sadai, God Almighty. Jehovah El-Olah, God everlasting, Jehovah Dhail, the God who gives eyes. Think of his name. Meditate on it and come to know him. Another way to know God is to know his covenant. How does God reveal himself through his covenant? In his covenant he shows us that he is a just God, and a God who keeps his promise to his things, though his people are continually unfaithful, but he is faithful in all of these things Think about his covenant and what that means. Think of all of his works as they're revealed in the Old Testament, the Psalms, the New Testament, creation, your experience See what God does as a reflection of who he is and worship him for that. Look at his words. The words of his commands, of his promises, of all he reveals himself by inscription. And every time you read the scripture, before you go right on to pray and ask God for things, ask yourself this question. What can I worship God for from this passage? What does he say to me from this little passage of 50 that I'm reading right now that I can worship him for? And begin your time with him in prayer by worshiping him for that one thing So help you to deepen and expand your knowledge of God and blord in your work so that you can work with Him more fully when we come together here now and come in on The most holy God has revealed himself in his Father, in Jesus. For we read in the scriptures that the word became flesh and dwelt among us So that we beheld his glory. And we saw the glory of God the Father through Jesus Christ. Want to know what God's like? Look at Jesus That's what that 's like. John tells us that in him we beheld his glory as the only Son who came from the Father and His grace we see. Then in verse 18, no one has ever seen God But God, the only Son, who is at the Father's side, is made in known. When you read about Jesus in the gospel, Jesus read him to find out lessons Just read them to find out what you ought to be like. Don't miss the blessing of reading the gospel to find out what Jesus is like and worship him. As you see his gentleness, his power, his authority. As you see him walking along as master of life, worship him in particular things you see him doing Say some time just to see the Jesus , acknowledging who he is, and to reveal himself to me. And to do that to come to know God more importantly. That he teaches you about himself. He'll teach you his ways. He teaches your lessons in your life. He'll study himself more and more fully. You begin to see that your picture of God is imbalanced. Maybe it's too stern and you're not drawn to him. Read the pictures and get a more silent picture of the compassion of attendance Have to know his love is overly sentimental, not balanced enough with his holiness and justice, and so you don't prostrate yourself before it. Read of his word. You get a picture of his majesty and his greatness You and I thought worth it what we don't know. Our worship must be increased No true worship can be without coming to know him intimately. Because you see on the back of the bulletin, to know him is to worship him. But to work with him requires knowing him and knowing him infinitely every day of our life. Lord our God, we want to worship you. And yet, Father, we confess to you that really the reason that we feel our worship to be so shallow and so hollow, and not in spirit, but only in motion so often is because we don't know you anymore. You're distant from us. Your ways are foreign to us. Oh help us, Lord. I know you better. To know you by exposing ourselves daily to your word, to meditate on you, to love you, and not simply to ask for things coming, but day by day. To take your word and to worship you. To learn those things that you want to teach us probably so often the hardest lessons in our lives Are those things that could be could be employed, could we struggle with you about the things we do in the less? Perfectly open to that in you help us both here. You are so close to you that you are more important to us than anything else. Or we need you too to do that enough And as to ourselves, we will quickly go through the night. We will externalize. We 'll substitute anything for that deep heart drawing news to me. Glory and evil of one. Evil for what. Maybe glory and the Lord's evil. And put no confidence in a Christmas We are the those who are the two worship. The worship is still true.