Well, welcome, church. It's wonderful to be here this morning and preach to you from the Gospel of Luke. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Luke chapter 5. This morning I'm going to be reading a very familiar text. Luke chapter 5, verses 17 through 26. The healing of a paralytic. Before I read these verses for us, let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you for your word, and Lord, we pray that you would bless us through its reading. Lord, we would be so desperate to know you if it were not for your word. Lord, we would have nowhere to look. We would be able to look up at the heavens and recognize your wisdom, your intelligence, your greatness. Lord, we could look at the complexity of life and again be reminded of your awesome power. Your creativity, your beauty. But Lord, nothing can speak to us as sinners. Better than or other than your word itself, which says, Come. Though your sins be as scarlet, I will wash them white as snow And so, Lord, we value your word, every syllable of it. And we ask in humble reliance upon your Holy Spirit that you would bless the reading of your word to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is faithful to who you are, what you have done, and what you offer us, Lord, bless it too. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke chapter five beginning with verse seventeen, the Word of God On one of those days, as he was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was with him to heal. And behold, some men were bringing on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to bring him in and lay him before Jesus, but finding no way to bring him in because of the crowd. They were up on the roof and let him down with his bed through the tiles into the midst before Jesus. And when he saw their faith, he said, Man, your sins are forgiven you. And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, Why do you question in your hearts? Which is easier to say your sins are forgiven you, or to say, rise and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the man who was paralyzed. I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home. And immediately he rose up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home, glorifying God. And amazement seized them all. And they glorified God and were filled with awe, saying, We have seen extraordinary things today. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, this week, as I was studying in preparation for this sermon I had occasion to go to my bookshelf that has my New Testament introduction and background books on it. And take Leon Morris 's New Testament theology down, because there's a couple things I wanted to review and make sure I got exactly right in preaching to you this morning. And I opened up to his section on the Gospel of Luke and the introduction of Jesus Christ, and I came across an interesting sentence. It was a quote from a fellow who was born in the 1820s and died in the 1890s. A guy that his name didn't register with me at all. His name was Joseph Ernst Rennan. He was a French scholar, not a preacher. He was a master of Semitic languages. He was a literary critic. And he wrote on the Gospel of Luke, and he said, The Gospel of Luke is the most beautiful book ever written. That got my attention. I don't think it got my attention at all. I know I read those words 25, 30 years ago, but they But now I read them and I thought, isn't that interesting? Because if you were to ask me about what is the most beautiful book, even just in the Bible, I'd like to think I would say the Bible is the most beautiful book, but if you were to say within the Bible what's the most beautiful book, I'd be thinking in terms of aesthetics. And maybe I'd think the Psalms with their poetry or the Proverbs with their pithy, memorable qualities. Or maybe I would say, well, there's this deep mysticism and almost esoteric cosmic quality of the Gospel of John. That's beautiful. But I think if I were to start listing the gospels, pardon me, the books of the Bible in order of beauty, I'm not sure Luke would be close to the top. And so I was interested, and I did some research on this fella, Professor Renan, who died 130 some years ago. And he was enthralled by the book because of the meticulous care with which Luke, inspired by the Holy Spirit, Introduces Christ so carefully and so intentionally. We saw a little bit of that a couple of weeks ago when we saw that It isn't until someone falls down before Jesus and says, I'm a sinner, the first time the word sinner shows up in the Gospel of Luke. It's not until that happens, five chapters, long chapters into the gospel, that Jesus calls a disciple. And so he so beautifully connects the fact that the first criteria in order to be a disciple of Christ is to truly acknowledge that you're a sinner and fall down before the Savior. He carefully orchestrates this as the word about him spreads and rumors grow and buzz increases that At the right time, he reveals the heart of who he is, that he is the one who has come with power and with love. And there's a couple things that happened for the very first time, three in particular that happened for the very first time in the gospel right here in these verses I've read. And we could in our quiet times or in our uh our journals and in our devotional materials miss this so easily. I know I have many times. In the first place, this is the first time that we have Jesus using the phrase, Son of Man. Secondly, it's the first time we have him offering forgiveness of sins. And thirdly, it's the first time since his baptism that there is any reference To Pharisees and teachers of the law. Now, what do we take from all of that? At the very heart of this text is the question, who is Jesus? We know something of his qualities by this point. By this point we realize that he is a man full of compassion, even for the most uh abhorrent or repulsive or uh unacceptable specimens of humanity that we could imagine, the ancient leper. He's full of love and mercy And he reaches out and touches such a one as that. But not only is he loving in his embrace, he's powerful. So great is his holiness that he drives out the disease. It cannot abide his touch. So far from something unclean, making him unclean. His cleanness transforms what is unclean. He is mighty to save. But who is he? Even later, John the Baptist disciples will send a committee to him and say, are you the one we were to Are you the Messiah? Who is Jesus? And I would submit to you, dear friends, that there is no more pressing question on this side of heaven than this. Who is Jesus? And it is here that he answers. And I don't think it's a mistake that he doesn't answer until the buzz It started as a rumor, has become clarified in the nature of his person and work, and all of the leading religious experts have gathered You know, one of the things about the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, that we often perhaps don't think about. Is that they are all written on purpose. If you've ever noticed, well, wonder why the Gospel of Matthew's 28 chapters and Luke is 16 chapters. I wonder why it is that if I open up in the Gospel of Luke a chapter dealing with these three things is seventy-two verses long, but when Matthew does it, he can do it in forty-two verses. You know, these are the kinds of things we might not think about. Or maybe we don't think about, well, why is it that Matthew includes these stories or parables and Luke doesn't? And I want to dispel one notion. Luke does not, when he's sitting down to write this carefully crafted account of the life of Jesus for Theophilus and for all of his progeny, God lovers like you and me. He does not say, well, okay, let me collect every single thing I remember or have heard or read about Jesus and then just put it all in order and publish it as a book. There is under the sweet and wise influences of the Spirit of the living God a discretion in what accounts, what parables, what miracles, and in what order Luke presents a very carefully distinct picture of Jesus. Matthew is intent upon presenting him as the fulfillment of the Old Testament expectation of the king to come. Mark presents him as the one who is stronger than all and who drives out fear among the people of God, a pastoral letter to a persecuted church. Luke shows us a savior for everyone And in telling that story of the Savior, he waits for the great self-disclosure of the Lamb of God. Until the Pharisees, the leading experts in theology of his day, have had their attention attracted to himself I could imagine Jesus saying, okay, now that we're all here, you see, Luke goes out of his way to say on one of those days as he was speaking. And the thing that differentiates this day from the others is not the fact that someone broke a hole in the roof. The thing that differentiates this day from the others is that Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. Jesus has gotten the attention of the seminaries, of the megachurches , of the published authors. Of the TV personalities. Now, everyone who is conceivably a big gun in the theological world of the day of Jesus' youth. realizes they have got to figure out what is going on with this man. And so they're all there. And behold, verse eighteen, some men come with a friend A friend who's paralyzed, incapable of coming to Jesus on his own. And they can't get in because of the crowds of religious experts. And so they dig through the tiles of the roof. And lower the man into their midst. And Jesus says, seeing their faith, plural, we'll get to that in a moment, son, your sins are forgiven. And the teachers and the experts are a buzz. In the Gospel of Mark, we read that they were thinking and whispering to one another, and Jesus knowing the hearts of all men. He tells them exactly what it is that they're thinking. You're thinking, who is this man? And here in the Gospel of Luke, we have the same basic story. That they're muttering to themselves and complaining and arguing, who can forgive sins but God alone? This is blasphemy. And Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, answers them. He says, which is easier? Would it be easier for me to say your sins are forgiven, which I just said? Or would it be easier for me to say, rise up and walk? Then he says, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins. Get up and walk. The man gets up and walk. Now This self-disclosure of Jesus, this revealing of himself, is intimately bound up with this title, the Son of Man. Jesus says he is the Son of Man. What does that mean? That question, as Christians, is very important. That title, Son of Man, occurs 83 times in the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And the only times that title occurs is when Jesus is using it to speak about himself. It's never used by John in writing about him. It's never used by Luke in writing about him. He's never called that by Peter or by Matthew in his gospel. All of the instances of the phrase, the title Son of Man, come from Jesus' own lips in the Gospels and are about him. And now let me extend that one step further. When Jesus refers to himself in the third person, this is the title he uses almost every single time. Jesus' self-identity and his ultimate self-disclosure to the people of his day is that he is the Son of Man. Think about how many other things he could have called himself. Son of David, King of Israel, Messiah? The Greek version Christ, he could have called himself the Son of God. He called himself Son of Man And in order to understand this text and what this beautiful book, this most beautiful of books, wants us to understand, we have to understand a little bit about what he means by that. What does that mean, Son of Man? And in referring back to my New Testament theologies in a wonderful volume by Gerhardus Voss, The Self-Disclosure of Jesus, if you're interested in reading that one. There are three major things that the title Son of Man communicates to the Jew of the first century, the Hebrew of Hebrews, the one who thinks on what the Old Testament taught. And the first thing that the title Son of Man would indicate is that Jesus is an authentic human. In Psalm 8. 4, we have this phrase, what is man that you are mindful of him, the son of man that you care for him? That is a reference to a child of Adam and Eve, someone who is truly human. But we have another way that this title, Son of Man, is used. In the days of Ezekiel, which coincide with the fall of Jerusalem and the captivity in Babylon, we find that ninety-three times in that book with only forty-eight chapters, we find the title Son of Man. And it is used mostly by God speaking to Ezekiel, but you, son of man. And it is used to Indicate that Ezekiel is the representative man who stands for his people and who is called upon by God to speak to them on God's behalf. The Son of Man is fully human. And he is a representative human who has a mediatorial role in communicating God's word and will to a people who are lost. And thus far we only have the merest of messianic overtones. But in the book of Daniel, chapter 7. We read the verse that makes this unambiguously in the mind of the rabbis of Jesus' day a messianic term. Daniel sees this in the night vision. And behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. The Son of Man is fully human. He comes to transmit with clarity God's word to a people in captivity. And he will be given a kingdom that will never pass away. And when Jesus says, I am the Son of Man , He is stating in terms that would have been understood by every Pharisee and teacher of the law in the room, I am the Christ. It always makes me scratch my head with wonder when people question whether or not Jesus really understood he was the Messiah. And people actually question that. I would preface that by saying, foolish people. But nonetheless, people do. And they will try to tell you that, well, Jesus kind of got caught up in the events of history. He didn't really know who he would be said or claimed to be after he died. But I would say to people that think that , college professors that teach that, read your Bibles. If you would find the Bible to be any kind of source book for understanding the historic man Jesus, you have to come to grips with the fact that he truly claimed from his childhood to be. the Son of God and the Messiah, Savior, Son of Man. He is the Son of Man, and He has authority to forgive sins. And I want you to notice something. We want healing preeminently in our lives because we are creatures who are addicted to our comforts. And I'm not saying that as a slam on 21st century people descended from Norwegian immigrants. It's not just me. And I don't mean it even potentially as a critique. Not of me, not of you. It's just a fact. When I have a toothache, I'm thinking about one thing. Where's the nearest dentist? When my lower back hurts, I'm thinking about one thing. My lower back hurts. When I have a headache, I'm thinking about the headache. It's understandable and natural that we think about our infirmities in a way that can be dominating and exclusive But I want you to notice that when Jesus sees this paralytic and sees the faith of those friends and of that man on the mat , He says, son, your sins are forgiven. And Jesus does not heal the paralytic for the paralytic's sake. Notice very carefully. He says that you, speaking to the Pharisees, may know That I have authority to forgive sins on earth. Rise up, take your mat, and go He performs that mighty miracle in order to demonstrate and prove that he is in fact earnest And powerful and authorized in declaring the forgiveness of sins, something that can't be seen by human eyes Do we think of miracles and healing that way? In the Gospel of John, the word miracle doesn't appear, but the word sign Does. Because the Gospel of John, written last, at a time perhaps when people were thinking a little bit too much about the need to have temporal, immediate, material, physical demonstrations of God's love in a time when we perhaps uh grow uh a little bit jaded or callous towards the declaration of forgiveness of sins because as humans we have trouble living with heavenly informed minds and aspirations. We tend to gravitate towards earthly worldly things. John makes it crystal clear that the mighty acts of God are signs. Signs point to something other than themselves. When you see a sign that says 3013 miles to Frederick, you don't stop your car and think, oh, okay, let's park here and walk to Wonder Book and Video. It would take you a long, long time because the sign is not the place. When you buy a box of enterman 's donuts , You don't eat the cardboard that says Entamans Donuts because it's just a sign that tells you the treasure lies within. The miracles God performs, the healings, even of a paralytic lowered through a roof, that is the sign, that is the proof, that is the evidence that the true treasure is there and it is real. And what that paralytic needed more than anything else was the forgiveness of sins. He didn't need to walk. It was wonderful that he could. He needed to be forgiven. And it is not until, and here's where we get to our friend Professor Ernst Renan's great observation. The beauty of the unfolding of the ministry and message in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. He comes and he will not be praised for his eloquence and gracious words. He comes and he will not be constrained by those who simply recognize his authority and would like him to stay. He comes and he reaches out, giving the highest of honors, discipleship to a great teacher, to the one who finally acknowledges that they're a sinner. He demonstrates that he has a willingness, a love, a compassion, and a power to heal even the worst of the worst, touching them. And he demonstrates when he's finally gotten everybody's attention, I am the one who was to come. And I am here to forgive sins. And I am able to forgive sins. The healing is evidence, not substance. I think about that a lot as a man with a disability. And make no mistake, we all have disabilities. Every one of you has certain disadvantages in life, and they could be by virtue of your biography, they could be by virtue of your physical examination, they could be Any number of ways. We all have hurts and wants and scrapes and bruises. We are fallen people living in a fallen world. And God intervenes and shows us kindnesses and mercies along the way that touch every part of who we are. But it is also, according to the wisdom of God, that he allows us to have thorns in our flesh that keep us humble and dependent upon Him. And it is the case that there are times and instances when God will allow me or you or another person to have an infirmity, whether it's paralysis or whether it's degenerative eye diseases. That will be healed in the by and by. That full-sightedness that will enable me to participate in a work day at my house with chainsaws and axes. I was not there during that period of the work yesterday. Partly for your safety. If I had picked up an axe, you would be at risk. Partly for my safety. If you had an axe, I would be at risk. We won't even talk about chainsaws. But the day is coming, dear friends. I don't know if I'm going to be allowed to chop down trees in heaven, but I I kind of hope so. I'd like to think there's going to be chainsaws. But I know there will be a day when I can see fully. There's going to be a day when you can walk. There's going to be a day when every tear is wiped away from your eye. Every single tear. That's at the Word of God who in the Psalm says your tears are collected in his bottle. Another translation says recorded on his scroll. He is keeping track. And all of those tears that wean you from Earth's pleasures and compel you to look and think on heaven. And the fullness of the redemption that will be God's children's there. The fullness will be there, but the reality is here because of this. The Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. The whole point of this beautiful picture of Jesus that we read in the Gospel of Luke is that Jesus It's the Son of Man who comes with heaven's own authority and offers the forgiveness of sins to all who have faith. You might think about this fascinating fact that the Gospel of Luke says that when he, Jesus, saw their plural faith, he says to the man , Man, your sins are forgiven. And you might think for a moment, how does that square with my theology? Let me ask you to think about prayer for a moment. Do you pray for the salvation of people? I hope you do. I do regularly I pray for the salvation of people I know and love by name. I pray for people who I don't know and say, Lord, fill your churches up. Both here in Columbia, here at CPC, over in Frederick, uh throughout the world. And the prayers of God's people are very much a part of His sovereign working of salvation in the hearts of men and women. When we read in the Bible that powerful or effective are the prayers of a righteous man, of man or a woman who is in Christ. God in his wisdom not only ordained that those prayers be lifted up in Christ Perfected by the Holy Spirit, but God has also determined that those prayers are a part of His sovereign will to save. Now, that statement poses a lot of questions. Questions for which I have no answers There is a mystery to divine providence that fully incorporates human freedom without infringing for one step or one second On the exhaustive sovereignty of God. But I pray for the healing of the sick Knowing that God has already, God who is out outside of time, God who knows when sparrows will fall, God has already written in his book every event of every day to come in the life of any of us. Study Psalm 139. But I also know that God has commanded me to prayer and that my prayers are part of His plan in ways I will never understand. As is your decision to choose this day whom you will serve. And dear friend, do you see in this account The Son of Man, basically extending an invitation to all who would hear with faith to come to Him, because He can forgive your sins I don't need to spend a second of my time convincing you you're a sinner. You know that. Whether you admit it to someone like me is completely irrelevant. Let me just tell you the antidote to the situation that deep down you find yourself to be in. You are a sinner. You are at odds with the living God. Spiritually, you are worse than paralyzed Jesus knows that. And he was sent because of that. And you have been prayed for. That is why you're here right now. And you have the solemn, the joyous The unbelievable, the beautiful opportunity to receive this gift from God, the forgiveness of sins. Because Jesus came. And he allowed himself to be put to death by some of these very teachers of the law and Pharisees by some of these very people that he ministered to, that he might pay the penalty for our sins. And give us in the eyes of God the credit for his righteous life. That is who Jesus is. He is this Son of Man, made just like us. came not only to communicate the terms of God's greatest, fullest explanation of His covenant, His relationship with us He's not only the one who came and will come again with clouds and great glory to judge finally, but he is the one with authority in the meantime on earth to say to you and to me. Upon our confession and faith, your sins are forgiven. And so I'd ask you to consider these three questions. Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? Do you look upon him as God who became flesh, who truly became like us, and is a son of man? Who has the authority given by God Himself to speak in the place of God because he is in essence, in substance, God-made flesh speaking prophetically, powerfully, with authority into our lives? Do you believe that he is coming to judge the living and the dead? That all dominion and power and glory have been given him. And do you believe that he, because of his self-sacrifice He 's able to take your place and pay your penalty, that you might be reconciled to your Maker. Is that who Jesus is? Because if that's not who Jesus is to you, oh dear friend, you've never met him You know things about him. But you've never met the man from Nazareth, the God from heaven. Dear Christian, what about your diseases and disabilities? It's so often the case that our Present circumstances seem so big, so large, so pressing, that we often think to ourselves, God It's hard for me to believe you love me, given my paralysis. It's hard for me to know that you love me, given My tunnel vision. It's hard for me to know that you love me. Fill in the blank. I want to challenge you to let this text speak words from God to your heart. What that paralytic needed was the forgiveness of sins. What the Pharisees needed was a miracle. And the miracles are beautiful, but they are the lesser signs to the greater reality that your sins are forgiven. And God has given you at the expense of his own son life before him, forgiven. Your sins as removed as far as the east is from the west, fully paid. You have been washed whiter than snow. Though your sins were a scarlet. And by and by Whatever you filled the blank in with, that will be completely redressed. But in the meantime, let it teach you compassion. Dependence upon God. Humility before God and men. Tenderness towards them that suffer. Dependence upon those who love you and carry your bed. And should God, in his immeasurable kindness and grace Choose to bring as a powerful sign of your healing to a world that doesn't believe. By all means, pick up that mat and rejoice, and I will rejoice with you. But in the meantime, How much greater should our joy be at this thought? For all of you who have trusted in Christ for salvation, By virtue of the truth and clarity of God's Word, I can indeed say to you, your sins are forgiven by Jesus Himself. Could I say anything to inspire a deeper or a greater joy in your heart than that Your sins are forgiven. My sins are forgiven. Are your sins forgiven? Following the service today, we'll have members of our prayer team in the back corner. They would love to talk to you about that. I would. But know this: Jesus Christ came. Not to give us all 2020 vision. Not to give us all healthy motor skill functions. He came to forgive sins. And oh, is he good at it? Almighty God, we thank you for the love that you've shown us in Christ. We thank you for his great compassion. Lord, I thank you so much as just one preacher in this great big world of yours that You've helped me this week to see something of the beauty of the Gospel of Luke and the way that you unfold the person and the mission of Jesus Christ. And just the beauty of the thought. The glory of the thought that you, Jesus, came to forgive sins. And you are utterly perfect in your ability to do so. And you lose none, and turn away none who come to you. John chapter 6 Father, my prayer is that we would come to you. Lord, that we would come to you not just one at a time, but by car loads, by busloads, by church loads. by school loads, by corporate board meeting loads, by neighborhoods, by cities. Father, we pray that your gospel go forward, and we pray, O God, that you would open the eyes of our hearts, that we might know this great hope to which we're called. And might see your very great power that you forgive sins. Hear our prayers in Christ's name. Amen.