Well we finished the last section of Ephesians on spiritual warfare last week, but it just won't go away when I got back to my office last Sunday. This fellow was greeting me on my desk with a little note and a some card introducing himself to me as Bible man I don't know if you've ever met Bible man, but this Bible man is not like any other Bible man. He may not be Roman, but he is ready. And uh he has got all the armor on. He's got uh the shield there of faith and the belt of truth and the boots of the gospel and Got the you know the helmet, the whole business. But but what is particularly distinctive about this one is that if you look here, uh that's my face And you cannot appreciate that from where you are. It was stuck, but he is uh he's losing it Kinda like I am. But uh I will I'm not risk this anymore, but you kids can check that out afterwards Uh that's been um quite an inspiration to me this week to know that that's um that's what Paul's talking about. I I kinda wish all you had one of these. Come on down there for a little while, fella. Um now you might think that um since we have finished The material on spiritual warfare and the last is final greetings. The fact that I'm going to preach three more messages on the final greetings is probably a sign that I just won't give up. Harris, let it go. Ephesians is over. You know, get a life. We usually skip Paul's initial greetings and his wrap-up comments at the end of his letters. Look at them kind of like frames on a picture, you know. You need it, but you don't sit there and study it And I think that'd be a big mistake. I do believe that not only do these verses give us some insight into Paul as a person and into his relationships with other people, but I think also there are some valuable spiritual lessons for you and for me to gain from them So I am going to be preaching one message on verses 21 and 22, another one on 23, another one on 24, and even then I still have one more message to the last words to the Ephesians. So we're in the Ephesians final four now, and that's where we're headed. Let me then read to you Ephesians chapter 6, verses 21 and 22. Ticacus, the dear brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will tell you everything, so that you also may know how I am and what I'm doing. I am sending him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are and that he may encourage you. Now, what can we learn from these two verses that will be helpful to you this week? Or, more importantly , What does God want to say to you through these two verses this week? I want for us to notice four things about Piccus from these two verses that I believe are instructive and helpful to us. Four ways that he is designated. First of all, as a personal messenger. Now, could we have the slide up there, please, so you can see In the yellow with the ones, you have the four points is one, two, three, four. Very easy to follow. Helps you to know that what I'm talking about is from the Bible. I'm not making it up Tychicus, he says, may you may know how I am, you may know how we are. I should have put also in yellow. He will tell you everything. All those are indicating that Tychicus is Paul's personal messenger here. In fact, the Greek of this verse begins this way. Now in order that you may know the things about me, that is, my circumstances and how I am, and what I'm doing All things Tychicus will make known to you. That's what he says. Then verse 22, I send them to you so that you may know stuff about us. That's basically what he's saying there. That is, Tychicus is going to convey to you information far more than I have been able to put in this letter. Think about it, how much do we know about Paul just from the book of Ephesians? Not a whole lot. We do know a few things. We know first of all, for instance that Paul planted the church to Ephesus. He doesn't tell us that in the book of Ephesians, but he does tell us that he's heard of their faith, he's thankful for them, and he's praying for them. He had a deep relationship with these people. We know from chapter 3 that he says he is a prisoner. Because of his commitment and his conviction to take the gospel to the Gentiles and particularly to them. We know that he says there that he considers himself to be the least of all the saints, and he is in amazement That God would give to him the call of preaching the unsearchable riches of Christ. So he goes on to say that even though he's suffering, he's not discouraged. Then chapter 4 he says again, I'm a prisoner for the Lord for you. And then chapter 6 he says again, in prison, please pray for me so that I'll be given opportunities and clarity and boldness in my evangelism. That's all we know about it. And that, of course, reflects the situation of Acts chapter 28. We get more of the detail about Paul's situation. Now what Tychicus is going to do is of course to convey the things that he can't convey in a letter. He's going to tell more of his feelings, his experiences, what God has been doing to answer. how they've seen the Lord at work, because Tychicus has been there the whole time. Tychicus has been with him. He's been an eyewitness to all of this. And I think it's also significant to observe as we read this That it's possible, can't prove it, but it's possible and I would say likely, that verses 21 and 22 at least Those two, maybe twenty-one to twenty-four, were written in Paul's own hand, and that that's all he wrote in the book of Ephesians. Why do I say that? Well, because um Paul uh had this as his custom. If you look in Second Thessalonians chapter three In verse 17, Paul says, I, Paul, write this greeting in my own hand, which is the distinguishing mark in all my letters. This is how I write. So apparently it was his custom, he says, to dictate his letters and then write just a little bit at the end to authenticate that this really was from him. It wasn't a forgery, somebody else saying, I'm the Apostle Paul. and to spread all kinds of wild stories. Paul wrote just that section, often it would just be at the end, and I give you some other examples there. Why did he do that? Well, we get one clue, perhaps, from the book of Galatians. In Galatians chapter six and verse eleven, where he does this, he says see what large letters I use as I write to you with my own hand. And then earlier in chapter four, verse sixteen of Galatians, he says that when he was with them, he was in this affliction, and he says If you had been able to pluck out your own eyes and give them to me, you would have done so. So the best guess we have is that he had an eye problem. He had very limited eyesight. And therefore it was not enough to write, but even when he wrote, he used very large letters, as he says in Galatians 6. So Paul probably dictated the book of Ephesians. Can you imagine that? I mean when we who 2,000 years later are still amazed at the precision, the tightness, the logical progression, the fact that you can take every command in chapters four, five, and six. And you can root them, you can connect them to some statement of fact in chapters one, two, and three. So that what you are doing is living out of the gospel in every aspect of your Christian life. That there is this progression of the gospel. And then there is this statement about the body. And then from that holy living and then the particular relationships of husband and wife and parent and child and workers and then Paul takes and he looks at all of life and he says look at all the conflicts that there are and behind that There is spiritual warfare that's going on, but chapter 2 he had talked about how in all those conflicts Christ at the cross provided the basis for peace. Everything is all tied together. There's no verse, it just kind of hangs out there. Can you imagine not only not using a word processor or a computer where you can go back and keep altering, not even to not write it, but to speak it Let me tell you, before you write off the Jesus that Paul wrote about As one that you don't need in your life, that you can live without him. He probably isn't all the things that I stand up here and proclaim every Sunday. Think about the fact That this book was given to us from the dictation of a man with very limited eyesight, for the mind is brilliant, supernaturally brilliant, to put that together. And think about whether you want to dismiss that message. It's amazing. Isn't it amazing? And what Paul does is he says, I'm going to send Tychicus because of all the things I've said to you I want for him to convey more about me as a person. And I think it's very important that you and I remember always that Paul was not some fictitious character in a novel. He wasn't some automaton who passed on doctrinal truth from God through the Spirit for us to receive. He was a human being who struggled with his limitations, whether it's his eyesight or the bruises, the brokenness of his body. He was a man who had favorite foods. There were some things he liked more than others. He had favorite songs. He could talk to him and hum along with him a song that he particularly enjoyed. He had memories of playing as a boy in Tarsus. He was a real human being who had feelings, who had struggles, who had aspirations and limitations. And it's as you read these kinds of words that you get a feel for the fact that Paul was a human being that God used just as he uses you and me to carry out his work. Don't ever put Paul into some superhuman kind of category that would rob us of so much of the power of the gospel. Now, not only does Paul refer to Tychicus as his personal messenger, somebody who's going to convey some of his heart to them. But he moves on to another way to refer to him. He says that he is also the dear brother. That should be light blue, but it didn't come out very much. He is my dear brother. The word dear there is the word agape, beloved And that's also significant. Because he's saying the Ticchis is loved, beloved in two ways First of all, if you look in chapter 1, that same word is used where Paul has written that Tychicus was beloved by God who predestined him from all eternity That he would be blameless and holy and be adopted as his own child? But of course, Paul wasn't just writing that about Tychicus, was he? He was writing that about you and me, who belong to Jesus Christ by faith. He was saying that out of his good pleasure Not under any external compulsion or constraint. God, because He simply delighted to do it, from all eternity, predestined that you and I Would be forgiven, and we would be blameless, and we would be adopted as his own children, beloved to him in the beloved, his own son. And so Paul takes this term and he applies it to Tychicus. He's the beloved brother. But in calling him brother, of course, what he's doing is conveying another truth, and that is that If I'm a son of God and you're a son or daughter of God by faith in Jesus Christ, then you and I are brothers and sisters of one another. And so he says that he is the beloved brother. He is my brother. He and I belong together, and Paul had talked about that in chapter 2 and chapter 4. And so he's taking that idea and he brings it to bear on Tychicus as a particular example. Tychicus, by the way, is the only name given. He's the only person named in the book of Ephesians. But I believe that there's even more to that phrase that that benefits us. And it's it's something that Kind of makes me sad when I reflect on how many people, and for some reason women particularly, tend to see Paul as uh not a very warm or attractive or appealing person. A lot of people I talk to and as I say for whatever reason, particularly women, look at Paul's pretty cold guy, guy that, you know, I wouldn't especially like to spend time with him, wouldn't want to have dinner with him, not want to meet him But if you take the time to read his greetings and the ends of his letters and some of the things in between, you get a very different picture. I get a picture of a man who is very warm A man who had a lot of long-term deep relationships. Tychicus was one of just ten people that Paul had associated with from his first missionary journey into Asia who had stuck with him. Relationships that continued over the years. And when he says Tychicus, the dear brother He's reflecting, I think, a special relationship that he has with this man that comes only from The kind of relationship you have when you suffer with someone for the gospel. You know, there's a special bond when you suffered with someone in serving the Lord Jesus. I feel that kind of bond with the staff pastors here at Columbia Presbyterian, with Steve, I've worked with for over thirteen years and Tim for over four years and Peter coming up on two years and John Barnes joining the team now and the elders of our congregation who I've prayed with and wept with and Many others of you who I've known for many years. That's a unique, precious relationship, isn't it? Do you have that kind of relationship? You only have that kind of relationship if you choose to build relationships with other Christians that you're going to serve Christ with. It's unique and it's precious. And if you don't have that kind of relationship, may God give to you a heart that longs and desires. Not to be a Christian who can serve the Lord on your own and people can come and go and it doesn't matter a whole lot. You get a very different picture with Paul There were people that he had strong attachments to. And he could look back to Tychicus and say, Ticicus, remember that time when I didn't think I was gonna make it after they had stoned me Do you remember the times, Tichicus, when everything looked hopeless, and you and I prayed and we cried out to God, and he did what seemed to be impossible at the time? Have you ever had somebody in your life where you've shared something when things look so bleak and so hopeless that your friend said, I don't even know what to say to encourage you. Let's just pray. And you pray, and then you see God do something powerful in your lives together. You share that. You share that uniquely. And you look back and you say, that person is a beloved sister or brother for the rest of your life. I long for you to have those kinds of relationships that are uniquely available in the body of Christ for people who choose To build relationships and serve Christ with other people that they're willing to get close to. You notice he doesn't just call them a beloved brother But he also goes on and and uh calls him a faithful servant. That's the third designation. Faithful servant Picachus, the beloved brother, and three there, that's the kind of bold purple, faithful servant. Ticicus was one of the three T's in Paul's life. Who are the three T's? Timothy, Titus, and Ticicus. These were the three closest friends that Paul apparently had. And you see something of that relationship reflected, for instance, in Titus chapter 3 and verse 12. For Paul had sent Titus to Crete, and Titus was pastoring at Crete, and the Cretan crowd was a pretty rough bunch. And so Paul says in Titus 312, tick Titus, you you had enough. You need some relief, man. You know. Seven inning seven innings with the Cretans are it. I'm sending in a relief picture and I got Tychicus in mind to come and to uh give you some relief so that Titus was either Tychicus or somebody else. that um would come. He he said maybe both of 'em. But he said, I w I want Titus to be able to come and be refreshed with me. And so you see that kind of concern for his friends, you see his pastoral concern, you see that Tychicus was willing to go. He's a faithful servant If I can help Titus, hey, let me go and help him. And so now he entrusts with Tychicus this letter, this precious letter to the Ephesians. And with that letter, he probably also sent the letter to the Colossians. If you read the end of Colossians, it's almost the identical language. Colossians very much parallels Ephesians in its thoughts And at the end of Colossians he says the same kind of thing. I'm going to send this letter with Tychicus, my dear brother. And he also slips in the Colossians letter. He says, by the way, I'm going to send with him A new convert, this guy a runaway slave, anesimus, came to Christ here and gonna send him back with Tickekiss Jicket And so Tychicus goes and to go to the Ephesians, well, that's a joy to bring that letter. But he's also got this letter to the Colossians, and that's got us some problems and correction and rebuke and But Tychicus doesn't flinch. He's always referred to as the faithful servant, willing to do it. And so he goes. You know it's amazing to me when I read about Tychicus and if you just use your cross-references or there's a lot of ways you can trace them down, but uh There's a number of references to Ticicus in the New Testament. You know what amazes me about? He didn't seem to have any career aspirations for himself. He's always only an assistant to Paul. He simply seeks to serve So that what Paul has in mind, the use of his gifts, will be amplified and will be further used for the kingdom. Doesn't seem like he has any career path in mind. No idea of advancement to get his own church, to make a name for himself. Do you know Tychicus is one of the three key people in Paul's life that enabled him to accomplish the things that he has that made the impact? that he did on the world. And yet before this morning, did you even know who Tychicus was? See, if I said to you, three people were key in Paul's life for accomplishing his mission, who are they? You'd say, oh well, let's see who and I'd say, well now I'll give you a hint. They all begin with T And you would think you'd say, oh, okay, well we got Timothy and we got Titus. They got books named after them, so I guess it's them. Now who's the third one? How many would remember Tychicus? And yet Paul says again and again, he mentions Ticicus, one of the last people he mentions in 2 Timothy chapter 4, just before his death, faithful Ticicus. He's always there for me. I'll tell you, that really touches me because you know something The church always needs its teams of ticacuses, its teams of ticks And I thank God for the Tychicuses at Columbia Presbyterian. Those people who without the need to be noticed in the fanfare and the advancement of position and the rest of that are here in the dark and cold every Sunday morning to set up the chairs and to usher and to take down the chairs and to set up the coffee so that you can drink something hot after the first service. who serve on the trustees that nobody sees or notices. Who serve down in children's church and if we had more Techicuses down there we'd be able to have children's church in the first service so you wouldn't all have to pack into the second service to use it. Were the ticket kisses who served down in the nursery, do you know that last Sunday there were two women down in the nursery both morning and evening? Didn't get up to worship. Faithful servants Tychicuses who play in the band. If you play in the band, you're here for five hours on Sunday. And if you do the soundboard and light, you're here a lot longer than that, setting up and taking down The Tychicuses who work in greeters and Sunday school and all kinds of other ministries that I don't even have time to name. Why? You see, he says he's a faithful servant in the Lord. What's that mean? That's shorthand. We're saying he's a faithful servant because of his relationship to the Lord. Because he loves Jesus. Because he belongs to Jesus, because Tychicus looks and he sees Jesus, and he understands the heart of Jesus, who is the servant. You know, the only way you're ever going to be able to f serve faithfully, without resentment or need for applause, is by the grace of God. That's what Peter says If you look in 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 11, Peter says there, anybody here who is a servant and serves without much remuneration or notice 1 Peter 4. 11 is a verse you ought to memorize. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. See? It says you look at Jesus and you realize he was the one who left heaven and came as a servant. Not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many The image of a servant that Paul, that Tom read from Philippians chapter 2. That he came to serve you, to die for you, to take your sin. To take your place upon the cross. And as you long to get closer to him, you enter into his heart By entering into the heart of a servant, I don't particularly like to serve Um it's not my nature, especially if I'm not noticed. Yesterday I decided I would go up and offer to serve my wife in a particular way, and so I went up and I offered Is it getting all brighter all of a sudden here? I don't want I as soon as I give a personal example the lights Cooler John He knows what's coming. I came to to ask my wife if I could do her a favor, something that would help her, and she said, well yeah, that really would help. And besides that, could you do this also And I said, um, no, sorry, I don't have time. I drew my limits. See that's the kind of heart I have It's not the kind of heart Jesus has. He drew new limits for you. And the closer you and I get to Jesus, The more we develop, the kind of a heart that Tickek has had, the heart of a faithful servant. Do you consider Columbia Presbyterian to be your church? Some of you are visiting, and it's not. But some of you visit often, frequently. And if you, even though you're not a member, were to ask the ass, well, what's your church? You'd probably say Columbia Presbyterian. Do you ever think of serving your brothers and sisters at Columbia Presbyterian? Or do you just visit on Sunday so that you can grab a blessing and take off? You know, the ironic thing is that if you come here simply to be blessed And not to bless others with your service. The ironic thing is you miss the blessing. And you know how I know that Because over the months and the years I've known the people who are servants here, and they are blessed. They're the ones with the joyful hearts who are close to Jesus. Because that's what sustains them. And so I feel bad for you. I think you're listening. You're cheating yourself. If you hold yourself independent from the body of Christ. To serve and to work with your brothers and sisters as partners for the gospel. And I hope God will speak to you. So that because of your relationship to Jesus Christ, if you have one by faith , God will open your heart up To want to serve him by serving his people. And then that's connected finally to the last thing he says. Fourthly, he says that he is a pastoral encourager. You notice that in verse 22 He says, I'm sending him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are and that he may encourage you. It's the fourth thing. He may encourage you. Literally that he will comfort your hearts. That is, he's not just going to bring the letter and flop it down. There it is. Read it. Not just giving you information, passing it on, but he's going to do this with the encouragement, and I believe he means there the encouragement of the gospel And that prompts the observation that gospel servants are always also encouragers. Now, I don't want to embarrass any of you, and I could, because I thought of a number of you when I was writing that this week, but let me just observe That many of you have been to me through the months and the years deeply encouraging. Because the nature of a servant is not that they simply do their duty, but it's with the heart of Jesus that's always thinking about other people. I don't have that kind of heart. And if you're like me, you don't have that kind of heart in yourself. That kind of heart is only developed by the Holy Spirit as we get near Jesus. But if you get near Jesus, the gospel encourages your heart and you reflect that gospel and you encourage other people. And so as you speak to others, you you begin to speak The encouragement of the gospel. I wish I could meet ticket. I'm looking forward to meeting them in heaven, but you know, I wish I wish I could have a conversation with them here. Partly because I believe that outside of Paul who wrote this letter, probably nobody understood the letter of Ephesians better than Tychicus. He was there. What'd you mean by that, Paul? Why'd you do this? What and I'm sure they discussed it. And so I believe that when Paul says that he may encourage you, he's not saying he's going to think of some nice things that'll say that'll pick you up. He's saying so that he will take this letter and he will encourage you out of its truths. He's going to present this and he's going to tell you who you are and what you have in Jesus from chapters 1, 2, and 3, and how you live out of that in chapters 4, 5, and 6. Antichicus is going to minister to you in that personal way that an encourager is able to see and discern. Do you seek to be an encourager? Is that even on your radar screen? I would like to be more of an encourager, Lord. You all know, as I know, people that you spend time with and as they talk to you they talk about things that aren't right and this is wrong and that ought to be better and they're probably accurate. But you leave feeling heavy and discouraged. And then there's others that see the same needs But somehow they're always able to bring in the hope of the gospel and a word of encouragement, a word of gospel that lifts your heart. They help you to see Jesus and his sufficiency. And when you leave, rather than feeling heavy, your heart is light. How do people feel after they've interacted with you? You seek to be an encourager, not out of your own strength, but out of the gospel. Out of the gospel that gazes upon the Lord Jesus, who served and gave his life for you Come and let's confess our critical spirits are self-serving, complaining, and see the warmth. of the man, Paul, and the gentle servant heart of Atichicus, remembering that you and I are beloved In the sight of our God. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, help us to see In this man, Picicus, an example for us, someone who is willing to serve and didn't have his own agenda and career aspirations that I'll serve as long as I'm going to follow this career path and be noticed and recognized and most of us didn't even know. Anything about this guy until this morning? Here you placed him as a key assistant in Paul's life. And Lord, it searches my heart. Am I really willing to serve? Do I really see and know the heart of Jesus? Lord, uh Bring Jesus closer to us that we might see his heart. That we might see that because of what he's done to serve us, we are called beloved, your children. That we might draw close to you and that we might want to encourage others out of the gospel that has been such an encouragement to us. Lord, I pray that you do that this week. And if you take uh for each of these folks, Lord, I pray that they'd be able to meditate on Tychicus, maybe one characteristic a day, and just think about what you want to speak to them and that you, Holy Spirit, would speak to our hearts. The treasure of the gospel that's so encouraging because it's true. And its truth would bury itself deep into our hearts. That we might live out of that glorious truth as encouraging servants to one another. In Jesus' name. Amen.