Bad move, three people from the suburbs into the city of Baltimore, about ten blocks north of the corner. If you saw the PBS special about the corner in West Baltimore where the uh reporter lived for a year and watched the drug trafficking that was going on there. The part of West Baltimore that they moved into is called Sandtown, Winchester, and when they first moved there it looked a lot like that corner. But by God's grace and through his power, he's used the seed that was planted back then to grow a ministry that has many, many different facets. and components that are meeting those needs and that is a light, a beacon of light in a dark place. About eight years ago he called three men to come into that work, all three having leadership and and skills in worship uh leading and in preaching the word, and yet none of them called as it turned out as their gifts were unfolded, none of them called to be a senior pastor. a pastor full time to the people there. And so they began a search looking for someone to fill that role. They didn't have to look far because across town in East Baltimore, another PCA congregation, Faith Presbyterian Church, had a young man who had finished Chesapeake Seminary training. He'd had a background as a worker in young life and was a minister for the youth there. And this is a man who by his own words can shout. With three points. Just the right unique person for a very unique place, and that man is Thurman Williams. Thurman uh is uh the husband of Evie and soon to be the father of their first child. Evie was here in the first service but has uh g gone on for the second Uh and uh uh we are waiting in expectation to hear God challenge us. I th Thurman didn't shout as much in the first sermon as he sometimes does, um, but he did have three good points. So Thurman, please come in and open the word of God to us. I didn't want to scare everybody in the first service. You guys probably won't mind, so we'll have at it Thank you again. It's a real privilege to be with you. I am honored, thankful to be with you. I've been blessed by the work of your church. And I was glad to be able to share about the work of our church in our Sunday school hour. In case some of you weren't um able to be there, we do have some sheets that say New Song Is. They're in the back back there And they'll be available on the table as you're leaving, just in case you want to learn more about our ministry. If you would, open your Bibles to the book of Luke, 10th chapter. Verses 25 to 37, which is where our New Testament reading came from this morning. We're gonna look at a familiar path, it's the parable of the good Samaritan. In light of this being your missions month and your theme this year of multicultural diversity in missions, I decided to tackle a tough topic in our time this morning. It's an issue that greatly affects cross-cultural ministry, whether it be across the Atlantic or across the street. And that issue is the issue of racial reconciliation. And that's been kind of an in thing in evangelical circles over the last decade or so. There's been lots of books written about it, a lot of talk about it, but what we found is it's a lot more difficult than we might have thought originally. But through the power of the gospel, we can have hope and we can have power to see the reconciliation that we already have in Christ actually be lived out in practice. And this text is going to guide us in that. The theme for our message is Who is your Samaritan Who is your Samaritan? Once again, the text is Luke chapter 10, 25 to 37. Let's go to God with a word of prayer. Father, your word testifies about itself, saying that all scripture is God-breathed. And it's useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness. God, we need all those things, and we need them this morning. Lord, we have sung that holiness and faithfulness and righteousness are things that we long for. And we do long for those things, Lord. But we need your word, we need your spirit to work a work in us so that we can see those things practiced in our life. God, we pray that you would do a wonderful work in this body today through the Word of God. And we pray we would be different people than we were when we came in. We pray these things in the powerful and matchless name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Several years ago there was a morning where I woke up and I had a horrible toothache I wasn't sure exactly what the problem was. I just know that my mouth was aching. And so I tried to treat it on my own. I took some Advil and I took some Tylenol. I even got some ice and put ice on my mouth to try and alleviate the pain. Well, the next day I woke up and the pain was still there, even more severe, and there was a little knot that was starting to grow in the side of my mouth where the tooth was And I called a friend of mine who's a dentist and set up an appointment. This was on a Saturday and I set up an appointment on Monday. So we we were scheduled to come in and the next day I woke up and the pain was even greater And the the lump had grown even more. It looked like I was chewing tobacco. There was a giant lump on the side of my face. And so finally I went into the dentist's office. And I went in and he looked at my mouth and saw the problem. What happened is I had an abscess tooth. See, about seven years before that, I was playing basketball in high school, and I got an elbowed in the mouth And it chipped one of my teeth. And so what I did was I just kind of spit it out and finished playing the game, being a macho guy that I was And I left the tooth untreated for the next seven years. Kids, I recommend you not do that. Go to the dentist more than once every seven years So I went to the dentist and he looked at my mouth and he found the problem. Now I had tried lots of different remedies to fix this situation, but none of my remedies worked. I had to go to a master, to one who had the knowledge and the power and the compassion to be able to deal with my problem so that I could find healing. And again, there's lots of things that I could have done to try and address this problem. I could have denied that it existed. I could have tried to ignore it. I could have tried to treat it myself Could have done nothing. Or I could have taken it to one who had the power to bring healing. And that's what I did. Now I share that story with you to illustrate some things that I believe about the area of race and some of the race problems we have in our country, even among Christians. And I believe just like with my damaged tooth, there are some outward symptoms that indicate there's an inward problem. Some of these outward symptoms might be that things like the way that we view each other with different stereotypes across racial and socioeconomic lines Another outward symptom might be that even though our communities, our neighborhoods, and our workplaces are becoming more and more diverse, our times of worship are not. Someone has said that 11 a. m. is the most segregated hour of the week. Another symptom might be that though we are very active, and we should be, in cross-cultural ministry around the globe We're surprisingly inactive in cross-cultural ministry right across the street. These are just outward symptoms, though, of a deeper problem. And it's a problem that we can try lots of things on our own to address. We can ignore the problem. We can pretend it doesn't exist. We can blame shift and say that problem belongs to somebody else Or we can take our problem to a master, to a great physician named Jesus Christ, who's powerful and who's able to deal with our problem and bring healing. One of the distinctives that you find in the book of Luke is that it shows the universal nature of the gospel. It shows that this gospel is truly a gospel for people of all nations. It's for Jews, for Gentiles, tax collectors, prostitutes, rich, poor, men, women, children. This gospel is truly a gospel. For people of all nations. It was then and it is now. If you fast forward and look in the book of Revelation, in several places, you'll find a picture of worshipers. And it says that they are gathered together, worshipers of every people, tribe, nation, and language. That's the picture in heaven. That's what it's going to be like. That's the picture Of the Great Commission fulfilled. So you see why it's so important that now we deal with our issue of race and racism and racial reconciliation. Because it's a barrier to seeing this gospel go to all nations. How do we do that? We're going to find three ways in the text. Now, usually in my sermons, like they said, I have three points. Today I have three questions. First question is this. First question, who's handling your justification? Who's handling your justification? Let's go to the text. Verse 25. On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. Teacher, he asked. What must I do to inherit eternal life? So already we're starting off with the problem. This expert in the law is standing up to test Jesus. About the word of God. He's coming with the wrong posture. This word in Greek that's used for test, it's the same word that's used in Luke chapter 4 and Matthew chapter 4, which talks about how Satan Took Jesus out in the wilderness to tempt him and test him. That's what this expert in the law was doing. He's coming to Jesus with the wrong attitude And at the heart of racism or racist attitudes that we might have, at the heart is an attitude like this, which comes to God, and not out loud, but internally saying, God, my opinion Should count more than what your word says. My opinion is more important. That's what this teacher of the law was doing. Now, how did Jesus deal with them? Verse 26 What is written in the law? He replied. How do you read it? Verse 27. He answered, Love the Lord your God. With all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind. And love your neighbor as yourself. You have answered correctly, Jesus replied. Do this, and you will live. You see, in these verses, those two commandments They're termed the greatest commandments. All of the law can be summed up in those commandments. Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. That's the heart of God. Every law that you find in Scripture can fit into one of those two commandments. That's God's heart. But the problem comes. is when we look at the law and try to use it to justify ourselves. That's what happens in verse 29. Look. Look and see what he says. But he wanted to justify himself. So he asked Jesus, And who is my neighbor? He wanted to justify himself. And who is my neighbor? What was he really asking? He was asking Jesus, who do I have to love and who do I not have to love? See, at that time the Jews hated Gentiles and Samaritans, and they didn't want to love them. And so what they did was they kind of changed their interpretation of the law and said, Well, they're not really my neighbor. So I don't have to love them. He was trying to justify himself. Now imagine this. Imagine you were driving down Route 108 at 80 miles an hour. I know none of you would ever do this. This is a great stretch. But just imagine, if you will, that you're driving down the road at 80 miles an hour and a policeman pulls you over and he comes and says, You are speeding. Unless, of course, you would like to adjust the speed limit to suit the speed that you're driving, then I guess you wouldn't be speeding And you say, oh yes, officer, with inflation and all, I think fifty-five is much too low. The real speed limit should be eighty miles an hour And can you imagine the officer saying, oh yes, of course you're right. I'll tear up this ticket right away. Of course not, because you can't do that. You can't change around the law. That's what this guy was trying to do. He was trying to change it around to fit what he was doing. He wanted to justify himself The only justification that's worth anything is justification in Jesus Christ. If you put your faith in Him to save you, then you are justified. Not by works that you have done, not by your attempts at righteousness, but by the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And when you are justified, you know what happens? You are free. To say, God, have at me. Have a look at my heart. See what's there. See what's wrong. I don't have to justify myself because I'm justified in Christ. So have at me, God. If there's something you want to show me, show me. But this expert in the law was trying to justify himself. And oftentimes when we bring up these issues, the issue of race and of racial reconciliation, the first instinct that we have is we want to justify ourselves. And we say, that's not my problem. That's not true for me. I'm tired of people always bringing this stuff up. That doesn't affect me. Where are you getting your justification? If your justification comes from Christ, you are free. They say, God, search my heart. Try me, examine me, and see what's there. And guide me in the right way if I'm not going that way. Who's handling your justification? That's question one. Question two Who is your Samaritan? Who is your Samaritan? Jesus used a little story to try and show the expert in the law the problem that he had in his heart. Look at verse 30. Jesus said, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and went away, leaving him half dead. Now, if you go back and you look at life in that culture, this road from Jerusalem to Jericho was extremely dangerous And so this kind of thing would happen all the time. Robbers could hide in the mountains and jump out and ambush people who were traveling on the road. And they often would do that And that's what happened to this man. He was beaten, stripped, he's lying there half dead. So what happens? Verse 31 A priest, a religious brother, happened to be going down the same road. All right, that's good news. And when he saw the man He passed by on the other side. Now wait a minute. This is a priest. This is a man who leads the people of God in worship. And there's someone laying there on the side of the road. But the priest passed by on the other side. Let's see what happened next. Verse 32 So too. A Levite, this is another religious brother. Surely he's going to help. A Levite, when he came to the place and saw him , Passed by on the other side. A Levite did the same thing as the priest. He came along and saw this man in need. And rather than help him He passed by on the other side. I'm not sure exactly why they did that. It might be because of their rules. Of worship that if they touched a person who was lying down and bleeding and wounded, that they would be contaminated from participating in the worship service. I'm not sure if that was the reason or not Whatever the reason, they passed by. They were too busy. What they had to do was more important than helping this person in need. Oftentimes you and I, you and I are very busy people. We have daytime. I have a daytime. I haven't switched over to a palm pilot yet. Some of you have that. We're very busy. We have a set agenda for things that we're supposed to do. But once in a while There'll be people in our path that are laying in the ground, stripped, naked, half dead. Will we help them? Sometimes we don't. Because what we need to do is more important. That's what happened with the priests and the Levite. But then let's look at verse 33. But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was And when he saw him, he took pity on him. And literally that means that he was moved within his bounds. That's the compassion that he felt when he saw this man lying there, half naked, half dead. Not only did he feel compassion, but his compassion led him to action. Verse 34. It says that he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. He got close to the man. He made himself vulnerable. Then it says, Then he put the man on his own donkey, which meant that he had to walk. He gave of himself. He took him to an inn and took care of him. Verse 35, the next day He took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said. And when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. That's what the Samaritan did. He had mercy on this hurting brother. Now, what's the significance of this being a Samaritan? Let me tell you something about the relationships back then between Samaritans and Jews. They hated each other. If you look back in John chapter 4 You remember when Jesus was having a conversation with the woman at the well? Jesus came and talked to her, and the woman said, What are you doing? Jews do not associate with Samaritans They didn't even talk to them. If a Samaritan was walking down the road, a Jew would go on the other side because they didn't want a Samaritan's shadow to touch them Because they saw them as dogs. But in the story, Jesus makes the hero of the story a Samaritan. Why? Because he's trying to point out the racism in the expert of the law. The expert in the law came and said, Well, who is my neighbor? Who do I have to love? Who do I not have to love? Jesus said, you know who is going to be the hero of this story? The person that you hate. That's the hero And so I ask you again, who's your Samaritan? Put yourself in the shoes of that expert in the law. And a couple people come by and they pass by on the other side. And then you're probably waiting for Jesus to say, somebody like you! Came along and was the hero of the story. And picture Jesus saying to you, your worst enemy. The last person you would ever think would help anybody. The last person you would ever think that would be the hero. That's the hero. That's what Jesus did here. One of the shows that I I used to watch growing up was uh The Jeffersons. Anyone remember that show? And uh there was one particular episode where In the Jefferson 's building, the Ku Klux Klan was having meetings in the conference room. Now George Jefferson, the um the hero of the of the Jefferson story, is black. And not only is he black, he's loudmouthed in black. So you can picture what happened. Well they're having these meetings and they're gathering people from the building together and they're talking about how they have to get rid of this element in the building, how they're driving down the property values And how they're corrupting their kids and making the place unsafe. And George Jefferson walks in to one of these meetings. And while the guy up front is talking, George says, Yeah, you're right. That's right And the guy looks at George and says, We're talking about you. And while he's saying this, the man collapses and falls down on the ground. He goes in the cardiac, arrests. And everyone says, is there anybody here that knows CPR who can help save this man's life? Because they didn't think the paramedics were going to make it in time. And there's one person in the room that knew CPR. Guess who it was? George. And so George goes, All right, I'll come up and help And George administers CPR and saves the life of this Klansman. And then when they're carting the guy out on the gurney, they say to him, that's the guy that saved your life. And he says, he saved me? You should have let me die. Because George is his Samaritan. Who's your Samaritan? Is it a person of another race? Is it a person of another gender? Is it a person who lives in the city? Is it a person who lives in the county or the country? Is it a person who's wealthy or a person who's poor? Is it a Democrat? Or Republican. To the person who homeschools A person who sends their kids to public school. Who's your Samaritan? What Christ did here is point out to this expert in the law where he was wrong. And that's what he does to us as well. Several years ago, when I moved to the city, I moved there and soon after being there, I discovered a lot of stuff That I had that God needed to work on. There were a lot of racist attitudes or classless attitudes that I had in me That needed to be changed. I had grown up in the suburbs and worked in the suburbs my whole life. And so I came into the city thinking that I was the Messiah coming to save those people in the city. And shortly after I was there, God began to work in my heart to reveal to me that he was there in the city long before I ever thought about going. And he's gonna be there long after I'm not there anymore. God has a few things to teach me in the city, and that's what he's doing every day. That's what he's doing with us at New Song. He's breaking us. And showing us our attitudes of arrogance. He's humbling us because he's a gracious God, and that's what we need. And I pray he'd do the same to you Where you need it. And that's hard. I don't like it. But I need it. Who's your Samaritan? That's our second question. Third and final question is this. What does it look like for you to be a neighbor? What does it look like for you to be a neighbor? Let's go to verse 36. See what happens at the end of the story. Jesus said to the expert in the law, which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of the of robbers. Notice how Jesus changed the question around. Earlier the expert in the law said, Who is my neighbor? But Jesus has changed it around to say this is how you be a neighbor. To everybody. Sometimes we take that commandment which says, love your neighbor as yourself, and we change it to say, love your neighbor who's like yourself. But Jesus says you'd be a neighbor, whether that person's of another race, of another gender, of a different address, political party, whatever. You'd be a neighbor. In verse 37, we find out that the expert got the message. The expert in the law replied, The one who had mercy on him. Notice his words. He doesn't even say the Samaritan He can't go that far. He can't bring himself to say that. But he says, the one who had mercy on him. Jesus got his point across But it didn't stop here. The end of verse 37. Jesus told them Go and do likewise. Jesus wasn't just saying, I want you to feel really guilty about your sin. He wasn't just saying, listen, go home and write a check to Samaritan missions and put it in the box. He's calling them to more than that. He's saying the same mercy that you've seen in this person that you hate. I want you to emulate that. Not just the people you feel like it, but to everybody. Go and do likewise. What does it mean for you and I to go and do likewise? What will that mean for you? I don't know. For some of you, it might mean going to someone and asking for their forgiveness for an action or for an attitude you've had. For some of you, it might mean stepping out of your comfort zone. And reaching out to people you would normally run away from. Whatever it means for you, I know this. It means that you've got to step out in faith in Jesus Christ. Not in yourself, because you can't do it. You can walk out of here saying, I'm gonna be racially reconciled, I'm gonna be reconciliation man or woman. And I bet you'll make it probably to your car. Before you fail, you can't do it. But the good news today is that we have a Savior who's powerful. Whose death on a cross was powerful enough to die for all of our sins, including mine, and that's significant, and all of yours. Including this the sin of racism or classism or whatever is in our hearts. The cross is big enough to die for that. What will it mean for you to be a neighbor? The Bible tells us that God is able to do immeasurably more than all we could ask or imagine, according to his power that's at work within us. You believe that? That's what the Bible says. It says that God hasn't given us a spirit of fear or timidity, but He's given us a spirit of power and love and self-control. You believe that? That's what it says. God's Word says that what is impossible with man is possible with God. You believe that? It's in the word. That means it's true. What will it look like for you to be a neighbor? Who's your Samaritan? Who's handling your justification? Be encouraged today that though we have a ways to go in the area of race and reconciliation, God is powerful enough To do this. And he's working now. He's doing something in the area of race. And you can be a part of it. Let me close with this. A few years ago I got the chance to go to a pastor's conference in Atlanta that was sponsored by Promise Keepers. Forty-four thousand pastors from all over the country were at this conference in the Georgia Dome. It was just a wonderful time. One night there was a talk about racial reconciliation, incredibly powerful, incredibly convicting. And at the end of that message, there were five pastors that walked up to the podium. One white, one black, one Asian American, one Native American, one Hispanic. And each of them took about five minutes to confess their sin. Both individually and corporately, on behalf of their race. They were confessing their part in the racial problem. And it was an incredibly powerful time. Well, at the end of that, the president of Promise Keepers, Bill McCartney, came up and he says, we want to do something special. I want all the minority pastors, there are about 10,000 of us, to come down out of the stands and come down here up front, and we're going to pray for you. And I was up in the top level, and I remember going down the stairs, the ramp, and we were all kind of jogging down, and you could hear the crowd cheering It felt like you were at the Super Bowl. I've never been around that much testosterone in my life. And I remember running out the gate And there were guys hanging out the aisle slapping high fives and cheering. It was incredible. And then I remember that the high fives started to change into hugs. And embraces. And we got a sense that God was doing something powerfully there in that stadium. And there was one particular guy that hugged me and wouldn't let me go. And he looked at me and he had tears streaming down his face. And he said, brother, listen, I'm from Alabama. And I want to confess to you the sins that me and my family have committed against black people. Please forgive me. And in that moment I started to think back. My mother's from Alabama. Grew up there in the time of segregation. And I remember all the stories she told me about life there. And I thought about the things that I had experienced. And I looked back at the guy and I said, Yes, in the name of Christ, I forgive you. And I want you to know today That moment was an incredible moment of healing in my life and for the lives of all of us who were there. Now, has it solved all the racial problems in our country? Obviously not. But I want to tell you something. I got a taste that night of what God has the power to do in this area of race. God is going to use you in incredible ways to be a blessing to your neighbors of every race, of every ethnicity. That's what God will do. Paul said that the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God And it has the power to triumph over all our sin, including the sin of racism. The gospel has the power, brothers and sisters, to turn our Samaritans And the brothers and sisters in Christ. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you We thank you for this time and we thank you for what you are doing across racial lines. You are breaking down walls. We thank you that we already are reconciled in Christ, not because of anything that we've done, but because of your grace. We thank you also that we are God's workmanship, all of us, whatever our ethnicity, we are created in Christ Jesus to do good works which you've prepared in advance for us to do. And I pray you would continue to bless Columbia Presbyterian. And you would continue to spread the message of the kingdom throughout the world. As well as right here in Columbia, through this church. We pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. And all God's people said, Amen.