We come out of our place and our purpose which is the view of God's words and the proplayer of it. And then that we come to the second part and the conclusion of our investigation into the meaning of Jesus' word. In John 4, verses 23 and 24 concerning true worship. And Jesus said that true worship is the worship of God in spirit. Let's hear now God's infallible word as he relates to us both an occasion and his teaching here concerning worship from John chapter 4 Let's hear that the word of God. The Pharisees heard the Jesus was doing and baptizing more disciples from John, although in fact he was not Jesus he baptized for his disciples. And the Lord learned of this He left Libya and went back once more to Galilee. Gallow had to go through scenario. He came to a common scenario called Cyclop, near the plot of land had given to his son Jacob. So the dwell was there, and Zus carried it away from the game and sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. One of Samaritan women came to draw us water, Zusha said to us Will you give me a post? Fifty papers have gone into the town to buy Greece. The Samaritan woman said to him, You are Jews? And I'm a Samaritan woman? How can you ask Jews for Greeks? But Jesus did not associate this man. Jesus answered if if you knew the gift of God and who it is that asked you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you liberty water. Fair the woman said, We have nothing to dwell with, and the well is deep. Where do you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us the well and drank some of himself? He did also his sons and his flocks and birds. Jesus answered, everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty of blood. And who drinks the water is I will give him will never face. Relieve the water I give him will become in him a spring of water, well enough to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I won't dispense you and have to keep coming here to draw water. He told him Then call your husband and come back. I have no husband. You're right when you said I have no you have no husband The fact is you have had five husbands, and the man that you now have is not your husband. What you have just said is two. I can see the view, our father. Our father's worshiped on this mountain, but Jesus claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. Jesus became woman. Time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know For salvation is come to you. But a time is coming and has now come when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and in speech. There are the kind of worshipers that Father seeks. God is spirit. And his worshipers must worship his spirit. And he sees. When he says, I know that the fire tried to come up. When he comes, he will explain everything to me. And Jesus explains. Why do you speak to you? I thought again, no. Give us understanding These people to this people become this matter. Words we come wanting to be taught. We come and we come with our ideas about what worship is. But we come consulting to being used. Father, I pray that you will enable me to be faithful to your word. I pray that you would enable each of us to receive your word. that our heart should be open. And if you would take that word and plant it into us into our eyes , that it might be a free Fruit of worship in fear of the truth. People are research. For Jesus Christ. Last week we focus on the matter of worshiping God in spirit. And that's part of his teaching. We talked about the fact that we see him and outline there that worshiping in spirit is a matter of worshiping in the uh the matter of the human sphere. The matter of worshiping with our heart. It's not simply going through mechanical motions But it's a a heart attitude. It's not so much a matter of what you do, what position we're in, but it's a matter of where our heart is. For the Lord. It's not a matter of the place that we're in, whether it's in Samaria , Jerusalem, whether it's in something we call a church building or any place else. It's a matter of the heart Worship must be in spirit. It must be with our whole heart, our human spirit. We also talked about the fact that worship in spirit means worship by the Holy Spirit. That our spirits are dead until the Holy Spirit quickens them, makes them alive, and shows us our needs to Jesus Christ. Shows us that he is in fact the living God that commands and deserves our worship. So the Holy Spirit is the one who enables us to worship. Worship in spirit then is worship of the whole heart, enabled by the Holy Spirit to draw nigh to God. Worship, as we saw there also, began to treat and truth. Worship through worship must be in spirit and it must be in truth. We talked about the fact that it must be the true object of our worship, the true and living God that we worship in order for worship to be true. But I want to see uh pursue this further this morning and I want to develop all three of those parts of what it means to worship God in truth It involves, I think, three parts at least that Jesus has in mind as he speaks these words to us. To worship in truth means to worship the true object Uh there must be a true object of our worship, and that is a matter of who we worship. True worship speaks also of the true manner of our worship. a question of how we worship. And certainly true worship speaks of the true motives that we must have in worship. Well why we worship Now if you look at that outline that you have, you see that what I've done in order to help us to understand this and to see what God is saying to us, I've taken those three points, the A, B, and the C And I've tried to help us to understand them understand them by contrasting true worship with false worship. And so there's a a kind of a chart, a diagram there of two columns. You see true wors false worship on the left and true worship on the right. So that A true object of our worship is there under A in that left column and and then in the right column and then B deals with the true manner of our worship and then on the back side of the bullet you see C dealing with with the true motive in worship and then from application. I want you to understand these are related, the A, B, and the C under worshiping in truth and then the A, B, and C as we look and contrast true and false worship together. See, it's not enough for us to worship God in spirit. We must worship him in truth in these three ways. First of all, then the object of our worship must be true, must be the true living God that we worship. Last week we talked about how God reveals himself by his name, his covenant, his works, his words, and ultimately in his son. False worship is obviously worshiping a false god. And yet, uh, I think if we were to Zamin in Columbia here, there's probably not a whole lot of you that have idols in your living rooms. Uh Don't have little false gods around in your bedrooms of beyond the uh bed or over the mantle or something like this Uh for us, false worship is not an obvious physical idolatry. It's worshiping God, the Word of God, with a false notion about what God is and who God is. You see God, apart from Jesus Christ, apart from his revelation in Jesus Christ, is the false God, and that's false worship. Give you a practical example of that. Just recently, one of the Jewish congregations here in the meeting house uh taught very vigorously to have us co-sponsor with them in a series of seminars on creation. And they very much wanted us to give that statement of unity that we could have with them by uh having a man speak um the rabbi on creation simply from the first couple chapters of Genesis. Looking at what the text says Trying to understand that. They assured us that everything that would be said would be things that we could agree with would be straight out of the Bible Yet reluctantly, but uh adamantly I had to say that we really couldn't do that, simply because God, if he is not the God who is revealed in Jesus Christ It's not the God that we can worship. A God must not only be a God who is spoken of in some vague way that we can say that That mercy is in common with what the Bible says, but it must be the full orb understanding of God in Christ. And if it's not, then that's not the true God. Now I'd even go further and say that true worship must focus on Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ must be the absolute central focus of any true worship. I think we miss that because as Christians we separate the Old Testament from the New Testament too much. Christians today, when they say, What does the Bible say about how we worship? generally says, Well, the Bible doesn't really say a whole lot about how we worship. Very little in the New Testament about how we worship, neglecting the fact that the Old Testament tells us a great deal about how we're to worship God. And if we think that the Old Testament is something that's all been fulfilled, doesn't have any relevance for us, that was just for the Jews, and so it doesn't really teach us anything about how we worship Then we've missed the very important and very vital teaching that God writes for us in order to teach us what true worship is. We can't understand true worship Apart from the Old Testament. And if you look at Old Testament worship, it focused on Jesus Christ throughout For example, what was the center of Old Testament worship? It was the tabernacle or the temple later on. Now examine the tabernacle and the temple and see who is with the focus at the very center of the worship there. Let's suppose we're going into the temple courts now. Here's the temple before or the tabernacle. Same furniture, so it doesn't make any difference. You go into that court and what's the first thing you come up on The altar. The altar there for the burnt offering. But what does that say to you? It says, see, as soon as you see that altar But the scripture says there is two is it that can approach to God in worship? He that has clean hands and a pure heart. That's who worships God. And I realize that I don't have clean hands, and I don't have a pure heart So I can't worship God. I can't draw near to this God who is holy and just. And if you're like me this morning, and every one of you are like me this morning in this respect, we don't have clean hands and a pure heart. We can 't approach a holy and just God in all his majesty and purity and worship him the way we are. The all that speaks to you and to me about the fact that God said I start to make a provision to you, in order so that you can worship me And so the altar spoke to the view of the fact that God said there's a sacrifice that's got to be made. And you've got to place your hands on that sacrifice and identify with that sacrifice. And that sacrifice has to be laid on that altar as a substitute for you So that by that sacrifice you move, you can draw near into God's presence. And of course, who is that sacrifice? The sacrifice of Jesus. The author speaks to us about Jesus and his sacrifice on the cross, made so that you and I could be forgiven, so that you could be washed and so that you could be made grateful for God and approach him as one whose sin is covered. And God doesn't see it. But then there's a second thing if you go beyond the altar, and what do you see there? You see the labor. What was the labor? A great big basement. Great big basement. And this basin was filled with water, filled washing. And as we look at that, we'll be reminded that in worship we must come cleansed. Not simply forgiven, but cleansed Do you feel dirty this morning? Do you feel like you can't really worship God because you're not clean Believers speak to you and to me of the fact that Jesus Christ sacrificed on the cross didn't only forgive it and justify it, it cleanses it and it sanctified it. Only the person who is clean The whole life cleansed and pure in worship of pure and holy God. And believe it was Jesus. Jesus is the one who cleanses us. Jesus is the one who makes you and me spotless in his sight so that we can come before him boldly and we can worship him this morning. And there you go into the holy place And as you enter into that holy place, what do you see? Three articles of furniture. The candlestick, the seven branch candlestick, which speaks to Jesus as the light of the world. You see on the other side the table of the showbread or the bread of the present. The bread that only the priest could eat. In order to eat that bread, you had to be falsified and consecrated to God. And who is that bread? Jesus says, I'm the bread of life. And so that speaks to us of Jesus, the bread of life, on whom we feed when we worship. He was the one that we feed on as we come here morning by morning. As we come here week by week. in order to lift him up. Beyond that you see there before that great veil that went into the Holy of Holies, the altar of incense Incense was laid on there every morning and every evening, and it was kindled, and as the incense glowed and burned, smoke arose up from that altar. And that smoke the Bible tells us was the prayers of the saints How do we pray? It's through Jesus' name. Jesus is that altar of incense that makes our prayers acceptable to God. If we look at that all our evasions, we're reminded that Jesus Christ raised us to God. And he's the one that enables us to come boldly to his throne of grace to find help in time of need. And to speak to him so that our prayers are a sweet-smelling instance to our God. There beyond the altar of incense is that great, massive veil, that impenetrable veil, through which only once a year could the high priest entered into the very holy of holies. Like to hear that high priest who goes through that veil, cleansed himself with a sacrifice on behalf of the people. And if he went into the holy of holies, what did he see? There was just one thing there. It captured his attention. One thing. It was a box about two feet by four feet, and it was solid gold. And inside of that box, which was called the Ark of the Covenant Were the Ten Commandments. Commandments written on stone by the very finger of God. Other things were there also as signs of God's grace. But the central theme, the central focus of that What is it with the Ark of the Covenant containing the law, the commandments of God, the very heart of his covenant? And if you look at that Ark of the Covenant, you remind us that God is just God You're reminded that he's a pure God who can't countenance sin. He can't look lightly on sin. He's a God who's untouched by sin. He's a God whom if we're going to worship we must worship without sin. For sin can't stand in his presence. And as we look at that ark, we're smitten, as we realize, how can I come to this guy to work Lost is not only a box containing lost being a command. Yours was covered with a lid. And that lid had upon it two cherubids, two angels, with their wings outstretched, one from the left and one from the right, with their wings pointing toward each other. And that lid that those angels were perched upon, with their wings outspread toward one another, that lid was called the mercy seat. God said he looked at what between those angels, and that's where I am. That's the very focus of my presence every other ancient Euristian religion, and it had some sort of a symbol like this of the very focus of the god that they worshiped. He was an idol Relief, an Israel of all religions of the world. What do you see there between the two angels on the most deceit? Nothing. So God is here. And those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. And God says, my presence is there, and I'm spirit. You can't touch me, you can't handle me. For I'm the God in the heavens in the earth. And there I am as a symbol of my holiness to the angels that are outfretched before me. I said there's nothing there on that mercy seat, but that's not quite correct. But there was something there. If you look closer and you look at that ark and you see that shining gold in the dim gloom of the Holy of Holies You find there's something on that gold. You know what it is? Dried blood. Dried put on that solid gold Why is the blood there? Because God said, that's where I lead you as my people. And in order for there to be mercy over the law, God said, I'm the God of blood. I am the God who has sacrificed himself so that I would use you there on the mighty feet. And once a year the high priest would come in with the blood of the sacrifice that had been offered on the altar outside And you take that mud and you would sprinkle it on the mercy seat. And if you sprinkle that mud on the mercy seat, it was a pitch. But Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ who said, I am the one who has fulfilled the law. And in fulfilling that law, I am the one who has given myself a sacrifice. Shed my blood so that there I would meet you at the cross. There's only one thing to you and I can work with God. This is the foot of the cross at the feet of Jesus. If you look at his male fierce hands and his feet and his fierce left in his heart, it's only when you see Jesus as you crucified and repeat Jesus that you understand what we're to do Worship is not simply to worship God, it's to worship God in all his fullness and holiness as he's revealed himself in Jesus Christ. And worship in the Old Testament as well as the New Testament focused upon Jesus Christ. It's the only way that you and I can worship. Worship then for you and for me is to be reminded week by week and every time we join me to die. of Jesus loving sacrifice for us. I'd like to ask you to pray for me and pray for those of us who lead you in worship Not worshiping for you, but leading you as God's people in worship. Pray for yourselves that each week each of us gets a fresh reason of Jesus. You know, if I try to preach about Jesus Christ here this morning, and I only know what I've seen of him on Wednesday, it'll come out dead and rising, you know, like so If I preach to you my knowledge of Jesus as I gained it yesterday morning in the study, it's still too late. The only way I can preach to you about Jesus. The only way I can point you to see his mercy and his love and his grace and his wonders is that this morning Jesus has become fresh and real to me If this morning I passed through that altar and the laser and passed the lights and the bread and the altar of incense into that holy of holies and I met with Jesus Christ there. One way to think you, brother and sister in Jesus Christ in Washington, is if you've met with Jesus this morning. If you're meeting with him right now and you're focusing upon him, conscious of him, conscious that we're here in the presence of Jesus Christ , not simply here going through some rituals. It has to do with certain facts about the Bible. We must have a fresh vision of Jesus in order to worship increase. Because Jesus is the truth and worship with its increase must focus on Jesus Christ Now that the that view for the object of our worship. But true worship must also be worship. It's true in its manner of worship. True in the manner of worship. False worship you see is a worship that focuses on man's ideas about worship. False worship says that My sincerity is enough. Because that if I really am trying to draw near to God and I offer him something out of the sincerity of my heart, whatever I feel honors Jesus is enough. That's what God will be pleased with. The more creative and the more spontaneous and the more free I can be in my worship, the more pleased God will be with that because worship is in spirit. Problem with that is But that is not what God defines as means. I remember once having a discussion a number of years ago with the church meetings about the nature of true worship And as we met together, one of them said, Now let's establish as a ground rule that whatever it is that honors Jesus Christ is what we'll accept as the touchstone for what is true worship. And I said, well I don't want to use the room, but I've got to disagree with those ground rings. Because how do you know what honor is Jesus Christ? What I suggest we adopt as the foundation is whatever the scripture says honors Jesus Christ is what we'll accept as the foundation. He said, but what's the difference? And I said the difference is I don't trust my own mind I don't trust my heart to tell me what it is that honors Jesus Christ. Because I have a sin-darkened mind. And God's got to tell me how to worship him No, you don't have those hymnals this morning, but in the Westminster Confession of Faith, back in chapter 21, that we quoted from last week, there's a very succinct and very helpful statement about this that I'd like to read In chapter 21, in section one, back in 1643, remember this was written, the light of nature shows that there is a God. Who has lordship and sovereignty over all, is good, and does good to all, and is therefore to be feared, loved, praised, called upon, trusted in, and served With all the heart, and with all the soul, and with all the might. But the acceptable way of worshiping the true God is instituted by Himself. And so limited by his own revealed will that he may not be worshipped according to the imaginations and devices of men, or the suggestions of Satan under any visible representation or any other way not prescribed in the Holy Scripture. What that's saying is that worship must be increased. And only God can tell us how to worship him increase. You know, he's done that ever since the very beginning. Again, we have to understand our Old Testament to see the fullness of that. You have at the very beginning of human history an act of worship recorded in the book of Genesis, chapter 4. Cain and Abel. And do you remember what happened there? They both came to worship God. And Cain said, I'm a man who killed the soil. And what's meaningful to me is to offer to God the fruit of the ground. And so Paul offered the fruit of the ground, and God did not accept it as worship. Because of it implied there, God had determined where it was to worship him. They brought it to the Lord Jesus And we read also that God accepted Abel's sacrifice. He accepted Abel's offering. He was pleasing to him. implying clearly there that God had said what it was was the proper way to approach it, what the sacrifice could be. In fact that's so clear because if you read through that When Cain's sacrifice is not accepted because it's not the way God told him to worship, God says to Cain, Cain if you do right The face will be lifted up. He's gotten, he's revealed to Cain what's right and wrong. Cain simply says, I'm going to worship you the way I want to worship you The guy says that's not enough for me. Gotta be the way I suppose it's towards it. But Miller comes out of the ark after floating around there for all those months. Did you hop out of the ark and say, well now let's see what would the Lord like? Well I think I'll just give him something that really feels good and give me some real joy in expressing my worship for the Lord. No Believe that Noah offered a burnt offering. That God had revealed somehow to Noah that we don't have the record of, that that was the appropriate sacrifice to make. That was pleasing worship to God. So you have through Abraham, the man who called us, the man of the tent and the altar, never had a permanent home, and never had one place It was set aside for worship. But everywhere God reveals himself, Abraham gives an appropriate response according to God's directions as to how to worship him. We will go on down through the tabernacle. And when the tabernacle is commanded, it's a place to worship God. It's interesting. You look at Exodus And in chapters thirty-six to forty you have minute detailed instructions about how that tabernacle is to be erected How people are to worship. You have the whole sacrificial system laid out. How you're to approach God On all the particular details, several chapters of the book of Leviticus are spent simply telling us how to worship Two kinds of offering to the office. It's beef smelling awesome and the non-chees smelling awesome. Remember there were three kinds of sweet smelling offerings, the burnt offering, the peace offering, and the uh meal offering or the uh grain offering. And then there were the non-sweet smelling offerings. Those offerings that were for sin Now there's offerings that were to atone for sin, the sin offering and the trespass offering. And God tells all the details about How these are to be laid on the altar and which way there's to be a cut and exactly what's to be offered, and there's a difference between heaving it and waving it, and all the particular details that we looked at is a staggering I used to tell exactly how you propose God. But all of those things again, speak of Jesus Christ. So particular were those things that when God had executed that You remember that after he had told all the details of this, you have Nabab and Abaihu. Nabab's name, interestingly enough, means liberal. You get a liberal view of worship And he said, I'm going to offer to God the sacrifice that seems to me to be appropriate. So he took a spire. Now it's a very minute detail too, isn't it? God said offer a a fire to kindle that offering. And they Davinabai offered a fire, and it's just one little pity thing wrong with that fire. It wasn't from the consecrated fire that they would have taken Remember what happened as they offered that to worship to God? God cut them dead. They were smitten dead in a moment. Because God said, You will not be him to tell me how you will worship me. I have told you how you must worship me, believing in true God. God had given specific instructions how the ark was to be carried. No one was to touch the ark, it had rings in it, and those rings were to be There were supposed to be poles put through those rings so that the priests would carry the poles on their shoulders The ark therefore was to be carried by man, by God's creatures. David, he's bringing the ark up to Jerusalem. He's so excited, he's jumping and a dancing and a singing, singing, and he says Why not just take that ark and we'll stick it on a cart and we'll take it up to Jerusalem? Not a big deal, man. Carry the told to stick it on a cart. He cares Paper and a carton carries it all in there and the oxygen stumble and the arc begins to chase and others standing beside it in a rush of piety and concern for the Lord sticks out his hand to touch and hold the ark and what happens? I was struck there in just a moment. And David stops his dancing and stops the singing and the whole procession comes to a halt. Do you remember what they said back there? It was recorded to us in 1 Samuel. In 1 Samuel chapter 6 He says They set the ark on the cart and and the women when other was struck dead, the David was angry. Because of the Lord's wrath has broken out the others. And they take the ark and they don't take it any further. They simply put it in a man 's house. And all of their rejoicing and their feasting return to mourning. Return to fasting. David has to wrestle with his whole new view of God. David says, What's the matter, Lord? My heart was in the right place. God says if your heart was really in the right place, you would have done it my way. And you wouldn't have designed for yourself what seemed good to you. You would have realized I'm believing in the true God, and if you're going to worship me, you start to worship me in a way that I say is appropriate to you Christians today say, well, that's all for the Old Testament. We don't have to worry about that. God's just bid us to come directly into his presence to come through Jesus Christ. Now what really matters is our sincerity You know why we think that? Because we've lost the full sense of the ship 's understanding of the presence of God We've misunderstood the access that we have to God through Jesus Christ, which is such a simple and direct privilege, as being a peaceful. And so we don't understand what it means for us to be assembled here this morning in the very presence of our God. Well, we have the presence of the Lord with it constantly, because the Holy Spirit dwells in us God has said when we assemble together for worship, he sets his name there in a particular way, so that we are assembled in the heavenly Excuse me, the heavenly Jerusalem, Mount Zion, with all the assembly of a host of angels gathered about us in order to worship the living and true God Now if you were to take the sun and take a thin head of material and feed it to the temperature of the sun Hold that a distance of 100 miles to me, it will kill you instantly. That's how Powerful is the energy of the sun. A pin head work would kill you at a distance of a hundred miles. But our God is the radiance and the majesty of ten thousand times, ten thousand times. We need to understand that to come into his presence is to come into his presence covered by the blood of Jesus, it's the only thing that keeps us alive. It 's the only way that we can approach our God and let's not tell the privilege of our access to the achieved things. There are very few instructions given in the New Testament about how we're to worship God, but there are some, and we'll be looking at those in the weeks ahead. The things that are called the elements of worship I'm not concerned with that for this morning. All I'm concerned to establish is the point that we do it God's way. Because he's got And that our worship before him must be done in spirit and in truth, not the way that simply seems best to us. Because it's of God who reveals himself and the manner of how we worship him. Thirdly, the final thing is that there's a contrast here in the motive toward this thing There's a contrast to our motives. False motives of worship are are is worship that is not true, it's not sincere, it's not honest. Falk worship is worship in which my mouth is saying something different from my heart. My mouth is speaking words of prostration, worship before the Lord, but my heart is standing direct and pray out. Two worship is worship in which my mouth, the things I sing and say, reflect my heart's attitude That's the worship God in truth. Interesting to me how we as Christians make a dipodomo here. Things we would never say to the Lord, we don't have any trouble singing to him. You know, we uh we wrestle in our quiet times with the things that we're willing to commit to the Lord and struggle over the particular issues of the day And then we all come here and we have no problem saying, uh, take my life and let it be consecrated. Or to be take my silver and my gold, not a mite that I would hold, you know. Home was struggling over whether we could hide or not. And we sing things that we really aren't giving thought to. Well, let me exhort you, Christian. That's what you think. To say something you don't mean is to not worship in truth. Some of the hymns that are written as gospel songs are songs that seem to me to be quite bold in their assertions I love to tell the story. This week I blew four opportunities of people I could have talked to about the Lord. Why? Because I didn't want to tell them. I love to tell the story too so much to me Every day with Jesus are sweeter than the day before. They're struggling up and down and up and down and up and down. But watch what we see. For we must sing truth. We must sing things that we can honestly say to God. And if you notice something in a hymn that doesn't seem to be to be truth, there's something you can sing Stop out, don't sing it. Far better if you don't sing that and be honest before the Lord than that we thoughtlessly fall into a pattern where it doesn't matter what we say. Just for the appearance of it. Because of what others might think. Worship isn't true, but to worship God with a key motive. I want to worship him because I love him I worship him because he draws me and compels me to worship him because of who he is. Not simply because I ought to be here and do it Finally applying these things. The point of all this you see is to be understand what is the proper text. He measured true worship. True worship, you see, is measured by God's word , not by our reactions alone, you think For instance, you have the problem of two words that being measured by some people as an intellectual reaction. Whether the service was interesting or stimulated to see. Some people get the idea that if the service had something new to offer, some interesting story or inflate in the scripture, that made it true worship. And if it didn't Wasn't worship, wasn't it worthwhile? So you go out and say, Well that was an interesting sermon. That was a stimulating service. Made it worthwhile, made it worship. That's not what meets worship, it's not what constitutes worship. Constitute worship is whether it's in spirit, whether it's in the truth, whether Jesus is the focus of it, whether we're doing the things that God says to do with our whole heart being entered into it, become a form. They have the other problem That worship is made by the emotional reaction alone. And this is such a problem today, you know, and such a reaction against the the dead kind of worship it with emotion lessons. And don't misunderstand me for a moment to say that emotions are not very important in our worship. If you worship Jesus Christ and there's no emotional and being moved by that, if I if I can somehow sing the hymns and pray and and come before God and I'm not deeply moved in my emotions, then I'm not really worshiping. Well that's not in spirit. I'm not saying it has to be an emotionally uh earth taking a baby Sunday. I'm simply saying my emotions must be involved in that. But emotions don't measure whether something is worship. You see, I don't go from a service and I say, that was a moving service, what a blessing, therefore it is worship. And if something wasn't moving to me, it wasn't worthless. If it was moving to me, then it was worthless. That is not the criteria for true worship. It's an important factor But it's not the criteria. I could tell you a story that would lead you to tears. Have half the congregation with their handkerchiefs out and winging their nose may not have anything to do with worth it. You might go from saying, Oh, what a service they give you So moved by that. The question And if you think of Jesus? Did the story show you anything about Jesus and who he is, so that your heart was drawn to him To adore him, to fall before him, to be Lord. So it is simply a moving story. Was it simply a moving service in one way or another? Well then we have the other thing, the third thing. That a worship service is not to be measured by its aesthetics alone. By aesthetics, that is, whether it was beautiful or not. Some people make the services this way. If it was a beautiful service, then it was a worthless service. If it wasn't beautiful in some way that I understand that then it wasn't really worship. And that becomes dangerously close for many people to whether it was an entertaining service or not. Now, you know, you might go down to the Washington Cathedral You see all of the great beauty, of the awesome beauty of those arches and the stained glass windows and everything that's there, and you can hear the Mormon Tabernacle choir sing the hallelujah chorus. And it might be worshiped The beauty itself, the aesthetics itself, don't constitute worship. Worship must be beautiful, because God is the God of beauty, and we should try to make our worship beautiful But let's be careful that we don't fall into the trap that says if something was beautiful or entertaining, then I saw it as worth it. You know, you might just simply be enjoying a musical performance You say, no, it's just really pretty. I really enjoyed that. And not have any God-directed thoughts, not any thoughts of worship that's directed to Jesus Christ. And we think about worship. But worship must be in spirit and truth, directing our attention to Jesus Christ in his way. Now a lot of things that I used to think years ago were beautiful. I now look back on and see a simple term But my understanding of beauty being changed. And if the Lord teaches us what beauty is, he teaches us how beauty focuses on Jesus Christ. And so we can't go by our own judgment through that. We must cease to make things beautiful, cease to bring in our emotions, cease to make things so that they are intellectually stimulating to us and season things The primary concern is do those things focused on Jesus Christ? And are they done the way the scripture says that they're to be done? That's the constitution. Not my blessing, but God's pleasure, which is measured in spirit and peace. One final thing that I want us to notice in this text is that we don't miss the fact that in this text is no other thing that is wrong, so I'll leave this text now I just wanted to do one last thing. You notice in this text, in John 4, 23 and 24, how God is the initiator of worship in each faith You notice how he says there, the time is coming verse 23, when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they're the kind of worshipers the Father seats. Whereas New American saying that says the Father seats plus we worship it. Isn't that staggering to you? God doesn't just seek worship from angels. He didn't destroy the human race and create another sinless race, who would worship him? So that they would be uh so that they would be uh adequate to worship him. But God has sought since to worship him. One of the few times you read in the whole scripture that God seeks anything. Hardly ever read that phrase. Only one or two other places in all scriptures you read God seeking for anything. What is it that God seeks? He seeks worshippers out of sinners. God sought you and me like a shepherd you went for the lost lamb out of the fold. He sought us to be his worshipers. God initiated that speech. So the geek and I could be here this morning. Out of souls who could care less in Sunday morning We use it as a time simply to sweep in. We have no interest in the things of God, but those who come to worship because God is God of God. And secondly, God is the one who's provided his spirit for us to worship He's given his spirit to dwell in you and me, to make our hearts, hearts that can come before Him to worship. God's initiated that. He's given His Spirit for you to worship. He doesn't call on you to worship in your own strength He's giving you his spirit. Finally, the Lord himself has revealed himself to us. He's taking the initiative in that. Tell us who he is He gave us the pictures and the tabernacle and the temple and all the sacrifices so that we might see Jesus. And he told us how we can come to us. So that we might worship them. Because worship is a worship that is in spirit and truth. How gracious a God to give us these things. What a privilege. What a crazy. Oh Lord Adam, we come before you in worship. Father, it's a worship that of itself reflects that you are a goddess who has taught us to be your worshipers Who has provided your spirit to quicken us, make us alive, so we might see Jesus and want to fall down before Him in worship Lord God, He revealed Himself to us, He's told us how to worship Him. He's drawn us here as those who center our attention upon Jesus Christ. Help us Lord to be concerned in all that we do and sing and say. That it be done truly and honestly. That it be done with you as the center of our attention. In the ways that you prescribed in your word, and Father get you done The way it is concerned that you receive the pleasure more than that we receive a blessing Be pleased with our worship, Lord, for you are so worthy. You 've made us and you have brought us free from sinners like us. Lord, how we worship you and adore you, our great God and Christ. Amen.