It's fun to be back up here to open First Peter to you again. We're resuming our visit in First Peter that I continue and carry on periodically. Today we're going to look at 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 21 through 25. And there's a couple of points I want to make as we start this message. The first is no better place for that. The first is that Peter is a letter written to churches in northern Turkey that are dealing with persecution. They're being bitterly pressed. And what Peter's writing to address is hope. In chapter 1, as soon as he opens with the with the salutation, he moves into the fact that we have been born again to a living hope. In verse 13 of the same chapter he says, Therefore gird your minds for actions, be sober-minded, and fix your hope. fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. And some of your translations are going to make that look like that it's a future hope. That it is a hope that is only given to you or to be given to you in the in the revelation of Christ, i. e. the coming. His return. But the truth of the matter is, as I mentioned when I taught that before, there is only a present participle there, and there's no other sense of time except the revelation of Christ. And if you read what immediately precedes that verse, it talks about how Christ had been revealed in his coming. So there certainly is a future component to the hope that Peter is addressing to those in persecution and suffering. But please don't miss the present hope. As a matter of fact, it's that present hope that Peter addresses in chapter 3 when he says, always being ready to give a defense for the hope that is in you. And so this is a letter written to people in difficult straits that is articulating and explaining and pressing us to a present hope. And so let me open us in prayer as we go into the study of 1 Peter. Jesus, as we come to you, we need you desperately. And we come to you recognizing that need. So meet us, teach us, show us, show us not merely a hope, but show us yourself. For you are our hero, you are our example, you are our model. And we ask, Lord Jesus, that you would meet us in precious and powerful ways today as we look at the word you have given to us. About yourself. In your name we pray. Amen. In this passage, Peter's going to make three particular points that I want us to keep in mind as we look at this. The first point is that Jesus is indeed An example. He is a model. In summary, he's a hero. Secondly, that living as ones who follow Christ means living in particular ways. To follow Christ will have a profound impact on your life. And thirdly, that if you have any hope of being one who follows Christ, your only hope is the power of the gospel. You cannot do this in your own strength. And so those are the points that I want us to address. But the first question I want to ask you this morning, I'm going to put this back up here because it's in my way. And you'll hear about this later, but don't pray for it now. Listen now, please. The passage that we have is 1 Peter 2. For to this you have been called because Christ also suffered for you, as Tom just read, leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps. This is a precious passage, and I want to direct us to it as we look at how this passage influences our lives today. But the question that I want us to look at first is who is your hero? We have a lot of different choices. Um A hero is a role model. A hero is someone that we want to be like, someone who does remarkable things, someone who gives us hope. And and in our culture today, y you might think that Obi-Wan Kenobi is a hero. You might not necessarily want to look at the older Obi-Wan Kenobi, but the younger Obi Wan Kenobi because he frankly looks better. I'm getting a response. I like this. If you're not all that concerned about looks, you might think about Yoda. Somebody in the in the first service today told me that Yoda was her hero because he's short And he's still really amazing. I i if if Star Wars isn't your cup of tea, then we might want to think about Airborne. I mean here's the king in the making. Or maybe even Frodo. I I know that there are several people in this congregation who think Frodo is a really, really cool hero and they like him. But others like Legolas, because he's a little bit hotter and he's a better shot with a bow and arrow. You who are younger might think that the Incredibles are a pretty good group of heroes to choose Because they also do some really remarkable things. For those of you who are feeling a little bit more powerless and bitter You might think that the punisher is a good hero to choose. Here's a man whose family was taken from him and whose society could not give him justice. And so he decides that it's time for him to take his own revenge. And there's tremendous power even in watching a movie. that speaks of the satisfaction of judgment. That's all from our culture. That's all from our Western society. And I don't mean to offend you, but there's a large part of this world in the 1040 window. between ten degrees and forty degrees north going around the globe, who thinks that Osama bin Laden is their hero Because he is taking on the giant of the United States and he is accomplishing in their minds justice. He is the punisher What's the importance? Why am I spending time talking about heroes? Because we tend to forget that we have a hero. We tend to forget the impact that Jesus being our hero has on us day to day. Certainly we can move into the idea that Jesus is our hero and that I have a future hope and that heaven is going to be glorious and right now I just have to suck it up. That's not what Peter's saying. And that's not what Jesus came to accomplish. Jesus is your hero moment by moment. He is the only hero who can make a difference in your life, and he is the one that God Himself says we should look to. for our hope. The first point that I want you to see that Peter addresses is that Jesus specifically gives us a pattern to follow. The passage says, For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you also might follow in his steps. Jesus could choose how to live his life. Jesus came as the God-man. He chose to become our Redeemer. He chose to obey the law and to fulfill it perfectly. He chose to suffer the wrath of the Father for our sin. He chose to redeem us And all of that is amazing. But there's more. This passage tells us there's more because Jesus not only did, Jesus not only saved, Jesus did in such a way that we can follow. Jesus acted so that we might be his followers. And not only did he hope that if we saw enough of him that we might act like him, he says to us Follow me. Peter says that Jesus is our example so that we may follow in his steps. Jesus intentionally lived a way for us to live like him. And he calls us to that. Now one of the things I think is intriguing, my degree in undergraduate was history. And I spent a lot of time with the classics, although that wasn't the focus of my degree And one of the things that amazes me is how much firsthand information we have about Jesus. We have more firsthand observation information about Jesus than almost anybody else equivalent in his time. We have eyewitness accounts in the four gospels. We see his life from early to end. We hear his words. We see his actions. We understand his heart. Jesus lived a way for us to know him. He left the testimony of his life, and he left the command to be like him. So what does it mean to be like him? What is the pattern that Jesus leaves? Well, one, Peter tells us here that he suffered. It's remarkable that God would suffer. It's remarkable that God would become man so that he could suffer. But Jesus says both. Jesus comes into creation, lives as man. And he doesn't live as a man in kingly splendor and power and majesty and comfort. Jesus came to suffer. He came to accomplish a purpose. He didn't orient his life towards comfort, he didn't orient his life towards safety, he didn't escape suffering. He met it head-on. Not in a masochistic way, but in a way that accomplished his purpose. He endured the wrath of God poured out on him because of my sin, because of your sin. If you want to understand more fully what it meant for Jesus to suffer, and what Peter's talking about here in this passage where it speaks of Jesus' suffering, Gibson's The Passion of the Christ is a great visual testimony. of the wounds he received, of the rejection he endured, of the of the insults and of the the beastly violence, and of his response. Jesus was beaten. Jesus was whipped. Jesus was humiliated. Jesus hung on a cross naked for you. And he did it in innocence. This passage says, He committed no sin Neither was deceit found in his mouth. Jesus endured the suffering for no reason of his own. Nothing Jesus did validated or demanded or required the suffering that he faced. He was innocent. He was sinless. He was perfect. He had to be for us to be able to be saved. But not only did Jesus suffer in innocence, Because he didn't deserve what he faced. More poignantly and more difficult to believe for me is that when he suffered, he remained innocent When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. Jesus not only didn't do anything to provoke his suffering, he didn't respond sinfully to his suffering. He did not defend himself. He did not attack his attackers. So Jesus suffered. But he didn't simply suffer in innocence, he suffered in strength. W when I feel boxed in When I'm in a situation of suffering that I really don't feel I have an out for, I'm powerless in, I am more inclined to endure because I don't have hope. But you can't look at Jesus in his suffering and believe him to be powerless. You can't look at Jesus in his suffering and believe that this was his only option. He suffered in strength. With incredible strength. He chose to become God and man. He chose to face the wrath of man and the wrath of God. He chose to respond in godly ways to suffering and to rejection instead of protecting himself, defending himself, and pursuing his vindication. Listen to what it says in Matthew chapter twenty-six. This is the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus is about to be seized. And it says, Behold, one of those who were with Jesus Stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. Listen to what Jesus says. As his disciple attempts in strength to protect Jesus. Put your sword back in its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you not think That I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so? Every time you hear of one angel coming, what's the phrase? Do not be afraid. Jesus could have called down twelve legions of angels. But don't miss the fact that Jesus didn't need any angels. Jesus is God. Jesus is a creator who in his own power by the word of his creation out of nothing created the universe. Jesus in his strength was containing his glory. That if he had let these soldiers even get a glimpse of his glory, they would have fled in panic. Jesus suffered in strength, and he suffered containing his glory that he might accomplish his purpose. Jesus trusted himself to God. Peter says that Jesus continued entrusting himself to the one who judges justly This is really the key of this passage. This idea, this reality This trusting himself to the one who judges justly was where Jesus sought his vindication. Jesus hadn't sinned. Jesus didn't deserve suffering. He didn't need to submit to anybody. But he did so to accomplish redemption, to honor himself, and God will vindicate him. That's the pattern. So what does it look like for us to follow Jesus? Well, first and foremost, you cannot follow Christ unless you receive new life The number one thing you as one who wants to follow Jesus must do is receive new life that He alone provides. Jesus came. He suffered, he submitted, he trusted the Father in order to provide new life to us. That means that we die to sin and we live to righteousness. The passage says He Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. The number one thing you have to do is to know Jesus. You can't follow one you don't know. He reveals himself. That's what he's doing here. Peter is saying, this is the model you must follow. This is the example He has left for you, this is the one you must believe. In John 1 12 it says, But as many as receive him, to them he gives the right to become the sons of God, even to those who believe in his name. Jesus' name is Save here. Yeshua means God saves The first thing you have to do if you want to follow Christ is believe in Him. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says that by grace you have been saved through faith, that not of yourselves, that is a gift of God. Not as a result of works, lest any man should boast. It is by faith in Jesus you follow him It is by faith in Jesus that you die to sin and live to righteousness. But following Jesus also means that you submit. This passage is said in the context of relationships. In verse 13, it talks about submitting to governmental authorities. In verse 18, it talks about submitting to masters. Chapter three, verse one talks about wives, submit to your husbands. Chapter 3, verse 7. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. It's all about relationships. In the midst of his teaching on relationships, he gives us this gem that says the most important relationship is Jesus. That's your hope. So we submit. We submit to authorities, just as Jesus did. In his submitting to the authorities, Jesus did so in strength. And John points out how glorious that submission was. Let me read to you from John chapter nineteen. Chapter nineteen, verse eleven Well, let me begin a little bit earlier. In verse 10, Jesus is before Pilate, and Pilate says to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? This is the Roman governor. This is the man who, according to the Caesar in Rome, has the authority of life and death, wealth and poverty. Health, illness, freedom, and imprisonment for everybody within his province. His word is law, life or death. Jesus comes to Pilate and he says to him. You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given to you from above. You would have no authority over me at all unless my Father, who will judge justly, gave it to you. Brothers and sisters, we have people to whom we are called by Jesus to submit. Government, employers, family, teachers if you're in school, parents, especially if they're your teachers You have people to whom you are called to submit. But you do not submit to them because of authority they inherently possess. You submit to them because the Father in heaven has given them authority over you. For the Lord's sake, we submit. For the Lord's sake, because he is our master, we recognize those who serve him that he has put over us. We submit. But Jesus also calls us to follow him in suffering. We live in a fallen creation. We are fallen creatures. Purely and simply because of living in a warped world, we're going to suffer. We're going to suffer age. We're going to suffer illness. We're going to suffer wounds. We're going to suffer cold and hot. We're going to suffer humidity. We're going to suffer in a lot of different ways that have nothing to do with others wounding us, but we will also suffer the wounds of those who hurt us. That's what Peter's talking about relationships here. Relationships of authority, relationships of family. It is people who will wound you. Before this passage that we're talking about, the verse immediately preceding and the first verse of our passage today, Peter says, But if When you do what is good and suffer for it, you endure. This is a gracious thing in the sight of our God. For to this you have been called. Suffering is your calling. Because Christ suffered for you, leaving an example for you to follow in his steps. How do you respond to suffering? You see, the calling that we've got is to respond in innocence and in strength. That's the pattern Jesus left for us. Paul talks about this in chapter 12 of Romans. Let me just take you there for a moment. Romans chapter twelve, verse seventeen. Paul speaks of how to deal with evil and suffering. What he says is, repay no one evil for evil. But give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends upon you, live peaceably with all. And then he says this, Beloved, beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave room for the wrath of God. I have looked and I have sought the invisible ink and I have tried to find all the clues left behind in any old manuscripts I can find where where in addition to that phrase it says, and Steve Green is my instrument. They're yet to be found. When when you go through difficult circumstances, large or small How do you respond to suffering? One of the things that we we have been doing lately in our home is in honor of summertime and heat and humidity, we we have had a number of water balloons around the house, mostly outside. And I think it was Friday night, there was a a a young lady down the street who's the age of some of our kids. who had a sleepover with young ladies and so her brother came and spent the night with us not wanting to be a party to a girls sleepover. And so My boys who had been building a fort in the maple tree over to the side of our yard had found a wonderful way of creating ropes and buckets that could carry balloons up into the tree. And so at eleven thirty at night they are having a war and launching all sorts of water balloons at these young ladies. Who are giggling with glee and and just wondering and enjoying the attention that they're receiving So yesterday as I'm I'm working on the deck and doing a few things in the late afternoon and it's hot and muggy, one of my sons brings me a water balloon. Now, what do you do with a water balloon? Well, Ann and another one of my sons were down the hill digging a tree out. And so naturally wanting to be able to cool them off And to give them some sense of excitement in life, it's really boring to dig a tree up, I launched the balloon I overshot and so we laughed about it. And about five minutes later, the son who brought the balloon had brought two more and he decided that it was time. Having realized that my my ability to to target was affected by the overthrow. He decided that he'd underthrub. And so not adding two and two together and realizing that dirt plus water equals mud He hit the pile of dirt immediately before Anne and my other son, and they immediately got sprayed with a glorious coating of mud And we were immediately into how do you deal with suffering? So the son who had been anointed with mud came up to the deck and told me that that he had a great idea. What he would do was he would do two different things. He he would quest for blood and he would refrain from allowing his brother to be able to use any of his good things I promptly communicated to him that that was not the biblical approach. It was really fun for me to be on the side of those who had done this activity as opposed to the recipient of this activity because so frequently I'm the recipient and I just get angry. But I called him over and I said, I want to talk to you about what I'm going to preach on tomorrow. And he looked at me and he said, Dad, if it doesn't have to do with forgiveness, I really don't care. And so five minutes later he was walking off saying, gosh darn that Bible. And and he yielded, and I was really proud of him. It was a really cool thing to watch as he dealt with truth and what it means to suffer righteously. He could have taken his revenge, but he didn't. Following Jesus also means that we trust to the one who does judge, who will take vengeance, who owns vengeance. And Jesus gives us the model. He trusted himself to the one who judges justly, and that's our calling. We don't have to take our own revenge. We have a Savior. We have a judge. We have a Father who will vindicate us. And the key for us to follow Christ is to follow Christ in this, as Jesus trusted himself to the one who judges justly, and Jesus could have judged. He himself is one who could judge justly, but he trusted himself to the Father, so that we would have his example to follow. God is powerful. God loves his children, and God judges well. He's promised to take care of us. He's promised never to forsake us. The way he does it doesn't necessarily make sense. I don't always understand what he's doing when he's doing it. Frankly, there are things that he's done years back I still don't understand. But I know that he's in control. I know that he judges well, and I know that I can trust him When I want to come to my own defense, the question I have to wrestle with is: will God take care of me? And can I rest in that truth? Jesus calls us to trust the one who judges justly. But following Jesus also means that we return to the shepherd and the overseer of our souls. We've wandered. We continue to wander moment by moment and day by day. Isaiah 53, Tom read it at the beginning before I came up to preach. But I want you to see verse 6, or at least hear it. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Your sins and my sins have been paid. We wander. And in this passage in 1 Peter, it continues to talk about how we wander. For you were straying like sheep. But have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. That's not a one-time act. It's not something you do once and it's over and you're always there. It is something you need to do moment by moment and day by day. But you can, because you have a father you can trust. You have a father who is going to overcome the temporary tensions, the temporary sufferings, the temporary pains and wounds that you experience. Because brothers and sisters, even if they last lifelong, they're temporary. You have a future that is glorious. You have a present that Christ is with you and deals with your wounds. And loves you and meets your needs. That's the Jesus that you follow. That's the Jesus who loves you so well. Well the third point that we cannot we cannot escape The first two points are that Jesus is our example, and the second point is what it looks like to follow him. But the third point is you can do none of this apart from the gospel. You need the power of the gospel. I need the power of the gospel. Jesus is more than an example. He's certainly an example. The Bible itself tells us that. But he is so much more than an example. Spider-Man could be an example. Obi-Wan Kenobi could be an example. George Washington could be an example, but an example gives you no power. An example really can't give you hope. Not even Frodo. Not even Aragorn. Jesus is our Redeemer. Jesus it says, bore our sins in his body on the tree. So how do you live this way? Well you have a hero. You have a hero who is both an example and a savior. This Jesus who suffered did so for you. Every wound he bore Every pain he experienced, every insult he accepted was for you. To save you. Because he loves you. Jesus is not an objective, distant, rational savior. Jesus is a passionate bridegroom. And he longs for you. He longs for intimacy with you. The greatest gift you give him is not your obedience, it is not your holiness, it is not your righteousness, it is not your compliance. It is to receive his love and to respond to him with love. It is to accept the incredible gift of intimacy that he pours out on you Jesus gives us the example of trusting the Father. It is our Father who takes care of us. And the way that we begin the process of letting Him take care of us is to believe in Him. So, the truth of the matter is that we are more than victims. Certainly we're victims. We live in a fallen world as fallen people. But we are so much more than victims, just like Jesus is so much more than an example. Life is good in suffering. Life is good in tension. Life is good in pain. Life is good in uncertainty because those are gifts God gives us to force us to cling to Him. Because we have one who judges justly. We have one who loves well and that we can trust. And the example Jesus gives us is both how to see that and trust that Father, but it is also to see that Jesus is the one who saves. And his love is so clearly demonstrated in his life. Come to him, believe in him, follow him. Jesus, we are hopeless in ourselves Thank you that you've never left us alone, that you have not forsaken us, that you will not abandon us, that you will not leave us, but you love us well. Thank you that you have saved us now and forever. Make that more real and more true and more powerful in our lives that we might honor you and reflect your glory to the world. Amen.