Let's turn again to uh Psalms one eleven and one twelve I will be reading just uh verses six through ten of both of those poems. Let's look at Doug's work together. He has shown his people the power of his work, giving them the lands of other nations. The works of his hands are faithful and just. His precepts are trustworthy. They are steadfast forever and ever, done in faithfulness and uprightness. He provided redemption for his people. He ordained his covenant forever. Holy and awesome. is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who follow his precepts have good understanding. To him belong Eternal praise. Psalm 112, speaking of the blessed man, surely he will never be shaken A righteous man will be remembered forever. He will have no fear of bad news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. His heart is secure. He will have no fear. In the end, he will look in triumph. On his foes. He has scattered abroad his gifts to the poor. His righteousness endureth forever. His horn will be lifted high in honor. The wicked man will see and be vexed. He will gnash his teeth. And waste away. The longings of the wicked will come to nothing. So far, reading God's Word A hundred years ago, it looked like we were just about going to be able to do it. It looked like we were going to be able to Christianize The world. There was a successful missions movement underway. There were dozens of mission societies with hundreds of missionaries going out to the far reaches of the earth. There was an optimistic view of man, that he was becoming, he was evolving into a being that would be more and more redeemable. Many view the United States as the Christian nation, that nation that God would use to bring in his kingdom. There was confidence at that time that God would bring the world to a happy end. It was easy at that point to believe in the absolute sovereignty of God. He was doing what we would have done if we had been in control. But it's a little bit more difficult today, I think, in human terms To believe in the absolute sovereignty of God. We see things around us that would indicate that perhaps God no longer is in control. In the last eighty years we've had two world wars, we've had two Asian conflicts, and there have been countless other conflicts across the face of the globe. Right now there are very few governments in Central America that are solid, with people solidly behind them. We wonder where is God's control? The national scene does not appear to be that much better. The economy at this point seems to be uh sapping the vitality from so many millions of people. And even if you're not a pacifist, I don't think anyone likes the idea of 24% of our federal budget going to national defense. The morals in our nation have turned simply to mores, simply those things which are personal preference. What has God done? Has he lost control, you may ask? First, however, it is important that we do not blame God for the things which man himself is responsible for. It shouldn't be a surprise the way things are going. Generation after generation, man has chosen To worship the creature rather than the creator. He has turned his back on God. He has set himself adrift from the Lord God, who is the ground of being. The Lord God. Who is the source of our very existence? That produces alienation. It produces a sense of lostness. Produces loneliness. You see, man has exchanged his worship of God For a lie who's chosen to worship and serve the creature rather than the creator I think the Psalm before us though, Psalm 111, should be encouragement, should be encouraging to you, for it teaches that God has worked. And when God works, it's effective. He's establishing his covenant. He's extending his kingdom. Now it may not be in the way that we would choose to do it today. He's not using the political entity of the United States of America. He's chosen another nation. He's chosen a holy nation, the new Israel. And we have our citizenship in that nation. Our heavenly citizenship in the new Israel. We are the nation that God has chosen to use. We're the nation that God has chosen to bless. Until never let his church decay totally. Now back in the Middle Ages it appeared that the church might be decaying At that point, right before the Reformation, the world had as much impact on the church as the church had on the world Now, as more and more people are turning away from God, there is becoming a polarization between the world and the church. But even as we see that polarization, we see God's continued faithfulness, his continued blessing on his church, that he is working, he is involved In his people, in his kingdom. Psalm one eleven shows God's continued care. for the church. Look with me at just several verses that I will read quickly. Verse 3, his righteousness endures forever. Verse 4, he has caused his wonders to be remembered. Verse 5, he remembers his covenant forever. Verse 9, he ordains his covenant forever. Last week we looked at compassion. We looked at the God who is a God of compassion, a God who saw us in need and sent to us the Lord Jesus Christ. Who was himself pity in action to deal with us in our need. We are to respond to that The wise of compassion. We saw that that parallel in the two Psalms. The psalm before us, uh the uh portion of the psalm before us this morning Verses six through ten shows another kind of relationship between God and the godly man. That is a relationship of dependence Not just a mirror image, but it points us to our need for depending on God Himself. We see God as firm and trustworthy in His works. We see God as steadfast in his words. And the godly man, who trusts in God, then develops that firmness, that steadfastness in himself, because of God's faithfulness to his covenant. If I were to summarize in just one sentence, what I hope you uh learned this morning and can apply, is that because God is firm in his works of redemption Our hearts are firm in Him. We depend on Him. That idea of steadfastness runs through both of the Psalms in Psalm 111 applied to God and in Psalm 112 applied to the godly man I have summed that up with the word firmness, because there are many different verbs in those two psalms, but they all have to do with the firmness. that is in God and the firmness that then we have as as we are dependent upon God. This morning we will see that God is at work There is evidence that he still is at work in his covenant, dealing with his people. He's fulfilling his promises We will see our own response of being steadfast that we are dependent upon Him. Dependent and trusting on Him, even if we can't understand exactly why it is that God has chosen To do the things that he has. In the first place, notice then the firmness of God seen in his works. His acts of redemption are powerful in verse 6. He has shown his people the power of his works, giving them the lands of other nations. Now the history of Israel is something that is pretty familiar to most of you, I'm sure. And it was pretty familiar to the people of Israel. Well, why is it that again and again In the Psalms and in the historical books, the works of God are repeated endlessly. Why is that? I think it's to elicit praise, to elicit praise in the Israelites, to elicit praise in ourselves as well. Psalm 137 speaks in a very interesting way about how God shows his power Shows to his people the power of his works by giving lands to them, the lands of other nations. Now you notice there's an interesting phrase that's repeated after each line in that psalm. Who struck down great kings, verse 17, his love endures forever. Who killed mighty kings, his love endures forever. Sion, king of the Amorites His love endures forever. And Ag, King of Fatian, his love endures forever. And gave their land as an inheritance His love endures forever, and an inheritance to his servant Israel. His love endures. Forever. Isn't that strange? God's love is seen in relation to his people by taking the land of other people and giving them to his people. God's love and Forever. Doesn't that elicit praise? Doesn't that conjure a praise in your heart for God? Do you see God working in our country? Not too clear, I don't think. In fact, it seems that there is an ever-increasing amount of immorality around. Where is God's power? God 's power is seen in the Lord Jesus. King Jesus, who crushed the head of the Prince of Darkness. And the whole earth is ours. The whole earth has been given to us as an inheritance That's the biggest show of power that this world has ever seen and itself has conquered. You see, God is powerful in his redemption. He has redeemed his church And that must bring forth in us the praise for his love endures forever The Lord is also faithful in his works of redemption. Verse 7 of Psalm 111. The works of his hands are faithful and just. To show his firmness, his trustworthiness. Because all that he has done in the redemption of his people is in response, is because of his promise that he gave to Abraham. Isaac and Jacob. That promise that was repeated through the history of Israel. That's the thrust of this song as a whole. God has said it, and God will do it. We have confidence in that. We rest in that. That's the key to understanding. This psalm in relationship to 112. God has said it, he will do it, and we rest in that. God is faithful by his nature. God is also just in his acts of redemption. Verse 7 as well. The works of his hands are faithful and just. God exercised justice towards the people in his covenant. You remember that verse in the Old Testament: without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. We see that In in a typical way in the Old Testament, but we see that fulfilled in Jesus Christ. There is no forgiveness of sins. Without the cutting off of Jesus Christ, without him being judged on our behalf God is faithful to the people in his covenant. He is just in his acts of redemption. God is also just towards people who are outside his covenant. You remember that uh towards the end of the time that Judah lived in Israel, right before Babylon bab Babylon came down from the north. God chose Babylon to go in, to discipline his people, to exercise God's wrath against his people. Babylon did that. Took the land of Judah, took the people in Jerusalem away into captivity. But what does God then do? God then exercises judgment on Babylon. He says you're not going to get away with it, even though you're obeying me. The instrument of God's punishment of punishment of God's people receives also the punishment of God. You see, you can depend on the faithfulness of God's acts. That they're powerful and that they're just. They are just because they cut two ways. They cut against Christ, and if we're in him , we are justified because of that. They also cut against the enemies of God's people. That's the only thing that we have to depend on. That's the only thing that we can put our trust in. We have seen that God's works are faithful. They are firm. But note also that God's words are firm. His precepts are firm. Again, in verse 7. All his precepts Are trustworthy. Now it's easy to understand how someone's deeds, how someone's acts can be firm, they can be trustworthy. God has said he will do something, and he will do it. But I wonder in what sense we can say that God's precepts are trustworthy. God's precepts are firm. Now that's sort of an unfamiliar word for us. What does that precept mean? It's God's general requirements of his people, God's laws, his statutes. And the psalmist saying that those precepts, those statutes, are firm, they're trustworthy. Now an example of that, an example of one of those precepts would be God told us to worship and serve Him only. Let's consider how that is a firm thing for God to tell us I think what it means is that God has told us to do what is right. God has told us to do what is a reflection of His character. Of his personality, if you would, his being. And that's what makes it a firm thing to do. When we obey God, when we worship and serve him only. Then we're doing what we were created to do. We are being what we were created to be. And that is people who worship and serve only God. ourselves. Did you ever play a game and ignore the rules? I think of some times that I have played basketball. Now when I play basketball, I do it with a lot a lot of enthusiasm. And we're down there under the hoof. And there are bodies that are crashing against bodies. There are knees that are getting caught in your stomach, elbows in the face. And it gets to be a violent thing. It's not at all. Like the graceful Game of basketball that you can see this time of year in the NCAA uh basketball tournament. We play without rules and somebody gets hurt I wonder if you kids on some of the uh some of the snow days when you were home from school also experienced this playing against the rules Perhaps you would get to points uh in you would be so bored that you would be uh just jumping around on the sofa say. Perhaps there would be bodies flying through the air, and maybe lamps would crash down on the floor See that's going against the rules. That's not playing the game according to the rules. And somebody gets hurt There's another game that people are playing today, not in according to the rules that God has given. I read an article a couple of weeks ago about some swinging single. You know the people that would go into a singles bar and pick up somebody and have a one-night stand and that would be it. They were breaking God's rules for marriage. That was the effect. Is there an effect on those individuals This article, and it was in People magazine, I have no reason to suspect that the person who wrote it was a Christian, but this person uh saw that there were some effects on those people. For one thing, there was a higher incidence of drunkenness. There was also a higher incidence of taking of amphetamines or uppers. There was also a higher incidence of contemplated or attempted suicide. Hugh Hefner, notwithstanding, this is God's world. And we can understand that when God has given us rules to obey, He does so for a reason that reflects His character. And it's good for people. To obey their creator. When you don't, there are devastating personal consequences So you can count on God's laws being firm, being trustworthy. You can count on them being good for you. Although that's not the only motivation for obeying them. You can count on them being steadfast. They aren't going anywhere. They are eternal. They reflect the character of our eternal God. Now this may sound strange in this world of flux we see ourselves in. Changing morals all around Look at verse 10, though, of Psalm 111. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who follow his precepts have good understanding. They see God correctly. And they see themselves in the proper relation to God. They see that they must follow that firm and trustworthy God, and that will produce firmness in themselves. We move then to the second point. I was reprimanded last week for having just two points. And today, once again, we have just two points. I will apologize in advance. The second place we see the firmness of the godly man. He is dependent on the firmness of God. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord, it says in Psalm 112, verse 7. His heart is steadfast. Now, what does it mean to be steadfast? That again is a word that we don't use a great deal today. Let me give you an example of a steadfast man. He lived many, many hundreds of years ago. And he heard God say to him, Go out, build a big ship. And I want you in it, I want your family members in it, and I want a lot of animals in it. And I'm going to send a flood to wipe out the rest of the people on the earth. Now that sounds like a ludicrous thing to do. It doesn't make any sense at all. And I couldn't see myself doing it if I were known, to be honest with you. That's a strange thing to do. Up in Maine they build ships right on the coast, and that makes sense. They don't build them back in the pine woods. They don't build them up in potato country, up in Aroostic County. They build it on the coast. And yet God said Build a ship and build it inland. Noah was steadfast. It says in Hebrews 11, verse 7, By faith, Noah, when warned about things not yet seen in holy fear, built an ark to save his family. You see, he knew his identity. He didn't view himself in relationship to the people around him. He viewed himself by God's norm. He may have appeared to be abnormal, but he was anything but abnormal in the eyes of God. It was the people around him who were living in fantasy because they had set themselves up. As gods, worshiping and serving creatures rather than the Creator. But what if Noah had not been steadfast? He could have looked around and said, I don't see God working. I don't see any progress of God's kingdom. Why respond to what God has told me to do? He could have lost his faith in God because he didn't see God working in the world. But he was a man of faith. As John White has said, faith is responding to God's initiative. Faith is responding to God's initiative. And great faith continues to respond to God's word, to God's initiative, even in the out absence of outward encouragement. And Noah didn't have any outward encouragement at all. You or I perhaps would have thought that God truly had lost control. But Noah responded insteadfastness. His faith was proved to be well-founded. He saw God working powerfully in the flood. He saw God act faithfully to Noah himself in saving him. He saw God act justly in destroying God's enemies. He trusted in God's redemption. Noah responded steadfastly to the Word of God. He trusted in God's redemption. He was steadfast. In the Word of God. Is that what he's also for you? Do you trust that God does know what He's doing? When you look around and see the sin in the world, you may not understand why it is that God is doing what he is in the world. But do you trust standfast in God? You look unwaveringly to the Lord Jesus Christ. We've talked about the work of God. We've talked about the words of God being faithful, being powerful, and just The work of God and the words of God come together in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is the work of God's redemption, of caring for his people, providing for the needs of his people. Christ is also the Word of God. The word incarnate, the word who became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace. And truth. That's the work and the word of God in one, in the Lord Jesus Christ. Have you responded in faith to him? Have you responded steadfastly to what is provided for us in the Lord Jesus Christ? Christ is our rock. He is our foundation. He is the stone on which the church, the temple, is built. He is the firm foundation. Noah himself was an example of what a steadfast man is to be like. Let me give you another example of what a steadfast man is not to be like. Let me point you to King David, and at least in one instance, he responds, certainly not, as a steadfast man of God. When he saw Bathsheba, he decided that he would be Lord of his life. He saw her, he wanted her. He ended up sleeping with her and having her husband killed. He set himself up. As the authority, as the standard, as the Lord. He had to cry for repentance. Psalm 51, Psalm that we've read time and time again. You see the words in verse 10, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit in me. David finally did see his own sin exactly for what it was, no longer trusting in the one and only law that comes from God. He was swayed by his own desires, his own sin. The result, of course, is that truth, that great sin. The great sin that God judged David for by putting to death the son that was born to him. Are you like David, ever in your experience? When you set aside God's law and decide what you want is good, is best You ignore God's law and just go your own way. Setting up yourself as King, as Lord. We need to pray to God for a steadfast heart, a clear heart that wants to obey God and God only There's one other example of someone who is not steadfast, someone else that I would encourage you not to emulate, and that is the man in the book of James. The book of James, chapter 4, verse 8. James is talking about people who had been proud in their attempt to be self-sufficient. They were persuaded by Satan. that it wasn't necessary to give themselves totally to God. They kept holding back that complete commitment to God. James says to those who did not have that full commitment, wash your hands. That's with reference to their conduct. Purify your hearts. That's with reference to their inner motives. He says, wash your hands and purify your hearts, you double-minded. A philosopher by the name of Soren Kierkegaard wrote an essay on this verse. The title of the essay was Purity of Heart is to Will. One thing. Purity of heart is to will. One thing. That's what it means to be steadfast. James is exhorting those who would be like King David, who would set themselves up as Lord, to be steadfast, to will one thing. Are you steadfast in serving Jesus? Are you single-minded and willing, one thing? Or are you double-minded? Going back and forth on serving God, serving yourself. See, that's the only way we can have a secure heart As verse 8 reads in Psalm 112, his heart is secure. He will have no fear. You find yourself sickle at times. Do you ever find yourself double-minded, going back and forth between resting on God and then resting on yourself? Is your heart ever divided? Do your emotions sometimes have sway over your whole being? See, our emotions are that one part of us that is more easily influenced by outside forces than any other part of us. Your emotions have sway over you. C. S. Lewis describes the kind of faith that we need in his book, Mere Christianity. Now faith. In the sense in which I am using the word here, is the art of holding on to things that reason has once accepted and holding on in spite of your changing moods. Do you ever listen to your emotions rather than talking to them? Do you ever listen to them? And be ruled by them. They are teachable. Our emotions are teachable. And we should practice teaching our emotions, not to rule us. But to be ruled by ourselves as we're renewed in the Lord God. If I listen to my emotions all the time, I'm afraid I would sleep till nine o'clock in the morning and then wander over to the tennis courts. Fortunately I've had control over my emotions in that area, or else I'd be out of a job I've learned not to listen to my emotions to that extent, but I've learned to talk to them, to teach them. I tell them, hey, you've got to get out of bed. I've learned to control them, at least in some sense, in some areas. But in other areas, perhaps that's not the case I had a struggle this week. How could I get up there in front of those people and tell them about what it means to be steadfast in Jesus Christ? About being immovable, about being dependent on Christ. The battle wasn't won in my life I wonder if you ever feel at war within yourself, if you ever feel yourself being torn You ever feel desires tugging at you, pulling at you? Or desires that to accumulate other things, to be identified, to put your security in them. You desire to appear just like everybody else and put your identity, your security, and how other people view you. Or do you desire to rule your own life and put your security in that instead of in God Himself? Instead of being like Mo Noah, who did that ludicrous thing of building an ark on dry land He trusted in a God that he had never seen. He trusted in a God who had never really acted in that tremendous way in his life. But he was steadfast. He trusted in God. The things I listed are things that so many of us pursue, so many of us desire, but they're of no value. When we consider the val the uh the value of being connected and steadfast in Jesus Christ For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. We stress the importance of the physical, of the material. The things that are really important though are the things that are immortal. The things that are imperishable, the things that are ours only in Christ Jesus. In First Corinthians fifteen Verse 55, we read, Where, O death, is your victory? Where O death is your sting? But thanks be to God. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my dear brothers, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. He gives us the victory. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. Stand firm, therefore. That's how I could preach this sermon this morning Because we stand firm, steadfast in Jesus Christ. I had a rough week. I was a little bit sick And I allowed my emotions to get a hold of me and to say, hey, you can't go up there. You can't go up there and preach to be steadfast because it doesn't look that way in your own life. But at one o'clock this morning it finally dawned on me. Hey, it's in Christ and Christ alone. Now I knew that. I knew it was in Christ that were steadfast. But it finally dawned on me in a total, in a pure, in a clean way, that yes, it's because of Christ So I put my emotions aside, I put my feelings aside, and point to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where I'd point you this morning. You can talk to your emotions and you can tell them to go jump in the lake when they would want you to be in a state of flux, double-minded Not serving God, not trusting in Him, not being steadfast in Him at all times. Satan can so easily manipulate, so easily control our emotions. And that was dramatically shown to me as I prepared this message this week. Satan had control of my emotions. Until I looked to Christ, Christ alone. This morning God gave me one mind, one mind, so I could be steadfast in Christ And I would exhort you to look to him for that one mind. Being united to Christ, following him , him alone. Do you have faith in him? And not just the way you'd like God to work, but faith in Him in the face of all sorts of trials, all sorts of problems. You have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the work of God. You have faith in Christ, who himself is the word incarnate, the word of God. I 've said a lot this morning, perhaps a little bit too much. So let me just ask you to remember two things, just two things. Are you personally steadfast in God? Are you depending on Him for change? Now you may see some things in yourself that you don't like. You may see some sometimes your emotions controlling you, forcing you, apparently, to go a certain way, dragging you down. Maybe this past week you were discouraged because you heard last week that you were to be compassionate to other people in the same way that God is compassionate to you. You can be. You can be as you look to Christ and as you're steadfast in Him and Him only Seek the face of Jesus. Seek his face. He will change you. There's one other thing. What are you depending on in your life here at Columbia Presbyterian Church? You better be depending on Jesus Christ and Him alone, for we are His bride. He is perfecting his bride. He is polishing us. He is cleansing us. He is purifying us. He is working. He has promised that he would. And he's doing that. I would encourage you, put your steadfast hope in Jesus Christ as you think of the things in this church that you may not like quite so much. Look to Christ. For we are his pride. Have steadfast confidence in him. Let's pray. Lord God, we we do look to you. We look to you because of your great works of redemption. We look to you because you are faithful. And we praise you. Lord God, we pray that you will help us to be faithful, to be steadfast, to be firm in the way we walk before you. Oh Lord, we praise you for sending Jesus Christ for giving us your Son. Pray these things in his name. Amen.