Ask me to remember we looked at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. We saw that God calls us as elders to prepare you to pastor them. Verse 11 says that we are pastored teachers. It says in Ephesians 4 that he has given some to be pastor teachers, and those terms are generally understood to be linked together. So did you know that the Bible also calls you to teach with us, elders? And you say now I don't know. Now you've gone too far. Now I've got you. Because it's clear in the Bible that teaching is a special gift. In fact, James 3 says, let not many of you be teachers, knowing If you incur stricter judgment. So there's no way you can convince me that I'm supposed to teach with you. In fact, if you want to have me prove it to you, just give me a class. And then you'll know that I do not have the gift of teaching. I once had a professor who confessed that he fell asleep at his own lecture. He was taken to a sleep of podium. And so you may be saying, that's that's my kind of style, you know? And in a day you can convince me that God has called me to teach. You know? Well, let's see what that means. Let's see what the Lord says to us. Let's then hear God's word to us, which is our only final authority of faith and practice Let's hear that from Hebrews chapter 4. Hebrews 5, excuse me. Hebrews chapter 5. Hebrews chapter 5. And I will read the entire chapter. Every high priest was selected from among men and was appointed to represent them in matters related to God. To offer gifts and sacrifices for sins, he is able to deal gently with those who are ignorant and are going astray, since he himself is subject to weakness. This is why he has to offer sacrifices for his own sins, as well as for the sins of the people. No one takes this honor upon himself. He must be called by God, just as Aaron was. So Christ also did not take upon himself the glory of becoming a high priest, but God said to him, You are my son. Today I have become your father. And he says in another place: You are a priest forever. In the era of Melchizedek. Is it? During the days of Jesus' life on earth he offered up prayers and petitions with loud cries and tears for the one who could save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverent submission. Although he was a son, he laid a leader. From what he suffered, and once made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all who obey him, and was designated by God to be a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. There's much to say about this, but it's hard to explain because you're slow to learn. In fact, by this time you have to be teachers. You need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God's Word all over again. You need not let but solid food. Anyone who lives on milk, being still a bacon, is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. Solid food is for the material who by constant use have turned themselves to distinguish, drink, and eat. So far, God's word , let 's give our attention to the teaching. And pray the Spirit will instruct us and give us teachable hearts. When I ask a person the question The question, what do you think are your spiritual gifts? There are two answers that I generally receive that are far beyond any other answers. The most popular answer is, I don't have the foggiest idea. In fact, I'm not even sure I have any. Not the faintest idea of what my spiritual gifts are. But then the second answer that sort of comes in second above the others is the one that if you press the person. They may say something like, uh, Well, uh I think maybe I have some gifts of teaching. Uh I I taught a class once, I seem to have a reasonably ordered mind, and I was able to present the material, nobody fell asleep, and uh I think I'd used it or I was teaching in a classroom situation in a school or in my uh business, in my office or something like this. And uh maybe I have a gifts of teaching. I would like to suggest to you that that's Is not the kind of teaching we're discussing this morning. What is the Bible then talking about? Well, I want you to follow the train of thought of the author of Hebrews here, and I think that train of thought is so important to follow carefully that you asked about some of the most difficult. Different this time. Sa I'm going to let you throw it once. Because I want you to follow the train of thought here. And so as you listen to this, I want you to notice what are the words. You kids can do this too. See if you can pick out the words that Now, if we do that, then the principles then will apply. He says that we have much to say about this, but it's hard to explain because you're slow to learn. In fact, though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need somebody to teach you the elementary truths of God's Word all Again. Well the first thing we see by this is that these people have been Christians for some time. He's not talking to people who have just come to Jesus Christ. Because he says, by this time you ought to be teachers. That's implying that there's bit of time now. And by this time you ought to have something to offer as a teacher. But in fact you're stuck. He's saying you're stuck because there's some things I would like to discuss with you about this question. of Jesus and his work being after the order of Maltzabeth, and at that time I can't explain it to you. I can't go on into the deeper truths. Why not? They answer it because they have become dull of hearing. And the New International Version is an excellent translation. Translation, but in this case it's blue. Because verse 11 says it's hard to explain because there it says you are slow to learn. The Greek means where you have become something, not simply that you are something. You have become doll of hearing. You'll not understand it much better at that point. You have become dull of hearing. You're not saying you're stupid, see. You're not saying you have an innate incapacity. He said, you have become doll of human. Why is that? What's happened? You stagnated in your Christian faith. There's a point where you have come and you are stuck there and you're not going any further. You're not receiving anymore. Is that three of you? Do you feel that this morning? Like you're stuck in your Christian life. You've been a Christian for some years? And long ago you mastered the basic, basic truths of Christianity. Do you understand the basic position concerning How a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, basic teaching about God and sin and Christ and His work, the Holy Spirit. Last things, you know, some of these basics you have down. But you're stuck. You don't feel like you're going any further than that. You don't feel like you're growing. The truths aren't becoming any more personal and precious to you You feel stuck where you are. Well, if you're in that situation, I want to say that good news words for you. Stay tuned. There's good news that God has for you in that situation. And the key is to understand the contrast in verse 12. Notice the contrast. He says there in verse 12, those are this time you ought to be teachers. You need someone to teach you the elementary truths of the word of God all over. You ought to be something if you're not, he says. What is it? You ought to be teachers. Now, notice he's not addressing this at a Sunday school convention. He's not addressing this to the elders. He's addressing this to the entire congregation. And he says, ought to be teachers. That is ought to be instructed and helping less mature Christians to their foundations in Christian women. You ought to be able to instruct somebody who is perhaps a little less mature than you, or perhaps simply stuck in some area of your Christian life, about some principle of the Word of God. You ought to be able to instruct. You ought to be able to help somebody, but instead, here's the contrast, instead of that, you still need somebody to teach you the ABCs of the Word of God. That's what he said. You need somebody to teach you the ABCs when you ought to be teaching others. Why do we say yes? We don't get it. Tell me one more time. I still don't quite understand what I would say if I was talking to my non-Christian friend and they said, How do I become a Christian? I still don't know how to make the gospel plain and clear. I still don't understand the relationship between Jesus and Savior and the absolute grace of that, and his being Lord, and my needing to commit myself and walk in absolute obedience. I don't understand these things. I can't make them play. I always need help. You still need somebody to teach you the ABC. Why? Because you're not in position of instructing others. Now, that's not what he says in verse 12. Verse 12 just simply has the context. But watch the way he develops this. He says, you're still on milk, unable to digest solid food. Now what is the solid food that he's talking about there? Verse 12. Need not solid food. And it tells us in verse 13. Look at that. Verse 13 says, Anyone who lives on guilt, being still an infant, is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. And what does that sound do then? It's teaching about righteousness, literally the word of righteousness. The word of righteousness. That is the deeper truth concerning the gospel of righteousness, which is in Christ alone. Isn't that great? And we say, look, you know, what's this deeper truth that I've got to understand? Well the Lord doesn't say, well, you know, once you've mastered righteousness and understanding faithful, then we got some real heavies for you. The deeper truths are simply a deeper understanding, a deeper acquaintance with , you see. You're not acquainted with. You need to become more acquainted with. Or as the near Martin Stanley says, you need to become more accustomed to the word of righteousness. It proves that Jesus Christ's righteousness is my , here you see the two P's, my position and my practice. His righteousness is my position. And his righteousness is my practice. My position before God is based on Christ's righteousness. I realize my own unrighteousness. I realize the evil of my own heart, my own disobedience, my own ruthless spirit. And I see all these uh just coming up before me. I think oftentimes as Christians we suffer from the problem of answers before questions so on. We as Christians, after we have been Christians for some years, have all the answers, but we have forgot to ask the questions. All things that stuff with just this week and looking again at Martin Luther's life But the how here was a man who had agonized for years over the question of how can I ever be righteous before God? How am I ever going to be able to stand before him with an open face and have him smile at me rather than the feel of wrath and his curse? How can I ever feel that I'm acceptable in his sight? And then when Luther understood the word of righteousness, the gospel of righteousness, that Jesus Christ, God's own Son, came and He lived a life of perfect righteousness, and then he, because of an absolute love for us, took on our sin, but himself became the embodiment of that sin. So that when God cursed him, he cursed you and me. By cursing Jesus in our place, so that this righteousness then is given to us. And we stand before God, and our position before Him is absolutely just as righteous as Jesus Christ. When you hear the answer and forget to wrestle with the problem, the answer becomes cheap. You need to hear the ABCs again. When you and I come before God and realize our own unrighteousness. And we see the profound answer that the gospel gives, then all of a sudden our hearts are awakened to realize how precious that is. I was talking to a fellow just this week, who was so lady with guilty says, I think I have committed the unfortunate pardonable sin and there's no hope for it. A follow who has been rather rather unresponsive to the gospel of Jesus Christ. But he's now saying, now I am showing And burdened with sin. I'm not even sure there's any hope. You need to see the gospel of righteousness, the position that I have in Christ. But then having become acquainted with him, so that you and I are able to take our We're able to give it to the Lord because we know that that position is secure because not of what I've done, but because of what he's done. Then he says there's another way that he doesn't say that this is involved in the scriptures' understanding of the word of righteousness. That word of righteousness also Has to do with my practice. That is making true of my experience what's already true of me in Jesus Christ. I am righteous before God's heavenly bar because of the righteousness of Jesus. Now God says by his spirit, he intends to be the words of God. To work out that righteousness in my life, in my living, to become more like Jesus Christ, whose position I already enjoyed. And so, as I feel guilty and discontented with my life, He wants me to become acquainted with that word of righteousness. To enjoy the fact that my sin has been removed, but that God wants me to put away that sin. He wants me to become more like Jesus. Now, he says you're not going to be able to do that. Understood that. You see, you're still believing Satan's lies when he says you're guilty and God won't accept you. So you fall into that trap, don't you? Because you're still a day. You haven't learned to be acquainted. You haven't learned to be And holding the word of righteousness. So it's your immediate response to Satan's lies. And Satan says you're guilty and God will have nothing to do with you. You're a criminal. And the word of righteousness says you have the righteousness of Jesus Christ and you can. become boldly into his presence. He is saying, here's my sin and I don't know what to do with it, but I compromise with it, and it just drags me down. The word of righteousness says you have the resources in Jesus Christ by his Spirit to put away that sin. Be equated to that word. of righteousness. Now once having done that then, having done that, and having uh understood what that word of righteousness is, what that uh solemn food is, the word of righteousness. How do you get that? How do you come into that situation? Drive another Bible study, another growth group You know, Christians are always looking for one more, maybe this one will give me some more answers. Another conference. Another speaker. Another message. Another book. The Christian bookstore. I thank God for all those resources. I'm very grateful for all the Bible studies for getting going, the fellowship groups and the church. Church. Well we'll pick the literature that's at our disposal and the conferences that are so helpful. But ultimately those are not the solutions. The solution is given to us in verse fourteen. What does he say there? Solid food is for Two, the mature. Now who are the mature? How do you become mature? How do you become spiritually mature? How do you become mature enough to teach others? How do you bec In works of service, as Ephesians 4 says, to do the work of ministry, pastoring, and teaching. I believe that many of you, most of you here, if not all of you, want that. You want for God to use. You want to grow in your maturity. You want to be acquainted with the word of righteousness and be able to use it in others' lives as well as your own. How do you do it? Look what he says in verse fourteen. Before the mature, who Who, by constant use , have trained themselves to distinguish good from evil. The clear answer then is that by training your spiritual sensations. Through dead, disciplined practice of the soul, good and evil. That's the key. By training your spiritual senses Through daily discipline practice of discerning good and evil. It's interesting that Hebrew uses here the vocabulary of athletes The word we're staying is in the Greek the word tag gymnasimer, from which of course we get the word gymnasium It's a word which refers to rigorous, single -minded training of an athlete. And the word that he used was there for practice If you will train yourself by practice or use in the NIV is a word which refers to cultivating a daily habit of practice. The kind of practice that a ballerina uses so that she can be a famous ballerina, famous. and uh be the at the top of her career, full of grace and skill. It's the kind of use and practice that a figure skater such as Gail Godfrey has to daily employ so that she can uh be able successfully to compete when the judges are all standing there looking at the results of that. It's the kind of use and practice That it is the training for the Olympics. Daily disciplined practice of God of using the scripture in your life, as a following the scripture, so that your senses become more and more attuned to what good and evil are, to what the Lord wants for you to do as opposed to everything else. Training your senses. And how do you do that? You see it there. That is A by increasing your knowledge of the Word of God Increasing your knowledge of the Word of God, as Psalm 1 says, meditating on it, day and night, learning how to study it, spending much time in it, and then being By obeying all the female knows. Either one without the other is insufficient. You will never train your senses by barely disciplined practice of discerning good and evil Did you not grind in your knowledge of scriptures? Presumptuous to say, Lord, show me what to do. And you're not ready to look into the scriptures, not simply for an answer at that point. But the constant cultivation of the mind of Christ to the putting into your mind by the roof of your being, daily study of scripture It's presumptuous to say that God will show you more about his will if you're not already doing what he's shown you to do so far. Lord, I already see that you want me to give you the first fruits of my offerings. I already see that you want me to cut down on the TV watching, the kinds of shows that I watch, the amount of time that I do it. But Lord, show me this other thing. I want you to show me more about your will. And God's saying, I've already shown you some things that I want you to do. It's not those things that we don't know the Father, it's nearly as much as the things that we do know, isn't it? And so it's by that daily disciplined practice using the scripture that we then grow into the mature who can take solid food. Now, let's apply this. What does it mean to us? First of all then, who is to be a teacher? The answer is clear. God's intention is for all his people to be teachers. You, everyone. Not to the elders, to the Sunday school teachers. Doesn't require a special gift. This is not referring to the gift of teaching, which is the public ministry of the Word, such as I'm doing right now. This is referring to something that is true of every one of God's people. What there is that? What does this kind of teacher do? Second point. He's a person who teaches how to be more acquainted with the word of righteousness. He's a person who can talk about how the grace of Jesus Christ is a solution to gift. He's a person who can talk about the skills and the wisdom of using scripture in your life. Take a look at the back. Evolve those skills then and wisdom. But just talking with me to Steve Cabell, navigator representative in this area, we're talking about the two study groups and how God uses that and some of these principles And Steve, I thought, made an interesting observation there. He said, I'm convinced that the reason that God uses the two sevens so powerfully is not because particularly of any of the content that's in it But because it gets people into the Word in a consistent daily basis. It gets people using the Word in their lives That's God's intention for every one of us. And if you do that, you will become a teacher. Because you see you'll be growing in your skills, how to study the scripture, how to meditate on it, how to memorize it, how to go to the Bible for answers, and how to pray. And then you'll see people who need that help. And so you're willing to give that help. You show somebody how they can study the scripture, how they can meditate on it. Have it to pray. Have it to go to the Bible for you. Not because you took a course on it necessarily. The courses are going to help you if you are not doing it. That's kind of the sneaky part of my course, you know, the disciple making seminar. I get people into that course and then you say, well, I don't know, I'm not sure I can do all this stuff, but I'm willing to try and help somebody. So yeah, okay, I'll get into the course But then of course what happens always is the people at the end of that course out, sure, I got more out of this than the person that I was helping. Because I was accountable for learning these things myself. I had to analyze what am I doing to study the scripture? What is my prayer habit? And as I began to think about it, God began to cause me to grow in it. Because I was a powerful amount to somebody else. And as I began to do that, I began to discern more of the word of righteousness. I began to practice the daily discipline of training my senses in good and evil. And then as you do that, you grow in wisdom. That's the second thing. God's principles in action. You learn about priorities. You learn about self-image. You learn about how to deal with good, how to handle interpersonal relationship problems. How to discover God's will. Anybody interested in that? How to break habits? How to conquer bitterness. And as you are doing these things and somebody comes to you and they need help in this area, He doesn't say I got it all together. He doesn't say all the other. I'm just thinking of putting together a course on how to deal with guilt. Let me give you some of my notes. Matt, you don't have anything like that. You say, look, I may only be a half a step ahead of you of this. But here's something God's been showing me in this area. And you share that with a person. And they say, thanks. That really helped That's teaching. You see, when we think of teaching, as Americans, we generally think of the Greek academy model of teaching. Because I stand up and I impart information to you, and you take notes and you fill in your blanks, you know, and you write things down, and then you go away with the information. When the author of Hebrews were said you ought to be teachers, he did not have that model at all in his mind. What he had in mind was the Hebrew Sabbath model of teaching In which one person sat down with one person or a small group, and they simply imparted from their own experience what God had taught them. And they were a model of that. And they were sharing life to life, life principles. That is the principle of teaching and description. And it requires two things. How do you become such a teacher? It required, first of all, work through your own obedience, as you see in verse 14. It involves your own seeking to grow in your knowledge of the word, and then you're simply seeking where you are to obey it. Wherever you are And then, secondly, it's grown through the willingness to minister. Not hiding behind this idea that, well, you know, I don't really have it all down yet, I don't really have anything to offer anybody, but rather simply saying Say, all right, Lord, I'm willing to offer what you've given to me. May not be much in my estimation, but I have something. I'm learning something about God's principles. I'm learning something about how to study the scriptures. I'll buy it into my life. And if there's somebody I can help, then I'd be glad for the Lord to use me like that. You see, it's not a question ultimately of your ability, but a question of your availability to Jesus Christ. The last week we heard Eric Johnston talk about the ministries that they're having, Eric and Bennett and their studies. Perhaps if you heard that and you thought, I can't relate to that. How did he get involved with all those things? Eric must be a highly gifted, unusual person. Well, Eric is unique, but he's not that unusual. Uh at least I don't think he's all that unusual. He's a dear brother, but he's met somebody that I can't identify with. Well that you can. And so I've asked Eric, I've asked a number of you, who 's not as huge in this way, but I've asked Eric if he would come up and share just briefly what his experience has been in God getting him started in beginning to minister as he's put these principles into practice. Eric. This is a living illustration. Well, I'll try to keep grief now. This morning this was a ten minute presentation. Now it's a six minute presentation, hopefully. Well, if you were around when Deb and I joined the church a while back, you would have heard me share some things about my um the way I was before I became a Christian, especially about some of the things that typified my life. One thing in particular was that I had uh certain fears, such as the fear of people that kinda typified my life. And after I became a Christian, I found that those fears really seriously affected my willingness to minister to people. I can remember as a new Christian, I was convinced that I would never lead a Bible study, I would never stand up and give any kind of presentation, I would never pray in front of a group because I was just so afraid of doing that. And I can remember one thing I prayed, I just prayed that God would allow me to lead one person to Christ sometime in my life so that I could feel that I could invest it in eternity. And it was interesting. I I've been doing lately a little reading in Genesis or Genesis, Exodus to take a look at Moses and some of the excuses that he made to God. It's interesting in Exodus three and four you might want to turn to that. God was calling Moses to do a particular thing. He asked Moses to go in and take the people of Israel out of Egypt to the promised land. And Moses gave God five excuses why he shouldn't do that. As I was reading those excuses, I really identified with them. Now I'm just going to talk about three of those five excuses just for the sake of time. So first of all in chapter 3, verse 13, Moses comes up with his first excuse. says to God, What will I say? What will I say to the people? And what I got out of that is that Moses is pleading ignorance to God. And that was one thing that I used to do. I used to say, Well I'm just a young Christian. I don't know much about the Bible. So I I can't really share with people or um I'm not ready yet in my Christian life. So that was my excuse. I was pleading ignorance to God. But there was an example that I was looking at in John chapter nine where a guy responded a lot differently than I did to God. And that was the blind man that Jesus healed. And you remember that Jesus healed him and then the Pharisees, just a couple hours later, called them into the council and they said, Hey, what's going on? You know, and they're trying to figure out what was happening. And then when they figured out that they couldn't deny that the man had been healed. They tried to take the focus away from Jesus. So let me just read John 9, 24 and 25. So for the second time they called the man who had been born blind and said to him, Give God the praise. We know that this man, and they were referring to Jesus, is a sinner. Now this is what the blind man answered. He said, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I know, though I was blind, now Now I see. And I've really been struck by this guy's example. He was just a brand new Christian as far as a believer in Christ, and yet he had something to tell the Pharisees. Not much. He didn't have a lot of knowledge, but he did have. have a personal testimony. And we've all got that personal testimony. You know, as Al was mentioning before, sometimes we're just a step ahead of the people we're trying to share with. But if I'm a Christian, I know enough to tell somebody else how to become a Christian. So I've just been challenged in the last few years that I've never grown so much as when I've committed myself to lead a Bible study. It seems like if I were to say to myself, well, I'll do it as soon as I'm ready, I'll never be ready. To lead a Bible study. But as I've said, I'm going to lead a Bible study. All of a sudden I've had a real interest in finding out some answers. So that's one excuse I used to give to God. What shall I say? Another excuse is found in Exodus. 4 verse 10. And this one really hit me between the eyes. Moses says to God, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, either up until this time, or since thou hast spoken to me. But I am still slow of speech and of tongue. And I can remember again lots of opportunities God would give me in a Sunday school class or stand up and share something in church or something like that. But I was waiting for God to give me the courage. And as soon as I felt he'd give me the courage, I was going to stand up and do it. The trouble is, God doesn't give you the courage until you stand up and do it. So he'd give me the courage as I spoke. And um so that's what Moses. Moses was struggling with and I I really like God's response there in the next verse. He says, Moses, who made your mouth? If I made your mouth and I've commanded you to speak, don't you think I'm going to give you the words that you need in order to teach you? somebody or speak with them. And I think it's one of the sad places in scripture because Moses didn't respond and God had to call somebody else to perform that function. Moses wasn't able to experience, at least at that time, God working in his life and delivering him from that fear and using his mouth to reach other people. God gave the job to Aaron instead. So So that was the next thing. The last excuse is really where I was at as a Christian a little further on, in chapter four, verse thirteen. Moses says to him, finally, his last excuse, God, won't you please send somebody else? And basically what he's saying is, I'm too busy. I've got other important things to do. I've got a girlfriend, I'm going to college, I've got big plans, and so uh won't you please send somebody else? And I noticed that as um that was my attitude for a while, but God showed me that um I can't get my experience of fulfillment out of um just gratifying myself. I had to learn that. And after a while I I started to become obedient to God in just this area of reaching out to other people And since I've done that, God has given us some some people that are interested in spiritual things, and several people have become Christians through Bible study, which has really been exciting. And again, that's something that God did because it's his business to bring people to himself. And but I just want to share one encouraging thing to you. There's a woman in our Bible study who became a Christian a little over a year ago, and she's had a real heart. to reach people. She has a real concern for the people that she loves and she wants to lead them to Christ. Last Friday night she started a Bible study with three people she works with Her mother and her fiance. And she's starting in the book of John. And she she doesn't have all the answers, but she's not using some of the excuses that I used just because of her concern for the people that she loves. So I guess that's the thing I wanted to share, that God can use us if we're willing to get past the experiences or excuse me, the excuses that we sometimes make Thank you very much, Eric. All of us have our excuses. But all of us need to be accountable. And if you're stuck, This morning, perhaps what God is saying to you is trust me to take what I've been giving to you and simply help another person. Help somebody, somewhere where they are. And they involve in them to help them. You will grow. You will grow because you will see that accountability of training your spiritual senses in you. Discerning in a disciplined daily practice of discerning good from evil. How can you start? Here's the personal part. You've got to decide. Is there somebody that you know who could use help? Who are you willing to help? So here's a person that I have a natural contact with. Maybe I could suggest even getting together to pray together occasionally. Maybe we can get together once a week. Or maybe here's a person that I'm not even at that point yet, but here's somebody that I've seen some needs in their life, and I'd like to have God use me if he wants to. If you don't have anybody that you can put down there, suggest a couple things. First, ask your elders. We'll give you a couple things. We'll give you people. That you can say, Well, yeah, I'm willing to help someone. He can give you somebody that would be looking for that kind of help Or if you are in the SATAS group, I'd like to suggest something to you. We have now a group, as you know, of junior highs, middle school, and high school kids And as those kids are in a group, some of those kids would be interested in having one of you, perhaps media them occasionally to help them. in basics of discipleship. How about helping some high school kid or middle school kid, learning how to study the Bible and pray and sharing their faith? Are you willing to help somebody? Secondly, if you say, well, all right, but I still don't know what to do. I've already anticipated that. The second thing is that you can plan to either get to or meet with somebody who will be getting to the disciple-making course. It's not fair to tell you to help people and not give you some training in it. Because most of us have not had people who have helped us on any regular basis and we don't know how to go about it. And so we're going to be getting together a group of people who are interested in it. And we'll be going through some material, simple and basic How do you help somebody to do the kinds of things you see in the skill and wisdom section that are above it? Let me remind you in the scripture: skill and wisdom are not two separate sections, it's one word. Wisdom involves skill. Because the whole thing revolves simply around being acquainted with the word of righteousness. How do you help somebody to become more acquainted at home with the word of righteousness? For you it may be checking that off. And then you'll take a look in the bulletin, you'll see there's a second. There's a little sheet. And if you are interested in registering for that course, you can do that. By simply putting your name and your phone number there and indicating what you're interested in doing. And so if you're interested in that, just take that and put it on the back table in the basket back there. There's a basket for the mixed meals. You put it in that same basket for either if you're interested in one of those meals from the newsletter or the disciple making course. And then finally, there are the uh groups that are talking about how to Use the Bible in your life. A number of people have been through this, uh, and so particularly you could talk to Ray Holson with Jerry and Maddie Boss and my wife Kathy about what these groups are. What do they do What are these things like and how could they help you in helping others to grow in place? The whole point, though, comes down to your desire to go beyond the ABCs. by that daily discipline practice of using the word. And if you use it to say, Lord, I'm willing to help somebody else to use it. The world is full of people who are in real need for answers and help, of Christians who need somebody to invest in them. And if you're willing To do that, be accountable. I can assure you, God has an exciting ministry ahead of you. Let's pray. Right on the quiet of this moment as we think about how You could use us. And we hear what Eric has said, and Lord, we identify with some of those excuses, if not all of them. We think of our own schedules. Lord, it seems like we can't even keep up with our family sometimes in our jobs, let alone trying to help somebody else. Lord, sometimes it seems like we're buried at keeping our own head above water spiritually, let alone trying to help somebody else. Lord, sometimes it seems like we don't even understand fully the gospel, let alone make it clear to somebody else to come to you. But Lord, we want to come this morning and we want to acknowledge that those are excuses. That if we belong to you, you're certainly able to take us and use us where we are. We're certainly able to arrange our schedule so that it is not an intolerable burden for us to be used in the lives of people simply because we carefully fall in contact with people, Lord, help us to open our eyes to see. See the needs and to see how you have enabled us to use by your Spirit in those situations to meet needs and to point people to Jesus Christ in the Word of righteousness. How we pray. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us each as we think about whether we should be in that seminar, who we should be involved with, and what you'd have us to take as a step of obedience in this. To be open, totally open. Or perhaps you're calling a couple people here to to talk to their neighbors or friends about a Bible study. Whatever it is, Lord, we pray that you would show us your power and give sufficiency and that we can trust you trust you to use us as you desire. We are forward Lord because we know that as we trust you You will show yourself sufficient to us in ways we couldn't even yesterday. For the sake of Jesus Christ. Amen. Yes,