I feel like I'm taking a bit of a risk this morning because the Sunday before Christmas it would be so much easier to go through the story of Christmas from Matthew chapter two or Luke chapter two. It's so much easier, isn't it, for our emotions to kind of engage in the familiar tale that we long to hear each Christmas time. And so when you see that the text this morning is from Hebrews chapter 2. Some of you may be even thinking, how dare you preach from Hebrews the Sunday before Christmas? But preaching from Hebrews is only part of the risk this morning, because the bigger risk is that instead of going through the Christmas story, I'm going to give you some theology. Now, most people today, when they hear that saying, theology, that's dull, dry, boring stuff But what I want to do, if you'll stick with me, bear with me, keep with me this morning Is that I want to show you that if you understand the question that we want to deal with this morning and see what God has to say about that and how that bears on Christmas Your celebration of Christmas this week can be more wondrous and more marvelous than it would have ever been without having dealt with these questions. So, what I want to do this morning is I want to deal with that question that you see at the top of the bulletin outline: why was God made man? Not how, the circumstances, the background. If anybody was if any of you were here during the middle hour, we dealt with a lot of that. We talked about the historical background for Christmas. What was going on in Palestine, particularly the life of Herod and all the rest of that. So you got the story then. What I want to deal with now in our worship. And to help you this week in your worship, in your final preparation and your time of Christmas celebration, is to deal with this question: why was God made man? You thought about that much? Now you notice the question I didn't ask was, why did God have to become man? Because he didn't. Nothing was inevitable about God becoming man. Do you ever think about that? It wasn't part of the job description. It wasn't part of the nature of God that he had to become man. Nothing was inevitable about that. Nothing compelled it. In fact, the only reason why God ever Reduced himself to become that infinitesimally tiny creature, a baby, born in a manger, to live in poverty and limitations in a sinful world And finally, to die under the curse of the law. Or from the Father's perspective, the only thing that compelled him to send his son, and then to curse that son in the flesh. Was his inexhaustible love for you and for me. And his refusal to let you and me die. The death that our sin deserves. But the question you see for us is to deal with, given that God loved us so much that He sent His Son. What was it about that? Having decided that, why then did God have to become man in order to save us? I mean if he's God, can't you s wouldn't you wouldn't it be uh natural to think that since he was God, certainly there could have been another way that he could have invented He could have decided, well, here's the way I've decided to do it. But I could have done it this other way because after all I'm God and I could come up with plan B if I wanted, or plan C, or any way I want to do it. But I think the wonder of Christmas is for you and for me to realize that the Bible teaches there was no other way. For God to save you and me from our sin and from death, except that He Himself became man. I think it's good for us to think about that because it'll help us to worship more deeply. You get so caught up at this time of the year and all the hectic preparations and all the involvement of All the schedule that you know you begin to feel like you're just getting through the season. You know, like can't wait now for January so we can get back to normal and all this. But it should be a time of worship. It should be a time of celebration for us as Christians And I think part of the problem is that we live in such a superficial age that we tend to just accept to not be uncomfortable with superficial worship. And we wonder when we're coming through this kind of a time Why is it, Lord, that I really don't find all that much that really compels me to worship, that really catches my attention right now? I was just sort of distracted by all this other stuff. Great to know, yes, you came, you'd born as a baby, and you'd live, and you'd die. But there's nothing that really grabs me. What I want for us to do is to realize that it's only really deep theology that produces deep worship. Now the deep theology may be produced by a crisis in your life, by having to wrestle with questions you wouldn't choose otherwise to wrestle with, but it's only when we wrestle with the deep truths of Scripture. That we begin to really worship God in a way that engages us fully in our affections. And so it's this kind of a question that will help to engage us this Christmas And some of the greatest minds of the 2,000 years of Christian history have dealt with this question: why did God become man? For instance, Anselm of Canterbury, a fellow who lived in the 11th century. Probably the most incisive theological mind of anyone between Augustine and Calvin, a span of 1300 years, Anselm wrote a whole book. On this one question called Curdaeus Homo. Why did God become man? And John Calvin, who certainly never sought to speculate on any question that Scripture didn't speak to, Deals with this question at length in his book, The Institutes of the Christian Religion, Book 2, Section 12. Anybody wants to check it out for your meditations this week? But as they dealt with this question in some depth, it produced in them a deeper worship and love for their Lord Jesus. Now, we can't do that in any great depth this morning. What I want to do is I want to take these two verses in Hebrews chapter 2. Two verses in order to deal very briefly, but hopefully to help us As we look at these questions, and the Lord gives us by his grace and by his power understanding, so that this Christmas we will be blessed in seeking to wrestle with these questions and coming up with some answers. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. Ken read them. Let me read these two verses again in this context. Let's hear God's word. Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity. so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death, that is the devil. and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by fear of death. I want to ask three questions for God to bless us in the answers. First question: why man? Why was it that our Redeemer had to be a man? You ever stop to consider? Theologians talk about the work of Jesus Christ in terms of three offices generally. They'll say he was prophet, he was priest, and he was king to fulfill the Old Testament offices. Do you ever stop to think that God could have been our prophet to reveal his will and his glory to us without becoming man? He could have done that as God. It's conceivable that God could have ruled over us as king and established his kingdom of rule and reign without becoming man. But it's inconceivable that he could fulfill the role of priest or priest sacrifice. You see the blank there, priest sacrifice, the priest who offered himself as a sacrifice. It's inconceivable that God could become the priest sacrifice without becoming man. For two reasons. Number one, because you see there, A, he had to keep the law as the innocent second Adam. That's the next point. The innocent second Adam, in order to be eligible to substitute for me in taking God's wrath. You see verse 14, since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared, had to share in their humanity. So that by his death he would destroy him who holds the power of death. Verse 17. For this reason he had to be made like his brothers in every way. In order that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that he might make atonement for the sins of his people. Chapter 10, verse 4 tells us that animal sacrifices would never have sufficed. An animal can buy, but an animal can't keep the law. You know, your cat or your dog doesn't have the choice whether to keep God's moral law or not. Cats and dogs don't sin. Now, some of us who have them may think that they do and are convinced that they do. I tell you, from God's perspective, they do not sin. Whatever they do to you, they may cause you to sin because me to sin, but they don't sin. Animals don't have the capacity to obey or disobey God. So therefore, it took a man, it took someone who was Like Adam, who had a law placed before him and who could decide I will keep that law or I will not keep that law, in order to be eligible as one innocent. To be able to die on our behalf. And that's the second part that you see there be, that he had to die to make the payment required for all who were guilty in the first Adam. You see, once Jesus had established himself by his obedience as being innocent , He then had to die, and only a human, only a creature can die. And only a human can die as innocent or guilty. Again, verse 14, since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity, so that by his death He might destroy him who holds the power of death. That is the devil. Christmas makes no sense apart from the cross. Jesus was born as a baby to die. It was for this purpose, verse 14 says, that he shared in our humanity so that by his death he would deliver us. And that's speaking, of course, of all those who trust him and that work of his death. And so when I stand under God's righteous judgment, I stand condemned. And either I bear that condemnation, or the only alternative is that a substitute comes to bear that condemnation for me. There is no other alternative. Either I have to die for my sin or someone else has to die for that sin. There is no other way. Now if we grant that the Redeemer had to be human, then we go to probably the more difficult question for us to consider at this Christmas. Time. If he was had to be man, the question is: why God? Why is it that the Redeemer for our sin had to be God Himself? But let me suggest this is a very important question because for many of us we don't think about this a whole lot, and then a Jehovah's Witness or someone else will come to the door and they'll begin to talk about how Jesus wasn't really fully God. And we say, hmm, gee, I never really thought about why that was necessary, or does the Bible really teach that? Or have I really just kind of assumed it? And these people know because they've studied the question more thoroughly. Let me suggest to you three reasons why God Himself could have never delegated to anyone else the work of redemption. You think, surely God could have had some other creature, some way. But I would suggest three reasons why it could not have been anyone but God Himself. First reason. None of the human race of Adam is innocent. No one in the human race is innocent. Romans chapter 3, verse 10. tells us that there is none righteous. No, not even one. There's no one who understands or seeks after God. Every one of us are caught in the trap of sin. We're guilty not simply because we sin, but we're guilty because we are constitutionally sinners. And you see that, you know, when you read the paper magazines every week, you know, this this week you look on Time magazine and here's a gun on the magazine and you read the article and it says that The culture is getting sick of the violence and it's escalating and it's senseless. And then it talks about how you really just can't legislate the problem away. What can we do? And there's a sense of being trapped. We're helpless. We can't solve this problem. We need someone outside to come in to solve the problem. We're not able to deal with it. U. S. News and World Report talked about a preview on a screen in a movie theater just recently where there was some movie coming out In the future, about some shoot 'em up and a lot of violence and all this was showing in all this blood and guts and shooting and all that. And they said everybody in the audience booed and hissed when they saw that. It's unprecedented. People are getting sick of the violence and they're saying there's gotta be an end to this and something, there's gotta be some way, and people are wringing their hands. I don't know about you, but I talk to unbelievers and I'm finding more of a sense of helplessness in front of me Frustration in our society. You see, and the message of Christmas is that God Himself came because there was no solution from within the human race. Because all of us are trapped in the sin it's ourselves. And so you'll never get a rescuer from out of Adam's race. And that's why in Luke chapter 1, When the angel came to Mary to describe the baby that she was going to have, the angel answered in verse 35, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, Mary. The power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. You see, quite literally This one will have God 's innocent nature fused to human flesh. There will be in this one who's coming an innocence, because he will not have the corruption and the bondage of Adam's sin. And so only God Himself. Can come into the situation as one that is innocent. The second reason I would suggest that only God Himself could save us, could never have delegated it to any other creature. Is B, even if there were one innocent human being, that one could only substitute for one other human. Think about it. There's a principle in the Bible in Exodus 21, verse 23, that says, if a life is taken, there can only be one life to substitute for it. Life for life. One life for one life. Let's suppose that you were under the death penalty, condemned. And so you come to me and you say, Al, you're my pastor. You're supposed to be able to be a good shepherd. A good shepherd, the Bible says, lays down his life for the sheep. So about old Al, here's your chance. And let's suppose that for some reason you persuade me. And so I say, well, you know, God , okay, I'll give my life for you. And so here I am and I'm going down to the gallows or I'm headed on to death row, you know. And just as I'm going down there, you tap me on your shoulder and you say, uh, by the way, Al. I I I forgot to mention my brother's also condemned to die. Could you die for him too? I say, hey, uh you know, I I'm I'm only one person. I mean I I'm giving you everything I can get I got. But I only got one life to die. I can't die for you and your brother too. Give me a break. You know, you can only die as a human one for one. And so you see, what we need, if there is going to be redemption , is a representative of a whole new humanity, a whole new human race And so what you have here is that this Redeemer must have the capacity to be, next blank, a representative of a whole new humanity. His life must have the infinite capacity to atone for all the sins of all his people. There must be a capacity that is unlimited in his ability to suffer and to atone for sin. And when you realize that, you understand that as wondrous as it would be for any human To give their life for another human, for God to become human and give his life for us as humans, is infinitely more incomprehensible, isn't it? And so the Bible teaches. Verse 15 of Luke 2, that he freed those, all those Who all their lives were held in slavery by fear of death. All of his people were joined in the benefits of the accomplishment of that death. Or to put it as Paul does in Romans chapter 5, in verse 18. Notice this is exactly the point that Paul speaks to in Romans chapter 5. He says, consequently, Just as the result of one trespass, one act of disobedience was condemnation for all men. Because Adam sinned, all of us suffered, right? We're all under condemnation. Not simply because of our own sin, but because we've inherited that nature that traps us in sin. And so Paul said, because of that one thing, we're all So also, the analogy, the result of one act of righteousness. of this God man was justification that brings life for all men who are joined to him. For just As through the disobedience of the one man the many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of the one man the many will be made righteous. You see what Paul's saying there is the principle of representation. It takes a unique person to be the head of a new human race. Adam had the once-for-all chance for the human race. But now what God's saying is, I am introducing into the human race a new humanity, a new Adam And this new Adam has the capacity to suffer for all the sin of those who are condemned, and to be the representative for them by faith to establish new life. For a whole new humanity. What an amazing thing. It had to be God to do that. Do you understand? No one but God could have been the representation of a whole new humanity. Now, let me say that there's a third reason why I believe that it had to be God who came in the flesh on Christmas morning to die for us. The third reason you see there is that any other Redeemer would inevitably replace God as the supreme object of our devotion. Isn't that the case? Any other Redeemer would inevitably replace God as the supreme object of our devotion. Why? Because we would always pit the love of this one who sacrificed his life for us. Against the justice of God that was satisfied by that act. And so what you have is attention Here's God who judges our sin, and here's this one who may be very close to God, maybe a demigod, maybe angel or whatever the cult may come up with. But here's this one who is not quite God. And that's the one who you feel your devotion for, isn't it? That's the one that saved you But you see, what the message of the Bible is, God Himself suffered the consequences of his own justice that he never deserved to, because it was God Himself who took on human nature. When on Christmas morning he was born in the flesh. And so when you and I understand that it's God Himself, verse 14. Since the children have flesh and blood, He too, He Himself shared in their humanity So that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death. That is the devil. Verse 18, because he himself suffered When he was tempted, he is able also to help those who are being tempted. And so when you're tempted, and when you feel overwhelmed, You come to the end of your own resources and you go to Jesus. You're not pitting Jesus against God. You're going to God Himself, who was tempted, who also experienced that weakness. And you go to him in order to be rescued. You go to him as the one who understands. And you don't say, now God's going to give me a hard time. God wants to zap me. God wants to to punish me for my sin, but I'll go to this intermediary and hopefully this one will prevail with God. No It's God Himself that you and I go to. It's God Himself who's taken on the form, the reality of human flesh, and experienced all of our temptations and our weaknesses. And so as God Himself who suffered under His own law. And you never pit law against love in Scripture. Now Having seen that, let me finally briefly deal with the third question, the last question. How can God and man be joined together in one person? Now I say deal with this briefly, not because it's simple, but because it's simply unfathomable. I can't resolve it. It's a mystery. But the Bible presents the fact that Jesus has both a human and a divine nature that are without any confusion. The he, verse 14, since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity. It's talking about Jesus. And that he is the same he as chapter 1, verse 3. If you read through, you'll find out. Take a look at it later. It's the same person is talking about in this whole discussion. Look how he's described in verse 3. The Son is the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of his being. That's referring to a stand That bore the very image of the reality. It was not something that was a copy, it was the very image of the reality, the exact representation of his being, sustaining all things. In other words, it's only God who sustains all things in creation, and it is this one, the Son, who sustains all things by his powerful word. And so it is he, Jesus, who is both God and man. And when you look into the manger at Bethlehem. You realize that you're looking at the very face of God. I like the way that Roger Nicole, professor of theology, puts it when he talks about this fusion. Let me read to you what he says. The union of deity and humanity and the person of Jesus Christ is unique. It is not like a chemical compound where both elements lose their individual characteristics and form a new substance, such as oxygen and hydrogen. in the formation of water. It's not like an alloy where two or more metals are pressed together so completely that the only only melting would segregate them, such as copper and tin in bronze. It's not like a mixture where conceivably patient work could separate the distinct elements such as a package of stamps for collectors or a bag of seeds to feed the birds. It's not like the union in marriage, where husband and wife are made one flesh but remain distinct persons. In the hypostatic union of deity and humanity, in the God man The two natures remain intact, but so intimately and indissolubly conjoined that together they constitute one person. This one person has access to both sets of characteristics in such a way that deity is not shrunk, nor humanity enlarged. Is that something to think about this week as you think about Christmas? Wrap your mind around that for a while when you go to worship. And let me remind you of one last thing. When you think about that union, remember that that union is not a temporary union. God did not decide at some point to become something he had never been before, man. And say, I'll be doing this for a little bit, and then when I've accomplished the purpose, then I can shed that and I'll go back to simply being God. And the second person of the Godhead decided to take upon himself flesh. He died as flesh, he rose as flesh, and his glorified body, he ascended as flesh, and the Bible tells us that he will come back to claimants in that body. And that we will worship him for all eternity as the Lamb who was slain. He takes upon himself in a way that I can't understand and you can't understand. But is beyond us and shatters our normal concepts of thinking and love that God Himself will live with certain limitations of a human body forever Because forever he is joined to flesh out of his love for you and me. And when you think of that kind of a love What is it that Jesus is calling you to do that he has not sacrificed infinitely more for you out of his love for you? What is it of what he has done in showing you that staggering expression of love that doesn't compel a worship and an adoration and a a devotion this week. Give yourself to him to say, Lord Jesus, I never knew that Christmas was that wonderful. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God, we knew you loved us. We knew that the incarnation is something magnificent. But Lord, we must confess we never thought it was that wonderful. That you joined your nature together with the limits of flesh So that you would be eligible by keeping the law for us to die in our place , And to become the representative of a whole new humanity. And that you have done that, joining yourself to our limitations. Forever. Oh Lord Jesus. Lord Jesus, penetrate the veil of our blindness and coldness that we might see The limits, the love of that staggering sacrifice that you made for us. Lord, our hearts are cold. Warm them with the truth of the incarnation. Enable each of us to see now what devotion is ours to be given to you joyfully, freely When we understand what you've done for us, Lord, grant that this week these truths might settle in our hearts to trust you. To love you more than ever before. For Jesus' sake. Oh yeah.