I believe uh the marriage and parenting series within the book of Ephesians, and let me say that I appreciate the patience of you many singles who have uh worked with us through this time, patiently uh making uh extra effort to apply some of those principles to your own lives and situation. And now we come to the third application of the principle that Paul stated in Ephesians 5, 18 to 21, where he said basically that a spirit-filled Christian is known by his and her submissive servant attitude rather than some kind of spiritual experience which can produce a sense of spiritual superiority. And that that's true whether you are a person who is under authority as wife or A child at home or a person who is in authority as a parent or a husband. And he now applies that to the third set of relationships, that of the slave and master. I'm not going to put it on the overhead this week. Just want you to follow along because I want to give some general overview comments about this, but if you have your Bible I'm going to read now God's Word. Receive this as God's word to you from Ephesians chapter 6, verses 5 to 9. Slaves obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ. Obey them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but like slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart. Serve wholeheartedly. As if you were serving the Lord, not men, because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free. And masters, treat your slaves in the same way. Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and there is no favoritism. with him. And now here some of you may be thinking, oh great You know, the last message is applied to this section and this section, and now these messages apply to nobody because I don't know of any slaves and masters around here in the congregation Or there may be some of you are thinking, are you crazy? This one applies to everybody because we're all slaves and masters in the workforce and this just is employees and employers, that's what it's about, and so this one applies to everybody. Well, I admit that when I first studied this passage in preparation for this, I um thought I would make a kind of a passing reference to the fact that this is to slaves and masters and then just kind of move on to say, but you know, we all know what it's really about and how it applies is to employees and to employers because the principles seem to be Pretty much the same principles that we can apply in our work situation. But the more I studied it, the more I could not escape the fact that this was written to slaves So he says, and masters, and that Paul does not condemn the institution of slavery In fact, he can commands the slaves to be good slaves, and he only commands the masters to not threaten the slaves or maybe not deal harshly with them. So I don't think we can avoid the question that this raises about the New Testament and slavery. What's it saying? Specifically, why did Paul not condemn slavery? When that seems so obviously to us to be an evil, why does the Bible not ever condemn it? Many people have trouble with the Bible being inspired by God when they look at it and it seems like its ideas are so confined to first century values on things like women's roles and institution of slavery and things like this. Well I'm not going to deal with the question of women today , but I do want to deal with the question of slavery. Because I think it's one we ought to look at head on. In fact, I think if we look at what the Bible says here, what Paul is saying, and understand that he is not saying what many people attribute to him This passage can be a terrific encouragement to you and to me about the supernaturalness of the Bible, as well as to give us a number of very practical things for our lives, for your life this week. Now, before we look at what he says about slavery, I first must consider with you what slavery was like. In the first century. Think about the people that Paul was writing to. First of all, understand that slavery was absolutely taken for granted in the first century of the Roman Empire, nobody could imagine a world without slaves. That was simply unthinkable. In fact About a third of the population of the Roman Empire were slaves, about 60 million slaves, it's estimated at that time. And virtually all of the manual workforce were slaves. Romans considered manual labor demeaning, only slaves did that And uh in fact any kind of work for many Romans was considered demeaning. So uh the idea of slaves uh was just simply a fact of life in the economy. And uh the slaves were usually within some sort of a household context. And uh that's at least partly why Paul treats the issue after marriage and then parenting, because The slaves and the masters usually lived in a household context, even if it was a business, the business operated out of a home. Now, what was it like to be a slave in the first century? Well, in some ways it was worse than you could imagine. A slave in first century Roman Empire was considered to be a non-human, a person without any legal rights whatsoever. Their master had the power to do whatever he wanted with them Um they could be executed. The master was accountable to nobody for that. They were simply a piece of property. In fact, as great a person as Aristotle refers to slaves as living tools. The Romans categorized their agricultural implements into three categories. There were the articulate implements, those were slaves There were the inarticulate tools or implements, those were animals, and then there were the mute tools, those were, you know, hammers and saws and stuff like that. So they were just kind of one of the tools that you had around to get jobs done. And many of them suffered terribly under that system There's a record of one slave who accidentally killed the family quail. It's a bird. And uh The consequence was that they crucified the slave, just like the Lord Jesus nailed him to a cross. There's another slave that accidentally broke a crystal goblet, and so the master threw him into a pond of deadly lamprey eels and watched him perish eaten alive One Roman wrote that his greatest pleasure was the song of his slaves being flogged. And nobody could do anything. You were helpless. On the other hand, life as a slave in the first century was in some ways not as bad as you would imagine. For instance, um The treatment was tending to improve as the years went on. There was a gradual um disfavor among your neighbors for mutilating your slave. You know, it just kind of was looked down upon in the neighborhood. So arbitrary torture began to be less and less Seen as something that was okay. But more significantly, as time went on And also people just didn't treat their f slaves arbitrarily evil because of economic considerations. You paid a lot of money for 'em and somebody was had you'd invested a lot in their training and it just wasn't very smart to abuse them But then also most slaves were freed at some point during their life. Very few slaves served as slaves their whole lifetime. In fact, nearly half of the slaves in Rome were liberated by the time they reached the age of thirty. So if you were a slave as a teenager, you could expect that Sometime before you died, you would probably be freed. Slaves, even as slaves, could own property. In fact, a slave could own other slaves So you had slaves of slaves. That talk about low on the sociological pulling, you have to be a slave of a slave of a slave or something. Uh but um if you were walking down the street and you saw a slave, uh you probably wouldn't even recognize unless that they were really low on the manual labor and so they, you know, were kind of rough uh often you wouldn't recognize that they were a slave. Uh all doctors in that society were slaves. Some people think they still are, you know, if you're in the medical field. Some people wish they would be more, but you know They were then, and uh educators were slaves, so a slave didn't necessarily look any different from anybody else, could be a highly educated person So the system was simply a universally accepted system by which things got done. Nobody contested it. It was not a social issue to anyone, no record of anyone writing about the slave problem. Even a an uprising such as Spartacus's was simply something to be dealt with, not an issue in society. So the fact that Paul addresses this issue, he raises two matters to us as Christians who take the Bible seriously. Number one Why did Paul, right at Christianity, not condemn and even regulated slavery? I want to deal with that this morning. But then the second question is to notice the amazing parallels that there are between what Paul says here about slaves and masters and contemporary working relationships and to learn how we as Christians should obey this in our work situation, either as employees or employers or both. And that I want to look at next week and then the week after we're going to have a special guest speaker from Africa. And then I want to deal with it the two weeks after that. So we'll spend three weeks kind of wrap this whole thing up on what the Bible says about work. But particularly this morning, what the Bible says about slavery and why Paul does not condemn it. I would like for you to notice seven things from this text that help us to understand the answer to that question. Number one, Notice that slavery and racism are not the same thing. Today we find it hard to separate those two ideas And so we can often confuse the fact that the Bible seems to tolerate slavery as being a racist statement. But, you know, you take, for instance, in the Washington Post back uh June tenth, there was an editorial in which the writer was decrying the fact that while we have a Holocaust museum and uh there are days of remembrance and this kind of thing for the uh atrocities against Jewish people that there is no such museum. There are not the same kinds of recognition given for the horrors of a system that systematically enslaved, chained, beat, dehumanized African Americans within our society even after they were legally freed Uh slavery became a racial issue much more after the eighteenth century in the United States. Before that time, many white people were indentured servants And that was a common thing, but after the eighteenth century, uh the kidnapping, taking uh prisoners of people in Africa and making them slaves made it very much more in our country to be a racial matter. But you need to understand here as you read this passage that slavery was not primarily a racial issue in first century Rome. People who were enslaved were either enemies conquered or debtors who were bankrupt. you are more likely to have as the slave work who is under your power and under your control, your ownership, someone of your own race As to have someone of a different race. So the fact that the Bible does not condemn slavery says nothing about how the Bible views racism. Those are separate issues as Paul deals with them. Secondly, notice that your social status, according to the Bible, is a very secondary matter contrasted to your spiritual status. That's basic to the Bible's view of life, and yet it is one that we very I think find it very hard to enter into. For us How we live in this life seems far more important than how we will spend eternity. But the Bible is far more realistic. The Bible views that how we spend this life is extremely fleeting. It's passing. It's a pilgrimage How we spend the life after death is far more important. Your relationship to God through Jesus Christ is to the Bible a far more significant matter than what your social standing is. That's not speculation. Paul says that. For instance, in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 where he's talking about the social standing of people who become Christians. You see in your bulletin outline there, 1 Corinthians 7, 17 to 24. Let me just read from verse 20 a couple verses Paul says there each one should remain in the situation he was in when God called him. Were you a slave when you were called? Don't let it trouble you. Although, if you can gain your freedom, do so. You know, that's recognizing what I just said You could probably expect some time to do it. So if you can, hey, don't refuse it, Paul says. Take advantage of it, but don't make it a preoccupation For he who is a slave when he was called by the Lord is the Lord's freedman. Similarly, he who was a free man when he was called is Christ's slave. So he's saying you need to understand if you if socially you are a slave, you're free in Christ. But if you are free and you're a master, remember you're Christ's slave. Don't make too much about your social standing in this life. You notice that in Ephesians in chapter 6, verse 5, when he deals with this, he says Slaves, obey your earthly masters. Not only is that in contrast to your heavenly master, but the idea is these are the temporary ones. These are the masters you have that just while you're here on earth for a brief period of time And we need to recapture this perspective, don't we, as Christians? A perspective that it really is of secondary importance how we live in this life compared to the hope we have of heaven. Now that doesn't mean that we should not be concerned to address social wrongs and injustice. The Bible's clear that we should seek justice But the priority is for a person's eternal welfare more than their social equity in this life. It's simply a matter of priorities. Third point to notice is that both masters and slaves serve one master Who shows no favoritism because of their positions of quote importance? You see that in verse 8 and 9, he says, um You know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free. Masters treat your slaves in the same way, don't threaten them, since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and there is no Galatians chapter 3, in verse 28, there's what's sometimes called the Magna Carta of Christianity. Which talks about our position in Christ. You remember it says there, there is neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free. Male nor free male, female, for you are all one in Christ. In other words, in the gospel The social standing has nothing to do with your position in Christ. If you are slave or free, you get sick. If you are slave or free, you die. If you are slave or free, your sins are forgiven in exactly the same way by the same Jesus and his death on the cross and your trust in him. You are adopted as his child in heaven in exactly the same way, and there is no difference according to your social status, whether you are slave or free, how you are related to God in the gospel. Uh in both cases, when Paul says in chapter one, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ and how he's chosen us before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless in Christ, adopted us in his Son according to his pleasure and will That is true whether you are a slave or whether you are free, you see. That was written both to the slaves addressed in this letter, as well as to the free. So there is no distinction spiritually according to the social standing. That's absolutely clear. Both will be rewarded for their faithful service equally. for all eternity. Fourth point. Both marriage. Now we start getting into the deeper stuff here. Both marriage Chapter 5, verse 22 and 33, and parenting, chapter 6, verse 1 and 4, are presented as Divine ordinances, those are the blanks there, that is, those are God's patterns for society. That's what that means. Both marriage and parenting are stated, these are the way God would have it to be. Notice, no such claim is made for slavery. It is simply regulated, but it's done in such a way that the foundation of the whole system is undercut. We'll look at that in the next points, but for right now, I want you to notice this distinction because I believe that distinction is so powerful that it is a very strong evidence of the supernaturalness of Scripture. Nobody, including Plato or Aristotle, or Anyone, any of the ethical writers, any of the philosophers, any of the prophets of the Roman culture, nobody was writing about the slavery problem Nobody saw it as a problem. Everyone saw it just as family and parenting as the order of reality. Only the Bible. Paul here makes a distinction. He says, husband and wife is a God-ordained relationship. Parent and child has God ordained regulations, structures, slavery to slave to master. Let me tell you simply how to function within that system. with no divine basis for the system itself. And then what he does is the way he regulates it is to undercut and to destroy it. How does he do that? And it's very, very important to notice how he does it because it's very important for how you and I are to operate, I believe, in society. Fifth point. You notice slaves are addressed. Alongside their masters. They are assumed to be part of the congregation as full members of the body of Christ. That was radical thinking. Slaves were considered non-persons. They would not have been addressed in any social gathering. But here in the letter to the Ephesians, Paul says this letter is to those of you who are saints and faithful in Jesus Christ. And he is saying, now you slaves, who are part of the saints, the faithful ones, to whom have been given every spiritual blessing in Jesus Christ. Let me give you a word, and for the congregation to hear, as someone would read, here's from Paul to the slaves was something to make you sit up and notice this is radical stuff. What's he doing addressing the slaves? He's treating them as equal people And so that cannot be missed. In fact, uh remember there's a whole book of the Bible addressed to the problem of a slave Remember what one that is? Philemon? It's the one nobody ever knows. You know, you just go from Thessalonians, Timothy, and all you go right over to Hebrews. Well, Philemon's right in there, just between Titus and Hebrews just uh one page in most Bibles. But Philemon was written to a slave owner. It was written to a slave owner whose slave Anesimus had stolen from him and then run away. And somewhere in the course of his uh running around, he met Paul, heard the gospel, believed in Jesus Christ, became a Christian, and associated with Paul. In fact, Paul says he became very useful to him, which is a kind of a play on his name. And Paul then takes Anesimus and he's going to send him back. That's the right thing to do as a Christian. You ought to go back to Philemon, your master. Sends him back, but he sends him with a letter And it's very important to notice what he says, two verses from that letter. Paul says to Philemon, perhaps the reason He was separated from you for a little while, was that you might have him back for good, no longer as a slave, but better than a slave, as a dear brother. He is very dear to me, but even dearer to you, both as a man and as a brother in the Lord. You see what Paul's doing? He's he's elevated aneshus from a non-human to a brother in Christ He's done something that's radical in that society. Onesibus is now a brother. Now, do you know what the Romans would have done to Onesibus? It's one of two things they would have done to him. Once Anesimus was caught, captured, or returned, they would have probably killed him. They would have executed him as a lesson for the other slaves. But if they decided that they'd invested too much in him, he was worth too much, and they weren't going to kill him. The very least they would have done was they would have taken a hot iron And they would have branded the letter F on his forehead, which stands for Fugitatus, which is kind of like what people talk about doing with sexual offenders, you know, you gotta brand them gotta note that they're living in the neighborhood or something So everywhere the Nanesimus would have walked, he would have been wearing this S and this is a runaway slave. And the shame of that, Paul says, receive him back as a brother in the Lord Jesus. We're talking about radical talk here. But even more than that, even more radical. You see, what Paul's doing here is that he is laying a foundation for the equality of all people made in God's image without making it an issue that overshadows the gospel. If Paul had said to the slaves, Now slaves in Christ you ought to be free, organized, and work for your freedom, let's overthrow the system. You masters, you've got to let your slaves go. In Christ, they're full humans and you shouldn't be treating them like that. If he had done what we look back in the 21st century and say it seems obvious he should have done this as somebody who had ethical sensitivity, if he had done that, that would have been the death of the gospel You see, because the whole Roman Empire would have looked at Christianity not as here's the message about a Messiah who's come to take away sin, here is a cult that's trying to overthrow all social order. These guys are anarchists. See, and that's all they would have heard. The gospel would have never had a hearing. So what Paul does is he presents the gospel, and then he kind of slips in some of these ways of thinking And he just kind of lets it lay there. But even more radical than his doing that is the sixth point, which says that Messiah, who is worshipped, was a Slave, and that he came to serve. You see, the Romans considered being a slave and serving was not only menial, it was disgraceful. There was absolutely nothing attractive in Not only menial work, but the idea of serving. Humility was scorned by the Romans. And here comes the Lord of Glory. Clothed in flesh. And he says things like, Now if you want to be great in the kingdom, then be a servant. If you really want to be first Be the slave of all, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. And at the Lord's Supper, just before he died, when all the disciples are sitting around there saying, I guess nobody's around here, there's no slaves around, nobody's going to wash our feet, so we've just got to eat with dirty feet, too bad, just move on, ignore it Jesus comes and you remember, sets aside his clothes, takes the towel of a servant, and he acts as a slave. And he says If I serve you this way, here's an example for you. And so Paul writes in Philippians 2, let this attitude be in you, which was in Christ, who did not consider his glory and all his prerogatives of his importance, something to be grasped but rather gave them up, became a uh in the form of a man, became a man, and became a servant, a slave, obedient to death So that God highly exalted him. The principle of humility before exaltation, basic to Christianity. The one that we worship was a slave. I mean you talk about shake up the social order. People look and they say, These Christians worship one who says that he came to serve, he came as a slave And then the seventh point, finally, is that Paul here undercuts the whole psychology of slavery, which was the power to force somebody to serve. He says, serve by number one imitating your master, who was the slave, the Lord, who came to serve. And what's that do? He gives dignity to being a slave, you see. I mean, hey, if Jesus, the Lord of glory, was a slave, why am I complaining? Huh? I mean, you think it's so rough that people take for granted the things you do in serving? He says, look at your master. And then secondly, what he does is he says, your service is not from compulsion, it's from your heart. Three times he says that. You notice he says, um In verse 5, obey your earthly masters with respect and with fear and with sincerity of heart. Not just because you have to, but it's from your heart. Obey them not only to win their favor when their eyes are on you, but like slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart. Thirdly, verse 7, serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord. So what he is saying is, you know, if he tells you you've got to go out there and plow a furrow You go out there and plow two furrows. And in your heart you say, I did the second one by choice. See? He says, Clean up the table here. Get all this stuff cleared out. You not only clear it up, you straighten things up all around it. And you say, you see, I didn't do that because I had to do it. I did that serving the Lord. That's my choice. And all of a sudden you have removed the compulsion, the uh the degradation of the whole institution. And so what Paul has done is he said this is something that changes because of your heart. You see, it's it's illustrated just this week, you know, Timothy McBay goes to get his lethal injection. And the last thing he writes, the last thing, his legacy to humanity, is the poem Indictus by William Ernest Henley. I am the captain of my soul. I am bloodied but unbound, you see. Whatever gods there may be, you know, I shake my fist and I go, you see, you're not gonna get me down. We went under compulsion. But the gospel changes our hearts. The gospel makes us new creatures. And so there's three things that you and I to learn from this. Number one See that the genius of Christianity and the kingdom of God is that it works Jesus says like yeast in Matthew 13 to penetrate change from within the society. The gospel change is always from the inside out It's as Christians live as Christians within the society. Christianity did not change Rome overnight. But by the third century, or by the by 312 to 18, Rome capitulated to Christianity. Christianity had triumphed. Why? Because of the values that had penetrated the society. Christians living as Christians So, what does that mean for you as you go to work this week? It means that for you and for me, everything we do, we ask, Lord, how do you want me distinctively to serve and to work as a Christian? In every area to apply biblical values and biblical thinking, there is no area where I can ever say, it really doesn't matter how I do this. It really doesn't matter how I live in this area. Because how you live, the values that are communicated through that are penetrating like leaven in the society. And that's how God changes America. It's not by trying to force against the society's will pro-life legislation. It's as Christians live as those who value human life And when that human life is life that is despised by the society as a whole, and Christians give dignity to that, that value Makes a dent and an effect which inevitably becomes inexorable That's the principle that Paul's laying down here. Secondly, your spiritual status, whether you are seated with Christ or not, is vastly more important than your social status. Do you really believe that? This week I was meeting with a couple of pastors, friends of mine, who pastors of large growing churches, churches significantly larger than CPC, growing faster than CPC, and we were sharing and talking I began to notice myself getting a little competitive. I wanted these guys to respect me. I wanted them to think, you know, well, you know, I'm we're I'm part of what's happening too, you know. You know, and it's and I thought, you know, if I really was secure in my seated status with Jesus Wouldn't care about that. Wouldn't be also important if these guys think I'm important. I do that because I don't really value My position in Christ, the way I ought to. You and I look at our importance in this world So with so much more weight than it deserves. And you consider the status you have in Jesus Christ if you belong to Him. And so that leads to the third thing. You see, if you have Christ, you're freed by the gospel to serve. You're freed. You don't have to prove anything. You don't have to demonstrate. And the gospel, what the gospel does is it comes and it takes our hearts, which are so self-centered and so selfish. You know, I'm so much more aware of what I want than what you want. This last Monday I um was headed out to do something I really enjoyed and Kathy didn't particularly want to participate in it with me. So fine, I'm gonna go enjoy it myself. Just as I'm in the car and headed out of the garage, she comes and says Uh well, I think I got a problem over here, you know, and the problem with the other car. And so immediately my heart said Ah, a way to serve my wife. I can change my whole plans and show her how much I love her, and this is going to mean a lot to her. Why are you laughing? Because you not only don't you not only know my heart, you know your heart, right? Man, I was ticked I was irritated. Why are you doing this now? And on on and on and on and on and on. You see, because I want to serve myself. That's my heart. It's only the gospel that changes that. It's only Jesus Christ, the servant, who came to die for your sins, die for selfish people, and to forgive you that enables you and me to serve by the Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would enable us to see Jesus who came the Lord of glory to serve, so that we would understand how radical the gospel is. It changes our hearts. And as our hearts are changed and we live as servants in our society, the society cannot resist the power of servanthood. And so, Lord, help us to think about what that means in each of our situations this week, that we might serve you faithfully because we love you. and to appreciate how supernatural is this book and its message. May we go with hope and faith and confidence in you, and with hearts that are transformed to serve by the power of the gospel in Jesus Christ. Amen