Today is Labor Day weekend. I did want to talk about labor. For two weeks. Talk about work. Now work has kind of fallen on hard times. In fact, in fact, I would say that as a culture today we are obsessed with leisure and work ourselves to death to just try to get some. In fact, the Puritan notion of calling in work has all but died in our culture, hasn't it? People generally today see work as a necessary evil in order to get what they really want. And the idea of Labor Day to give dignity to labor and for us to kind of have an excuse to have a day off at the end of summer. really has lost any notion of the idea of celebrating the fact that we have work, that we have work to do, and it's a good thing to be able to do that. In a recent survey, one out of four Americans survey said that they were deeply dissatisfied with their jobs. The top four reasons given were that they lacked sufficient recognition, they weren't getting enough money for it, there was too much stress, and they needed a new boss. I don't know how many of those you may identify with, but the fact is that many of us today don't like our jobs. Many of us don't have any sense of reward from our jobs Many people today complain that there's nothing that I produce. When I finish the end of a day or a week or a month, I look back and I say, what did I produce that serves humanity? I sat at a computer. I, you know, I I looked at a screen for hours. I generate reports for people who don't want to read them I work with people who don't want to work and they want to do the least possible and I'm always covering for them and I'm uh living in a tense situation or maybe it's a routine situation. There's no future. I don't see anything that I'm really looking forward to. And I'm sort of caught in the Peter principle. You know, I'd like to go beyond where I am, but I'm probably not going to enjoy if I get pushed up and There's all this pressure to compete, and yet I don't really feel like what I'm doing is worth all that much, and on and on and on it goes. And so We have a hard time today for many people looking forward to and finding real satisfaction and purpose in our job. In fact, I'd say that the average Christian today more than most other times in history, severely compartmentalizes their work from their Christian life. You know what I mean? You know, you you look at your work, that's your secular world. And you're serving Jesus Christ as his disciple is kept separate from that. You can't bring those worlds together. Maybe you try sometime lamely or uh sometimes aggressively by the grace of God and other times uh uh very timidly to share something of Christ within the work situation. But it's very hard for you to see your work from God's perspective. And that's what I'd like to help you to do. And for us all to be able to do this morning and next Sunday morning, because I think that's very much needed, especially as we look to the fall and begin to move toward work in earnest. Now, the scripture in fact does present a very clear theology of work, but one area that I discovered recently That I had never noticed before, that this appears, and it excited me when I saw it, was in the book of Ephesians In the book of Ephesians, you have a clear theology of work that I'd like to call our attention to this Sunday and next Sunday. Now, in order to understand this, we need to realize, we need to remember again That the book of Ephesians is the book of gospel grammar. Now, do you remember any of you who have been in my newcomer's class know what gospel grammar is? And so you see that on your bulletin outline there, that first blank. Gospel grammar is what are the blanks? Come on, somebody that's been through that. The what are based on the what. So watch the first blank. I thought I heard it. Indicativ - wait. We heard indicatives over here and imperatives over here. How many say imperatives First blank. How many say indicatives? How many don't care? What is it, you guys? We need another invent. I'll tell you, Labor Day weekend. You must be it's good I'm talking on work this morning, you know? I think you guys need to understand what we're doing. This side wins. The imperatives are based on the indicatives. That's gospel grammar. Now, for those of you that aren't English majors, what does that mean? Simply that the commands are based on the facts. Just a fancy way of saying that in the New Testament, commands are based on facts. That is, that the New Testament tells us to do or to become what you are. The book of Ephesians, this is the second blanks now, the book of Ephesians then summed up, if you summed up the whole book of Ephesians in one sentence, it would be simply be what you are in Christ. That's the book of Ephesians. Be what you are in Christ. And the book of Ephesians divides simply into two halves, you remember. Again, this is review for those of you who have been in newcomers with me. Six chapters, first three chapters, are all telling you what you are and what you have in Christ. Those are the facts. Those are the indicatives. Those are simply the statement of reality. This is who you are. This is what you have in Christ. You have his inheritance. You have the glory of his grace. You have the Holy Spirit. You have the promises of all the gospel, of eternal life. You have the infinite resurrection power All these things you have. Then chapter 4, verse 1, which is the link pin between the first half and the second half of the book of Ephesians. Chapter 4, verse 1 basically says, Paul says, I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium with what you have and who you are. Now in most of your translations it says something like, I urge you to live a life worthy. But that word worthy, you may remember, I've pointed out a number of times, is a word which really means to bring into equilibrium. And so Paul is saying, bring your life into equilibrium with who you are, what you have in Jesus Christ. And so then chapters 4 to 6 give a series of commands. And every one of those commands in Ephesians 4 to 6 are based on something he has said about you. What you are and what you have in chapters one to three. You don't believe me, go check it out. You'll see every single one is true. And so he says in chapter four, live in unity. Why? Because chapter two he said, because you're one body. In chapter 5, he says, be filled with the Spirit. Why? Because chapter 1 he says you have the Spirit dwelling in you. Be holy, because you are holy. And in this matter of work, you see the same principle. In chapters 4 to 6, Paul deals with work. In chapter 4 and chapter 6, what's that based on? And this was the insight that I gained as my studied through Ephesians recently and had never noticed this before. The command in chapter 4 and 6 is based on his statement of your identity in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 to 10. That is a foundational verse concerning work. And yet I don't think most of us have ever looked at Ephesians 2, 8 to 10 as an insight to give us joy in our work. We're going to do that this morning. Let's take a look at it. Ephesians chapter 2. Verses 8 to 10. Now you remember he has talked here about how you're dead in sin, but God has raised you from the dead, and he's talked about his grace to you. And then he says, in emphasizing that grace, in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. God's word to us. He says, For it is by grace that you have been saved through faith, and this not from yourselves, it is the gift of God Not by works, so that no one can boast. For we are God's workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. Now, according to that, then, what are you? Verse 10 is very clear, isn't it? You are God 's workmanship. Now, what does that mean? The Greek word there for workmanship is the word poema, from which we get our English word poem. And so what Paul is saying there is that you are God's poem. You are his work of art You are God's masterpiece of grace. So the first point there, A, is that you are God's work of art. You are God's work of art. The first point, you see, implications on work is what you are. As we're talking about the first three chapters at Ephesians, in which you see chapter 2, 8 to 10. What you are. What are you? You are God's work of art. You are his masterpiece of grace if you are trusting Jesus Christ this morning. See, that's what he said, verse 8 and 9. It's by grace you've been saved. Through faith, and this wasn't from yourselves, it's the gift of God, it's his work in you, not by work so that no one can boast, because we're his workmanship. In fact, this workmanship that God has worked in you is so beautiful that when God looks at all the powers of the universe, powers of indescribable glory and power. God says in chapter three that he points to you and to me as His workmanship, which shows the epitome of his wisdom and skill. He said, You want to see what I can do? Don't look at the stars, don't look at the earth, don't look at Science, don't look at all these things. Those things are nice, but that's my handiwork. You really want to see what I can do? You want to see my workmanship? You really want to see the apex of my work of art? Look at my people. And so in chapter 3 and verse 10, we read that his intent was now that through the church, you and me, that the manifold wisdom. You remember we've talked many times about the fact that the word wisdom in Scripture means skill. It shows handiwork that the manifold wisdom, God's skill, should be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. God says, You What I have made you to be by my grace, that is an evidence, that is the demonstration of my masterpiece of art. And you look at your life and you look at and I look at my life and we say I don't see a whole lot of art there. I see an awful lot that's lacking. But listen, brother and sister, stop for just a moment and think about your life before Jesus Christ. Think about your life without Jesus Christ What would you be like this morning if Jesus Christ had never entered your life? What would you be like if the Spirit of God had never taken control and forgiven you? applied the forgiveness of Jesus Christ and changed you and given you new desires and new motives and new direction. And when you stop and think about that as I've done and I need to do that every once in a while, I get discouraged by my lack of forgiveness progress and growth and grace, but then I stop and I look and I say, Lord Jesus, I'm so glad I met you. You know this year, just this summer, I went back to the place where I received Jesus Christ in 1959. And I walked along the hill there and I stood in the conference room where I'd heard a message in 1959 that caused me to respond and to give my life to Jesus Christ. And as I sat there in that room, it was empty, it was a warm summer afternoon, and I looked out the window just as I had done as a teenager there. My heart was so filled with gratitude. Say, Lord Jesus. I never regretted the decision I made here, what, twenty two, twenty-three years ago now. And I look back, thirty, yeah. Listen, you get my age, what's a decade or two, you know? Thirty thirty three year thirty two years. Holy cow. Should have done more, huh? But I look and I see he has done a lot. And I realize that without Jesus Christ, my life would be in shambles And you look at your life and you see that you and I are his workmanship. He's not finished yet. He's continuing that process. It'll be continued until the Lord Jesus comes again. But he says, right now, look at your life. You are God's workmanship. And what is that for? What is the purpose of it? Well, it's point B there. You are created to do something. You're created to do good works. You see that? The end of there verse 10. We are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works. And even here you see the priority of his grace, that it's his work in you and not something you take credit for. Because even those good works that you do are works which God prepared in advance for you to do. That's what the end of verse 10 says. Which God prepared in advance for us to do. What's that saying? That's saying that God has made you his poem, his work of art, so that he would work out his artful goodness in your life. There was a novel some years ago written by James Joyce called Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man. And in this book, Joyce describes a fellow by the name of Stephen Daedalus who has a choice to make. And that choice is whether to follow Jesus Christ and to serve the church as a priest or whether to become an artist. And as he looks at that choice, he sees the choice between a sterile, passionless goodness and art and beauty and passion full of life. He doesn't see any way of combining the two. And so he finally decides that he can't bring himself, as good as it might be, to serve God and the church. To have such a sterile existence. And so goodness must be put to the side so that beauty and passion will have its place. And I think that for many of us as Christians, Satan has sold us on that kind of distortion of sanctification, of holiness, of what it means to follow Jesus Christ. We've given goodness bad press, haven't we, often as Christians? We've given it a notion of rigidity, of legalism rather than the idea of artful goodness. The idea of artful goodness is the difference between simply following the law as an external code which you seek to discipline your flesh to keep. And that which is spirit wrought in you as excuse me changed desires, which cause you to see a situation, perhaps a situation of oppression. the situation of discouragement and and of hardship, and to by the Spirit of God be creative, because you are God's workmanship To bring into that an artful goodness, an artful creative way of living as Jesus Christ would live in that situation. The Beatitudes in many ways are Jesus discontrasting artful goodness, in contrast to a legalistic, external, rigid kind of goodness that the Pharisees sought to practice And so when you and I look at our lives, we need to see that God is working in us an artful goodness to be worked out in two arenas. And these two arenas he specifically then describes in the second three chapters of the book of Ephesians. And so this is what you are. You are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works. You see, there it is. Work. Not just works, work. That's the idea. Here is workmanship to do work. And that work is to be an artful, poetic, beautiful goodness by the Spirit of God worked out in you. Now, how's that to be worked out? Well, in the second three chapters, Paul describes that, and he does the two areas. What are the two areas? So then, therefore, what are you what you are to do? That's the second point. What you are to do. What you are to do is to work these out in two areas. First of all, A to work it in the church To demonstrate your artful goodness in the church of Jesus Christ. And that's in chapter 4, verse 16, first place where he talks about work. Now you remember in chapter 4, Paul's talked about how the Spirit has given gifts to those in the church, pastors, teachers, evangelists. And the rest of this, in order to, and he says in verse twelve, prepare God's people for service. Now then he says in verse twelve, why that is. Now look at what he says in chapter four, at the end of verse twelve. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ That's your purpose, that's my purpose, you see. This morning there's one thing ought to consume your attention and your hope for this week more than anything else, not to get through it, not to survive it Not to cope with it, but to say I want to become more like Jesus. I want to grow into the fullness of the stature of the person of Jesus Christ. I want to become like him. I want to think like him. I want to respond like him. I want to be like him. Because I love him. Now Paul said he's giving gifts to the body in order to do that. So that we would grow together. But how is that done? Well look what he says in verse 15. Speaking the truth and love, then, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him then, the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament. grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its what? Twerk. See? Here it is. That's the Greek word work. Paul's saying, as you each do your work, working out That artful goodness of the poetic masterpiece God has made you by the grace of Jesus Christ. You see your brother and your sister. You see an ye. And you seek to meet that need by the grace of the Spirit of God, and God works in you that workmanship, working out those good works which He's prepared for you to do. This is not a sales pitch for y'all to get busy and work in the church. If you love Jesus Christ, you want to serve him By using your gifts to build up the body. In fact, in most churches, it's the pastors and the leaders of the churches that hold the people back By having some sort of hoops you need to jump through or certain bureaucratic structures that you need to go through in order to do some kind of a ministry in the church. And as you know, if you've been around here for a while We as leaders of this church are committed to and dedicated to freeing you up to be creative, to let that creative goodness of Jesus Christ in his spirit Free you so that as you see needs and you see opportunities, you are able to minister those within our body. And so last week you hear Scott tell about the Christian Service Brigade ministries and how that's expanding and We aren't doing anything about that. I'm not as an elder trying to crank that thing up. That's the Spirit of God working through Scott and other other rangers, seeing a need and wanting to build up these kids in Jesus Christ. And so as each part does its work, kids are Matured in Christ. And uh m min women's ministries this fall. There'll be more coordination of those things. Norma Walgrew is working on some of that. You'll be hearing more about women's ministries and conferences and various other things. Well is this because we all sit down in some room and say, now we've got to have more women's ministries? No, it's because the Spirit of God is working in you And so these ministries come out because you see this artful goodness of Jesus working in you. You love him. And so part of that love is manifested. You show your love to Jesus by wanting to do that work which builds up his body. So we each become more like him. Do you see how it works? And so you be what you are. You do the work of building the body because of what you are, his workmanship, created in Christ to do good works. You see, it's it's not a matter then of saying, well, you know, how do I get this job done or how to generate some enthusiasm for it? It's knowing Jesus better as you know Jesus better. You discover your His workmanship and you discover the work that He has for you to do Now the other area where he talks about this is then in chapter 6, and there he speaks about your work in the marketplace. First is in the church, and that's for everybody, no exceptions. You see what he says in 4. 16, as each part does its work. Every one of us, I don't know what that place for God has for you. Talk to Jim and Amy up here and John and Gene. I don't know their place. within the body and the ministries God will have. Have some clues already and some things they've talked about. But we know that they have a place in building up this body. That's why we can say that to everyone who joins here. Now when we come to the marketplace, it's a little different. In chapter 6, verses 5 to 9, Paul talks about your work in the marketplace. This is that working out of his workmanship in you, doing good works in the marketplace, in two categories, as an employee. Employee employee as in an employer. Employee versus five to eight as an employer in verse nine Now that doesn't deal with everybody, because I have a note there that he also, of course, refers to parents And you see parents, moms and dads, referred there to in chapter 6, verse 1, children obey your parents in the Lord. And so there's also that. And in particular , Uh I want to say here that I believe that to mothers there are mothers who are staying at home in order full-time. To raise their children in Jesus Christ. And Paul does address that in Titus chapter 2, verse 5, where he says that he urges the younger women to be busy at home. And that word busy is the word workers. It's the Greek to be workers at home. Now, lest you think I'm going to get sucked into the debate of whether women should be at all in the marketplace with young children, I'm not getting into that this morning. What I am saying is it is entirely appropriate for a woman who has young children, or for a man, if there is a working out of that between the husband and the wife, for one to stay at home. for a number of years in order to make that their occupation, not to be in the marketplace outside the home, but to be doing that That is their work, and that is a dignified work, and Paul says in Titus 2. 5, that is an entirely appropriate thing, particularly addresses younger women, to do. But for most of us, at some point in our lives, we will be in the marketplace. We will be responsible to somebody for pay, inside the home or outside the home, whether we work in the home or as a freelancer or we work outside the home. And there Paul says the same idea. He says, I want you to work out the artful goodness of Jesus in that role that you have as an employee or an employer. Now next week we're going to be talking more specifically from chapter 6, verses 5 to 9, about what that means, what it's telling us to do. So I don't want to get into that this morning. I just want you to see the overall picture. I want you to see the connection. That what you are to do As an employee or as an employer, in chapter 6, in that working with Jesus as the one you are serving, is simply the working out. Of his artful goodness, the fact that you are his work of art, his masterpiece, his poem, by the grace of Jesus Christ, having prepared in you and for you good work to do. And when you see that, you realize all of a sudden that your work this week takes on a whole new dignity. Because it's something for you to do, not simply in order to get some money, in order for you to pay the bills, in order for you to be able to have more leisure, to be able to set aside for retirement or whatever else it is, but part of your salvation, the working out of your salvation in your service of Jesus Christ. is working out the artful goodness of that masterpiece God has made you by grace in the good work, in the subduing of this world and in the serving of other people. in the work that he's called you to do in the marketplace. George McDonald, in his book The Genius of Millie Willie McMichael has a little section in here that I think is absolutely precious about this. Willie's a rather precocious little guy who uh takes up all kinds of trades and tasks and inventions. And one of his adventures is to apprentice himself to a shoemaker. And as he's working with a shoemaker, a fellow who is a very simple man who uh has no great learning whatsoever. While he's uh trying to make some shoes, he asks the shoemaker on one occasion, what is your business, Hector? What is it that you do? How do you look at what you're doing? Sitting here, all you do is hammer out the soles and mend old boots and shoes and make new ones all day. How do you look at what you do Now they've been talking about the stars just previous to this. And Hector's response, the shoemaker, says, What is my business, Willie? Why, to keep people out of the dirt, of course, by making and mending their shoes. The astronomer now, when he goes out to look at the stars through his telescope, might get his death of cold if his shoemaker didn't know his business. Of the general business, it's a part God keeps to himself to see that the stars go all right. And that the sun rises and sets at the proper times. But I don't understand about astronomy because it's not my business. I'm set to keep folks' feet off the cold and the wet earth, and stones, and broken glass. For however much a man may be an astronomer and look up at the sky, he must touch the earth with some part of him, and generally he does so with his feet And God sets you to do it, Hector? Yes. It's the way He looks after people's feet. He's gotta look after everything, you know, or everything would go wrong. And so He gives me the leather and the tools and the hands, and I must say the head, for it wants no little head to make Good shoe to measure. As if he said to me, There, you make the shoes while I keep the stars right. Isn't that a fine thing to have a hand in the general business of God? And Hector looked up with shining eyes into the face of the little boy. And then he goes on to talk about the people that he thinks about as he makes their shoes and how he's serving them and how he's serving the Lord. By making good shoes for people to keep them warm and dry. Now there's a man who understands that he is the workmanship of Christ. Created by God to do good works that fit into the scheme of what God is doing Have you ever thought about what you do in those terms? To think about how God is running all that he's doing in history. That part of that is that he has made you to be his work of art in the place that he has set you to serve him, and that he's created beforehand good work for you to do in serving Jesus. In the work that you'll do in front of that computer and writing out the reports and serving the people in the way that you'll do that this week, because you're doing it for Jesus. This past month, as I was coming off a vacation, I had to think how there is that temptation, isn't there, for us, to one vacation to never end And I had to look in my own heart, and I had to repent of that. Because to look at Our summer as wanting to be a never-ending summer and wanting things to go on and on and wish that I never had to get back to problems and stress is to miss really the sense of God's call for you and for me. But when we see that call, it's something that we realize we cannot fulfill in our own strength. You're not able to do your job in your own strength, in your own flesh. You're not able to love it. You're not able to do it. You're only able to do it as you're God's workmanship. And as you trust him and lean on him to equip you this week to be faithful in the task that he's called you to do, let's come before him now, each one. Let's begin by confessing to God and to repent and express that The bad attitudes we've had about our work, the grumbling and the complaining about the jobs God's given us. Perhaps the desires that we've had that vacation wouldn't end and that we wouldn't have to get back to stress and wanting to avoid those things that God has for us to do. Now, Lord our God, we want to affirm to you that for every one of us here who has trusted Jesus Christ as our Savior and our Lord, We are your workmanship of grace. We are your poem. We are your work of art, your masterpiece, to be displayed throughout all the universe. And part of that masterpiece is the fact that you have prepared for us work to do. Work to do within your body, to build up the body. Work to do in the home and in the marketplace. In order to serve our family, in order to earn an honest pay. And Lord, we want to see what you've called us to do now in that new light as an outworking of the workmanship of Jesus in us. We want to see that new dignity that you've given to our work, Lord, because you have prepared the work for us to do. And it's a service to you. So Lord, we pray for any of us here who dread our jobs. We pray, Lord, that you would deliver those who hate the routine. Lord, that you would either provide for them other work, different position within the work that they have, or a contentment with the work that you have given them to do. I pray for those, Lord, who are out of work or who have lost jobs, that you would provide good work, the right work appropriate to their gifts and training. We pray, Lord, for those who are concerned about their jobs, that you would give to them rest. We pray for those who do enjoy their work. Lord, maybe some of us enjoy our work too much in the sense that we have separated it from you and we just throw ourselves into that work and it's become a bit of an idol to us. We don't see it as that which is work which you have prepared for us as an outworking of being your workmanship. And so it's become out of balance. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to integrate our lives. We would see that work as a means of serving you. Lord, we come now to place our work, our jobs, whatever they are and wherever they are, on the altar before Jesus Christ. And consciously now, Lord, we want to dedicate to you our service and our work. That this week and this fall, you would give us a new zeal for what we do. That you would give us a new sense of our dependence on you to do those jobs faithfully and to do them in a way that pleases you. And that you would be pleased with our work, because it's an outworking of your grace in us, in Jesus Christ. Amen.