About a month ago I was uh talking to somebody about the upcoming movie, The Passion of the Christ, and I said that I thought that this was going to be a very big cultural event And this person said, nah, I think that's just gonna be big among Christians, but I don't think outside of Christian circles you're gonna hear much of anything about it. And I said, no, I think it's gonna be a big nah. I'll bet you on lunch. Well, after the biggest first five days in box office history the last week uh beating even uh Lord of the Rings, Return of the King, $125 million in five days. Uh cost $25 million to make the movie got six times what he paid for it back in five days. That's not a bad investment. Um I got my lunch Uh but much more significant is how everybody's talking, not only about the movie, but about Jesus Christ. two weeks uh I have gotten uh in uh emails of reports, news reports, magazines, on the TV, every day It's been in the news every day. This is just some of the stuff that I've kept uh over the last couple of weeks of articles, in some cases summaries of articles. It's been in I think every periodical but car and driver in the last uh couple of weeks. And uh you know, it's gotten all kinds of reviews from um Those that say it is uh offensively gory and unnecessarily violent, as if you kind of gauge the level of violence by, you know what's going to be offensive or not. To those that say it's the best depiction of the suffering of Christ ever presented, and it brings us back to the heart of Christianity. Of course, it gets all kinds of reactions from the jeweler who is making religious jewelry ten thousand pieces a day based on themes of the movie, like a $17 nail necklace. I have a picture of it back there if everybody wants to see. To serious discussions. About why Jesus suffered as he did, why he died, what Christianity is all about. This last Tuesday evening, over 40 people came to the Howard County Central Library, including including a rabbi, to talk about the movie and about Jesus There'll be another discussion this Thursday from 7 to 9, again at the central Howard County Library. Invite you to come. You don't have to go to the movie to come to the discussion. I leave that up to you. For instance, I went to see the movie. My wife Kathy opted to not see the movie. And I will say that while it's true that it depicts the beatings, the shame, and the torture of Jesus Christ more graphically than any movie ever made yet I found it to be amazingly faithful to the message of Scripture, and sometimes brilliantly so. Um I'd say maybe 5% or so of it is not scriptural, it's kind of off-base, something added that don't think is the way it happened, but it's easy to forgive that because in no case do the things that I think are erroneous uh take away from the message. Uh nothing distorts it really But what is accurate I find to be profoundly so and very moving and often with great spiritual insight, surprisingly. And so I decided to set aside the series that I was going to do this Lenten season, and to do one that speaks to the issues. that are raised by this movie, both for those of you who might be, as Washington uh Times indicates, many people coming to church uh who simply because they've seen the movie want to hear something addressing this, you may be such a person, or You may be a believer or part of Columbia Presbyterian and simply want to understand some more things for the people that you are talking to. So in doing that, I decided to take the passage which is, I think, clearly the one that best speaks to it. In fact The movie begins with a black screen and white letter simply quoting a verse from Isaiah chapter 53. He bore this for us. And so I would like to do five weeks on Isaiah chapter 53. The fourth song of the servant Messiah, written by Isaiah the prophet. About 750, your outline there says 700, but it's actually more like closer to 750 BC uh to describe who he is, what he's like, and what he will do. Now keep in mind That this is a prophecy that is remarkably unlikely to find any coincidental fulfillment This is describing something absolutely unique and unlikely, and it is written 750 years before Jesus was born, which is like somebody having written something at 1250 A. D. About someone to be born this year, and a prophecy about that person that is absolutely unique. No one ever else in all of history Would fulfill what was written 750 years ago. The song has five stanzas. Each one is three verses. And you see here now the uh I give one word to kind of sum it up. This is what we'll be going through, what uh the song says. In uh actually begins in chapter fifty-two, the last three verses there, and in uh those verses Messiah, the servant, is described as He is unique, that is, what is said in this stanza that we'll look at today, uh no one else fits it but Jesus I I have never heard of a serious contender of anyone else. You may think that Jesus is not the fulfillment of it, but no one else is. If he isn't, no one is Secondly, that he was despised, that is, he was rejected by his own people, verses 1 to 3, chapter 53, verses 4 to 6, that he was punished. that that punishment was substitutionary. It was in the place of others. Fourthly, that, verses seven and nine, that he was innocent in that punishment. He was led as a lamb. to the slaughter. And then fifthly, final stanza, is that he was eminently successful. Verses 10 to 12. The end of the story is that he lives after his death and he reigns forever Now, this is holy ground. It may be that you find if you're a follower of Jesus Christ that Somehow your passion for him has waned, your focus on him has shifted a bit. There is nothing to restore your passion for Jesus Christ as Our vision statement says, passion for God in Christ, like looking again at the cross to see Jesus Himself. And what he has done for you. Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 2, I resolved to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. That's the very heart of our faith. It's the heart of Christianity. And so it is going to serve us well as we move toward Easter to once again focus on the very heart. of our faith. For others of you, you may have been coming to Columbia Presbyterian for weeks or months or maybe even years. But for whatever reason you have resisted Giving yourself to Jesus. You still hold him at arm's length. You're interested. You might even describe yourself as a seeker But you're not about to give up certain things that are precious to you that you believe would be required to follow Jesus Christ. After the first service, somebody came to me and said, I remember when I was in exactly that position, and I was at Urbana, and I went looking for girls And they called to a commitment to Jesus Christ, and I made a list of all the things I'd have to give up. And by the end of the week I realized that list was nothing Compared to what he had given up for me, and I became a Christian, and I've never regretted it since. Maybe you're in that place Let's take a moment as we enter into this study to pray for God to show us Christ. Let's take just a moment quietly Lord, my poor powers can't do it. Holy Spirit We ask you now to come and to show us Christ, Christ as He is Not the speculation and the imaginations. You, Lord Jesus, as you are and why you came to do what you did. Penetrate our hearts with all our distractions and frettings to see you now and in these weeks to come And to know what it means for each one of us. Amen Let me read from Isaiah chapter 52, verses 13 to 15, the verses we consider this morning. See, my servant will act wisely. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted, just as there were many who were appalled at him. His appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. So will he sprinkle many nations, and kings will shut their mouths because of him For what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard, they will understand. I want to suggest to you three ways, one for each verse That Jesus is absolutely unique. There is no one who is like him. First of all, he is unique in that he is exalted to the highest place Verse 13, he is honored above all else. See my servant, will act wisely. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. His unique position is seen in the way God refers to him. Look, the very first word is see, behold. Get your eyes off yourself for a few minutes and look at this one. Notice that God refers to him, first blank there, as my servant. This is unique. There's a special relationship between God and this one. He is my servant. It's kind of like a proud father referring to his son. Look at my servant. Look at my son. I have a son, Dean, and he's an art student, and he's won some prizes for his art. Look at my son. You want to see his art? Hey, I'll show you his art. I'd be glad to show you, you see. I'm proud of my son. This daughter, the the father here is proud of the son. Look, behold my servant. Now uh My son's still in art school and I I can't tell you he's gonna be a great artist. And maybe he will, I hope so. But I don't know But look what God says. Seven hundred and fifty years before the event, he says, My servant is going to perform brilliantly. Now I know you can't see this dark red here very well. Um but that's okay. That's what it says. It says he'll act wisely. That's a pretty wimpy translation for the Hebrew. There really isn't any English equivalent Uh but it's more than he'll act wisely. The Hebrew has the idea of character and skill and result all in there. Best I can come up with after thinking about it and looking at other ways it's used in the Old Testament. is that he will perform brilliantly. It's used in particular about leadership. For instance, in 1 Samuel verse chapter 18 It's used of David, that same word, where it says, whatever Saul sent him to do, David did it so successfully, the word successfully there is the same as this act wisely, perform brilliantly. David did it, he performed it so brilliantly that Saul gave him a high rank in the army. This pleased all the people and Saul's officers as well Same words used in the last verse of that chapter, verse thirty. The Philistine commanders continued to go out to battle and as often as they did, David met with more success. Here's the same word again. He performed more brilliantly than all the rest of Saul's officers, and his name became well known. So this is what the uh servant is going to do. This performing brilliantly is not going to be easy. It's going to be a very difficult task, as the next verse will show. The movie begins in Gethsemane with Satan Telling Jesus, you're not going to be able to do this. They're not worth it, and you can't do it. The burden is too great. But Jesus performed brilliantly, didn't he? He he accomplished the task astonishingly And that's what this is talking about. So the result is, the third thing, he will be exalted to the highest place. Verse thirteen, he will be raised, lifted up and highly exalted. Now, that's three synonyms in the Hebrew. It's all Kind of the same sort of word, uh being raised, lifted up, highly exalted. When Hebrew uses three words that are either the same word or synonyms, that means it's to the extreme And so what this is saying is he's not just going to be lifted up, he's going to be lifted up to the highest place. He'll be raised, lifted up, highly exalted, as exalted to the highest place above all else. The idea of Philippians chapter 2 verse 9. Therefore God highly exalted him to the highest place And gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Amen. One day, every knee is going to bow before Jesus Christ. You will bow before Jesus Christ. Whether you like it or not, you will be prostrate before his exalted majesty. Everyone in this room, everyone who's ever been created in his image, will bow before him, for he will be lifted up to the highest place above all else. Then Isaiah gives what I would suggest is the world's greatest contrast. Verse 14, takes your breath away, once you have gotten into the image of verse 13. This one who is going to be raised and lifted up and exalted to the highest place, just as many there were many who were appalled at him, his appearance was so disfigured Beyond that of any man, it is formarred beyond human likeness. Secondly, he is unique in that he is humbled to the lowest place. He is disfigured Beyond all else. Not only honored above all else, but disfigured beyond all else. The verses 14 and 15 in the Hebrew are very difficult to translate. It just it's not like you can just do anything straightforward. A lot of questions about it. Different commentators approach it differently. I think the clue to understanding verses 14 and 15 Or to realize that as everybody agrees, it starts with a just as , so a just as requires a so also. And the problem is there isn't any so also in the Hebrew, so you've got to insert it somewhere. The NIV, as many other translations, puts it at the beginning of verse 15 So he will sprinkle many nations. I don't think that's right. I think that what Isaiah is saying is just as many, so kings Now if if you adopt that understanding, then some things begin to make sense, because you see it's just as many do something, so kings do something. Now what is it? What's the comparison? Just as many were astonished at him, so kings shall shut their mouths You see, just as many who see are astonished, so those lifted up, not just everybody, but now the rulers, those who are exalted, like picking up the idea of verse 13, so kings will shut their mouths. They will be silenced. Now, why are the many astonished? Just as many were astonished at him for two reasons. Because of his disfigurement that made him appear inhuman, that's a paraphrase. And secondly, because by this disfigurement he will sprinkle many nations, so kings shall shut their mouths at or because of him For when they see and understand what they have never heard or anticipated, namely the good news of the new thing God has done for sinners. That's not in the verse, but I believe that's warranted because When Paul quotes that verse in Romans chapter 15, that's exactly what he's talking about. Get to that in a minute. First of all, then look at this contrast in verse 14 from verse 13. It's an unprecedented contrast. You remember back in the book of Genesis, you had the story of Joseph, who was sold by his brothers into slavery in Egypt. And Joseph was moderately successful, but was then maligned and falsely accused by Potiphar's wife, who wanted to go to bed with him, and he refused, and he was thrown into prison to rot there. He was left there for years. For all he'd know, he'd die in prison. But God was pleased to raise him sovereignly out of prison and to restore him. to become the Prime Minister of Egypt, second in command to Pharaoh. The contrast between humiliation and exaltation In our own day, Nelson Mandela, the son of a South African tribal chief back in the 50s and the 60s, protested publicly apartheid policies was brought to trial and condemned by the government for conspiracy and thrown into prison in 1962. He was left in prison to rot there for 28 years from 1962 to 1990 In 1990, he was released from prison, and in four years was made the first black president of South Africa from prison to president in four years. President for five years from nineteen ninety-four to nineteen ninety-nine. What a contrast from prison to president But you understand those contrasts are nothing compared to the contrast that you have here in Isaiah 52. For here you have a picture of someone who is so disfigured, so maligned, so scorned That he is beyond human recognition. The Hebrew literally is disfigurement away from a human So disfigured that he barely resembles humanity, who then becomes exalted to the highest place. Now, I've said to you before that when you see religious art, paintings, and illustrations of Jesus the ones that have been done through the centuries. What always strikes me is that you'll see Jesus, even the Echehomo ones, you know, with Pilate standing there in the crown of thorns. And there's a little bit of blood, but you know, the the robe is intact and it always has struck me, you know, he no he suffered me. Doesn't look that bad really. Uh It's certainly true that Mel Gibson has performed a service of providing a illustration of how Jesus suffered better than it any other representation, either certainly in movies, but in most cases in any visual representations. And yet, even Gibson didn't go far enough. Let me give you a couple of illustrations. Um you see him in the beginning and it jolted me, you see him spat, you know, to see somebody spit in someone's face. I mean Is a visceral jolt to that. And to think of someone spitting in the face of the Son of Glory But he doesn't show Jesus being blindfolded, and as they beat him, saying, You're a prophet, okay, prophesy, Christ, who hit you? And the mocking that took place there The scourging, as many have pointed out, seems to go on interminably. But the scourging in the movie Is rather superficial compared to what scourging really was. The wounds are wounds that appear very surface. In real scourging, after a few lashes, the whip went below the skin and the tissue to the muscles. Until the muscles were laid bare, the flesh all torn in ribbons laid on the person's back. And then when the robe would have been placed over that, it would have clotted to the flow of blood And ripping that off would have caused fresh, excruciating pain. You couldn't portray that Or take the cross. The crucifixion is very realistic from all that I understand of it. The nailing of the hands and the placing of the body on the cross. But what even Mel Gibson in today's time could not bring himself to portray Was that crucifixion was done naked? The person was stripped of every thread of clothes In the movie, the three on the cross have loinclaws. Jesus didn't even have that shred of dignity. He was laid bare. He suffered that for you and for me. After you see Jesus on the cross for some time, the movie switches and you see a face. And as I saw the face, I thought it was a painting. It looks like a twisted El Greco distorted painting. And then you see the face move. And you realize it's alive. And it's Jesus in the last moment saying, it is accomplished. But what the movie couldn't portray is what it meant for God to be forsaken by God. It could only portray a human being tortured and shamed. But we know from Scripture. that Jesus, the Son of God, the deepest suffering of his soul, beside which the physical sufferings were minor Was to be forsaken by the Father with whom he had lived in the closest companionship for all eternity, to be abandoned and forsaken and cursed In his spirit and in his whole being to be wrenched out of that fellowship. That could never be portrayed He was marred and disfigured beyond human recognition. And Isaiah says that they were astonished, not just because of what they saw But because of the reason. For the reason is that by this he will sprinkle many nations. In other words, he's giving you just a hint of what's to come. This is a sacrifice. This idea of sprinkling picks up from all the Old Testament sacrifices. The sprinkling was atonement by which a sinner who had no right to appear before a holy God was sprinkled with blood in order for that blood to cleanse that person and to make them fit to come before God's presence. They were astonished that by this he would sprinkle many nations. And so you come to the third way that he is so unique. And that is that he will not just be exalted to the highest place. He will not be simply humbled Disfigured to the lowest place beyond all else. But he will also be proclaimed To the farthest place. He is the world's Redeemer, and there is no one else. Here's where you see this last statement, for kings shall shut their mouths at her because of him For when they see and understand what they have never heard or anticipated, the good news of the new thing God has done, this is what Paul refers to in Romans chapter 15, where he quotes this verse And he says it was his ambition to preach Christ where he has never been known. Because he says, rather, as it is written, those who are not told about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand. That's quoting from Isaiah 52, 15. You see, it's saying that the gospel, this declaration of what God is doing, this sprinkling of nations Through the one who is his beloved servant, the one destined to be exalted to the highest place will first be disfigured. Well first have his appearance be almost inhuman. That that will be the means Of the sprinkling of nations, and that message will go out, and kings, the leaders of nations, will shut their mouths in astonishment to that message. You know, that's still going on. Who could have imagined such a person? Who could have imagined how can Isaiah 750 years before the birth of Christ not only picture someone who would go through such torment and torture and disfigurement Become the one who would be exalted to the highest place, but then to have that message be declared throughout the nations. Now let me just show you a couple things in order to make the point of that. In the last 40 years, if you forget everything here that's on that, just remember this one statistic. Forty years ago Seventy percent of Christianity was in the West, that is, in Western Europe and North America 30% of Christianity was all the rest of the world. Now, it's exactly the reverse. Now, 30% of Christianity is in the West And 70% is in the rest of the world. A couple of examples. Africa, 1960, less than 8 million. Today. Sixty three and a half million was less than eleven percent. Now about twenty one percent Christian Latin America, from 5. 2 to nearly 46 million, 6. 5 % to now 15 % of Latin America evangelical believers Asia, seven point one percent to over ninety, almost ninety-one million believers. Look at this. From less than 9% in 1960 of Asia followers of Jesus Christ to now thirty percent. But then look at North America Though it's increased from forty-five to a little over seventy-seven million. The proportion is about half. From fifty-six percent to about twenty-five percent Christian. Could God be intending to use something like this to show our culture, to show the media elite You can't make a movie like this and hide Jesus. Many people have said, don't go see the movie. The Columbia Fire gives it a C. You know, that's not worth it, don't waste your time on it. But people are. They can't stay away You cannot contain Jesus Christ. And he still will be spoken of, and he will be spoken of for or against, but he will be spoken of. This movie is going to be distributed throughout the world It's going to be distributed in Iran and Iraq and Turkey and all the rest of the world, not as a Christian film, as a Hollywood film by Mel Gibson. What do you think is going to happen? Let me give you just one idea. In Turkey, they showed a clip of this on TV because it's going to be released in Turkey this month. A woman saw that clip. She had a Christian friend, Vatak. He had talked to her about Jesus. She showed no interest in Jesus Christ. She saw one clip of the crucifixion and couldn't sleep that night. When she slept, she dreamed of the cross. The next day she said to Vad Could you give me a New Testament? I want to find out everything about Christianity. What will happen when this film is released in Iran, in Iraq, in Muslim nations, around the world? He will be exalted to the highest place. And those who have never heard or understood will see, and they will understand what they've never seen, that God is doing a new thing to lift up Jesus Christ. Amen. So, therefore, finally, what do we do? Four things. May it us increase your confidence in biblical prophecy to strengthen your faith. To see that only Jesus could have ever fulfilled this prophecy. Only He comes close. If it's not Jesus, it's no one Secondly, you just set some time aside this week and make it a practice each day to simply worship Him. To go with no distractions, not in your car, somewhere you can get on your knees, and you can say to Jesus, you have performed brilliantly Lord Jesus, I worship you. Just take 10, 15 minutes. You know, that's a long time with no distractions. Try it. Thirdly. Think about the amazing message of the substitutionary sacrifice, what it means that he did this, and every stroke of the whip was for you, and he bore it in your place. Every hammer of the nail was for you, and he took it in your place. And if you've never come before him to say, Lord Jesus, You did that for me. I admit my knee. I could never stand before you with a record of my own life He will hear you and receive you and forgive you and give you new life. And then finally, take advantage of the interest in this movie to talk about it to as many people As are interested to talk with you. I suggest that you pray that you will be the means of verse 15 to somebody in your own life. And let me suggest that you use this prayer as a model, something to just kind of form your thoughts and take this through the Lenten season. You may want to clip it out to remind you or put it in your Bible or whatever you want to do, highlight it. But uh I want for us to pray this together. And did you look at it here now? Lord, I thank you for being tortured and disfigured and punished for me. Can you say that So that I will never suffer your wrath. You are now at the highest place, calling people to yourself. Use me today So someone who does not understand this message will gain some understanding through me. Let's pray that. First in your heart, quietly for a moment, then let's pray it together. Let's pray Let's join together and read this and pray it only if you can really pray it. If you can't, be silent. Decide, do you want to pray this? And those that do join with me in reading and praying. Lord, thank you for being tortured and disfigured and punished for me. So I will never suffer your wrath. You are now at the highest place, calling people to yourself. Use me today, so someone who does not understand this message will gain some understanding through me. In Jesus Name, Amen