Well next week we uh will be back to the book of Ephesians. And I'm really looking forward to that. Ain't I you 're looking forward to getting back to Ephesians? Yeah, yeah. See some nods. I hope so. Well, but between the series on uh biblical prophecy and getting into Ephesians Because uh this Sunday is the first Sunday of the month when we invite you to partake of the Lord's Supper every month as we do that, and also invite you to come to the congregational dinner to fellowship together. 515 before the service, inviting you to come to partake of the Lord's Supper, of course, only if you are a Christian who is trusting in the finished work of Jesus Christ, plus nothing else, for your sins, for your salvation. I thought it'd be a good Sunday to ask a very practical question, namely Why bother to come back for the Lord's Supper? You know, in a day when the church evening service has gone the way of the mimeograph bulletin Why bother to do that? You you kids know what mimeographs are? Ask your folks, you know. You know, why why do we do you know, back in nineteen seventy eight when Columbia Presbyterian first got formed, we were a bit of a radical. congregation because we uh decided to not have evening services and instead had small groups that met in the afternoon meeting. I see Sandy over there smiling. Part of my original group that met on Sunday evenings with Lorna. Um well, you know, now we've gotten to the point Where for many as Christians, um, we say, Hey, one service is all I can take, you know, for a day. Um in fact uh many people think uh you're a real hero if you come to the middle hour and take a class. So uh why is it That we are so bold as to say, once a month, come back for an evening service to observe the Lord's Supper I mean we get into the summer we notice that the early service gets more popular because you can be here right around July and August and again move, I guess it's to nine o'clock You say I can come to the early service and you know there's nothing after that, eh? Be out of here by ten thirty and got the rest of the day to it's free. To relax. And after all, that's what Sunday's about, right? Relaxing Well, when um I mention on that first Sunday to you, come on back this evening for the Lord's Supper, there's maybe 150, 200 of you that go, yeah, I'll be there. And uh many of the rest of you will either dismiss that as that doesn't apply to me, or maybe feel a brief tinge twinge of uh guilt Before you then dismiss the fact that nah I'm not gonna go to that. I have other things I wanna do and I want to relax And so it's not an issue. And maybe you're saying to me, Holy cow, you got hundred and fifty, two hundred people coming on Sunday evening, what are you complaining about? Well I I am concerned for those of you who would say this is simply something that is not worth bothering for because I think you're really missing something. And I would like to try to persuade you of that from Scripture Of course, the Lord Jesus said, Do this in remembrance of me. And the fact that he said that as not a suggestion, but a command. Should be enough for us to simply say, Jesus said it, he's my Lord, I'll do it. But God is so gracious that uh often and usually with the commands that He gives to us He will uh with those append uh reasons and often benefits I would like to look at this matter of the Lord's Supper from one verse out of a 16 -verse discussion that Tom read to you, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 17 to the end. And I would like to focus on just that one verse, verse 26, and to look from that verse at five benefits Besides the command, the five benefits that you and I gain from partaking in the Lord's Supper. Again, the verse, notice it. If you have your Bibles, turn so that you see that verse, not just hear me, but see what God says. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Now, first, before I look at the benefits, I'd like to say a few words of clarification of a lot of confusion there is on what the Lord's Supper actually is. He says there As often learned whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, what is the bread and the cup that we receive Some of you are from a background, you know, many of us are from very, very different backgrounds from one another. And that's one of the blessings at Columbia Presbyterian is have all the diversity in the backgrounds For some of us, when we come to a verse like this, we come from a background where the Lord's Supper was very high and holy. It was a very sacred thing. It was offered uh as something that had perhaps even a sense of magic and mystery surrounding it. Um For others it was a lot more casual. It was something that we did and um maybe we were in a Bible study in college in our dorm and we took the Lord's Supper there because it was a close group and we wanted to do something to help us to feel more together in the Lord or you know, all kinds of reasons why we would have taken this as something that Christians can simply do, you know. You can do it at home. You don't need a professional to do this. Um then in today's world of course there's a a lot of secularism Which adds to a great deal more confusion about it. I read recently in a Wall Street Journal article about an Episcopal church Where uh up front in the church they had um a cross and then on the one side there was a Shinto shrine. And on the other side there was a Chinese gong. And when they would observe the what they call the Eucharist, the Lord's Supper uh people were invited to dance forward from their seats. Wonder how that would go over here. Few that laugh that we worry about. Probably enjoying, right? Well what these people were doing, they danced forward to take the Eucharist, and the emphasis was, no matter what you believe, you see. Why? Because the Lord's Supper served simply to give a sense of the sacred And we live in a time when people are looking for a sense of the sacred. The problem is, of course, if you if you divide a sense of the sacred from biblical truth It'll only last about a generation. And then you lose the memory of why it was sacred and there's no longer any meaning to it. Well, in terms of the backgrounds that m some of us have and uh what we look at here, let me just say a couple things to try and clarify what I think scripture means when it describes to us this bread and cup that we take. But I'll do that by just saying two things it's not, because I want to cover a lot this morning, so let me just speak briefly on that. First of all, the Lord's Supper is not A miracle. It's not a miraculous presence of Christ in the elements. This is the Roman Catholic view that it is the real presence of Christ Christ and I believe that this says too much makes too much of what the Lord's Supper is. That view is traditionally called transubstantiation Which basically says that under the ministrations of a qualified ordained priest, that a miracle takes place. The bread, though it still looks like bread, smells like bread, tastes like bread, actually is changed into the body of Christ and the cup of Jews wine. uh is changed into the actual blood of Christ. Now you need to understand that people who teach this and believe that say these are actually the bread, the body, and the blood, the uh the uh juice, the blood of Christ. You say, now how can that be? It still looks like bread, so how can it be? Well, in order to really understand that, you have to take a course in Greek philosophy, which I'm not going to offer. But To bring it down to the barest of what you might be able to understand in the moment, Greek philosophy taught that There is a difference between what they call the substance of things and the accidents of things. The substance is what something is really in its essence The accidents are simply the way it appears. And, you know, we commonly say things are not what they appear. Well, that's very true here because they're saying that it looks like bread and it tastes like bread, but it really isn't bread. At that point of the ministration of the priest, a miracle took place in which it actually became in essence The body and the blood of Christ. It just looks still like what is commonly known to us as bread. Well, they say that because they'll say, look at verse 24 in your Bibles You Protestants, it says there, this is my body. He doesn't say this represents my body. He says this is my body. Now come on, you know, if you say you take the Bible literally, there it is There 's a couple problems with that, however, one being that Jesus said that when he was holding it in his hand. And of course, since he was saying, This is my body while his body was right there, holding it in his hand It's hard to understand it he would have meant this is my body and what's this? Well, you know, I mean that was his body, so he he can't mean that and something even further than that. He remember he goes on and he says This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Well, how many of us think that the new covenant's a cup? You know, I mean obviously he's speaking metaphorically when he says, this is my body. And of course that's really a very contemporary question, isn't it? Because it comes down to what the meaning of is is. That's really what it's about. Um but um clearly Jesus didn't mean this is my body in a literal sense. Secondly, while the first view may be too much, the miracle view, the second view I would consider says too little. And that's what I call the memorial view. It says that the Lord's Supper is simply a memorial of the elements reminding us, picturing for us Christ's body and his blood in his death. This was the view of uh some of the um reformers such as Zwingli, and it is probably the main view of contemporary evangelicals today People who believe that having rejected the superstition of the Mass unfortunately have gone further than Scripture, I believe In saying that verse 24 simply means this represents my body. I don't think it means simply that. I don't think it's simply a memorial. Now, just for curiosity, as we look at this thing, I found this interesting in the first place. How many of you, think of the two backgrounds, how many of you would come from the miraculous background and say that's been my background growing up? Wow, interesting. Not as not as many as the first service. 'Cause I think they're a little more timid in this service. I I kind of saw some hands creep back down. You know, no none of the elders are gonna come after you. I mean you can admit it. How many things you know, with a background? was the miraculous view of the Lord's Supper. Yeah, okay. Well, yeah, all right. How many of you would say your background was the memorial view? It's simply a memorial reminder. Okay. Interesting. Did a little different The first service was a little more equal between the two. Here's a lot more had the memorial background. Somebody could do a study on why the second service people tend to be memorial oriented. I don't know. Anyway, um I don't believe that that is what Jesus is teaching. I don't believe that's what the Bible teaches. Why is that? But because of what he says in verses 27 to 32 , Paul is saying here that you can eat and drink judgment to yourself if you do this in an undiscerning, unworthy manner. Now, you see, if it's simply a memorial, that would not be a concern. In fact, that was a big issue back in Jonathan Edwards day, Jonathan Edwards' father saw the Lord's Supper as more of a memorial. He thought, hey, the more people who have it, take it, hear it, see it, receive it, the better, because the gospel's being preached. It draws you to Christ. Jonathan Edwards said, no, no, no, no, it's more than that. Only Christians should take this. They are violating something sacred if they take it, and they're not believers. And uh Church unfortunately kicked him out because he held that view. It was a big issue. Um You see, what Paul's saying here is that you violate the essence of its meaning. That's why Columbia Presbyterian we interview people before you come to the service. And why we would say if you don't know Jesus Christ and have been baptized and publicly confessed Him, that we'd welcome you to come tonight, but don't take the elements. You're violating something that is sacred from a holy God if you do that. And so after this service, as every service, we'll have an elder up here in the front. If you'd like to take the Lord's Supper, and you've never done that with us, come on up and talk to the elder about what it means to do that. And we would invite you To pursue that. Because if you're not a Christian, we want you to hunger and thirst for Christ. That you would see that and that you would long for him as he's portrayed in those elements. But this is something clearly that is only for Christians because it's not simply a memorial. It is, as chapter 10 speaks of, a feeding, a spiritual feeding on Christ. any drinking of Christ, as he says in the beginning of chapter ten. So what are the elements? Believe the elements are both a sign, that is a picture, and a seal, that is a pledge. From God to you of the life and the death of Jesus Christ. Now, when you think about that, that is a really amazing thing because it shows again how wonderful our God is And the fact that he created us, and he understands that you need more than to hear me preach. Now I might think that's all you need. God knows you need more. Because you hear my words and you know you kinda get into your left brain, you analyze them, you fill in all your blanks, you know, and you don't you say that's nice, you know, and uh but God says but there's something else. There's that right brain, there's that other part of you. That needs something tangible. And so God in His mercy has given you something to look at. Something to handle. You take the bread and you take that bread and you you feel it , you smell it. You taste it, you swallow it. You know, and you you look at the cup, you look at that red liquid in there, and you think of the blood of Christ That's different from preaching, isn't it? I mean, there's a participation, you see , as God Himself is not simply telling you about the gospel. He is showing you something that is not simply a picture, but it's also a pledge. It seals something to you. What is its sealing? And here we come to the five benefits. The gospel is picturing something which is the very heart of the gospel. And it is conveying a benefit to you. First benefit that I believe that the Lord's Supper conveys is that it focuses you again on the Lord's death. You see in verse 26, whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. That's the blank there. You see, you and I are always wandering from the gospel, aren't we? Always wandering from the gospel back to our moralism, back to our duties, missing the essence of justification and adoption through God's grace Because we're always tending to think that we're better than we are. And we can establish a record by minimizing the heart of God's law and focusing on the externals of our duties and comparing ourselves with other people and I'm not as bad as so-and-so and I'm better than this person. Yeah, the Lord's Supper can be a means of that. I go to the Lord's Supper. This guy next to me never goes. I never see him there. See how God loves me more. You know, all these things we do to establish a record. But you know something? When you come to the Lord's Supper, there's a call to reality As Jack Miller says, the gospel is good news, you really are worse than you think. Total depravity is true. You are wretched. And any attempt at self-improvement is doomed to utter failure. So the Lord's Supper calls me back to Christ's death, not what I do for Him. For what he's done for me. He calls me to freedom to be honest with myself. I will never improve the flesh But Jesus has died for me. And the gospel meets me in that point of reality and honesty, in a way that nothing else can And that leads us to the second benefit, which is that it conveys to us the benefits of the new covenant. Look at verse 25. He says, in the same way after supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me. And so tonight when you take that cup, smaller one than this, but you know, you get the idea. I just want you to be able to see it. That's why I'll hold this one. But you take that cup and you hold it and you say This cup is the new covenant in Jesus' blood for me Now what does that mean? Well you remember that back in Exodus chapter 20, God had established a covenant with his people, and he did that by giving them the stipulations, the law. I'm a holy God, you must be a holy people. This is how you must live. Ten Commandments are nothing more or less than a reflection of God's character in the way that you and I should live. And so he gives you those commands, and he says, this is your obligation if you are one of mine. And that was sealed. If you look at Exodus chapter 24, Moses comes to a very solemn ritual in which there are animals whose blood is shed, and then he takes the blood from the animals and he sprinkles. It on the people. And what does he say? This is the blood of the covenant. That is, this is the blood which is obligating you to the stipulations of the covenant, protecting you from the curses by obedience. And delivering you from the wrath of God because of his mercy on you. But you and I have failed utterly in keeping that covenant. I mean, which of the Ten Commandments? Any one of them? Pick one! Which one have you kept? And you and I look at that, the law of God, and if we're honest in our hearts There's not a single one we've kept. And so we come before him condemned. But the Bible says that Jesus came He didn't have to. He chose to place himself as a human being under the obligation of the law. Placed himself under it, that he would keep it perfectly, that God would reckon him as approved? As my delight is in him, no condemnation, and then Jesus says, How would you like to trade records Would you like me to take your record and I'll give you mine? You say, Lord, I I'd love to have your record and have God look at my life as if it was your life. What are you going to do with my life? And he says, You give me that record by faith. When he died on the cross He paid in full the penalty that you and I deserved. And he said, This This cup picturing my blood is the new covenant. Why is it a new covenant? Because it's by grace. It's based on his life and on his death. I can talk to you about that all day. But there's nothing quite like holding that cup. And when you taste it and you swallow it You realize that this is the ratification of that covenant. The Lord's Supper seals that agreement And it assures you my sin has actually been paid for. It is gone. And I have Jesus record before God. You want to miss that? Man, I don't know about you, but I need that. Once a month. I need to hear that. I need to see it. I need to taste it. Thirdly, the Lord's Supper doesn't just do this, but it also seals to you His presence and his life with you right now. In John chapter 6, Jesus is talking about himself as the bread of life. He's not talking about the Lord's Supper directly here Do you notice he says in verse 55, For my flesh is real food and my blood is real drink. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me and I in him. Just as the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live. Because of me. Again, you see, the Lord's Supper is more than a memorial. It is spiritual food and spiritual drink. It is a means for us to come and by our souls and by our spirits to feed upon Jesus Christ. This is not a superstition, but this is God Himself coming to meet us. You see, the Lord's Supper reminds you of the danger of living by the gospel. So amen, I don't think he got that right. Uh you meant to say something different. You said it reminds me of the danger of living by the gospel. Every Sunday you stand up here and you tell me I need to live by the gospel. But you know, there's a really subtle danger for even some of us who have gone through gospel in the heart. Sonship and a lot of great material. And the danger is that our wicked hearts are so determined to displace Jesus Christ with anything possible. That we can displace him with the principles of the gospel. What's my hope? I'm living by the principles of grace. And you see, at the Lord's Supper, once a month I come and I say, Jesus, it's not that I've mastered some principles of the gospel. It's you and nothing less than you that I need. And in this, you promise You are with me. You meet me. Someone has said that the Lord's Supper is the kiss of the covenant. From God Himself. Ah. Amen indeed. I need that I need to be reminded that Jesus is with me. No principles, nothing less. Than Jesus Himself. Fourthly, reminds me that I'm not only meeting with Him, but I am meeting here with my brothers and sisters in a union So the Lord's Supper seals your union with your brothers and sisters in Christ. Again, look at verse 26. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. You can't say it in the English, but in the Greek, the U is plural. You together, you see. And so We see back in chapter 10 in verse 16, he had said, Is not the cup of thanksgiving, for which we give thanks, a participation in the blood of Christ? Again, you see, it's more than a memorial The word there is koinia, fellowship. It's a fellowshipping in the blood of Christ. And notice, is not the bread that we break a participation, a fellowship in the body of Christ? Now notice verse 17, because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one loaf. That's why we use pita bread because it's unleavened, that's what this is, and uh you don't get uh your own hunk, you know. Well you don't get a little cube. What you get is a piece that's broken off of this. See? And so you get that piece. By the way, don't be bashful to take a little crumb Take a couple pieces. Go ahead. I mean you want something to chew. You want to know when you take that That this was taken from something larger. Because I'm part of something larger. I'm part of a family here. The amazing the most sacred thing the Lord gave us was a family meal. The Lord's Supper is a family meal. It's based on the Passover when the family got together. And that's why at the Lord's Supper, we try to generally, as often as we can, have a time for sharing. It could be sharing prayer requests, it could be sharing what we've tried to focus on more and more recently, is what's God been doing in your life? To share with us, here's how God's been leading me. Maybe an answer to prayer, an insight of the gospel, his presence and his reality, whatever it is. It's easy if you're not coming to the Lord's Supper, you're missing hearing what God's doing in one another's lives. I don't know about you, but I need to hear that It blessed me to hear what Pete Murphy shared about what God was doing in his life last month. And if you come tonight, you're going to hear a little bit of what God's been doing in John McCarley's life. These are two elder candidates that we're going to be acting on to ratify from the session's recommendation this summer. Well, I want to hear what God's doing in John's life. You know, I want to hear what God's doing in your life and you of your brothers and your sisters. We need that because we are part of one body. We're part of one loaf. And if things are tough for you right now Man, nothing like hearing what God is doing in somebody else to say, God, I wish that was happening in my life right now, but it encourages my faith that you're at work in them. Now keep hanging on. And finally, the Lord's Supper says you're not going to have to hang on a whole lot longer because the Lord's Supper seals your anticipation of the feast to come. Again, verse 26. For whatever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. The Lord's Supper has been called the orders of the marriage feast of the Lamb that you see in Revelation 19. It's like an engagement ring. It's a pledge. It says, here's just a little bit. The main events coming. Just like an engagement ring, you know. When I ask my wife to marry me, I Pulled out a ring. Actually I pulled out two and gave her a choice. I couldn't decide. She thought she was getting two rings. There's no honey just choose one of them, you know, you have to take the other one back next week. But when she took that, fortunately I didn't tell that in the first service when she was here. Actually I just thought of it. But when I gave her that and I put it on her hand, you see what she was saying, you know, he really does love Me. We're gonna get married. And you see, when you when you come to the Lord's Supper, it's like that. God is pledging Himself to you. It's like a sealed document. That says, I love you. I've died for you. I have forgiven all of your sins. Past, present, the ones you're going to commit this month. And I'm with you. My presence is with you. I will never leave you. And I love you so much, I'm coming again for you. And we're going to get married. And we're going to be together, inseparable, forever and ever. Signed the Godhead. Father, Son, and Spirit sealed in these elements. He eligible for that? I sure hope so. Want to miss that? I sure hope not. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, open our eyes to see the tremendous blessing you have offered to us. Not only tell us about the gospel, but in the most intimate way possible, conceivable. To seal that gospel to our hearts that we might Draw near to you to once again remember your death rather than any false claims to eligibility The foolish efforts to try and make ourselves good enough. To know that you have pledged us all the benefits of the covenant That were accomplished by Jesus as a substitute for us. And that in Swallowing that bread and that juice, we join ourselves to you. And you are with us. And not only with us individually, but with us corporately as your body. And that you're coming again. So Lord, for any of your people here who are missing that, I would pray that you would speak to them. Give them a longing, not a duty. Obedience, yes. But a longing to come to meet with you, that you might bless us as your people. In Jesus' name. Amen.