To get the entire context of how Paul is praying here for the Ephesian believers. Let's hear God's word, reading from the New International Version. For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives his name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge. That she may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now for things who is able to do immeasurably more than all we can ask or imagine, according to his power. that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Come this week to the end of our August series, praying with Paul, as next week Pastor Harris will be meeting us back in in James chapter two, as we notice in the Philistines. And they started uh this series by looking at uh Paul's interceptionary prayers that have that can tell us how to pray. In other words, we asked half two questions as we looked at three different Paul's prayers. And maybe it'd be helpful for us just to review briefly, uh Well we learned there, how can we pray more as Paul does? Well, we learned in the first week about two underlying dynamics of Paul's prayers, that he prays from the already, from what already has already happened, to the not yet, to what is yet to come. We also pray from the inward to the outward. From the inward and what is to happen inside, then going outward. And then the second week we looked at two very central balances in the Christian life. We looked at the importance of of having And then last week, those of you who were here, know we looked at Ephesians 3, 14 to 19, and saw some of the great riches of Paul's prayer there. There, where Paul prays that not that certain circumstances would change, but that the believers in Ephesus would be changed from the inside by having inner strength, inner knowledge of Christ's love, and then the Of Jesus Christ Himself. And so now we come to the very end of the first half of the book of Ephesians, actually. These last two verses that have been called the grand doxology. And Paul here, in a sense, He passed away from everything that he's been saying in the first half of Ephesians and looks towards the second half of Ephesians. And here, after three weeks of how to in our prayer life and learning how to pray, we ask the question, Why bother? You only bother to pray at all. After all, it's such hard work. It takes so much effort. Those of you who have been Christians for a while realize that it takes an awful lot of effort and energy to organize your prayer life. individually and it's family, and it even takes even more energy to carry that through consistently and diligently on a day-to-day basis. But praying takes an awful lot of work. Why bother with something like prayer? Why not do something? instead of prayer. But I think because there's no inconvenient ti no convenient time to pray, we need to ask that question to ourselves and say, Okay, what makes it worse going out of our way? Why bother? Well we pray, as Paul answers in these two verses, to glorify God, to praise God, and that's the risk to you that there's at least three reasons that Paul gives us in just these two verses, why we should praise God. that we can praise God for. We can praise God for his great ability, for his power at work within us, and only for his church. We can praise our great God for his marvelous abilities, his power of work within us, and his church. First then, let's consider his abilities. Looked at this in different ways this morning in some of the hymns we sung about God's awesome power. That our God is really a God that is capable of great things. God is a God who is capable of awesome miracles. He is a wonder worker. He's a God of great wonders. One of my favorite things that we didn't say this morning is great God of wonders, all your ways are matchless, Godlike, and divine. God indeed is a great God of wonders. And he's proven that over and over again in his scriptures and in redemptive history. God is a God of miracles. But you see, God's miracles are not just mandatric. They're not just funny games for their own sake, but they always have a purpose. They have a redemptive purpose. Their purpose is to show another facet of God's mercy, God's grace, God's love. Throughout Magenta 's history, God shows his grace and mercy through narrative of all different sources. We focused this morning on the parting of the late see. And the amazing thing that God did there. And the Old Testament constantly looks back to that event and says, yes, that is what God is like. God is a God of refurishing, he's a God that saves his people. He's a God that does miracles. even parting seemed like that. Tom review this full of course wonderfully, so we don't need to go into details. But think about what kind of event that must have been. Who would have predicted that? Who could have expected such a miracle as the party of the water at that time? Imagine yourself as a sort of a downing Israelite, and you'd be you're being chased out of Egypt after spilling Egypt with all of you get the best good, even in that sense. And you're racing as far as as fast as you can, with the world's most powerful army pursuing you. And you get up towards the Red Sea and there's this huge body of water. And it looks like you're being crushed and pushed right against it by the chariot and the horsemen coming down on you with tremendous speed. And you cry out to God, it's turned read for us. God, what are you doing to us? What are you trying to prove? Why didn't you leave us Back in Egypt. At least we had food back there. At least we weren't going to get cleaned by the army or drowning in this water. What are you trying to prove? But among other things, God is proving. But he's a God of mercy. He's a God of mercy. Of redemption, the God that saves his people. He's a God that's capable and able to control the waters. He was capable to redeem his people. You see, the waters part that people go through in the dry land, and once they're through, as Moses stretches the staff back over the waters. The waters come in and swamp an Egyptian, as we said this morning. And who could have predicted that? Traumatic? Yes. Far fetched? Yeah. But God is a God of wonders. He's not a God that's bound by acceptation. He's not a God that is bound in any way. He's a God of wonders. A God of miracles. Many other times. in the Old Testament, God proves that he's able to provide for his people. He's able to do wonders to save them. I think one of the greatest Old Testament history lessons in a nutshell is Psalm seventy eight. You may want to put there with me. Psalm seventy eight. If you've never saved the thumb, I'd encourage you to do so. It's a marvelous Old Testament history lesson in a nutshell, a capital form. Because it looks back on so many things that God did. And we count them for the Israelites. But in Psalm 78, we see in verses 1 to 4, uh Psalm says this, O my people, hear my teaching, listen to the word with my mouth. I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter things hidden from old, things that we have heard and known, things are fathers. has told us. We will not hide them from their children, we will tell them to the next generation. The praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power, and the wonders he has done. You see that's why the psalmist is It's going through the huge song. To recount the praiseworthy deeds of God, to recount the wonders that He has done for His for His children as well. And they see the Red Sea is even mentioned here in verses eleven uh twelve and thirteen. It's recounted in just a couple lines. He did miracles in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt, all the plagues that were that were conflicted on the Egyptians because they hardened their hearts. He did miracles in the sight of their fathers in Egypt in the region of Zone, and he divided the sea and led He made the water stand firm like a wall. That is what God is. That is what God did. And then later, after the Israelites defended up being there in the desert of Sinai, the miracles continued in Wonders and the wonders provisions of God continue. And the psalmist goes on to recount some of those. In verses thirteen through sixteen, the psalmist says this, He guided them with a cloud by day, with a light from the fire at night. He said He split the rocks in the desert and gave him water as abundant as the sea. He brought stream out of a rocky crab and made water flow down like rivers. You see, God provided water for his people in the midst of a parched heaven. And he provided manna, bread from heaven, that strange stuff that that the Bible talks about as the very bread of heaven. In verses twenty three through twenty five, the Thomas says, He gave a command to the side above and opened the doors of heaven, he lay down manna for the people to eat. He gave them the grain of heaven. They ate the bread of angels. He sent them all the food they could eat. God provides for his people. He sends food for their stomach. And he also sends quail, not just bread by it, but he sends meat in abundance. Verses twenty six and seven. He let loose the east wind from the heavens and let forth the south wind by his power. He meat down on them like dust. Swan birds like the sand on the seashore. Those of you who have been to the seashore recently know how plentiful the sand is there. Those scriptures are likening the number of quails that God sent for his people to the number of believe it's ten. We're talking abundance. We're talking more than enough. We're talking gracious provision from God. And so amazingly, in spite of all this, as the former says in verse 32, in spite of all this, the Israelites kept on sinning, in spite of his wonder. But God continued to do those wonders. He continued to provide for his people. He is a faithful God. And you see all this faithfulness and patience and all these wonders point us towards the coming wonders. the coming great wonder of God in the New Testament. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the wonder of God. Jesus Christ is the miracle of God. And specifically, God sent his son, David Timothy , Our sin in his sacrificial death. And then he raised him again from the dead to prove that he did what he said he would do. He raised Jesus from the dead. A miracle, a wonder. He could have said it. And yet God did it. We see Christ resurrection is God's greatest miracle. Christ's resurrection proves that God conclusively has destroyed Satan's dominion, has destroyed Satan's domain and its reign and is incapable of fully accomplishing these For his people. You see, our God is a God who is able to stay, as Christ's resurrection proves. Our God is able and capable as Christ shows us. And you see, Paul says back in Ephesians 3 that God is able to do. He's able to do because he's a God, who is neither idle nor inactive, much less dead. God is active in doing. He's a God that does. He's able to do all we ask. All we ask. It's a God who hears and answers prayer. You see, God is able to do what we even think or even imagine, because He's a God who reads our thoughts. He's a God who knows our thoughts. And sometimes we imagine things that we don't even dare ask for, but he knows those things. See, the God who knows our thoughts. And he's able to do all we ask for things. He's able to do all of that. So he knows it all. perform it all. He can perform all things and he able to do more than all we ask or ask. Because he's a God of superabundance. He's a God of the willing stand on the seashore in his position. He is a God of magnificent plenty. He is a God of superabundance. He doesn't give his grace by calculated measure. And so even he's able to do far more abundantly, or exceedingly abundantly or infinitely more than all we ask or imagine. That's the kind of super superlative Paul uses here. He sort of creates his own world and says, God is able to do exceedingly abundantly, infinitely more. than all we can ask, all that we can imagine. You see, it's like our songs that we threw with the children. Our God is so big, so strong and so mighty, there's nothing that he can. do. Absolutely nothing. God is a God of great capability, a God of great ability. Now I ask you, how much do you typically ask God for? Do you dare to ask Burrow large requests in your prayers, or do you re are your requests usually key uh busy things? I find that I my requests are pretty busy sometimes in my prayer life. They're pretty key. And I must confess that I was very convicted by this passage. And I think sometimes that I even perhaps limit God indirectly in my prayers, because I prayed such small things, I pray and ask him to do such small things. Not realizing that he was God. God into its wonders. But I've been praying about our evangelism training ministry this week and struggling with what to ask God for. And I started to find it in my mind but I'd ask God for four people to come to Christ, four people to come to saving faith in Christ and unite with this church as a result of our fall semester of training. And then I thought to myself, You know, that's great. That would be more than we've ever seen at C B C. But is that a training request? Is that a written request? Maybe so. If I was struggling with this, I wonder, maybe I should ask God for greater things, for greater wonders. How much do you imagine God can do? Are you bold enough when you pray? To ask for bold things? To ask for Lord's request? You know, I think of CPC's property and we just signed a contract last week and we've seen God's provision. praise his name that he thought about this circumstance and provided this land for us. And now the four hundred and fifty thousand dollars must be paid. That's an awesome amount. I can hardly imagine that amount. Almost half a million dollars. And we decided to go debt free. And then there's the land, then there's the whole issue of a building to go on that land. Are we going to decide to go debt free for that building? To try to do something other than the traditional mortgage? Do we ask God to provide that? Do you ask God for that? I must admit, I find it hard to imagine that God could provide a building in that way, that God could provide a building without the traditional mortgage. I'm wrestling with this, you see, and I hope you do. We too, I hope we do with the congregation. Blessful is the fact that our God is the God of wonders. And not bound by what we can imagine, not bound by what we can even think of. And he's able to do image thing more than that. Can do it, even if we can't imagine how he can provide a building in such a way. He can do it. He 's able to do that. And so we should praise God for his great ability as we pray. That's the first reason that Paul gives to praise God. glorify God, for his mighty access, to grace to praise us ability to do great wonders. And then secondly, Paul says we should praise God for his power at work within us. His power at work within us. that God is able to do these amazing things, more than we could ask or imagine according to his power at work within us. This is the same power we talked about last week and all through this section. Again, Paul brings us this the Inward power, the power of the Holy Spirit. That is what he's talking about here. Again it recurs in this very last part of Paul's prayer. You see it's his power, it's God's power, not our own. Nothing will be controlled. Nothing we can stir up on our own from our own resources. All the power is from God, not from us. Paul should stress that. And you see it's a specific power. It's not a nebulous power, it's not some vague higher power. It's not like the sorrow 's force. The force we use. Remember that movie? It's not like the force. It's a specific power because it's the power of Jesus Christ. It is the power that raised Christ from the dead. Paul says earlier in Ephesians, and as we looked at before, it's not some vague ethereal power, it's a specific power. It's the spirit that comes from Jesus. From our relationship to Jesus. It's the spirit of the king, it's the spirit of the kingdom in those ways. And this power is at work within us. It's at work because God is at work building his kingdom. God is at work. Both of us trusted in Christ alone. You see, God God is at work in you. God is at work in you to bring you to fullness of of Christ in Christ. God is able now He's active now to apply all the all the redemption that Christ won on the cross. He's active to apply that. to your life, to bring you to understand that more and more, to bring you the fuller realization of that. God is active. He's not a watchmaker God. He's not a God that's just interested somehow. He's created the world and he left it and there it goes and sits His God is active. His God is at work in Christians. God is at work. Customers more to Christ's image. And you see he's at work within. He's at work within us. This Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ, is working in our inner being, as Paul has said previously in verse 16. The Spirit is at work in the inner person or the inner being. You see, the inner being is where God is at work. That is where God's spirit is at work if you are a Christian. You see it's sort of like yeast that's at work within. You know, Jesus uses that illustration of yeast. And not many of us are are professional bakers anymore, except maybe Yeah, America doesn't baking with real yeast. You know how yeast really works. But you see, you put yeast in the back of dough and you look at all food areas of hands and all that goofy stuff, then you don't necessarily see the yeast. But you can tell if it works. 'Cause it expands like bow rises. Bow rises like the yeast works. So it's it's like yeast. It's not always apparent. You can't always see the yeast from the bow, but it's there. It really doesn't think. Even when we can't always notice it. God 's great power through Christ is at work within, it's active like active yeast inside us to grow. It's a growing space. And then God's power is at work within us. God's power is at work within us. You see, we are God's chosen instruments. We are the channel God has chosen to work through. Now God is a God who can do anything He wants, right? He's a God of wonders, He's a God of infinite Anthony, more than we can ever ask or imagine. And yet he's chosen to work in us who belong to Christ. He's chosen to work in us who have trusted Christ alone. He's chosen to do all those amazing things through us, according to as Paul says, according to that power that is at work within us. You see, that is what we know. That is the power that that God is at work within us. He's chosen us in that way. He didn't have to do that. He could have chosen to work through any means he wants to, but he chooses us with these instruments. He chooses us with his channel. That's how important we are to him. That's how important you are if you are a Christian. That's how important you are to God. Did he choose you to What gives amazing power through you to accomplish all his kingdom's work, to accomplish all that he intends. We are the means that he wants to use to do more than we can ask for marriage. of you who have trusted in Christ, are you conscious of God's power at work within you in this way? Making you more and more like Jesus? Are you conscious of that power at work within you? Do you Did you often stop to praise God for just choosing you, for the fact that He has chosen you in Christ? For the fact that He wants to work through you in Christ. Did you ever stop to praise Him for that? Think about that. And think about ways you've seen Lifestyle or habits change, perhaps. And praise God that his work in you has brought that about. Praise God that his power has worked in you has done that. Do you expect further changes in your life, moreover? You can look back on past lifestyle changes or habits or other. things that have changed. But do you expect further change as God lives in you by his spirit? Do you expect that power to be there, transforming you, continually bringing about changes as you come to worship with God's people? As you read the Word on your own? Should you pray together in small groups there in a fellowship group or in other environments? Do you expect God to change you? If you are a Christian, God's power, the power of Christ Jesus, is what is what within you. And I ask you to ask the Holy Spirit to motivate you to pray and praise Him because of that. Pray because God has chosen you and chosen to work through you as you pray. So why pray? Well I pray First to praise God for his great power, for his ability to do wonders, and secondly praise God for his great power built within you as you belong to Christ. And then thirdly and briefly. Praise God for his church. You know, I think it's interesting here. that Paul mentions the church as an instrument of God's glory. Before he mentions Christ Jesus, he says this, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. That is, to God be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. Throughout all generations, forever and ever. Now, if I were Paul, I probably would have mentioned Jesus Christ first. I probably would have said to God and glory in Jesus Christ. Because without Jesus Christ there would be no church, would there? Without Christ there would be no salvation. Without Christ there would be no redemption for all God's people. So there wouldn't be a church. So why mention the church first? While I was thinking about this. And I I think The reason Paul says it this way is to stress the importance of Christians, to stress the significance of the church as God's channel for bringing glory to him. The church is the chosen channel for bringing glory to God. He's trying to see even if the Holy Spirit is at work within us to do all that God intends, and we're channeled for the Holy Spirit's work in that way, they also channel going the other way to bring glory back to God. We as Christians, as part of the church, church are the channels to bring glory back to God. Now I thought I could illustrate it this way, and I didn't bring one of these ghostly this morning, and I don't see one lying around here. But think of it as an electric extension port. So those of you who are electrical engineers forgive my naiveness. But I grew up in a family that owned a lighting store for many years. And I used to play with extension cords all the time. And maybe you can see up here, your average extension cord around the house has two parts to it. There's two channels there, you see. one cord, two channels. Now the way I understand it, if I had a cord going this way, is that energy or electricity runs through the cord one way and then it goes back up the other way. It goes through the channel in one direction So there's two channels and one cord, you see. Well, in the same way, just as current goes one way through us, and God accomplishes all He can through us by His power within us. Likewise, we are channels. To bring glory to God, to bring the glory back up to Him for all we have done. We are one chord with two channels, you might say. But we see it's all believers together. It's the church, it's all Christians, of every way. every cultural background. And so it's like a function of extinction through it's like bundled together. All of the currents going in the right direction. Going down as God works through us and then back up to doing theory to God. We are God's chosen change in Christ. See every Christians are favorite evidence of God's power. Because if God saved me is a marvelous thing, I'll never be able to explain that. I'll never be able to tell you exactly why, just by the heavens, why God saved me. But the fact that he did the very same thing for some of you is even more amazing. The fact that it is the very same thing for you, who belong to Christ, is even more amazing. I can't comprehend that. I can't explain that. I can only praise God for that. I can only praise God for you are the believers who are gett who I'm getting to know and let us who belong to him. Some people like to gripe a lot about the problems of the church, and I admit there's an awful lot of problems in the church. We could go on all day listening to them. But that's sort of seeing the glass half empty instead of half full, isn't it? You see, you could say that there's an awful lot that the church has yet to go. That glass is only half full. That's a shame, isn't it? Boy, let's say about that old uh emptiness there. But I think it's a That the grass was partly full at all. That God has provided salvation for anyone is amazing. That God in Christ Jesus provided redemption for anyone is astounding. So this week I challenge you, don't just pray about the problems you're doing with church, although But praise God that you belong to this church, praise God that there is such a thing as the church. Praise God for the very fact that the church's existence and the fact that he has chosen you to be a part of them. And praise God to the individual Christians you know. Praise other believers in your life that you have relationships with. Right, praise because our God is worthy of praise. He's worthy of our praise. As all praises God, so we We should pray, praise him. His great and marvelous ability, his marvelous power works within us, and his church, the church of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, you are the God of miracles. You are indeed the great wonder worker. And we praise you that you are listening. You know, Lord, you are able to do far more than we could ever ask. or imagine. We praise you for your power at work within us that you chose us, such revels, such sinners, to be the very channels of your work, as you've cleaned us in Christ. And Lord Jesus, we praise you for your bride, the Church, praise those of us who have become part of your people by faith in you. We praise you that you consider the church so precious. So precious as your very own. And if there are any here who don't know your ability to save and your great power to work within them, I pray that you, Jesus, would draw them to yourself so that they might place their trust in you. And you alone, and receive new life, and come to know you personally as their Savior and Lord, and come to know your power at work to change them. Make us more and more people motivated to pray by seeing your will. By seeing your glory, oh God. Amen.