This past winter I read the book The Agony and the Ecstasy, which is about the life of Michelangelo, and I thought that you could apply that same title to preaching Um there is the ecstasy of the privilege of opening up God's words written thousands of years ago to apply them to Your life as you live here in America in two thousand three. There is the ecstasy of hearing someone come and say, I'm finally beginning to understand the grace of Christ and how it affects my life and it's changing everything. There is also the agony of feeling like you've never quite done justice to the text or display Jesus fully as he deserves to be displayed, or the dread of professionalism where you let the text simply speak. To impress you with the message, but somehow it hasn't passed through my heart. I must always preach the text first to myself There is the curse of preaching without knowing your own heart, of deceiving yourself to think that you understand the text because it makes sense But it lacks power because I have not been honest with it. The danger is that whenever I do that, I will tend to preach law rather than grace. I will tell you what you need to do rather than pointing you to Jesus and telling you what he has done for you. So the last two weeks I preached on the life of Judas, and I was trying to show his downfall and his lessons to show us that Contrary to what we often think, we see that Judas' heart is actually very much more like our hearts than dissimilar from it. And my word to you was to guard your heart, to know it So that you were not following that same downward path of destruction. The irony was that while I was preaching and teaching to you about that, I was out of touch with my own heart. And so uh I felt vaguely uneasy about the messages, but that's not unusual. And then uh last Sunday after the second service, one of you came to me to say, I gotta tell you meekly, tenderly, that um These two messages have been more of a discouragement to me than an encouragement. I felt like he talked to me more about what I needed to do than what Jesus has done for me. And uh that was kind of ironic because I was preaching on John 17, 12, where Jesus says, I have kept them Through the name that you gave to me, none of them has been lost, except the Son of Destruction so that the scripture would be fulfilled. And I talked about the Son of Destruction, but I left out the first part of the verse talking about Jesus keeping and preserving us And I shared a little bit of that last Sunday evening at the Lord's Supper Service, just a couple of sentences, and I thought that's the end of it And then Monday morning, I uh was reading my Bible. Preachers do read their Bibles on their day off, you know. And I was reading my Bible and I was reading through Luke chapter 22, verses 31 to 34. And all of a sudden the the verses seemed to leap off the page, and I saw that Peter didn't know his heart And that Peter needed to know exactly what I needed to know, and that his hope was my hope, namely, it was simply Jesus' preservation of him. It was the reason that he didn't go the path that Judas went. And so I decided to do what I rarely ever do And that is to dump the message that I was going to preach for Palm Sunday this morning And um maybe you'll hear it next year, maybe not, I don't know, but to actually replace it with one that I developed just this week So uh let it never be said, you CPCers, that it is not possible for me to preach a message that I switched and preached by hopefully the leading of the Spirit the week before you heard it. They don't all have to be done a year in advance. What is it that I want to display that grip me so much? It's an incident that you see on that same night that Jesus was betrayed in Luke chapter 22, and I want to look at that incident with you From Luke twenty two verses thirty one to thirty four and hope that it will speak to your heart as it did to mine this week The situation is it's just after the Passover meal, Judas has already left to go to betray Jesus. It's that last precious hour or two that he has with his disciples, and he instructs them about servanthood. He acknowledges their standing with him in his trials. And then possibly between verse 30 and 31, you should go back to John 13. These are parallel passages. And it seems to me that it's likely that in John 13 and verse 36, you have what happens after Luke 22, verse 30. We read there in John 13, Simon Peter asked him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied, Where I am going, you cannot follow now. But you will follow later. Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. And then you go back to Luke twenty-two and read in verse thirty-one, Simon, Simon. Satan has asked to sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers. But he replied, Lord, I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death. And Jesus answered, I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times Let you know me, which is basically the same as John 13 verse 38. Jesus answered, Will you really lay down your life for me? I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. Three things this passage teaches us that we do not know And that I needed to learn from the Lord this week. First of all, we don't know our hearts. We don't know our hearts. Judas didn't know his heart. Just a few minutes before this, Jesus had said in verse 20, This is my body given for you. This was in verse 19, excuse me. This is my body given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And then verse 20, this cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. We usually end it there, but he goes on. But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table. The Son of Man will go just as it has been decreed, but woe to the Son of that man. Who betrays him. You see again the mystery of sovereignty and responsibility that we've looked at in the last couple of weeks. Here Jesus is saying the Son of Man is going to go just as it's been decreed. That is, this is part of God's eternal sovereign purpose. Nothing can thwart it. On the other hand, he says, woe to the one who betrays him. Judas is eminently responsible for what he's about to do. Judas thinks that he's in control. He thinks that he can determine Jesus' fate. He can decide whether to betray him or not, and how wrong he was. Jesus says the Son of Man will go just as it's been decreed, but woe to him who betrays him. It reminds you of the words that Tom just read from John chapter 19. Remember before Pilate, where Pilate in exasperation at Jesus' silence said in verse 19 of John 19, verse 10. Do you refuse to speak to me? Don't you realize I have power either to free you or to crucify you? And Jesus answered. You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore, the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin. This all has been determined by God's eternal counsels, his purpose for his people. Pilate, you were in the wrong place at the wrong time. You've gotten caught up in these circumstances. But Judas actually planned to betray me. He purposed to do it in his heart. Therefore, he is guilty of the greater sin than you. The mystery of what God does and his purposes in your heart and my heart as they enter into that. Not only does wicked Judas not know his own heart, though, but even the one who perhaps loved Jesus and knew him more than any other living human being at the time of Jesus besides the disciple John. Peter. Peter doesn't know his heart. Peter thinks he's unable to forsake Jesus. But Peter reminds me of the songs that we sometimes sing here, you know, I will always love you and serve you to the end of my days. And we think we know our hearts. We think I can sing that because I know that I could never forsake Jesus. And so often we don't know our hearts, we tend to operate believing the best about ourselves based on how we feel at the given moment. Let me let me ask you. Do you believe it'd be possible for you to deny Jesus before you lay down to sleep tonight? Today. Would that be possible? If you find yourself saying, no, I can never do that. I love Jesus. I can never do that. I would like to suggest based on this scripture you're deceiving yourself. I could forsake him. I can deny them Unless the grace of God continues to sustain me, that'd be possible. And it's possible for you too. It was possible for Peter. And yet, twice in this passage he says, Lord, it could never happen to me. I'll go to prison. I'll die with you. Whatever, Lord, I can't do it. Imagine the arrogance. Jesus, you're wrong. You don't know my heart. Jesus was the only man who ever lived who absolutely knew his heart. Knew his own heart. He says, you know, I'm always I'm always struggling to be in touch with my heart because I want to deny what my heart is like. I don't want to believe what I'm capable of. And so I'm always feeling this tension, what I want to do, how I want to respond to you, how I want to appear to you based and how that's in conflict with what my heart is really desiring and where it really is. In Jesus, there was no tension between his inward nature and his outward actions. Did you just think about that? Do you ever think about what it would be like to relate to somebody who whatever they said to you was the full revelation of exactly where their heart was Never any duplicity, never any trying to to impress you with here's what they are like when that's different from what they're like. Jesus alone knew his own heart completely. And Jesus knew Peter's heart. And Peter was arrogant enough to say, You don't know my heart. I wouldn't do that. Let me suggest you and I don't know our hearts. We really don't. And that was brought home to me again this last week You know, as soon as you begin to think, I I think I'm finally beginning to get this Christian life down a little bit. You know, I'm finally beginning to just not so much of a strain. I can coast a little bit. And I mean I hate to tell you, but You're probably out of touch. As soon as we begin to think that we have a handle on it, at that point we we resist relying on Jesus And we're going to fall. And I was out of touch with my heart. And so being out of touch with my heart, I tended to talk to you more about what you needed to see and do Remember there was the one point where I was talking to you about five ways that you could uh overcome bondage to a thieving nature, you know, if you find that you take things that don't belong to you, like Judas and that was part of his original fall. You know, here's five things you need to do. And I I noticed as I was preaching that a number of people were taking notes because it wasn't in the out So I see a bunch of people writing, and that always does a preacher's heart good, you know? You say something, you see people writing it down because you think it probably was worth something. It helped somebody The problem with that is if you were writing that so that you could trust in the insights of the notes. Now I've got the either do these five things, you see, and I won't follow in Judas' footsteps. You know, give me the list, show me what to do We want to trust our notes. We want to trust even the repentance. We want to trust anything besides Jesus. Because we think we're capable. The reason I'm not going to wind up like Judas, you see, is because I know my heart and I can guard my heart. Thank you for the warning. I will heed it. That's not the gospel. The gospel is to understand our hearts to the degree that we cleave to Jesus because He is our only hope. So not only do you not know your heart, and I don't know my heart, the second thing is we don't know our enemy. We don't know our enemy. Jesus says, Simon, you think you can stick with me? You don't know. Satan has asked to sift you as wheat. Now, what's the picture that Jesus probably had in mind that he wanted to convey through that image that's one that's kind of foreign to us? We read, sift you as wheat, you know, you think of grinding wheat or something, and what does it mean? Probably the best way to try and display it is to show you that the sifter was something like this, only bigger. Alright? So it was something like this, and it had a screen in here, it was a little bigger And uh women would do the sifting and they would they would pour the wheat with the hulls, the grain, you know, the chaff and all that. They would pour that in there and the way you sifted it was to shake it back and forth like this. And then they would tilt it and keep shaking it and they'd blow over it to blow the chaff, and so it would be shaking, blowing and shaking and all this, and I think the picture is not the separation of the wheat and the chaff so much as the violent upheaval. You see, Jesus is saying, Satan wants to shake your brains loose. He wants to Shake your spirit so that you're disoriented and you think, well, what's going on? And I'm just being thrown back and forth. He wants to sift you like wheat Now that was spoken uniquely to the disciples that evening, and they were about To have their faith tested to the limits. They were about to see God abandon the best man they ever knew. They were about to see the apparent victory of injustice and evil over everything good and true. And so they would be asking themselves, if God could let that happen to Jesus, He can't be the God I thought I knew. Why should I go on to love him and serve him? If he could do that to Jesus and have him be tortured and crucified before Pilate It's not the God I want to serve. Safety as we, you see. Now while that was unique to them Peter tells us in 1 Peter 5, verse 8, be on your guard. For your adversary, the devil Seeks, prowls about like a roaring lion seeking who he may devour That's the same kind of idea, sifting as wheat, throwing back and forth. And so Steve and Demar Harton last Monday take their son Joseph, four years old, to a doctor because he's got some lumps. And they wonder, is it mumps or what is it? And the doctor says, I don't like this, let's take some tests, and they take some tests, and they find out on Wednesday that their four-year-old son has leukemia. Sifting, shaking them, disorienting. God are are you really the God that we thought we knew? Why would you do this? Our whole life is disoriented. It's turned upside down. What's Satan doing to sift your life? You see, I've I put that question there in your bulletin with some space because I'd like to suggest that you actually think about that and write down Maybe not now, maybe later. If you actually write down what is he doing in your life to sift you as wheat. Maybe it's one big thing It's overwhelming you. Maybe it's a series of little things that are wearing you down. What's he doing to sift you as wheat? We don't know our enemy. We don't know his maliciousness. Peter Without Jesus' words would have thought that night I was I was betrayed, I was seduced and tempted by this servant girl and I I was gutless and I didn't respond and I just was terrible, I'm worthless, I'm pathetic, and on and on and on He would have missed that there was something larger happening. There was a bigger battle going on, that there was there was a spiritual warfare. And Jesus wanted to open Peter's eyes to see that. He wants to open your eyes to see that this morning. So that you understand in the things that happen this week, that you can look and say. Satan wants to sift me as wheat. But then Jesus prays to preserve. And so the third thing is to see what is our hope. What is our hope? We think that our hope is in what we do, even as Christians. We fall into that. We think our hope is to cope by food, you know, to comfort me, as my friend I talked about last week Or we think that maybe it's an alcohol to dull the pain. Or watching TV to numb the mind. Or maybe playing games or going shopping Video games be a way of just coping. I heard on the news uh recently, sometime in the last couple of weeks, about a kid who played a video game. I think it was for four days straight, day and night, didn't stop for meals or sleep. He finally collapsed on the fourth day they had to take him to the hospital First thing I thought is, I wonder what game he was playing. That must be a pretty neat game, yeah. That's pretty pathetic. Yeah, but the ways that we seek to cope Or maybe it's to try to control, you know. I feel like my life's out of control and so um What can I do to try and gain some measure of control? Maybe tyrannize my family, or the dog at least, or something, you know, just some means of feeling like I have some control I was talking to a person recently that was talking about a conversation she was having with her sister and said that she went on for an hour About all her anger against people who were trying to cheat her and rob her, and on and on and on. For an hour, she talked about nothing but money, and how she was angry at people because she felt like she was getting cheated and this and that. And after the hour. She said, it's not about money, you know. Whatever you fear may be controlling you You're probably right. It's really not about this, you know. We say that because we know it really is about that. I just want to get some control. I want to do something Or maybe you hear a message like last week and you think it's not to cope, it's not to control, it's to conform. It's to obey what God says. And we move into this self-reliance of even keeping what God says and trusting even in my repentance and faith. You know, you can trust in that rather than Jesus. Anything. Give me the book, give me the seminar, give me the list, whatever it is. Lay it on me. I'll take the notes and I'll go do it. And we're out of touch with our hearts because we think we can. And what Jesus is saying in this passage is, You can't do it! Peter, you're hopeless Peter, you who have shown that you love me, says just in a couple verses before, you've stood with me in my trials. I know you love me. But Peter, you can't do it. Your only hope is that I've prayed for you. And so our hope is not what we do, but is rather In what Jesus does. Jesus is your only hope. Amen. He is your hope, he is my hope, because he prays for Peter to be kept. Now you notice where he says Satan is asked to sift you, the you there is plural. He's asked to sift all of you The whole group of you as we the upheaval that I've just described. But then he says, but I have prayed for you, singular Simon Now, that clearly doesn't mean that he didn't pray for the rest of them. John 17 describes how he's praying for the rest of them. He prays for all of them But what amazes me as I see this is to realize, first of all, that Jesus was not preoccupied by Judas to the extent that he couldn't think about Peter. Think about this. Judas is about to betray him. His focus is on Judas, and he holds the bread to Judas And Judas is going to go out and he is going to betray him to his enemies so that in the next hours he will be arrested, he will be tortured, he will be crucified. It's amazing enough to me that he would even think about the other disciples. But he even has enough insight and presence of mind to say, Peter, I understand Your weakness and how Satan will particularly want to pick you off in these next hours. And I have prayed for you Specifically, individually. Jesus knows your particular vulnerabilities And he is praying for you to be preserved. That's your hope. Not your ability to hear, to repent, and to obey. He has prayed specifically for Simon. Now notice that his prayer, of course, is sovereign. He says in verse 32, when you have turned back. When you return, not I pray that that will happen and hope that it will, when you turn back. Now here again we come into the mystery. Why didn't he pray that he wouldn't be sifted? We don't know why he prays For the faith, and notice he prays that your faith will not fail. Doesn't mean it'll be successful in the test. It's just that your faith won't expire. It won't give out And so the mystery is that his purpose for you and for me is always larger than our purpose for ourselves. We want relief. He wants to produce character. We want our happiness. He wants to produce holiness. And so he says, when I have, when you have turned back, then strengthen your brothers. Why did he let him go through this? Well, we don't know. We don't know for you, for me, but what we do know is that that produced in Peter a new sense of his own weakness. So that he was able to strengthen his brothers by pointing them to Jesus rather than telling them what they needed to do. And that's where I felt like I failed you a bit last week. It is in our weakness that we strengthen one another, pointing each other to Jesus, right? And so you see a lot of hope here. Notice also that Satan had to ask. Jesus says, Satan has asked to sift you. He had to gain permission. Jesus is about to die in order to purchase his disciples from Satan's kingdom. Satan has no authority over them because they belong to him. And so this week, at any time that Satan asked permission To sift you as wheat. God only grants it to the degree that his Spirit will use what Satan intends to separate you from Christ Or at least to deaden your heart so that the Spirit will use that, that you might cleave to Jesus as you never have before. And trust him and rest in him, knowing he really is your only hope. The Bible tells us in Romans 8:34 that Jesus prays for you and he prays for me. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus, who died. More than that who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. Your hope this week is not that you can hang on to Jesus, but that he is interceding for you to preserve you and to protect you. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25. Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede. For you. You don't need a priest. You have Jesus. And he intercedes perfectly and sovereignly So that his preservation of you is absolute. As he says in John ten No one can pluck you out of his hands. John chapter ten, verse twenty-eight. I give them eternal life. They shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. And my Father who's given them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. I and the Father are one. John 17, 12, I have kept them through the name that you gave to me. And so I invite you, brothers and sisters, run to Jesus. Run to Jesus. Don't just look at your heart. Don't try to just guard your heart. Do those things, yes, but realize that your hope is never that you'll be able to do that any more than Peter. Could have kept himself in that temptation any more than Joseph Harton, four years old, is able to heal himself of leukemia. Only Jesus Can preserve you, can save you, can forgive your sin, can protect you from the evil one, and keep you in the hour of temptation. Jesus is necessary, but Jesus is sufficient. Amen. Let's pray. And so, our Father, we come with a renewed sense of our own weakness and dependence upon you. Lord, forgive me for not being sufficiently in touch with that that I put more law upon easier people than gospel. For Lord, how we need the gospel day by day and hour by hour. How we need to know, Lord Jesus, you are our only hope. Lord, give us hearts that run to you now. Give us hearts that run and and say, Lord Jesus, I I trust you, not my lists, not even my repentance or my faith. I trust you to keep me, to save me, to preserve me. And I rest in you who are sufficient for all things. Lord, I thank you that you could use even a sinner like me who, like Peter, doesn't know his heart, that I might strengthen my brothers and my sisters. By seeing my need for you, that we might see that together, and that you were glorified In showing yourself sufficient. Do that for each and every need here this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.