When I was on university staff, one of the most popular signs that we use to attract attention to our evangelistic book tables or to an evangelistic dorm talk or whatever else I would be doing would be a sign that said God does not grade on a curve information here on final finals. And people would smile as they would see that, but it conveyed a profound truth. It got to the fact that there's a very prevalent Misconception in our society. And it's a conception that as long as there's a number of people worse than me, God can't flunk us all. And so most of us will make it. I had a professor my freshman year in college when I first took calculus. I don't know how many of you have endured I mean taken calculus, but that was quite an experience in my life. Uh the first major exam in that course, the every grade was ten. Things didn't improve much during the rest of the semester, and we had a professor that really thought that we should give our lives to calculus, I think. I remember spending a whole weekend with a bunch of the guys From that class trying to solve some of the problems that he gave. He gave problems that you needed the whole class to solve. And at the end of that semester, everybody flowed. But the pressure was on. And what did he have to do? He divided the class into five seconds. sections. The top fifth got A's, the second fifth got B's, and on down, even though none of us probably had more than a fifty. And only the bottom fifth really failed. I'm not going to tell you what I got. But In fact, that course made me so mad I went on to advanced calculus just to see if I could tackle everything. And by the time I got to numerical analysis and set there, I thought, wisdom prevails over arrogance, and so I just quit the whole thing. But the fact is that many of us look at God like that. You know, he can't focus off. And ultimately he's going to have to grade on some kind of a curve. And you ask people, what's the standard by which he's going to do that? Well, it's something like being true to your own convictions. Or maybe it's something like uh feeling good about what you do. And it's this sort of a subjective standard by which no one can tell anyone else. What's right or wrong. It's being true to myself. You can't tell me what's right. I can't tell you what's right. We all sort of have to work it out. And in our culture, there is only one absolute, and that absolute Absolute is that there are no absolutes. That's the only absolute that we hold to. There are no absolutes. And the word of Amos in chapter 7, verses 7 to 9, has amazing Relevance as it speaks to precisely this point. There's an amazing contemporaneity, that is, it's contemporaneous, when Amos speaks to precisely that kind of mindset. So follow along now as we hear God's word, remember that uh we are looking here at a uh chapter seven to nine, a series of five pictures of judgment. And last week we looked at the first two of them, and those were in verses From the sixth, each is introduced by a phrase such as, this is what the sovereign Lord showed me, or he showed me, or I saw. We come now to the third one, but let's look at the first nine verses to see it in context then through God's word. But Amos chapter seven, the The first nine verses. This is what the sovereign Lord showed me. He was preparing swarms of locusts for grasshoppers after the king's share had been harvested, just as the second crop was coming up. And when they had stripped the land clean, I cried out. That sovereign Lord forgive. How can Jacob survive? He's so small. So the Lord relented. This will not happen, the Lord said. This is what the sovereign Lord showed me. The sovereign Lord was called. for judgment by fire. It dried up the great deep and devoured the land. But then I cried out, Sovereign Lord, I beg you, stop. How can Jacob survive? He's so small. So the Lord. This will not happen either, the sovereign Lord said. This is what he showed me, third vision. But I was standing by a wall that had been built through to pull plum, with a plumb line in his hand. Lord asked me, What do you see, Amos? A plumb line, I replied. Then the Lord said, Look, I am setting a plumb line among thy people Israel. I will spare them no longer. The high places of Isaac will be destroyed, and the sanctuary will be destroyed. of Israel will be ruined. With my sword I will rise against the house of Jeroboam. I'd like you to see three things from this passage, these three verses, verse seven to nine, this third picture of judgment. Note the fact of an absolute. Secondly, notice the identity of the absolute, and thirdly notice the application of the absolute. First, notice the fact of an absolute, the plumb line in the world. Verse 7 and 8. The Lord showed me a plumb line. He's standing by a wall that had been built through the plum with a plumb line in his hand. And the Lord asked me, What do you see, Amos? I said, A plumb line. The Lord said, Look, I'm setting a plumb line among my people, Israel, spare the mill. And clearly the plumb line is the center of this vision. Why a plumb line? Well, if you recall the first two visions that we looked at last week were indiscriminate judgment. Grasshoppers and locusts don't just eat bad people's fields, they eat Everybody's feelings. Everyone suffers together. Fire doesn't simply burn the wicked people's houses, it burns everyone's house. And so it's an indiscriminate judgment in which everyone suffers. Famous prayed that that would stop. the Lord said that will not happen. In this vision, Amos does not pray, this will happen. And what is it? It's a discriminant judgment. In this case you have a test, a test according to an absolute objective standard. That God is going to set in the midst of his people. He's going to set a plumb line in the midst of his people. Something that's easy to see, and something that reflects an absolute standard. Now this passage. Last spring I did some construction in my house and I built a wall with a bookcase running the entire length of the wall. In order to build that bookcase is what I used was a plug line from Sears. Now there it is. Very true, very simple, but an absolutely indispensable tool if you're going to build a wall and you want to make sure it's vertical. Now that's the kind that we have today. This one will give you an idea of the kind of plumb line that Amos was talking about. The word in the Hebrew means a stone attached to a string. And so what Amos What this is talking about is a stone that you would hang, and vertically, this would simply tell you whether the wall was vertical or not. I want to tell you that when I was building my wall this spring, and I held up the plumb line to it, there were a number of times, but the Two were not parallel all the way up and down. It was wider at one point, it was a lot more distance between this string at the bottom than the top, or vice versa. But in no case, whenever that happened, did it ever occur to me that maybe the plug line was off. Wall straight, and this thing's hanging at an angle. That never occurred to me. I always assumed that the wall was off and that the plumb line was straight. And another thing that uh during that time, I never thought when I saw the two were diverging from each other. other, but what I really needed to do was change the plumb line. I never thought that well what I need to do to bring these three things together now is to get this thing somehow to hang like this. If I can just get it to hang like this and everything will be fine because the two will be lined up and the instructions say they ought to be parallel. It never occurred to me. Because it was the plumb line that was the standard that I went by. Another thing that I didn't do when all this was happening was that I never tried to persuade the plumb line that my law was different. I never had a talk with plumb line and say, well, other walls may have to hang down like this. But not my wall plumb line. See? My wall is supposed to hang out at the bottom instead of the top, you see. Because my wall's different from other walls. And you don't understand the nature of my wall. All your walls are different. They're supposed to be vertical. And get the plug line to adjust itself to me. Well finally, I never tried to convince the plug line that times had changed. Yeah , was useful. best when they were vertical up and down. But they don't work that way anymore. You see, it's really better if they sort of chill out a little bit. It gives a lot more interest when people walk in, you know, when they look and they see this wall sort of hanging down the side. It's not really interesting bookcase that you made. You know, the books fall out, but that's all right. He says you don't understand. And yet as silly as that is, we have a guy who writes in the Columbia Flyer this week and he says, we shouldn't judge homosexuality is wrong. You see, times have changed. And so this fellow says, It's no more right. He says, uh, we can no more legislate or pass judgment on who people should fall in love with, whether men with men or women with women, then we can judge them on the basis of some other unchangeable characteristics such as sex or skin color. Times have changed. But vertical is still vertical. And this thing hangs according to the law of gravity. And that's much bigger than my bookcase or my wall or my house. You see, it's the essence of the universe. It's the nature of things. And no matter what I want to do to convince this thing that it ought to adapt itself to my standards, it'll never do it. Because vertical is still vertical. Vertical is vertical and aim is root, and vertical is still vertical in 1984. Now do you begin to see the point? Why the plumb line is such an apt illustration of God's description. Discriminating judgment. He says, no matter what you want to say or do with it, I still have a standard. It's an absolute standard that I hold up to my people. And it's by that objective standard that they're judged. What is that standard? What's the identity of the plum line? But it's interesting that God speaks in a number of passages in his word about judging his people with a plum line. We have this statement in 2 Kings 21, 13, Lamentation. 2, in Isaiah 34, 11. But particularly of interest is Isaiah 28 , 17, because there God identifies what the plumb line is. But in Isaiah 28, 17, it says I will make justice the measuring line and righteousness the plumb line. Righteousness, then, is the plumb line. And what is righteousness? Well the scripture is quite clear. Righteousness is conformity to the law of God. And therefore, the law of God is the plumb line. Now, it's at this point we have to be very careful about our thinking. Because it's very easy to conclude from this that if the law of God is the plumb line, that condemns. us all. None of us are vertical. And therefore Amos is simply saying everyone is going to be judged, but of course God's grace operates in Christ and therefore who knows how many will be saved. That is not what Amos is talking about. Amos is talking about righteousness, and you need to be clear. Many people identify the law of God with the principle of law, the distortion of it, the way the Pharisees used it. When Paul contrasts law with grace, he Contrasting grace with the way the Pharisees used the law as a means of self-righteousness. God never intended his law to be used that way. The law of God in the Old Testament is not simply an ethical code, but also has provision for salvation through sacrifice. That's part of the law. That's not separate from the law. And we need to understand that. That's part of God's law. How in Luke 1, when we read about the life of Zacchaeus and Elizabeth, That they walk according to the law of God blamelessly. Can you ever make sense out of that if it means that they simply followed the Ten Commandments or the Ethical Code perfectly? It can't mean that. There are sinners like human beings. How could they walk according to the law? of God blamelessly. How could they be vertical according to this plumline? Because the law of God had a sacrificial provision in it. The law of God was a law of redemption. Even the Ten Commandments, you remember, In Exodus chapter 20, are prefaced by the statement in Exodus 20, verse 2 I am the Lord your God, who have redeemed you, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Therefore, God gives his law. His law is in the context of His redemption. Or in Deuteronomy chapter 7, you have the statement about God's love. In Deuteronomy 7 and verse 8, God says , It was because the Lord loved you and kept the oath that he swore to your forehead. Fathers that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery, from the power of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Therefore, verse 11, take care to follow the commands, the decrees, and the laws that I give you today. The law was in the context of God's redemption. The law was simply the way God's people were to live because they were responding to God's nature. God had redeemed it in order to do this. And so you see, there are two parts to the law. There's on the one On one hand, the law of grace, which has to do with the sacrifices for sin, those things that bring us into a relationship with God. And then there's the grace of law, the precepts The commands for godly living, how we're to live according to God's nature, as those who are redeemed, the precepts by which we are then given a standard so that we can become Christ-like. Whereas James A road to your footing, it's the same thing you see in your bulletin. Love issues in redemption and ushers in a life of obedience to the commandments. So there's two interwoven strands to this plum love. On the one hand, And there is the sacrificial part of the law, that provision that God has made. And then there are the precepts of the law, the commands to live by. And a person whose life is vertical is a person who not only tries to live by the command. Commands, but who's trusting in the provision. But not only trusting in the provision, but seeking to live by the commands. You see how these two things can't be separated? It's simply saying that when Jesus Christ lays hold of the life, he trusts. Transforms that life when he forgives it. Covenant faith is obedient faith by its very nature. It's a faith which submits itself to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. The plumb line then shows the thing. shows a righteousness, which is by grace, made evident as it's worked out in a life. And the pen line reveals that. It says if you think that you're just going to presume on the provision of grace in Jesus Christ, and your life Is unchanged, it won't be vertical. If you're simply trying to live by the commands but you're not trusting the provision, your life won't be vertical. As those two things are brought together, a life that is trusting Jesus Christ solely, nothing else else whatsoever for salvation. And that is evident by the fact that Jesus Christ changes that life. That's a life which is vertical. Now how's that apply? The application of the absolute is here To two institutions, the church and the faith. Notice, first of all, in verse 9, he states that it's to the church. He says there, the high places of Isaac. will be destroyed, and the sanctuaries of Israel will be ruined. The Plumline condemns Israel's religion. And the Plumline condemns any cheap grace and false religion. That's not talking just About liberals, that's talking about evangelicals. That's talking about those that spout grace and talk about how Jesus will save anyone who simply trusts him and gives their heart to him without any kind of demonstration about the murder. of Christ being involved in that commitment. Teaching that Jesus can be a person's Savior without ever being their Lord. And the person can claim that, I am going to heaven. I know Jesus is my Savior and my life is unchanged. Because it's grace alone that saves me. And we don't want to be involved in a work salvation. And Amos says, that's ridiculous. For such a life has never known anything of the grace of God in redemption. Because the grace of God, when it forgives, It also transforms. And so the grace that spouts grace without transformation really isn't grace at all. And it's a gospel which leads a person into a false security, a false presumption that there saved and have a right relationship to God, with a false security that will be unmasked in that last day when God stands up his plumb line in the midst of his people. It's a judgment that is also applied to the state. And that's particularly relevant to us as we anticipate celebrating Independence Day. It condemns oppressive political structures. It's a prime line, an absolute standard, which pre which in fact judges Any kind of administration which proclaims law without justice, without practicing justice. It is saying that God's standard is not simply applied to private lives. Notice that. I think very often we as evangelicals think the judgment is only with respect to private lives. But in the end of verse 9, God says, With my sword I will rise against the house of Jeroboam. Why? Because you He's not vertical according to the plumb line. And so God is going to judge the administration, not simply Jeroboam as a person, but the house of Jeroboam, the administration, the dynasty. Wouldn't that happen? Jeroboam's son, Zechariah, was assassinated after he was in office for six months by Shalom, who was in office for one month when he He was murdered. And so within two generations, the entire house of Jeroboam had been wiped out. And God's word was literally fulfilled. I will raise my sword against the house of Jeroboam. And God judges administrations that do not line up with his standard. That judgment may seem to us very slow in coming and in mysterious ways, and we look at nations that seem to uh flout their uh Changing of right to wrong and wrong to right. But we must remember as we've looked through this entire series in the Book of Amos, the United States stands in particular responsibility because the gospel has been so plainly so So uh has been so preached in our country for two hundred years and has so permeated in the profession of the Church of Christ um all the things that we do, as a country as well as as individuals. So much is done in this country, in the name of Jesus Christ, even on our money, it's in God we trust. And so there's a particular responsibility to line up to that plumb line. God says through Amos, I'm going to judge the house of Jeroboam because they haven't withstood the test. And the plumb line still operates today. It still operates today. Don't think that this is something just for the Old Testament. Jesus said in Matthew chapter seven, in verses fifteen to twenty-three, that you will need know whether a person in fact is a believer or not by the fruit of their life. That's saying the same thing that Amos is saying. In Matthew chapter seven, in verse seventeen particularly and eighteen. Notice, he says, likewise, every good tree bears good fruit. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree can't bear bad fruit. And a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. See, a person demonstrates their nature. If it's a nature that's never come into the contact with the Spirit of God, it will demonstrate that by the kind of fruit it bears. But if in fact a person has been transformed by the Spirit of God and transformed by Jesus Christ and his power, that tree will Bear that fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Those things will be evident in the life. You can't have it in any other way. A bad tree can't bear good fruit. And a good tree can't bear bad fruit. And so Jesus goes on and he says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, but only the one who does the will of my Father. Verse 21 and 22. Many, he says, He'll say to me in that day, Lord did we do this and that and every other thing in your name. And he'll say, I will say to you, depart from you, I never knew you. Why? Because you didn't do the will of my Father in heavens. I teach your works. Salvation? Did Jesus teach a work salvation? No. Jesus was simply saying that a good tree can't bear bad fruit, and a bad tree can't bear good fruit. And when I come into a life and I have forgiven it, I transform that life. And the salvation that I Have accomplished in that life is evident in a transformed life that lines up with the plum life. Lines up not because we're perfect. Nobody's claiming that. But we're claiming transformation, the first fruits, the down payment of righteousness. by the Spirit of God. It shows us different. So different that Romans two says that Paul says he he's making his thesis about justification by faith. In Romans two he says God will judge every man according to their works. Because the works will reveal The kind of life that the person had, whether in fact it was in contact with Jesus Christ in a saving way or not. Jesus goes on in this same passage to talk about two kinds of buildings: the one, the house that's built on the rock, and the one that's built on the sand. You remember the story. What's the difference between those two? Remember the difference. There's only one difference between those two kinds. Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like the wise man who built his house on a rock. The only difference is one word. Verse 26. Verse 26. But everyone who hears these words of God and does not put them into practice. Does not. The only difference. Either puts them into practice or does not, one word. Different in Greek does not put them into practice, is like a foolish man who built his house from the sand. You see, he's saying, if in fact you have come to know me, then you begin to put my words into practice. John said that this This is so evident. In 1 John 3 10, he says, this is how we know the children of God, who they are, and who the children of the devil are. How do you gotta know? John says, here's an infallible test. Anyone who does not do what is right is Not a child of God. Neither is anyone who does not love his brother. Perfect? No. He's not saying perfect. You and I who know and trust Jesus Christ are so keenly aware of our sin. No question about that. But we are also aware of a difference, of a difference that the Holy Spirit has made in our lives because He's begun to transform us and make us a people like we were before. There's a difference in our lives because the Spirit of God has begun to change us. And the plumb line reveals that. The plumb line of God's judgment looks at that life and it says, Here is a life that has come to know Jesus Christ. And you can see it by the fruit that has been bearing. Does that convict you? Does that convict you in such a way that you begin to wonder if you've ever really come to know Jesus Christ? Whether, in fact, you have bought into a kind of an American religion that says, the plumb line is just a law of God that condemns us all, and grace comes. And it covers all of that, and you don't have to worry about a changed life. Just say you have Jesus in your heart. If God is showing you this morning that that's not what God's standard is, His standard is that with His forgiveness there comes a transformation. Then with the conviction I'm going to present to you the other thing that God says. In Isaiah 28, in verse 17, where he said, I will make justice the measuring line and righteousness the plumb line. Verse 16 before that gives us the hope. In Jesus Christ. The verse 16 says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone for a sure foundation. And no one who can Trust in him will ever be dismayed. If this morning you feel the convicting work of God's Spirit in your life, and you say, I wonder if I've ever really come to know Jesus, because I haven't seen any change in my life. There's no change in my desires. There's no change in my love for the scriptures. There's no change in my love for God's people. They're doing what God says in His Word. I want to do the minimum so that I can be in and have a kind of fire insurance policy for heaven before God. If God is convicting you of that, I present to you Jesus Christ. The stone that the builders rejected, who was crushed for your sin and my sin, before whom the plumb lights stood in It said that he is absolutely innocent. His life was perfectly vertical, according to the commands. And then he took the curse so that you and I, whose lives could never stand up to that judgment, could be forgiven. So that you could be transformed in that forgiveness. That's the good news of the gospel. If you've never known his transformation, don't lament and give up and say, well, I guess I've never known forgiveness and I never can. Come to Jesus Christ and know his forgiveness and his transformation. The new life that he wants to give you as he weaves into your life the righteousness of the position in Christ and that righteousness that begins to transform your practice. And one other last thing I want to say to you. Let's be careful, brothers and sisters, even if we hear this and are comforted by the work of God in our lives. And we can say, Amen, I believe there is that standard. Amen. I have no question that there's an absolute standard of judgment. Yet I know many Christians, many sons, of evangelicals who have a subtle kind of relativism that creeps in whereby they say you can never judge another person's life. And I know somebody, a friend of mine, a brother, sister, mother, aunt, uncle, cousin, anybody, I know somebody, they say that they've given their life to Jesus. I've watched their life for five years now and there hasn't been an ounce of change that I can really see. Except that when I talk to them now they say yeah they've given their life to Jesus. And it's not for me to judge, you see. And so even though I don't see any change in their life, I'll just trust God that somehow they seem to be trusting him and they're gonna make it in the end. See, that's really believing that God's gonna grade on a curve anyway. But somehow, you know, there's so many Christians that are professing that, but he can't really gonna be judging them all. They can't all Be mistaken. But God's plumb line does not rise and fall and sway back and forth according to our cultural norm, or how many people follow Jesus and how many don't. The plumb line is absolute. And while you You and I are not called to be judges. We are called to be fruit inspectors. And as fruit inspectors, we have to look at that person's life and we have to see, do I see any evidence of the transforming work of God's Spirit that has Born good fruit in that person's life. And if I don't, and it might be uncomfortable for me to raise that question for me to get together on the 4th of July or whatever other time I see this person, and I really would like to just dismiss that discussion. say, well they say they know Jesus and I'm just gonna let it go at that. I know that to really love that person means that I have to raise that question. How can you say that you know and you love and you trust Jesus and there's no evidence. of a change in your life. You have to state that in a way that's appropriate to your situation and the person that you know and that you love. And it must be done lovingly. It can't be done judgmentally as if you and I and I have our lives lining up according to the commandment. But it has to be done with concern. Is there somebody this morning that you think about that really you should be worried about what the real nature of God's judgment is? That it's not Simply that I have Jesus in my life and is between me and him, and nobody can look at my life to examine. It's beyond examination. Moderio and I realize that the plumb line of God's judgment is an objective standard, it can be seen. You can look at that. wall and you can see, does that wall measure up? Is that person really trusting and are they obeying in their trust? You know, if I see them professing the trust, but I see no evidence of a change, then I can't say that I love that person and not be concerned. Let's pray. We think about our lives in this moment. We see the plumb line of your absolute standard of judgment set beside us. As you set it in the midst of Israel. And there we look at that plumb line and our hearts. Hearts tremble and shudder because we know, but according to our righteousness by the commands we could never measure up. But Lord we take comfort in the fact that the law had also a sacrifice provision. A provision of grace and redemption, a picture of the Son that you would send to bear our sins for us. Now, at hell we thank you, that Jesus stood perfect, vertically, and was able to bear. our sins. So that as He has forgiven us, He's also transformed us. Lord, if there's somebody here this morning that hasn't known that transforming power of the gospel, we pray that you would make them aware of that. That you would give them no rest or peace until they come bow before you and ask for Jesus not only as their Savior, but as their Lord, that they might be reconciled to you and transformed from death to life. And Lord, we pray that as we think of people that we know, those that we care for, who name Jesus, who are not part of any fellowship, who don't read your word, who Whose priorities and values are not directed by your word. Lord, we long for them. Lord, we we know there's something wrong with that, but some of us Lord have been lulled into the kind of thinking that that's Says that, well, maybe they're saved anyway. Maybe it really doesn't matter. The Lord awakens. Through the floodline and through John's words, that the children of God and the children of Satan can be seen, for it's evident. He who deserves not do right. It 's not of the God. Lord we pray. Give us a concern, and it will move us to a compassion. Enough that will take that And humble, gently, without self-righteousness, raise to that friend, that family member, the question of what they're really trusting for salvation. Lord, how we thank you that your mercy is still held out to us in Jesus Christ. Amen.