Well, the movie The Passion of the Christ passed now $200 million in box office receipts in the first 12 days after its release. And we had a great discussion about that movie at the Howard County Public Library, if you can believe that. That was so nice. You walk into the public library and there it is, the Passion of the Christ discussion, right there in the public room About fifty people were there Thursday evening. The Washington Post covered the first discussion a week ago, and uh from what I hear this discussion uh was a lot better. Uh of the fifty people that were there, I would say about twenty were from Columbia Presbyterian and another ten uh from Beth Shalom congregation, Jewish folks And then uh probably about twenty people I would say from various unidentified origins, some spoke, some didn't. A couple of them were uh very outspoken Christians And uh I just must say I was proud to be associated with you from Columbia Presbyterian. Um I think uh those who were from CPC spoke clearly, boldly, gently. about the gospel and uh Christ was uh lifted up in that discussion. It was a thrilling opportunity to have that kind of open and honest exchange. Rabbi uh afterwards and uh she said that would be great if our congregations could have some more interchange together So that's one of the things that's going on with everybody discussing this movie now. So we have decided To spend five weeks looking at why it is that Jesus suffered in the way that Gibson has portrayed Taking Isaiah chapter 53 as the text for our meditations for these five weeks before Easter. And you see the outline on the screen, what we have been looking at. The song is uh fifteen stanzas, uh excuse me, fifteen verses, five stanzas, each three verses apiece. Last week we looked at how he was unique In chapter 52, verses 13 and 15. This week we're going to look at stanzas 2 and 3, the fact that he was despised. And that he was even more, he was punished, not simply that he was rejected, but he was punished. And then why he was punished. Stanza four underlines the uh underscores the fact that he was innocent in his punishing being punished And then chapter Stanza 5 that he was so eminently successful in all that he set out to do Two stanzas we're going to look at this morning, two points in the message. Stanza 2, verses 1 to 3, speak of his rejection. And what he experienced, as you see in your outline. And then secondly, the third stands from verses four to six, why he experienced that. You see in uh the first point what he experienced, which is rejection, that's the that's how you sum up verses one to three Uh y it's just right there from the beginning. Look what he says. Isaiah says, uh who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? That who implies the way it's stated, not money. It was not generally accepted Uh in fact we're quite clear that's what he means because Paul in Romans 10, 16 quotes this verse to say exactly that, surprisingly few of the Jewish people. received and followed their Messiah. But don't miss again the wonder of biblical prophecy in this. Remember, last week we had talked about how Jesus was unique. The Messiah was going to be absolutely unique. He is going to be the highest of the high. He'll be exalted to the highest place. But this one that's going to be exalted to the highest place is going to be also the one despised and humiliated to the lowest place. And beyond that, he is going to be proclaimed to the farthest place. So all that's pretty unique, you know. I mean, we we talked about how There is no other figure in history that has been one exalted to the highest place who's also been debased and humiliated to the lowest place and proclaimed to the farthest place. No other figure in history will fit if Jesus is not the one But then, even more amazing, he goes right on in the next stanza to say, but now who's believed our report of his people? So imagine again that you're writing, again, it should say about 750 years before Jesus was born, not seven hundred. Imagine that you're writing and you're trying to imagine what Messiah is going to be like. And and let's suppose that you can even conjure up that Somehow he is going to be both exalted and humiliated, and he is going to be proclaimed all over the world Would it make sense to then say, but you know, of the people that have been looking for him and expecting him because of the words of the prophets, we're going to utterly fail in what we're doing. You know nobody's going to believe this. Who's going to believe our report? It just doesn't make sense, does it? It's just not what you would expect. And so the wonder of biblical prophecy is Not only is Jesus so unique, but he is so unlikely. It's just not what you would expect would be the fulfillment. You know, I don't know if that grabs you, you know, you're not looking like it grabs you. But it grabs me, I'll tell you, and it should give you more confidence in Scripture. That's what Isaiah is saying. Now he then goes on to describe this one, verse 2, that grew up before him before Yahweh, the Lord, like a tender shoot, like a root out of dry ground, just this unlikely dry parched ground, and here's this little shoot, this root that is growing up, and then he describes his rejection And that is described with seven words. And those seven words depict the extent of this rejection. Notice that it says uh that he had no beauty or majesty. Each of these ideas is underlined there. So first of all You see, it had nothing to attract us to him. There's no beauty or majesty. The word beauty that's used there is the word that is used in 1 Samuel 16, 18 to describe David, how handsome he was You know, everybody looking, whoa boy, look at that guy. He's you know, he's a real star. You know, Jesus is always presented as being handsome, you know, James Caviel, you know, he's uh I always say that wrong. Cav caviar Is that it, Kevin? Whatever I said, Kevin it's not it. Somebody said it. Kevin Easel. Right. That's right. I gotta practice that, see You know, he's a handsome looking guy, you know. But Isaiah says, yeah, don't necessarily think that. He he he wasn't handsome, majestic. We don't know what he looked like. It's just not described in Scripture Uh but the picture that you're given here is that this is not the kind of guy who would ever win the primaries and be the candidate for president. You know, he's just not the kind of guy who's got that sort of, you know before the cameras, photogenic, you know, he just doesn't fit the image that we're looking for in a political or a major leader. There's nothing to desire in him He says, you know, I mean that's pretty strong. He's in fact it says he's despised. He was rejected. Uh y people saw him and and they hid their faces. When he was going through the suffering, uh it was repulsive. There was nothing to attract him. Uh people didn't flock to him to rescue him. Time Magazine said that watching the Passion is like watching the next sequel of Rocky, only he doesn't strike back. You know, it's just pathetic. It just uh there's this refusal. Um He's despised. He he hung out with prostitutes and tax collectors and Samaritans. He he wasn't wise enough to build a power base of influential people. Just It that's not the leadership type, you know. We didn't esteem him. And even though you look at Palm Sunday and you say, Well, there he is and look he was look how popular he was there. People casting palms and saying, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord and Wanted to make him king. But the scripture is so clear how shallow that was. Here by Thursday night He takes his own disciples and says, My soul is sorrowful even to death. And he puts them 50, 60 feet away, stones throw, takes the inner circle, and and they they can't stick with him They're just not drawn to support him. They fall asleep. They flee. They run. The next day the crowds that were yelling, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, are crying, Crucify Him! We esteemed him not. Nothing to attract. Now why is it that he experienced this? And so Isaiah comes right to the heart of the matter in verses four to six. He says quite clearly he experienced this for us. He experienced it for us. We look and uh we saw him And Isaiah describes through seven words, seven words to describe the cursing of God upon his life. Now, you look on the back of your outline, you notice that that isn't on the screen today. And there's a reason for that It 's because I want you to interact with these verses in a very personal way. So I want you to have it to interact with. But for right now Just look at the numbers in the brackets to see the seven words used to describe the curse of God on his life. First of all, he was stricken. The word means to literally afflict with a disease like leprosy. It's to make loathsome He was smitten. The word communicates a sharp, heavy blow upon a person. He was afflicted. Now don't miss the contrast. Do you remember when we looked last week at chapter 52, verse 13, we said when the Hebrew uses either the same word three times or three synonyms, that means to the extreme, to the utmost. Who is raised and lifted up and exalted to the utmost, you know, the highest place because you have three words. Now what Isaiah does is he takes three words, stricken, smitten, and afflicted And he piles those up in order that you might be appalled at the extent of the curse. He is cursed to the utmost. That's what Isaiah is saying here. Uh so that at the trial, you know, the Jewish leaders come and they bring Jesus and you know there's this little bit of irony that The gospel writers put in that they they they made Pilate come out of his palace because they didn't want to defile themselves so they could take the Passover a little later in the day So uh here they bring this one the Messiah and uh you know you you gotta kinda smile when you see this first interchange because they bring him to Pilate and Pilate comes out and he says, Okay, what's the charge you're bringing against this man? And they say, well, if he wasn't a criminal, we wouldn't have brought him. Imagine Pilate, you know, well, thank you very much. That really answers my question. You know, I mean there's they're so flustered that there's just this rage, you see. Uh, this one is being so debased And they begin to shout all these different charges. You know, he makes himself the king. He says, Don't pay tribute to Caesar, and on and on and on and on they go. And he is humiliated before them. They simply are seeking to keep all that they can of the accusations so that Pilate will execute him. And what Isaiah does is he says, Now, look at this, look how he's treated. We as moralists think that people generally get what they deserve. He must have done something So he says he was stricken and smitten and we thought it was of God. That's how blind we were. You see, we we thought what did he do to deserve this? And Isaiah saying, you see, it didn't occur to us. That he was doing this for what we deserve. And so Isaiah spells that out. He makes that quite clear. What is this? But then just to finish the words, uh you notice he goes on to say fourthly he was pierced, pierced to death. He was crushed, the word means to break something in pieces, to shatter it, like throwing a glass bottle onto a st uh sidewalk. He was punished. And then, uh, sorry, uh that that next should be a seven, not a six. Uh he was wounded, that is, he was tortured And then Isaiah gets down to the key question here. Why all of this? Why did he suffer this? If there's a good God, and he's a good man, how can God seem to just ignore what's going on? Why is it that God lets this happen? He doesn't intervene, He doesn't protect, He doesn't stop these horrible proceedings. Why is Jesus so tortured? Now Isaiah is quite clear, seven times in these three verses, he says, it was for us. He was tortured. He was punished for us, like the old hymn, bearing shame And scoffing rude, that doesn't mean he was scoffing rude. It means bearing shame and bearing the scoffing rudeness in my place. Condemned he stood. To understand this, you have to know the Old Testament background. The Old Testament sacrificial system, you as a sinner would come and you would bring a sacrifice. And that sacrifice could be a bull, could be a goat, could be a lamb. If you didn't have much money, it could be a pigeon. But it had to be a live animal Let's say it was a lamb. You bring this lamb along and you bring it up to the priest. And at that point you would confess your sin. You would confess the shameful things you had done. You confess your demandingness and your selfishness and your flaunting God's law. You're living the way you wanted without regard to what he said. But as you did that, you would be placing your hands on the head of that lamb. And in placing your hands on the lamb's head, you were symbolically transferring your guilt to the lamb. The lamb was now taking upon itself your guilt. You would then watch as the priest would take his knife And with one stroke he would slice through the jugular vein. He would grab a bowl, and as the lifeblood of that lamb, bleeding pitifully and trembling in its death throes The bull would gather that blood from the lamb. The lamb would then slump dead at your feet. And you would think, my God. Sin is a serious matter. Why did this poor lamb have to die for me? You see, until we see sin is serious, what Isaiah says here doesn't really matter a whole lot. Until you and I realize that when the one who made you has the right to tell you how to live And when you and I say, God, you can run the universe the way you want, but I'm going to run my life the way I want, if you don't mind. You can stay in your realm and I'll stay in my realm and I hope we can live at peace. I don't see anything particularly wrong with that. Until we see What a vile assault that is upon God's majesty and his right to run the universe. If one molecule runs as a maverick in this universe, outside of God's control, All hell would break loose, for God would no longer be God. And when you and I violate his law and his character Blood must be shed. Now the priest, after the lamb is dead, takes that bowl of blood And he dips his finger in that bowl seven times. And seven times he sprinkles that blood on the altar. Seven words Isaiah used to describe the rejection of Messiah. Seven words used to describe the curse of God, and seven times Isaiah says in these verses, it was him for us. In verses seven to twelve, he'll add another three times where he says it was him in our place. But in just these three verses He says seven times it was him for us. And what I'd like for you to do is see that these verses are written with blanks. And the blanks, of course, are where Isaiah says, us or we, and I want for us to look at those blanks And to fill in our names. Just fill in your first name. But as you do that, to ask yourself, can I do that? Do I believe that Jesus took up my infirmities and carried my sorrows? The only way that's true is if you have admitted you can't carry them yourself. That you need someone to come and to rescue you. And that you give yourself to Him to say, I Lord Jesus, want to give myself to you, that you would take that for me. Now, if you've never done that, don't put your name in there. Unless at this moment, by the grace of God, He is compelling you to say, I need to put my name in there. Don't put it in there casually. And somebody from the first service said, that kind of unnerved me. Was I going to put my name in there? But what I'd like to do now is to read these verses together. And we'll read in unison, and at the point where there's a blank, you read your name. But only if you believe it. I don't want you to read this if you don't believe it. Be silent. Listen to the rest of us. Because this is a confession. This is stating, I need this for me. Can you do that? Let's read it together. Surely Jesus took up Alan's infirmities and carried Alan's sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted. But Jesus was pierced for Alan 's transgressions. Jesus was crushed for Alan's iniquities. The punishment that brought Alan peace was upon Jesus. And by Jesus' wounds, Alan is healed. We all, particularly Alan, like sheep, have gone astray. And I, Alan, have turned to my own way. And the Lord has laid on Jesus the iniquity of us all, including all of Alan 's iniquity. This is the same idea that Paul wrote in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. And the life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Do you believe that? Is it necessary for you? Do you say whatever else I have to hope in in this life, if I don't have this It's all worthless. I must have my name in there. Jesus. Jesus, see my name in that place And what was the result? What was the result of Jesus bearing your iniquity, taking your place? Isaiah goes on, describes by two words in these verses the result First of all, it accomplished your peace. That refers to reconciliation. Verse 5. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. That primarily refers to your alienation from God. You see, not simply that you're alienated from God, but more importantly that he's alienated from you. Isaiah goes on in chapter 59 and verse 2 to say, all our sins have separated him from us, so he can't hear us. And you and I, without Christ, are dead in our sin. We don't even desire and are unable to initiate reconciliation. And Isaiah is describing a Messiah who came to initiate it for you and me. He initiated the reconciliation. The punishment that brought us peace was on him Without that peace with him, you search everywhere else. You'll read about how to lift up your self-esteem. You will read books and go to seminars and conferences to find out how you can feel better about yourself. You'll fall into addictions, as David Powell says says, uh banquets in the grave, idols that become to you your hope of Coping, release, relief. But what you really need is peace with God. The peace that only He can establish And Jesus Christ took that punishment so that he can never be angry with you again. Amazing God can discipline you for your good, but He can never be angry with you if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning. Amen? You see, uh you know this week I was I was thinking about everybody talking to this movie and all the articles and it keeps growing, you know, my stack of everything is being written and talked about and You know, I was thinking everybody's talking about Jesus, what he was like, and who was he and why'd he do this and on and on and on speculating and two books have recently come out on How we perceive Jesus, uh one talks about throughout different cultures, you know, how every culture finds that their ideal is reflected in Jesus, and the other one focuses more on American history from colonial times to current times. You know, in the sixties Jesus was the socialist radical hippie, you know, and you know, now he's Jesus of the present, precious moments, hallmark cards, you know, whatever, you know, how we like to perceive Jesus And as I was thinking about it, I said, you know, everybody's wondering, and I know him. I talked to him this morning. He's available to me Lord Jesus, all these people are talking about you. And I know you and you know my name. You recognize me. There's peace between us and there's intimacy between us. Isn't that thrilling? I mean you think I mean the the the person that's most being talked about today, you know personally, if you know Jesus. Because you have peace. And that peace with him is so important. You know, we all know what exams are, you know, and you know, exam is to test how you've mastered something. You know, it could be an exam where you have to write, or it could be a driver test to master a skill You know, but all those are just little reminders, kids, adults, humans, they're just little reminders that one day is going to be a final exam. One day, you and I are going to stand before God, and our life will be reviewed Now, have you ever thought about how you're going to do? One guy I once read said, the ultimate anxiety is to picture yourself standing in the final judgment And you're behind Mother Teresa, and you hear God say to her, you know, you really didn't measure up. We dread the reality that we're going to flunk life And some of us already feel that, don't we? I have flunked life. And when I stand before God, I'm going to get an F for my life. And Isaiah says, Jesus is standing there before God. God looks at his life, and he gets an A. And after you've gotten your F, Jesus turns and he takes your grade. And he says, I take his F. And he pays for that, F. He pays all the penalty and the cursing that is due for flunking life. And then he gives you his A plus. So when God looks at your life, he writes over it. A plus. Finished. When I was in college, we used to kid about the fact that no student ever said, I got an F. It was always what? He gave me an F. Likewise, no student ever said, he gave me an A. Right? It was always, what'd you get? I got an A He gave me an F. You see, the gospel is exactly the reverse. I got an F But he gave me an A. That's what Isaiah is about. Not only does it bring you the peace of an A plus over your life before a holy God. But he also says he gives you new life. He says by his wounds you've been healed. You see it there? In verse five? By his wounds we're healed. And what that means simply is that physically and emotionally You have been given a new life. That refers to regeneration, in biblical terms, the new life that you have Uh it's true physically. Now some Christians take that to mean that we have a guarantee from God that whenever we get sick We can claim healing because Jesus said by, Isaiah says, by his wounds you've been healed. We know that's not true because First Peter Chapter 2 quotes from Isaiah, chapter 53, verse 5, where he says, He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we might die the sins and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you have been healed. And then Peter goes right on to talk about the suffering and the sickness and all the things you'll be enduring in this life and how to uh see in those opportunities The way to draw closer to Christ and fellowship with him in his sufferings. There are times when God will heal. We believe that. But it's not a guarantee until he comes back. For when he returns Then the full healing, that longing, the groaning of Romans 8, the redemption of our bodies, will be fulfilled And there will be no more sickness, no sorrow, no disease, no aging, no death. Amen. That's our hope. But emotionally it's also true that by his wounds we're healed. Yesterday this place was packed with about 400 people to come hear Dan Elender. Just talk about what? To talk about emotional healing, to talk about how to apply the gospel to our brokenness To talk about how you and I continue to struggle to know more and more of the fullness and the wholeness that the gospel promises. God intends that we enter into that. That we know the healing. Do you believe that one day All of your insecurities, all of your guilt, all of the shame, everything's going to be utterly eradicated, and you will walk down that aisle of the grand banquet of heaven, and Jesus, the bridegroom, will look with at you With love in his eyes, say, Come, come, my beloved. And there will be no more brokenness, physically, emotionally, spiritually For by his wounds we will be fully, completely healed. Now, what did it take to do that One last point. Notice that Isaiah begins: Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? The arm of the Lord. Why does he say the arm of the Lord? It's one of those little details in Scripture that you don't want to miss. Now back in Psalm 19, the psalmist talks about how the heavens are his handiwork In Isaiah later on you see the reference there, he says, You and I were created as the handwork of God. Creation is God's handiwork. But then Isaiah speaks in a number of places. You have the references there, so you can look them up. Isaiah speaks of God coming to bring Israel out of Egypt and to redeem Israel. He says, no one was there to redeem my people. And in every case, what does he say? Basically Harris paraphrase, so I rolled up my sleeves and I bared my holy arm on behalf of my people. Hey, creating the galaxies, creating the universe, that's handiwork. For God to put on skin and to suffer for sinners like you and me, death. Cursing, God says, that took all of my might and strength, so that angels who watched creation bow in awe at the majesty of that power That is how much God loved you. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God May we never look lightly upon sin or upon the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, the Lamb, who was slain in our place. Lord, I pray that every person in this room would be able to write their name in those blanks and say, this is my confession. I need Jesus. Lord Jesus I can't go another day without knowing that you have done this for me. I belong to you. Lord, would you do that? For surely you have borne our griefs, you have carried our sorrows, and you are our only hope, but you are our sufficient hope, and we celebrate. The fullness and the completeness of that hope.