Acts chapter 1. Read together the first eight verses. This is the record that the Lord has given concerning the days just after the Lord Jesus had risen. This is God's own record of what happened. Let's give it our best attention in Acts chapter 1. In my former book, O Theophilus, I wrote about all the Jesus. Began to do and to teach until the day that he was taken up to heaven, after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles that he had chosen. After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave many convincing proofs. That he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of forty days and spoke about the kingdom of God. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command: Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift which is the first. My father promised, which you have heard me speak about. For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So when they met together, they asked him , Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom? To Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the days the Father has set by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. Let's pause for a word of prayer as we consider this portion of God's Word this prayer. Lord, you have said here that we will be your witnesses. And yet, Lord, so many times we feel like we are not your witnesses. Or at least we're not very good witnesses, or very faithful witnesses. And for many of us though when we even think of the topic of evangelism, we begin to feel a little chill. We feel a pang of guilt and we would rather talk about something else. Because we feel that we already know far more than we're doing. We pray, Lord, that you would free us up this morning, that we might see what you really intend for us to understand from this verse. That we might be a people who are free in our evangelism rather than burden. Father, speak to us, we pray. Speak to each of our hearts. For Jesus' sake. Amen. As I mentioned before, at 1110 this morning we will We'll be all gathering to see a film on evangelism, the first of a series of four films, the other three will be held on Sunday evenings, in order to help us to do evangelism more frequently, more freely, and more naturally. Hopefully that's the effect it will have. But I want to first, before we see the first film, address the question of why do we evangelize? Now, maybe you say, well, that's simple. The reason we evangelize is that people need Hear about Jesus Christ. They need to have their sins forgiven. They need to be reconciled to God. That's a simple question. If it's so simple, why is it that all of us who have committed our lives to Jesus Christ, who know very well that everybody needs to hear the gospel, so often find that our Are sealed in guilty silence when we have the opportunity. And opportunity after opportunity passes us by. And we don't speak what the people need to hear. Isn't that true? So then why is it that we do? evangelize. Well the Bible answers that question in a twofold way, and it's very helpful to understand the answer that the Bible gives in order to free us up from that. Those of you who have had my evangelism course recognize this material. And so I beg your indulgence in some review. But many of you have not had this material. And I think it's important that we all have this biblical foundation as we go into the training that we're going to be receiving in the next Three to four weeks. So let's consider then why do we evangelize? First of all, the Bible speaks of movies for evangelism, and then it also speaks of the dynamic of evangelism. So notice this is this. Morning, in order to help us to understand this, I didn't use an outline, I used a chart or a diagram. And you have to understand what this thing is supposed to say. You see those two little figures there on the right and the left side. Now don't take offense, but that's a picture of you and me. Okay? They're both you and me so that you don't have to figure out which one's the better looking. That's you and that's me, both sides. On one side we're looking uh we're looking in each case toward Christ in two of the motives and toward the persons without Christ in two of the motives. The difference is that the motives on the left are those that tend to drive us to evangelism, the motives on the right are those that tend to draw us to evangelism. Now let's consider what those four motives are. First of all, there's the motive of obedience. Whenever you talk about any biblical principle, you must start with the principle of obedience. The motive of obedience is always basic for the Christian. Because Jesus is my Lord. And therefore, if Jesus says something, that's motive enough for me to do it. And if you examine the gospel record, you find that the very first and the last commands that Jesus gave were with regard to evangelism. That's the very first thing that Jesus commanded to his disciples. Follow me and I will make you fishers of men. What's the last thing that he said? We see recorded in the book of Matthew, chapter 28. Go into all the world and make disciples. For just before his ascension, as Acts 1 records it, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit come upon you, and you will receive. will be my witnesses. So clearly, right to the very heart of Jesus' concern for his people is that they be witnesses, that they be evangelists. And therefore, you see, if Jesus has said it, that settles it. See, they're very free because it means that you and I don't have to go to a pet rally to get all cranked up to do evangelism. It means that we have in the simple quietness of our heart to say, Lord Jesus, you told me to do it, and that's enough. That settles it. As Hudson Taylor once said God has never told us to go get a loaf of bread, but that He hasn't provided the bread there to get. And therefore, if He has told us to share the gospel, He's provided the means that we can share the Gospel. But that's a very freeing kind of thing because very often often we don't feel like doing it to him. I think of a fellow by the name of Neil. Neil was a new Christian. And Neil was rather conf confused and perplexed about the fact that since he had become a Christian, it seemed like things were getting worse and worse in his life. He had problems at his job. Somebody who he cared for very much really let him down. But his health was deteriorating. One day he drove out and he was thinking about himself, indulging in some good old self-pity. matched his own mood of drizzling. As he passed a hitchhiker, he was convicted, we ought to stop and give this guy a ride. So he fell over to the side and he picked up this fellow, hoping that he would just sit there in silence and everything would pass, he'd be able to let him off and then go on and indulge in his own sorrows. Unfortunately Neil had a Bible on his dashboard. The hitchhiker after some period of silence said, Do you believe that? But Neil wasn't exactly excited about that kind of question at that moment, and so he just mumbled Yeah. And nothing else. It continued on, no more silence. After a while the hitchhiker says, Maybe I need that. At this point we were beginning to think the Lord Why couldn't you have sent this guy some victorious Christian that could have really shared the gospel, you know? So he still wasn't getting the message and so he said, uh, yeah, I guess we all need it. Go on some more silence. Hoping that this guy's gonna have enough sense to shut up, he's not gonna want a conversation any conversation and he finally got to where he's gonna let this guy off. He pulled over the side and said , Well, I'm finished with that, I'm in bed enough and feeling lousy, and this guy's gonna rub it in. And he opened the door for this. fellow to get out and he didn't get out. He just sat there. He began to talk about his life. He began to talk about his slavery to drugs. He began to talk about his life as in shambles. And the hitchhiker just began to weep as he began to pour out his life. But at that point in the year only realized maybe this was an opportunity to share the gospel. And so out of simple obedience to Jesus Christ, not because he felt like it or anything else, but because Jesus said do it, he began to tell them about the gospel. Began to tell them about how God had sent his son for sinners, so that Jesus would come and he would live for us the life that we should have lived. And that Jesus took the penalty of God's wrath that we deserved ourselves. So that Jesus who raised the world. Was the means of giving us a new life, of being forgiven, of God putting our life back together, such as this guy was describing, and that Neil himself had so recently experienced and was still depressed about. And the interesting thing is that Neil He says as he recounts this, he says, a funny thing happened. As I began to share the good news with him, all of a sudden my own heart became warm. All of a sudden I realized that I was announcing the good news to him. this fella, what Jesus could do for him, I realized he could do the same thing for me. And as I was simply faithfully telling him about the Lord, he said, all of a sudden I realized that Jesus was the solution to all my problems and my self-pity and all the things that I was so depressed. to that. But the result of that was that after twenty minutes, the fellow began to cry out and pray, confessing his sin to God and asking Jesus Christ to come into his life to save him. And we all said that the result of that was that God used that as a turning point in his own life. To see that simple, faithful obedience in sharing the good news of Christ can so often help us as much as it helps the other person because we preach and God uses that to minister to our own hearts. experience that? I can think of examples in my own life. Where I really, the last thing I felt like doing was sharing the gospel. And God gave me somebody and it was simply either I deny them or I confess it. But as we began to talk about the gospel, God used that in my own life. Obedience is the most basic motive. But that's not all. Bible goes on to talk about a second motive, and that is responsibility. Now we're looking not toward Christ, but toward the person without Christ. And as we look at that person without Christ, we realize That God has made us responsible to warn those who were in trouble. In Ezekiel chapter 3 and 33, but let me read just from Ezekiel chapter 3, God says a very strange thing to Ezekiel. He says something. I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. So hear the words that I speak and give them a warning from me. When I say to the wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways in order to save his life. That wicked man will die for his sin, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do run the wicked man, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his evil ways, he will die in his sin. You have saved yourself. They say, Well, that's nice for Ezekiel, but I'm not a prophet. I'm not a watchman for Israel. Oh yeah? When Paul left the church of Ephesus in Acts 20, in verse 26, he says, I I am innocent from your blood, because I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God. Now what else could Paul be referring to in the New Age than that passage that's Speaks of freeing yourself from the blood of the people by sharing with them the news of both the warning of God's wrath and of the mercy that is found in Jesus Christ to escape that wrath. Paul says, I'm free from the guilt of your blood because Because I've shared the gospel with you. I believe that God has created each one of us with spheres of influence. There are people in your family, people that you work with, people in your neighborhood who will listen to you because they know you who have never listened to you. Me, who have never come to a church service, any of our meetings, to hear about Jesus Christ. And God has said that He has given each of us with that privilege a responsibility to be a watchman, to warn them of the wrath to come if they do not flee to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Are you free from the blood of those who are in your family, of those that you work with, of those that are in your neighborhood, of those that you have some relationship with who would listen to? To you. You may not think they listen to you. But generally, people will listen to us more than we believe that they will. But you don't know how long you have. But God has given us that responsibility as well as the privilege. Those are the motives that drive. Then on the other side there are those motives which draw us to evangelism. On the more positive side, there is compassion, still looking to that person without Christ. The compassion that we read about that Jesus had in that All right, Matthew 9. 36, when we read that, he looked about and he saw all the people as sheep scattered without a shepherd, and he had compassion for them. He saw their need for himself. You and I see people all scattered about our lives. A sheep without a shepherd. Do we have compassion on them? Do we have compassion on them as we realize, as Paul says, that we know the terror of the Lord, but we know also that he has sent Jesus, his son, to reconcile people to himself? But now we deserve hell, He has given to us heaven in His Son. And therefore to care for people is to, as Paul Little said, realise that the greatest favor that we can do for anyone is to introduce them to Jesus Christ. Not simply to be a friend, to help them to build things, to help them by babysitting and meals and rides or anything else like that, but the most important thing, not to derogate any of that, but the most important thing, is to introduce that person to Jesus. Christ, if we care for that person, to give them the opportunity in hearing the gospel. Because we have compassion. Because we realize how great the Lord's compassion was on us in taking our sin, in making us a new people, giving us a new light, changing our hearts, and taking us and rescuing us from the mess that we were in. And so we have compassion because we've received compassion. And then the fourth motive is that of jealous worship. It's probably the one least understood are talked about in evangelism. Yet in many ways it's the most compelling and the most exalting. The idea of jealous worship. Now looking back to Christ, worship you see leads to witness. Worship must lead to witness. It's hypocritical for you and for me to come here and Sunday after Sunday say, Lord Jesus, you alone are worthy of our worship. And then to walk out of here and see people running out of safe way across the shopping center in and out of their cars in the parking lot, in our neighborhoods and wherever we walk, and see that these people don't care anything about Jesus Christ, won't give him the time of day, will use his name only when they hit their thumb with a hammer. And then we say, but that doesn't bother. Jesus, you alone are worthy of my worship, but it doesn't really concern me that all these people are ignoring it. In the Old Testament we read that God is a jealous God. That means he is concerned with a jealous concern that he has the right. place in our lives. Just like a husband is jealous that his wife puts him in the right place in her life or the wife concerning the husband. Because there is a commitment there, there is a jealousy to protect that. God has made us for himself. He is jealous that we be his people. And when we go off to worship other things, idols, other concerns, God says that that is spiritual adultery. And he's jealous for us. And we as his people are to be jealous for his name. Every time you and I worship and profess Jesus Christ as Lord, we are saying that we are jealous that he be worshipped. That he is the one who alone is to have that rightful place. You see an example of this in Acts chapter 17, when Paul was in Athens. You read in chapter 17 and verse 16 that Paul. Excuse me, I got the wrong page. Acts 17, verse 16. That while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was greatly distressed far to see that the city was full of idols. What was it? Stress to me. It's a very strong Greek word. It speaks of turmoil and uh a kind of churning in your stomach. Why is it that Paul felt that way? Because he saw Jesus Christ being ignored. He saw Jesus Christ who alone should be the center of these people alive. being no having no part or place in their lives. And he was distressed and disturbed because he was jealous for the worship of God. And so that the Bible gives us also, as a motive for work for our evangelizing and declaring the good news. Of Jesus Christ. However, I realize that these motives will not make us evangelize. You see, if I just left you here with these four motives, the effect of that would be that probably you would not evangelize. Anymore, you'd simply feel twice as guilty about the fact that you don't evangelize. Because these motives will never produce in you by themselves an evangelistic fervor or heart. Why is it then always Ultimately, that the Bible says that they evangelize. It's there that Acts 1. 8 comes in. Because in Acts 1. 8, you see that Jesus is declaring to us the reason why we will evangelize. He says there, you will reveal. Receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses, starting here and on out to the ends of the earth. Why? Because the Holy Spirit will constantly To teach you to be a witness in church. We speak of law in two senses. You can speak of law as an external command to tell you what you ought to do. You shouldn't drive over 55 miles an hour. You shouldn't steal. You shouldn't do various other things. Those are laws that tell us how we ought to behave. But you can use the word law in another sense. The word law can be used to describe the way a thing operates. According to its nature. Water freezes at 32 degrees, as we've seen. Animals hibernate in the winter, certain kinds of them. Now you didn't have to go out yesterday and say to the water, hey, it's getting thirty. It's time to freeze. Now listen, I'm telling you, freeze. You know, and the water says, well, you know, that's the law, so I gotta do it, you know. And you can say to this raccoon or something else, and they say, hey, listen, it's December, don't you know? It's time to hibernate. Get on in there, some old big. This was lumbering around somewhere. Go in there, you see. No. There's an internal compulsion. They're built that way. Water's built that way. Bears are built that way. And what God is saying here in Acts 1. 8 is when the Holy Spirit comes upon the church. The church is built that way. What has been an external command, this is the what you ought to do. You ought to obey, you ought to be responsible, you ought to have compassion, you ought to be jealous for God's name. Becomes the internal will working of our being. And so Harry Bohr, writing on this, says that the church in Acts was a church that was simply responsive as a healthy organism to the law of its being when it was evangelizing the world. You see, you don't see very much of commands in the New Testament to evangelize. Sometimes people get frustrated on that. They say, Why are there more commands? This is so important. Why didn't God tell us to keep doing this? It's simply because those commands will not do it. It's the Holy Spirit working in the redeeming person who takes all those motives. And as you see on the back side there, if you're wondering what all those little things are, you see where it says the Holy Spirit of Pentecost. That diagram on the back is to communicate, but the Holy Spirit is the flood. Who lights the motives, which are the fuel? The motives are simply the fuel in our lives. And when the Holy Spirit comes in, he lights that fuel. And he drives us to want to share Jesus Christ, to want to obey him, to want to be respected. responsible to those that we care for, to have compassion on people that need the Lord Jesus, to be jealous in our worship, so that as Isaiah says, Lord, I've seen your glory in the temple. Here am I, send me. That's what the Holy Spirit does in us. So you see, when you and I don't evangelize, it's not simply a matter of what is one little area that we sort of got to get in order. But we don't evangelize. We're quenching the Holy Spirit. That's something that pervades in our life that will have ramifications. On all parts of our Christian life. Because the Holy Spirit in us is a witness in the Spirit. That's His nature. His nature is to confess Christ, to draw people to Himself. We're His temples. And so when the Holy Spirit comes in us, he comes in us to draw people to Christ. You see again that's very freeing if you understand that because it means that your witness doesn't depend on you. It's the power of the Spirit in you that enables you. To witness for Jesus. It's simply subjecting yourself to Jesus and the power of the Spirit, yielding to Him, that will constitute you a person that cares for other people, so that you want to share Jesus Christ with them. And so that means that if you Are not evangelizing, there are two broad reasons why that might be. You see those there on the back and the bottom. It might be because you have no desire to evangelize. And I would suggest that if that's true, if In fact, you have no desire to share Jesus Christ. But that's a serious question over your life as to whether the Holy Spirit is in you. If you can go day after day, week after week, month after month, and even year after year, Not sharing Jesus Christ and not being particularly concerned about that, except maybe a little pang when you hear a message like this, maybe you ought to raise the question whether the Holy Spirit is over about the whole of your life. Whether you've ever seen that the root problem of your life is And your alienation from God, and how Jesus Christ is the one and only provision that God has made, a necessary and sufficient provision to take away your sin and to reconcile you to Himself, to change your life, to give you a hope of heaven. Where you had no hope. And so I urge you: if you find yourself in that position this morning, there's only one thing to do, and that's to come to Jesus Christ. Don't sit there feeling guilty about not evangelizing. Come to Christ. Come to Him and confess your sin, not just God. of not evangelizing, you don't have any good news to share. Confess your rebellion against him. Confess the fact that your life's been moving 180 degrees in the wrong direction. And you want to turn around and you want God to take your life and you want him to change it. You want him to make it his own. And you know he's promise that it'll do it. Don't delay. But if you're sitting here this morning and you say, Well, I do have that desire. My silence is a guilty silence. Then there may be three reasons, basic reasons why that's true. One is because you lack a clear conscience. I've seen that in many Christians. There's sin in your life that is of such a nature that if you were to share Jesus Christ, you'd feel like a hypocrite. there becomes such conviction in your life to say, yeah, how can you talk about Jesus Christ? Well this whole area of your life a major area I'm not talking about minor things, we all have minor things, and sometimes they're major things that rear their heads from time to time in our lives that convict us. And I'm saying, if in fact you say, there's no way I can share Jesus Christ because I have total defeat, then there's only one thing to do. It's to flee that sin. It's to put that sin away because don't you see you're quenching the spirit and that spirit of Sanctification is the same spirit of witness. The two are bound together. And the Holy Spirit wants to take that part of your life. He wants to give you victory in it as you lay it on the altar and say, Lord Jesus, I'm sick and tired of this thing. I want to run from it from a poisonous And I want you to take ways of delivering from that. And if you mean business and confess that to the Lord, He'll take that thing from your life. He'll begin to deal with you in victory about that. He'll give you another person to minister to you, to help you in that. You hold yourself accountable as you say, Lord, I really mean business with this. And the sheer joy of the releasing of that burden will put a song in your heart so that you'll find your sharing Christ where you never thought you would have. A second reason why you may not. be sharing Christ while still knowing him is simply unbelief. Maybe you simply doubt that God could use you. You just don't believe that God could use you. So now he uses other people, extroverts, you know, I see Becky Pippert and I'll say, well sure it's easy to use her Look how bright and bubbly and all she is. But he could never use somebody like me. I'm not like that. I'm not the right personality. That's unbelief. Because we've just said it's not a matter of you. You're the temple. It's the Holy Spirit who constitutes you a witness. And he constitutes all kinds of personalities, extroverts, introverts, bright and bubbly, quiet and soft, and all the rest of it. I remember when I was on university staff, a girl that I saw as a freshman in one of the colleges was one of the most introverted. uh fragile kind of people I had ever met. She was just concerned to hang out with her own faith and get through college rather than bring people to Christ. By the end of her freshman year she had brought four people to Jesus Christ. Because she simply cared for people and God used her in quiet, simple ways to leave people to Himself. So it's not a matter, you see, of how great and how effective you are. It's a matter of how available you are to the Holy Spirit. And so let's let's get away from that. Let's go to the film and see from Becky Pippert how God can use all kinds of people, in simple ways, where we are, because we believe that God is still bringing people to Himself by His food. And that's the final thing. Maybe it is that you're just uncomfortable with non Christians. Maybe you say, Well, yeah, you know, I I have some idea what the gospel is, what to say. I I I believe that maybe God could use me, but I'll tell you frankly I just I'm uncomfortable around Christians now. I would just rather be with Christians. I just don't find that I'm at ease talking with people uh about spiritual things. But let me share with you that he needs a real Again, that God in you, as He gives you a compassion for people, can turn that around. One of the main points of the series that we'll be looking at is the process of what Becky Pippert calls a second conversion. And I actually came from Walter Troy. In his preface to a book. He says that we as Christians need a second conversion. I'm not talking about a second blessing here, I'm talking about a second conversion. First conversion is when we turn from natural people to become spiritual people. When we turn from over our lives around ourselves to around Jesus Christ. The Trevor says that we need to have a second conversion where we come from spiritual people to become natural people again. Not by orienting ourselves around ourselves again, but in being able to relate The spiritual truths that we've learned to people in a natural way, not in some super spiritual religious way, but are comfortable sharing with non-Christians. Why? Because we believe the Holy Spirit is at work in people. We believe That God is still in the process of changing lives and that He's being gracious enough to let you and me as sinners in all. Isn't that tremendous? God is at work among your neighbors, among people that you're working with, people here in Long Reach, throughout Columbia, and Howard County, and He He is going to let you and me in on the privilege of seeing what he does. Now, just in order to impress you with that, we're going to do something different this morning. We're all going to go out into the shopping center, we're all going to evangelize. No. wake you up. What we're going to do is that we have two people coming to be received for public membership, Stephen Ellis Cook. And I want you to see as a living example of what God is doing. And so what I've asked them to do is to finish off this message. And so they're given more than normal time that people get when they just give their testimony and a brief word of God's grace, and then with their with their vows, confess Jesus Christ. And so they've confessed Jesus Christ before the session. I'm going to ask Stephen Lawrence to be a question. come up now. I want you to share what God has been doing as a demonstration, a living contemporary demonstration right here, it's not on the mission field, it's not somewhere else, it's not in a history book, is right here now to see simply that God is still in the fossil. Of working through his gospel and the power of his gospel. So Steve, come on up and share some of the things we want to hear. Yawn. Uh we started coming to this church in October 1983. And a year ago I wasn't a Christian. Although I've been raised in a family in which I was raising a Lutheran. going family. Attended church, was confirmed Lutheran, and I was very active in the church. But um I really didn't have any kind of personal relationship with God. I mean I was very active and I well my mother really supported that and all but uh I did accept Jesus as my personal savior. Okay. Um and in fact I even perceived a lot of hypocrisy within the church and my own family. What it bothered me. And when I went to college, uh became involved in um anti war protests and I saw cr so called Christians supporting not only uh violent acts uh uh abroad but here in this country and think in terms mainly of the civil rights movement and And uh really concerned me at the time that um I saw a certain amount of hypocrisy by so called Christians. And I went to college I I uh intellectually rebelled against this. I uh got involved in a lot of what might be called secular humanism, liberal thinking in college. And I questioned um the Bible's infallibility and Christ's claim to deity. To I thought these claims were exaggerated. And uh courses in anthropolog and whatnot taught me certain things about uh findings that seemed to be inconsistent with the biblical account of creation and uh questioned the historical validity of the Bible. And finally I I came to the point where I thought that Christianity was just a crutch for people who needed some kind of something to lead on when they couldn't deal with the pressures of life. So I rejected this. I became an agnostic. I didn't know whether God existed or not. In my mind couldn't prove it. And became very apathetic. So for many years I just kinda led a life of of um self pleasure, gratification, got into drugs, um so much lavishly, and um went on to graduate school and became absorbed with the scientific method, including man at the center of the universe, that we could solve all things eventually. And I became an escapist, I went for adventure. Uh not going to any of that right now. But um I was previously married and um that ended in divorce. And uh at that point I first came to a realization that I wasn't as as righteous as I thought I was. A couple months after that my father died and uh I came through the sudden realization I wasn't as as all powerful as I thought. Lois. I didn't have total control over my life. Well, soon after that I did meet Lois and looking back on things now, I realized that the Holy Spirit really was working in me and I didn't realize at the time. The first spark of that, that 's with the flame, was um this book, Objections Answered, R. C. Sprohl. Um was given to me by Lewis's brother. given to both of us and we read it together that one summer. And um it it started answering some questions that I had, questions I just mentioned, among others. Tentative answers to these questions. But I didn't really start reading the Bible at that time. Just a little bit. Um, closest father is a minister, and that was the first time that I had seen sincerity expressed in him. Um the hypocrisy that I mentioned really concerned me, and for the first time. time I really saw a man who really loved the Lord and uh was not hypocritical. And um through her brother, sister-in-law, I saw that uh people could seriously worship. And live according to Christian precepts. Not being Sunday worshippers or social Christians, Mr. Wood. Which I've seen a lot of. Finally last October, my mother got a bypass surgery, and Sunday afternoon. That I came to this church. We realized after going to many churches that this is where we wanted to continue to attend. And uh we saw here opportunities for serious Bible study. That's pretty unique. If you've been to any other churches, you don't see that much opportunity. Opportunity. And you have a real gift here with Alan Harris, and he doesn't know how I was going to say this. But um his concern for me and his unassuming attitude, putting himself on the level that I was at at the time and addressing my concerns. Um and that his real gift of speaking and and breadth of knowledge of Scripture is very valuable to me. And uh finally this congregation. We saw in this congregation a sharing attitude, the testimonies of given, like I'm standing here giving one right now. Caring for one another. And finally active participation. Not just within the church, but even within the community. These are very important things. The final thing as far as witnessing is we went to um we were invited to a dinner by Barb and Rum Mungel. And um they had dramatic impact upon both of us because we We saw this was back in last December, a real concern expressed and Christian love just outpouring upon us. First time I had experienced that. Well, the actual process by which I came to to love and know God and to accept Jesus as my personal savior and Lord. But I'm the five step process very briefly. Started with this book that Al gave me to read. Evidence that demands a verdict, Josh McDowell , works with Campus Crusade or Louise Dish. Um I first, this book showed me how infallible the Bible really is. Without actually reading too much of the Bible at that time, I I understood that Christianity is rooted in history, it's verifiable. Every piece of archaeological evidence that comes out, it's even its credibility increases ever more. Totally inconsistent with what I had thought was true. And secondly, most importantly, I came to an understanding and acceptance of Jesus for what he was. First the Messiah who fulfilled the Old Testament prophecy of him. I never really fully understood that before. Secondly, um that his resurrection was not a hoax. Um Nor were his post resurrection occurrences mere hallucinations by the disciples. I mean these are I had to put myself in the position of these men who before Jesus was resurrected didn't even expect it to occur, of course. The Bible makes that clear. surprised that this happened and were very cowardly. You know, we all know Peter's denials of Jesus. And within a matter of days they were suddenly transformed into um very daring people, willing to witness to others. And even to die for others eventually. To die for Jesus. Excuse me. These men would not die for a lie, and then don't do that. Finally, Jesus displayed all the qualities I would expect to see in God. Life, the the amazing words that he spoke, um the miracles that he performed and so forth. Well the third point was um the Schaefer, uh Francis Schaefer film series and the navigator creationism series. I attended last spring was another way by which the Holy Spirit worked within me in showing me that what I considered to be truths and science and secularism were just very relative truths, time-changing truths. The only absolute truth is what we read in the Bible. And that I lived in a personal universe. I accepted this. Uh I looked at the universe as a scientist as I am and said, well there's a great design here at work. It's not an impersonal, chaotic kind of universe. universe. And morality and civil rights only have meaning if we are truly made in the image of God. Otherwise there's no basis for this. Finally, um We were directed to reading specific books in the Bible. Uh for those of you who may not be Christians, I would recommend maybe starting with the um, at least it helped me, starting with the books of John and Romans. And I have a verse in fact from Romans which expressed expresses here. Now before I do that, first from Isaiah 29, verse 13, which is the way I saw things as a child. The Lord says, These people come near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Their worship of me is made up only of rules taught by men. This was the hypocrisy that I spoke of in the formalism in the liturgy. And in Romans speak of secular humanism that eventually came to see as it was. For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile. And the foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like mortal man, humanism, and birds and animals and reptiles. Idolaterous worship of man at the center of the universe. This is what we're living with in today's society. Well, the final point of my transformation was accepting Jesus as my personal Savior, not just as the Savior, but as my own personal Savior and Lord. Romans 3 verse 10 was the turning point. There is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away. They have together become workers. There is no one who does good, not even one, not even me. But now a righteousness from God, apart from law, has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ. To all who believe there is no difference, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. And his beautiful grace. God that I came to appreciate. It's totally undeserving on my part. Well to summarize, um I really began to love the Bible, see its unity and harmony and the meaning of what's clearly expressed in the Bible. how it revealed God's will and his nature to me. But the final obstacle was being able to establish a personal relationship to God through prayer. And that is a real obstacle for a person who's not a Christian. And um the amazing thing about that was direct answers to my prayer. Right from the beginning. I haven't I haven't seen a non-answer yet. At least not the way I expect the answers to occur. And uh very willing to share that with anybody who's interested. But let's always continue Continues from here.