After chapter one, verses eighteen to twenty-five This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because her Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you were to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet, the virgin be a benif child, and to give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no woman with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. What does Christmas mean? I find that a more and more searching question, the older I get Christmas means traditions to us festival. For me it's uh chocolate chip cookies uh maybe to you uh marks upon and other things. Uh it's those special lights, the decorative lights that you put in various places, uh featuring reds and greens, isn't it? Baptist the fragrant greens that you scatter around. Particularly that Christmas tree That you decorate just the way it's always been done in your home. The way that reminds you of the traditions of the past. And there's the music , the favorite carrots. that we so enjoy and have so many associations with. Silent night. Up come on you faithful. Joy to the world. And many others that are special and particular to us. It's the giving and the receiving of presents to us, isn't it The things that we may look forward to, the people that we're looking forward to making happy by some thoughtful thing that we've planned or made. It's the gathering together. As a family, with those that we have looked forward to, whom our eyes have ached to see And others that we may not have looked forward to and put them upon so very much, but who will get together with anyone It's all these traditions, the gathering, the eating, the giving, the receiving, the smelling, the listening, the tasting That means so much to us at Christmas. But of course, as Christians, we recognize that this ultimately is not what Christmas means. This is the decoration, the box, which contains the meaning of Christmas. As Christians, of course, we're committed to the fact that Christmas means Jesus. Christmas means Jesus, that the holy God of glory stepped into history at a point in time. And became man forever, so that he could save us. Christmas means Jesus. But this morning I'd like to ask the question: what does Jesus mean? What does Jesus mean? It's rather striking the attention that is paid to his faith in the birth narratives that we have and read at Christmas time. Do you remember when the angel came to Mary in Luke 1, verse 31, he tells Mary that you will be with child and you will give birth to a son. And you are to give him the name Jesus. In the passage that we just read, we recall how the angel came to Joseph and told Joseph that Matthew Matthew 121 that Mary will give birth to a son. And you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Then down in verse 25, Joseph had no union with her until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Three times in those narratives. Attention is most called to the fact that he should be called Jesus. And in one case a reason is given. You think of the stable that night. After all the excitement of the delivery And Joseph has satisfied himself that uh Mary is really okay and the baby's going to be okay. And uh things have settled down a little bit and perhaps Mary is there playing with Joseph and Behem. And Joseph stands over her. And at that point he looks down and he says, Mary, remember we're going to call him Jesus. That's what the angel told us, what he told you, what he told me. And at that time he used the name for the first time to call him by that name, the name that was to be above every name, the first time he was called Jesus. And perhaps a day or two later, Joseph appeared before the petty Roman official, who was taking the senses in Bethlehem. And as he appears before the official, the man abruptly calls up to another peasant, me Joseph, carpenter of Nazareth, of the house and the lineage of David. Wife? Mary. Children? Yes. A son. That was born just a couple of days ago. Jesus. And the Roman official writes down Jesus Bar Joseph. How's Joseph going to explain to him that while he is his son, he shouldn't write Jesus Bar Joseph? Of Isha would never understand it anyway. But neither would he have understood if someone had pointed to that name and said that name will be the end of the Roman Empire. That name of that Jewish peasant's son will be the name that's above every name, that Caesar Augustus himself will one day bow before. How he would have laughed as he wrote for the first time Jesus But he wouldn't have been surprised to hear the name Jesus. For Jesus was a very common name during the time of Jesus, the time that he lived. It's a very common name because you see Jesus' name wasn't really Jesus. He wouldn't have been called by those his disciples, Jesus. I think sometimes we forget The Jesus name was not really Jesus. That's a translation of his name. His name, in fact, was Joshua or Jehoshua And that was a very common name in that time among Jews. There 's no no mystery as to why it was a very common name, and namely uh children after the three prominent characters, at least two who had precisely that name in the Old Testament Of Joshua or Dehoshua, as they would have more likely pronounced it, or even Yeshua. It is a name that was so common that Josephus, in his writings, for instance, mentions at least 20 men by the name of Jesus or Jehoshua. Jehoshua, who lived sometime in those times around Jesus or before. The name Jesus or Yhoshua comes from a compound. If you see in the bulletin outline there, you'll see how it works out. If you take the name Hoshua or Hosea, Hoshua , which means salvation , And put an abbreviation of the name, the covenant name of God, God, or Jehovah, before it you come up with Yhoshua Which literally means God is salvation, or God is my salvation. So Jesus literally, Yahushua or Yeshua, means God is my salvation. Jesus then means salvation. That's why the angel said in Matthew 121 You ought to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. Call him salvation, because that's what he's come for. And at the very beginning of Jesus coming to earth, it is made at the end. Absolutely clear by the gospel record why he came. He didn't simply come to live an example for us. He didn't simply come to give us a teaching. He came to be salvation. Now a number of Jewish people will say, if Jesus were so prophesied in the Old Testament, how from his name is never mentioned in prophecy. Of the coming of Jesus in the Old Testament. That's nonsense. Jesus is mentioned again and again and again in Old Testament prophecies. For you see, his name is salvation. And every time you see about salvation coming, in the Hebrew, you're reading Tehoshua or Teshua. translated into the Greek, Jesus. Jesus. So that every time you read about salvation in the Old Testament, you can translate that Jesus. I'll give you an example. Genesis 49, In verse 18, you remember we had looked at Jacob's naming his sons and prophesying concerning the prophecy of what will happen to his sons, their future? And between two of these prophecies concerning Dan and Deb, he inserts a simple statement. In Genesis 49, 18, Jacob says, I look for your deliverance, your salvation, O Lord. I look for your Yeshua. I look for your Jesus. You see, the salvation is in the Hebrew mind not simply a concept, it's a person. As will be made clear as the prophets unfold this. Salvation is a person, and it's a person that Jacob looked for If you think there's any doubt about that, take a look at Isaiah 62 and verse 11, where Isaiah makes it absolutely clear that salvation is a person. In Isaiah 62, 11, Isaiah says, The Lord has made proclamations To the ends of the earth, say to the daughter of Zion. See, your salvation literally comes. Your salvation comes. See His reward is with him. And his recompense accompanies him. Now the NID, recognizing so clearly that this is a person, translates it Savior. Literally in the Hebrew it is the word salvation. But the word salvation is Veshua , Jehoshua, Jesus. See, say to the daughter of Zion, you are Jesus. Jesus comes, if you were to translate it into Greek. Your Jesus comes, and his reward is with him. Who could say that Jesus doesn't appear in the Old Testament? Every time you see salvation, it's Jesus. And Isaiah says salvation is a person. That's why Simeon, you remember, after Jesus was born. In Luke chapter 2, when they took him up to the temple to be circumcised Simeon took this little baby, Jesus, in his arms. And in Luke 2, verse 29 and 30, Simeon says, Sovereign Lord, as you have promised all the prophets of the past, you now dismiss your servant in peace from the world. My eyes have seen your what? Your salvation. My eyes have seen your Yeshua. My eyes have seen your Jesus. What's he holding in his arms? He's holding salvation. He's holding Jesus, who is salvation. For the angel said, you shall call his name Jesus Yeshua, because you'll save his people. From their sins. Perhaps that night in the stable, as Joseph and Mary looked upon the little baby hair laying in the hang, they thought of those three prominent characters in the Old Testament who had born that same name. Probably they wouldn't have put together that those three characters were in fact pictures or types of how Jesus would save his people from their sins. But as we reflect back on it now, we as Christians can see how God was planning that all through those hundreds and thousands of years to give us a picture. of Jesus as salvation. And those three characters are Joshua, who brought the people into the land Hosea the prophet and Joshua the priest. Let's briefly consider how they are pictures of Jesus. First of all, consider Joshua. Joshua as the king deliverer of his people. Paul his name Jesus. Why? Because he'll save his people from their sin. How is he going to save his people from their sin? As a king to conquer. Think of Joshua. That's what the angels saying. Think of Joshua. But Joshua's original name, we learn from Numbers chapter 13, was Hosea. And in Numbers 13, 16, we read, these are the names of the men Moses sent to explore the land. Moses gave Horshea Salvation, the Son of Man, in a Joshua. Or they would have pronounced it Yesheim. uh Yeshua would have been more um more precisely how the Hebrew would have gone. Or But because as Joshua went into the land, and as he in the power of the Lord cut down the Lord's enemies, the enemies of God's people, and he conquers the land, brings them into the kingdom, the people come and they say to Israel, Who's your commander? And what's the answer? The Lord is our salvation. That's Joshua's name. That's what it means. And so in the Hebrew, when a person said, Who cares your army? The answer would be, the Lord's our salvation. Joshua is his instrument. But our conquering King is the Lord. He's the one who's going to bring us into the land. He's the one who's going to bring us into this lavish kingdom that He's prepared for us by defeating the enemies who hold us out. Of course we see that this is just but a dim picture of what Jesus did. Jesus who came as the king to conquer the enemy, Satan, who would keep us from God's kingdom, the enemy under whose bondage we live. The enemy who held us captive to our sin, who held us captive to our lusts and our desires and those things which held us embodied so we go free to live in the way we wanted. We were held captive by Satan and Jehoshua, our king deliverer, Jesus, came He came as the true Joshua. He came to deliver us, to defeat the enemy, and to give us eternal life in his kingdom. But all the in pieces. Because he'll save his people from their sin. How? As the conquering king, that's how Secondly, we see he comes as Hosea, the prophet deliverer. We shall call his name Jesus, the angel said, because we 'll save his people from their sin in the way that Hosea pictured. The call of a prophet, remember, is to reveal God and his will for his people. A prophet is not primarily called to forecast the future. Some people, I think, look at prophets as kind of spiritual weathermen. They're there to make a prediction about how things are going to turn out. But the essential calling of a prophet was not to forecast the future. It was to reveal God and his will, and that involved in many cases, telling what he would do But in Hosea's case, it is not simply to tell what God's going to do, but God gives him the name Hosea, which means salvation. which is closely related to Yeshua, Jesus, he gives him that name because Hosea is going to be given a unique part Remember, Hosea, of all the prophets, was given a calling to revere God not simply by his message, but by his life. And in particular, his marriage relationship. Every Jew knew that God described himself as married to Israel The God of the Lord Jehovah was the husband of Israel, who is his wife. And Hosea comes, and you notice if you read the book of Hosea, how many times his name is repeated in those first chapters. I call Hosea. Hosea go takeaway. Hosea takeaway. And in every case you see you're reading a word closely related to Jesus. Jesus. Jesus. What is the picture of that marriage? It's a picture of utter faithlessness. You live in a time in which faithlessness seems again. to be going toward an all-time low. Faithlessness is characterized much more than faithfulness. My wife said that just as she was at a store this week, she heard two older women talking together. And one woman said, Are you still with your husband? And the woman said, Yeah, I'm still with him. Are you still with your husband? Said, yeah, I'm still with my husband too. And the birth woman said, you know, we're the only two that know that we are. We must be doing something wrong. But there's such a view, you see, of we're so unique. Because everybody's leaving their husband. Every husband's leaving his wife We must be missing out on something. Of course, they were kidding each other, but that's the sign of our times. To be faithful is to miss out when fulfilling yourself. And resolved life was a product of her times. And she felt filled with every wild excess and lustful desire that she could possibly have. She left Hosea, and she left the kids, and she took up those lovers, and she abandoned herself, and Hosea was known as the prophet who's the husband of a slut. She was a woman not worth mentioning in good company. People looked the other way when they spoke of Hosea and his wife. They didn't want to mention it in good company. Poor Hosea. Look what he wound up with. God says, I want you, Hosea, to be a picture of how I'm going to save my people from their sins. I want you to be a picture of Jesus. And so God calls Hosea to love his wife, to lure her, to win her back. And as he brings her back to himself, he calls her to him, and he woos her and he wins her. And she takes back he takes back her impurity, and he takes her as if she's a virgin, as if she had never done those things, and he renews the covenant with her. And Hosea loves his wife. He loves her with a supernatural love. He loves her who doesn't deserve his love, but he loves her unceasingly. God says, I want you to look at Isaiah. I want you to look at salvation Because that's the picture of my Jesus. And the angel says, you've got to call his name Jesus. Because he's going to be the true Hosea. He's going to be the Hosea who will marry my people as a chaste virgin, and who will present them spotless and faultless before my throne. He will have an arrayed about his banqueting table, and his banner over them will be lost. That's my salvation. That's how Jesus will save us from the sins. But in order to understand how he does that, you need to come to the third picture. The third Joshua. of the Old Testament. The Joshua that we read in the book of Zechariah. Joshua the priest deliverer. In the book of Zechariah, Zechariah chapter 3, the whole chapter is a picture of this priest by the name of Joshua. Zechariah 3 begins, then he showed me Joshua Remember, if he translated that into the Greek, it would be, and then he showed me Jesus, the high priest Standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the picture goes on to present this prophet, a prophet who had come after the exile To the people of God. A prophet who is dressed, as we see here, in filthy garments. Filthy, smelling, stinky, rotten garments. God tells us in verse 4 there that those stinking filthy garments represent sin And that Joshua, the priest here, represents the people of Israel. And we see in this picture that God here judges this sin and takes it away. And he is given clean garments, a change of raiment, because this priest, in representing the people of God himself , Is changed from one who bears sin to one who represents righteousness And we're reminded that Jesus, the great high priest, came and Isaiah 53 tells us that when he came into the temple, all we my sheep had gone astray. And turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord laid on him this high priest, no other sacrifice. This priest goes in empty-handed. This priest bears well in the holy place. And God says to him, Where is your sacrifice? He says, Father, I am the sacrifice. And God laid on him the iniquity of us all. You 'll call his name Jesus. Why? Because he'll save his people from their sins. How? He's going to take them on himself, that's how. Jesus is going to wear those filthy garments that represent your sin and my sin. And Jesus is going to go into the holy place empty-handed, presenting only Himself as the sacrifice. And God will curse him. And God will shed his blood. And this Joshua will be laid and stripped and cursed. He'll be nailed to a cross. So that you and I could be saved. Call him Jesus. Because I've set him to earth. Not simply to teach, not simply to direct. But to save his people from their sins. Jesus You're my priest, deliverer, because you bore my sin. Jesus, you're my prophet, deliverer, because you've shown me God's love. Jesus, you're my king deliver, for you've conquered the enemy. Do you want to know the real meaning of Christmas? Think on what it means to have Jesus as your sacrifice, the priest who sacrificed himself. Think of Jesus as your prophet that shows you God's love for you and all of your unfaithfulness to him. The ceaseless, unchanging love that he has for you in Jesus Christ. You want to know the meeting of priest Christmas? You think on Jesus as the King, who came to conquer his kingdom, to win his people by the ransom of himself, so that we would be in his kingdom forever and ever. Can you say those things? Can you call him your Savior this morning? If not Christmas will be simply an empty shell to you. It will be as old as the tinsel that two weeks from now will be thrown out into the trash. And just as meaningless. But if you can say that this morning, then praise him. Praise him as your priest deliverer, as your prophet deliverer. As your kingdom and come to Jesus simply today to praise him. I don't call on you to do anything else this morning, but just to come to him, to adore him, to praise him. Praise him as your Jesus, as your salvation, as your prophet, your priest, as your king. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, help us now to simply lift up our eyes to behold you. Take away everything else, Lord Jesus. Take away everything that we might just see you. That it might see you that baby that was born in that stable as the one who came Jehoshua, Jesus for us. So if you would save us from our sin, oh Lord, deliver us from thinking we had a right to be saved for that sin, and this was simply what you did to do what you had to do. Lord, we confessed you didn't have to do anything. It was only out of your mercy. Only out of that love. The love after the pattern of Hosea. That you came and sought us. Sought us in our unfaithfulness Oh Lord, how we praise you that you, Lord Jesus, came to show us that love and to gain us for yourself. By your sacrifice. Help us to see that when we think of why you were called Jesus To never separate you from your name. And to know why your name is so wonderful to us. Because your name is the essence of your character to us. God. My salvation. Speak to us now, Lord. In the quiet of our hearts. As we contemplate what it means to call you our salvation. Lord, help us to see you. Whatever problems we have, whatever overwhelming circumstances seem to press upon us, your love will never fail us. As King, you have conquered even the great enemy death, and nothing can defeat us. For you have conquered him in the shedding of your own blood For you are Joshua the priest who leaves yourself for us. And so we bow before that name which is above every name. And we say, Praise Jesus. Praise Jesus. Praise Jesus. Amen. Let's sing together this morning in a hidden.