Was IMAS? I mean, good morning. Translations of the Bible being being read, and I thought Columbia Presbyterian church has become very koksaiteki, very international. You sent us to Japan uh twenty years ago. I was an intern here. We looked like this twenty years ago. I had hair, you know. And uh we only had uh five children uh twenty years ago. We have nine now and we've been now we look like this. We've been uh doing weddings. We had four in the last uh two years. We've had we had two in two weeks. Don't try that. God has really worked in the lives of the children. Our biggest fear of going to Japan And our the reason our heels were dug in were our children. God wouldn't want us to go all the way to the other side of the world. We had a good dose of family idolatry, our testimony Twenty years later is that it has been such a blessing to us and to our children. You know, the best thing is to be where God wants you to be, whether it's Columbia or Japan. or some friends went to Iraq on a mission trip from my brother's home church. Iraq. Northern Iraq, where the Kurds are. And the safest place, the best place is where God wants you to be. Over these years, I just want to show a couple pictures just to say thanks to God and to you all. You sent us to this hard place, Japan. The Tokyo area, thirty-four million people if you can imagine a city, a metropolitan area that with a population the size of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, that's thirty-four million People we were there four years before the first lady, uh Mrs. Takimura came to Christ. First it was so slow, so hard. You continued to pray for us. The first worship was started. Then the second, then a third, new church plants began to be planted. A presbytery was born, you can see, about 13 Uh we have 13 locations now that God is at work, some started by missionaries on our team, some by uh Japanese pastors. We all work together. We see God raising up many new Japanese partners, those early lean years. Of course it's still hard now. Many, many problems. All the time. But God is at work. He's answering your prayers. Thank you for sending us. Thank you for continuing to be a part of this. He's given us Great new tools recently. You've been a part of uh for Japan a huge piece of land, uh one acre of land. Our first piece was one twelfth of an acre, cost a million dollars, you know. fifteen years ago. He gave us this great piece of land, you helped us buy that, a new building. Now a second building uh is going up. More and more worshippers, this new building is going up for a Christian education building that doesn't belong to O Yumino Church. It's a base. For Christian education for the whole Presbytery, one of our great needs. It's just really exciting to see what God has done. Thank you for sending us and praying for us. and standing behind us these 20 years. I think we know what we're going to do when we grow up now. We're up on six or seven cylinders out of eight now. uh by God's grace. Uh please continue to send teams and to be a part of what God is doing. This passage, Psalm 67, uh look at the Tokyo area again. Why did you send us to Japan? Because in this massive city, God is not worshipped by so few people, know him. Fear him, worship him , like this passage we read, Psalm 67. Please look in your Bibles at Psalm 67. False worship is everywhere. Is there a slide there? Don't get hung up on the slides. Uh I've changed some things. I I didn't know y'all did this. Uh he can follow along as best as possible. But I want to Look at this psalm. Verse 1, I'm looking at the New American Standard. God be gracious to us and bless us. Why has God blessed us? What does verse 2 say? What's the connection between verse 1 and verse 2? Why has God blessed us that his ways may be known on earth by salvation among all nations? I want to think about that today. Blessed In order to what? To be a blessing. I'm going to contend that there's not, there are few places on the face of this earth more blessed. uh than than we are here today in many ways. Gospel rich our families. Uh depth of Theology and the material blessings for sure. Not a place on the earth that has more. Verse 6 talks about that. There's a a man named Brian I'm going to tell you about. I'll call him Brian. I was at their church for a missions conference. They put me at his house for the five days, almost a week And every night as Brian uh heard the messages and his wife that John Piper was preaching about the nations. all peoples. And God challenged his Christian life and his wife's Christian life. He had become a very wealthy man. He, as an investment banker, had made a deal the year before, $4. 9 billion. Now, some of you that may have meaning to you. It has no meaning to me. 4. 9 billion dollars billion dollars. Of course he got there's a decimal point and maybe some zeros, however many zeros there were. He got a whole bunch. He was thirty four years old and it looked like he had done that. His house His house was the biggest house I've ever stayed in. I've stayed in a lot of very nice big houses. I I was convinced there must be unreached people groups in that house somewhere, you know. It was it was huge And as we stayed up at night talking and the Holy Spirit worked in Brian, Brian's life and his wife's life, they they realized that, you know, in business nowadays we talk a lot about alignment, that the purposes uh that the policies and the budget and the the the personnel decisions of a company need to be aligned with its ultimate purpose. What? This he was a a Christian. But their wealth and all that they had been blessed with had become had come to be the center of their lives. It affected their marriage negatively. It affected their the raising of their children negatively. And that week was a change as we stayed up late at night. And the last night as John Piper preached a powerful message. uh actually from Psalm 67. Uh and and they were whispering at each to each other during the message. We didn't know what they were doing. And they they made me move out of the way and they walked forward At the end of that message with scores of other people to say, we want, having been blessed so much in this gospel and in many other ways, we commit ourselves tonight. to align ourselves with God's purposes, blessed to be a blessing to the nations. They said we're willing to go, to quit our Wall Street investment company and go. That night after we got back, they came up to me and said, Dan, this week has been great. We've talked about marriage, about family devotions, about walk with Christ. This has affected our life greatly. How we're going to raise our kids and our money. God's given us so much we want to help. We want to give to you guys in Japan. We decided we'd we'd like to give uh $4 ,000 to help with your work in Japan. And they said, would that be okay? And I said, Yeah, that'll that'll be fine. And and they began began a partnership with us over the next several years. They they came to Japan last year. Actually, he quit his company and he went to seminary, this investment banker. Nothing is off the table. And I'll tell you later, he's ended up going back to his company, because uh but the point is he was willing to say because of the gospel, Lord, here's my life. Here's my family. Here's the resources you've given me. Again, verse one, God be gracious to us, bless us, cause his face to shine upon us, that thy way may be known. upon the earth. He began to be a person with alignment, with his with his life matching up to what uh God God's word says as a response to the blessing. uh that we have in Christ. This whole passage, Psalm 67, blessed to be a blessing to all peoples, that they would worship, that they would be glad in him. we see in the middle of the psalm. Even our produce. If you look at verse 6, it talks very specifically about the increase of our wealth. The New American Standard Version talks about our produce, what we produce It's connected to the nations. Again, blessed that the nations would know him, worship him. It's not just thrown in that verse 6. Some Yeah, I noticed coming back to America. Every time I come back, new words are being used. You know, granola, people are granola. I heard that this time. Another word, random. You know, all the young people are talking about randomness and random that, you know. And uh they didn't used to use the word that way. This verse 6 is not random. It's inspired by the Holy Spirit. The increase that God has given us, why? Blessed to be a blessing to the nations that they would worship. We like to pray verse one about, bless me, Lord. Verse 2, that thy way may be known upon the earth. So we'll look at here the blessing, all peoples, all nations, the theme of worship, true gladness. This passage talks about And and concretely, our purpose of all of this stuff that God has given us, the produce, no country in the history of the world, or of the 200 plus countries in the world today, has produced what this country does It's why? It's to be a part of what God's doing in the world. John Piper said in light of the truth of missions And the need of the nations, of taking the gospel of the nations in the Bible, there are only three options. Go, send, or disobey. We wanna want you to think today. This isn't new for many of you. For some of you it's new, this idea. But to think about being a radical Goer, radical sender of your children, maybe of yourself, maybe some will be like my friend Brian, who actually quit his job as a extremely successful y young businessman to say, Lord, I'm willing to go. To Japan, to China, took his family, four kids, to Brought him to Japan, brought him, took him onto China to say, Lord, we're willing to go. He ended up back on Wall Street. Because God isn't calling everyone to do that. But He's calling you and me today, as we look at this passage, to say, Lord, in response to the blessings of the gospel that you've given me. What is my response to you? It's all on the table, Lord Jesus. First, blessed. We see that starts out verse one. God bless us. Be gracious to us. Shine upon us. Verse 7 talks again about this. It's okay to pray that way. Lord bless us as long as our Our purposes are are aligned. There's alignment with God in his purposes. But we have to start thinking of the blessings we have in Christ. When I read this passage, I can't help but think of Genesis 12. 2 through 3, we see a very similar pattern. God is promising Abraham, Abraham, I'm going to bless you. How will he bless Abraham? Through Abraham's seed, the Messiah is going to come Abraham, I'm going to bless you. God repeats that promise again to Abraham three times. He repeats it to Isaac. He repeats it to Jacob. He says, I'm going to bless you, Abraham. And then for the next point in the message, Through your seed, all the peoples of the earth, all the families of the earth, uses different words, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Blessed to be a blessing. But as we read Psalm 67, we you know it talks about salvation, it talks about God's graciousness to us. But we can't help but look at the whole Bible and remember that the great blessing Is that Genesis 12, Genesis 22, when this promise is repeated, Abraham threw your seed. All the peoples of the earth will be blessed. And that, of course, that central blessing is in the Messiah. And we think as we think of this passage today, and as we think about the mission's implications, and My giving, my going, the way I raise my children, my own, having my resources, my gifts, my time aligned with God's purposes We can't just work that up on our own. We've got to begin. We have been blessed in this gospel, in this Messiah that Abraham, that God told Abraham about. Let me today, your missionary in Japan for 20 years, stand as a sinner, deep sinner, in need of this grace. Tim introduced me and said some nice things and uh uh Uh talk talking about your new staff person who has come. But you know, I think about when I was on staff year, what a sinner I was, how much of that Zeal, apparent zeal. I'd been a Marine before I came here. I was a hard charging Marine Captain. You know, a whole bunch of it. It wasn't gospel-motivated zeal. It was personality and it was Marine Corps training and this, that, and the other. And guess what? I've graduated from that. There's no more of that in me at all. Anybody believe that? Twenty years later in Japan, I see those same tendencies coming out. The gospel That I preach in Japan, this gospel of Jesus, who died on the cross for my sins and was raised again on the third day, who lives as my great high priest today and intercedes for this 54-year-old missionary in Japan, who, if you know some of the idols of my heart and the sins that I even run back to today , You wouldn't want to be a part of our work in Japan, except that you're the same too, aren't you? And you today run back to those idols by God's grace, maybe not as much as we used to, as he works in our life. But how much today we need that same this blessing of the gospel. Lord, shine the light of your gospel on us. You forgive our sins again today. We repent again and again today. Even as we hear this message, we think of Things we've repented of before, but our lives aren't aligned with God's purposes. Our children, our resources, our time. Being willing to say, Lord, here I am, fifty or or sixty or seventy. We had an eighty-six-year-old woman come join our team for three months last year in Japan. Yeah, how about that? Eighty-six years old. She said at a missions conference two years ago, Lord, I'm willing to go. She was eighty-four then. She came this past year at eighty-six years old. We lay these on the table as a response to his grace. But so often we don't. We come in worship today and say again, Jesus, this gospel is what I need, your forgiveness. My son Danny works with my father in inner city Newark, New Jersey, with poor people in a destitute part of Newark. He told me not too long ago on the phone about a uh uh a young man they were helping, homeless, been in drugs, terrible, no job, they gave him money, they let him live with him some They they poured out their hearts to this young man and he stole from them. And they caught him And Danny was so angry, righteous anger to be sure, that this young man who they poured out their love and care for had stolen from them And he said, and Dad, you know what I realized as I was as I was yelling at him? That that's me, to God. That God has poured out these blessings on me. He's forgiven my sins. He's called me a son when I don't deserve to be a son. He's given me eternal life. He intercedes for me For me today is my great high priest, and I run back to those sins again and I steal from him again. And I'm on the phone nodding my head. Me too. You too? That our our hope is in Christ. We are blessed in him. Psalm 67, even the word blessing points to the whole Bible, the message of redemption. Second word in here quickly is peoples. Verse 2, all nations. It's not talking about USA, England. It's talking about people groups. In Japanese, when I read it, kuniguni means uh uh minzoku. What does it mean in English? You don't know Minzoku. It means people group is what it means. And there there are thousands of them in the world, different language groups, that all nations, all people groups That that's this a central message of the Bible. Verse 3. Let the peoples praise thee, O God. Let all the peoples. I used to be a missing ass Christian, I say. I went to seminary. Uh, from your mother church in Burton'sville, committed Christian, reformed, taught our children catechism, and I had missed this message of the Bible, central message of the Bible that this redemption is for all peoples of the world. God worked in our heart at seminary uh God showed us. This isn't peripheral. This is central to the message of the Bible as as a mission as a speaker, right? The first several weeks of seminary from Genesis and the the prophets and the psalms all through the Bible. He showed that this is central, ending with Revelation at the end of three days. Every tongue, every tribe, let the peoples praise you, O God. I read my quiet time this morning in Psalms, talked about Rahab. You know what country that is? That's Egypt. And it talks about Tyr in the news this past week in Lebanon. That even the people of Tyr We'll worship the true and living God someday. Talks about the islands of the sea. Think of my country, Japan. Talks about the north, the south, and the east and the west. At the end of this conference, my wife and I, Carol and I looked at each other and said, what? How did we miss this? Well, we were in company with lots of people throughout the ages. We are so prone to see what's in front of us Even though from Genesis to Revelation we see this theme of every tongue, every tribe, all nations. The Old Testament Jews missed it, even though all through the Bible there's all of this about the nations The Kuniguni, the Minzoku, all of these people groups of the world. The Jews thought it was only about them. That's our tendency. It's about me. Didn't you know? That's the way we are. The disciples of Jesus missed it, though he talked about it so much. All nations, many will come from the east as well as the west, and will feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. The disciples missed it. We read the book of Acts God had to hit them over the head to help to get through their self-centered, my own culture-centered mentality that it's all about me, it's all about us. To see that it's about the Gentiles too. The new Israel becoming worshipers. The Reformers, we're reformed. I'm a Calvinist. They largely missed it. Now in their defense, they're caught up with lots of Sola scriptura with justification by faith, lots of important things, but you read through even our confession and you read through So much of the literature of that great time when we rediscovered so many of the truths of God's Word, there's very little about the Gentiles, the nations. That this is this message of the gospel that be that became, that was re-recovered and taught so clearly that is for all the people groups of the world. Until William Carey in 1792, a Reformed Baptist, said, We're missing this. The message of the Bible. We're supposed to use all the means at our disposal to go. And to take this message to India and China and all these other countries of the world as only just a couple hundred years ago, this rediscovery of this of this truth in a fresh new way where it became the passion of the church. as a response to Christ's love for us, that we're blessed in order to take this message to all nations. And why do we take it to all nations? We see in this passage very clearly. Worship. The goal of worship, the goal of missions is worship. It's the longing of the psalmist here. You know, he you just hear him crying out. Let the peoples praise you. Oh God. It's like in my country. It doesn't grip my heart enough. I've told you before, but there's there's uh temples everywhere There's shrines everywhere we hear the drum in the morning a hundred yards from our house as they try to wake up the gods at six AM and it does it d it you know, I used to go up to that shrine every night. And pray, Lord, I long for you to be worship here in our city, not this false worship that's all around us. And uh, you know, we get used to it. I get I've gotten used to it in Japan, the false worship everywhere, but the longing Of those who know the blessing of God and that know the centrality of God is that he would be worshipped, that the priest, the peoples of the world would know him. Fear him. Worship him. We long for this. I know when we have lots of short-term teams come. I know thank you for sending team this past year. The basketball upward ministry just got back uh yesterday I understand. Uh but often teams come and people, you know, America there is so much gospel. And I don't just mean because everywhere I go I see little fish on the cars and Christian radio everywhere. There you you know, you see the weaknesses, the shallowness. But you come to a country like mine, where my son was in Sri Lanka before that in Morocco. Nothing happened You know. Virtually nothing. And you see how there there's a longing that they would worship. Your teams, many of the team, I think the team that came last year they got to go to uh some of the big temples in Tokyo and you see the people bringing their children and just the way we bring our children and talk about communion and and want them to know Christ and and and you see these people offering their children to the gods, offering incense and money to idols, and your heart hurts. You say with this psalmist, oh Lord, Yes, so that they go to heaven. Yes, so there's eternal life. But this this Old Testament motive of missions, that the nations would worship the true and living God. We long for that to happen. But not just that, we long for them to worship. But a fourth point here that we see in verse 4, we long for the nations to be glad. Let the nations be glad. Let them sing for joy Title of John Piper's book about missions. Let the nations be glad, right from this verse, verse 4. True gladness. True joy. Now this, you know, I don't know what a uh someone found this to put up here. This maybe we should take that off. That's not in the you know s are they real smiles? I don't know. They're supposed to be smiles of lots of people groups. But look past the smiles to what the message of the Bible is and a call for the nations to true gladness Deep joy, true joy in knowing, worshiping, praising, fearing this true and living God, that that is why God made us. And that's where true gladness comes from. Yes, incomplete gladness until heaven, but real gladness, different gladness. The song will sing after worship, from the mountains to the valleys, that God would be praised, that there would be dancing. It's an expression of joy in knowing him. And in our Japanese version of that song, it's more direct to this point. It says Anata no sambi de mitasareu. Literally, that means that in praising you, we would be filled and satisfied. It's true. That's biblical. We saw our catechism question we we started with today. What's our the chief end of man? It's to glorify God and to enjoy him. forever to be glad in him. True gladness. We can have confidence in this as we share the gospel in Colombia or in Japan or in Morocco or Sri Lanka that true gladness. is in him. All the rest is fake. True, deep joy is in him. This is good for the nations to take the gospel to them. You know, we're in the most, one of the we're the highest per capita income in the world. You know, Japan, I think my country where you sent us Japan is proof that there is not gladness, true gladness in all these other things. Let me tell you about my country. Longest life expectancy in the world way longer than America. Oh, they should have gladness, right? Japan has everything its name. You know, the gadgets The the uh more than America even. The there's safety. W Japan is a much safer country than America. Car accidents, factory accidents, crime, everything. There's safety, there's lower unemployment, there's little poverty. You hardly ever see a a poor person. Hundred percent literacy. Oh, they must be happier. They must have gladness. Everything works. You know, I come back to America, the telephone, pay telephone doesn't work, the You know, you know, you go to third world countries, you think America, everything works. I come back to America and I think I came back to a third world country. Now I'm I'm uh uh overstating it. But it's true. Every I in twenty years I've never had something not work in Japan. You know, the the machine, the uh drink machine, the the telephone, the the the tolls are high tech even more much more so. than here. Oh Japan must be happy. Oh they're so blessed. And why were there thirty-two thousand suicides last year? Their suicide rate way higher per 10,000 than America. Why? Poor countries like the Philippines where people have nothing. They say, why would those Japanese people do that? Those men would jump off of buildings together in a suicide pact Because they lost their job or their company was struggling? All these children refusing to go to school or even come out of their rooms, keep staying in their rooms with the darkness. The Gallup poll last year said that eleven found that eleven percent of Japanese people wish they were never born. Eighty percent plus have no idea of their purpose in life. Another survey found that Japan, with all of this supposed blessing has the highest percent of sexless marriages in the world, not because of age, but or physical, but because of emotional uh dysfunction and all the problems in marriage. Forty-two percent, one study found. Is Japan blessed? Are they? Not at all. My identity, a country that has no gospel, that has no understanding of grace, my identity is in what I produce. It's in my job, so you have all these suicide packs now over the internet, people meeting at a train station, going out committing suicide together even? A Japanese missionary that uh we've supported some to Ethiopia came back and spoke at our church this past year and he he's with food for the hungry. He's showing pictures of destitute people. It is so sad And he said this though was very interesting. But you know, after being in Ethiopia five years, I come back to Japan. I think Japan is worse off. There may be bread and rice and sushi, but there's no living bread. Ethiopia is better off. I think maybe I need to stay in Japan. This is very instructive for our mercy ministry, which we need to do in the name of Christ. But what do the poor need the most around the world? Or in Baltimore or Columbia or wherever we are? What do the poor need the most? We should help them be like Japan, right? And everything works, help their economy to get better, and then they will have true gladness, right? It doesn't work that way. My country's proof. They've done all those things right. They copied us after World War II. Brought in zero defect. The personality of the country fitted to produce things that are perfect. They've succeeded, supposedly, and they're miserable. What do the poor need? They need true bread. They need the gospel. That's how we are glad. Like verse talks about it. We're glad in Christ. The rich need the gospel. The Japanese need the gospel. Howard County needs the gospel. Poor Americans, poor Filipinos need the gospel. Gospel preaching is their greatest need of anywhere. Anyone Anywhere as we give a cold cup of water and feed and and help my son spend a year in Sri Lanka after the tsunami. And he saw us, you know, he said, some ways these people are happier than than growing up in Japan And their families have more love and joy than what he saw often in Japan. Yes, man's chief end is to know him, to glorify him, and to enjoy him forever. I want to ask you, I tell you about my friend that put together the $4. 9 billion deal, had the house that was big enough to have unreached people groups in it. You know, he had a lot of stuff. And then he sold that house and went to seminary. Okay, do you th do you think my friend we'll call him Brian again? Before or after it was the happiest, had the most gladness. Friends, there's no comparison. This man had everything So called you know in the way that we think about America and the commercials and he had everything. The difference in his marriage The difference in their family as got the as our kids grew up and we we've known them now for a number of years is begin to see as as Christ became central, as he came to see that he was a deep sinner who needed to to daily know this gospel and repent. As he saw that his life was not aligned with God's purposes. And he said, Lord, I'm willing Left his wall his Wall Street firm, went to seminary. The difference is I visited in their home. And as they came to visit us in Japan and brought the four kids. was incredible. True gladness doesn't come from that stuff. You need to remember that today and I need to remember that today. Aren't we prone to seek gladness in other things? What idols does your heart generate? Maybe not just the stuff, but maybe the stuff. Does it? It's a battle for me. And even those blatant sins we go back to and we say, Lord Jesus, I want to be glad in you. You are true bread. You are true wine. And concretely, last point here, from verse 6 and 7 especially, I want to apply it concretely. Blessed to be a blessing, blessing to the nations. Through our produce. Now this is maybe one of the most specific places in scripture. Verse 6, I alluded to it earlier, talks about our produce. Talks about the the ESV calls it the increase that God gives it. It's talking about the stuff. Okay, I want someone to call out a country that has more stuff than America, that has had more increased GNP. You guys, you think gasoline's expensive? Come to my country. Whether it's cars, money, the size of houses the in the the the the wealth that that this country and this part of the country Howard County has. It's incredible. This is one of the reasons to go on mission trips to help perspective. of what we have. We get used to it. Our kids get used to it. They think this is the way the whole world lives. We see from verse 6 this connection, and it's not random. It's from the Holy Spirit. The earth has yielded its produce. God blesses us. NASB makes it very clear. that the ends of the earth would fear him. Even though NIV and ESV doesn't, it makes the connection with a that in verse 1 and 2. Blessed that the ends of the earth would fear him. Here it talks about the produce. I ask you, why is verse 6 here? It's not random. It's connected, our stuff, the wealth that we have, it's connected to the nations that they would worship That they would be glad in him that my produce. Yes, you know, we in the Reformed tradition recovered an important point that to go out tomorrow and work is good. You know, several of my children are in ministry. My third son, Joel, is a businessman in Atlanta. And yes. What and you know he always jokes, yeah, the other kids they're doing real stuff, they're doing ministry. We say, no, what Joel as an entrepreneur in Atlanta serving Christ in his business is what God has called him to do. And he's is part of the cultural mandate. But it doesn't stop there Verse 6 and 7. All of those blessings, and as we produce more crops, and as we build better machines, and as there's economic progress, it's connected to verse 7. that the ends of the earth would fear him, know him, worship him. Back to the Brian story, my friend. He came to Japan last year. And he been God's been working in his heart. He finished one year of seminary. He's the only seminary student I know who made $400 an hour as a consultant to CEOs. Uh did you know any seminary students like that, Tim? He came to Japan, brought his four children. They saw this building we showed you earlier, going, you know, we're making plans for that. How are we ever gonna raise them? I said, Dan, you're too busy. My wife and I talked last night. We decided that we will go raise, we want to raise $150,000 for this building. We will do that. Would would that be okay? I said Yeah, that would be okay. This man gave seventy thousand of it, a seminary student, for that building. That uh What happened to him? His whole mindset and heart changed. He shared at our church with a b with businessmen. about how his whole life had changed. And it has even now he has because he has so much wealth, he has an accountability partner that he will not increase their level of living. Unless this accountability partner agrees that they need to. Because if he makes more, they're going to give it away. God doesn't call everyone, he calls us to biblically tithe and give. But that's a challenge to us to think as the country in the world that has more than any country in the in the history of the world and as a part of that country that has so much to say, Lord Today in worship, as we worship you, in every worship, is a time to repent again and say, Lord Jesus, these blessings I've received in the gospel, what is my response to you today? And sure, we have to say, what about our kids? Don't have time to make application to the way we raise our kids or the way we uh uh our prayer life or being willing to go ourselves, but all the blessings that God has given that we say, Lord, here I am. Send me, send my children, send, take my wealth, take my prayers, and use my stuff blessed to be a blessing. to the nations. Let's pray. Lord, thank you that we are so blessed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Forgive our sins. Forgive my sins. Lord, I testify today that I'm a missionary Who is caught up in what I'm doing? I'm a missionary who needs to be missional. I get caught up in what's in front of me in Shiba, Japan. You know , you mean our problems, our struggles. Lord I forget about all those people groups that don't yet have one worshiper, that don't have the gospel yet. Forgive me. Forgive us. Lord, with my wealth. My children, our wealth, our children, our time, a fresh today. And you call us all to different things. We're all in different stages in our growth and our station in life. Little children just barely hanging on, raising kids or whatever. But Lord, today again we say, would you speak to us? As a response to your gospel, we offer to you Yes, thy kingdom come among all peoples, all nations. May the peoples praise you, O God. May all the peoples praise you. May the nations be glad in true gladness. Lord, may Columbia be glad in true gladness. Lord, help us To be glad with that true gladness that only comes from knowing you. And we look forward to heaven when we will worship. With your elect from every tongue and tribe, from Japan and Sri Lanka and Morocco and China. And Lord, we look forward to that perfect gladness someday in heaven. Help us this week as we think about these things. Help husbands and wives as they think about raising children. giving of the increase in produce that you've given. Our time, Lord, how time for prayer. Time for this course we're going to hear about in a minute. As we think about the Muslim world and all that's been on the TV this week, and we think, Lord, more missiles, more Marines, more soldiers, we know what is needed is the gospel. to penetrate the Muslim world. And we beg you to do that, Lord Jesus. That's what this world needs. Would you do that, O Lord, please? Thank you for this time today. Thank you for your word. Thank you that we have been blessed so to be a blessing to Colombia and through Colombia to the nations. In Jesus name, Amen.