There for those three weeks in Ireland, a a precious privilege, a wonderful time seeing God's creation in very dramatic displays of his glory and power Understanding something of Irish and Celtic history, the uniqueness of Christianity there and the civilization, the church that's there, the wonderful people, the friendly and warm people Children's Church? Yeah, see last time I didn't say it and uh this time I I mean I did and then Okay. There is Children's Church this service, so kids take off And the children are coming back during first roof. So if you're a parent, you might look for it during first root. During the offering time, coming back. Okay? Nobody's leaving. Either they all left or nobody wants to go. What is going Everybody left. Okay. They left anyway. They know better. Okay. Well, good. Thank you. Thank you. Um but you know, uh as we were there, um As wonderful as the people were, uh still I can honestly say that it greatly caused us to appreciate Columbia Presbyterian and be glad that we're back home here Um you know, is is like the time when we were in Korea earlier this year, we see some of the issues In the churches and other parts of the world, and uh as much as God is doing, um, we are really blessed in where God has us as a church. And some of the struggles that they go through. And um so I just I want to say it's really good to be home. Uh as a matter of fact, uh speaking of Korea, I will be teaching uh Westminster, as you see in the bulletin this week. Turns out uh of the doctoral ministry program, uh I have only seven students this week, but Five of them are from Korea. That's what I at least heard this time. Who knows? There might be others added, but uh at the last count it was five out of the seven were Koreans And um so I'm glad that I taught this stuff in Seoul Korea so that I make some applications there. So I'm looking forward to that also coming up this week and Then hopefully we'll be able to share something of what God has done this summer with you on September the 10th. We're back to our regular schedule. Next Sunday, the last time in the summer schedule September 10th we moved to the fall schedule and we'll have a middle hour time here to talk a little bit about this summer, but then also to focus on what are we going to be doing in this next year So this is kind of an in-between time. I can't really get back to the series on Ephesians yet, and so I struggled with what should I preach on this time here still in the summer And then when I saw that we had six infant baptisms scheduled, actually only five will take place, we had one postponed And we have others also waiting in the wounds, so this doesn't catch us up. But after seeing that, I thought, well, maybe it's a good time to preach on why we baptize infants. So I would like to address that question. And uh hopefully clear up some confusion about why we Presbyterians do that. So to those of you who are either visiting here as family or friends of those who are being baptized or that are visiting and maybe members of Columbia Presbyterian but have a Baptist black background and still haven't really settled with why is it that we baptize infants Hopefully I can show you this morning from Scripture that we believe the Bible teaches us to do this. It's not some Roman Catholic tradition that we forgot to purge out at the Reformation or something that we've just done for whatever other reasons, just kind of always done it that way. But that we believe the Bible teaches us to do this and the precious truth of what it's saying as well as what it's not saying, so that we can understand as we baptize these three precious children this morning what it is we're saying and what God is saying through what we're doing here And I also hope that this will give us a better grounds as parents for the hope that we have In our own deficient parenting, and as we see our kids either moving closer to Christ or at times seeming to move away from Christ or actually moving away from Christ And all the things that we've gone through this summer. And after you members received the letter from our daughter Julie and her fiance about her pregnancy and their repentance on that uh probably all of a sudden you realized what the Mac truck was that I was referring to back in July when I spoke back then And some of the hope that there is in that. And I want to say a little bit more about that later. So I want it now to move to the text and then to apply it. But I certainly can't say everything that the Bible teaches as the grounds for this, but I do want to say a few things based on one text of Scripture, Romans chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. Uh Tom read the passage, but let me just point out that this is in the context of Paul speaking the gospel, saying that um We all realize that we were not here by chance self sufficient, we've all been created, we all have a conscience that reveals to us that we are accountable to the God who made us for our lives, and that because we are all so far deficient, so far so short of His standard, every one of us that God alone could bring the remedy if there was ever going to be one, and that He sent a perfect substitutionary sacrifice, his own son, to die the death that you and I deserved. And so the question that comes up in chapter 4 is: how do you and I lay hold of this substitutionary sacrifice necessary to be forgiven and have a relationship with God? How is it that we enter into that? And the answer that Paul gives quite clearly in chapter 4 is by faith alone So for instance, you saw that he said in verse 5, however, to the man who does not work, trying to please God, trying to Make what he does that's good outweigh what he does that's bad, or the woman that does this, but rather trust God who justifies the wicked Recognizing, admitting, without blame shifting, that you and I are wicked, then his faith is credited as righteousness And then he raises the question: is this just for religious people who have been circumcised? Because that's what religious people, males, did back then. And his answer is absolutely no. Uh this is a faith that is for those who are wicked and dirty and shameful and feel like I have no place even sitting in a company of people who look like they're all so upright and clean and together. as this group here. This faith is for sinners. And he gives Abraham's example, a person who is a pagan idolater When God called him out of error. And he says in verse 9 and 10 that is this blessing only for the circumcised, for the clean, the religious, or for the uncircumcised? What we have been saying Is it Abraham's faith was credited to him as righteousness? Under what circumstances was it credited? Was it after he was circumcised? After he became religious? Started following the Bible and God's laws Was it after or before? It was not after, but before. Alright, so then he goes on to make a rather remarkable statement about the purpose of circumcision. Which I hope to show applies also to baptism, whether it is to adults or to infants. And so I want I think this is worth our looking at and seeing how this applies to us. The remarkable statement he makes is in verses 11 and 12, where he says there that he, Abraham, received the sign of circumcision a seal of the righteousness he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. So then, he, Abraham, is the father of all who believe, but have not been circumcised, in order that righteousness might be credited to them, and he is also the father of the circumcised, who are not only circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. Now that's a long couple of verses and let's try to make some sense out of what it's saying and seeing how it applies. Seven points I want to make real briefly. Number one What is the issue? Well, first of all, we need to see what the issue is not. It's not about what you do with adults who become believers. Verses 10 and 11 are absolutely clear for an adult. Faith precedes the sign of the covenant. No question about that. And I think it's worth pointing out that we and our Baptist brothers and sisters totally agree on this. There's no controversy about that. Now there may be some controversy about how you baptize, whether you sprinkle or dunk or pour or wash or whatever, but um the fact, the order of it, there's no disagreement. The only issue is what do you do with the children of believers? And here is where there's some confusion. Because I have often heard in discussion, and I was raised a Baptist, when I say a Baptist, I mean someone who does not believe in infant baptism, which is sometimes called paeto-baptism, paedo is a Greek word for infant. Not someone who believed in that I came from a church and became a Christian out of a context that believed you do not ever baptize infants. And what I'd often hear, and what I still hear as I talk about this with my Baptist friends, is what we believe comes directly from Scripture. Believe and be baptized. That's what the scripture says. Simple end of the matter. You Presbyterians go through all kinds of convoluted reasoning and inferences in order to try and establish a case for why you baptize the children of believers. But it's just simply not in Scripture. Why don't you just stick to the direct Teaching of scripture, and you would save all this stuff and try to justify why you're keeping your traditions and all the rest of the you get the gist, okay? Now, the thing we need to realize Is that in the New Testament there is not one single case of the baptism of a child of believers? Now, notice I didn't say the infant baptism. What I said is there is no explicit teaching about how or when any offspring of a believer was baptized. We don't have an explicit statement about their being baptized as infants. We also have no statement about the children of believers being baptized after their faith. Why do I say that? Because we need to understand that both sides deal with inferences. It's not that the Baptists deal with direct teachings, Presbyterians deal with inferences. Both sides deal with inferences because both sides have to say the Bible doesn't teach directly what to do here. So, what do we infer from what the Bible teaches about the covenant and about the nature of faith? And that's where we come to a text like this and believe that there is strong indication Concerning the meaning of circumcision and it's necessarily passing over to baptism to because Abraham circumcised his children for us to baptize our children. Why do I say that? Because as you move on to the second question, there's where we begin to divide. The second question really is one that's often overlooked. And the question is simply this: what is the focus of baptism? Now, at this point, my Baptist friends say the focus of baptism is that it is the testimony of the person being baptized by word and water, word and symbol. concerning their faith in Christ and the result of that faith which is salvation, eternal life. Right? That's pretty well the way it goes. That's what I was taught. We as Presbyterians would say, sorry, we would beg to differ. We do not see that as the focus of baptism. And there you see point two. Circumcision, baptism, is not the testimony of the person as much, it is that, but it is not the testimony of the person when it's an adult. As much as a statement from God about the gospel. The focus of baptism is not on the person baptized. It's on the gospel. Now, why do I say that? Because if you look in verse 11, it says that Abraham received the sign of circumcision. Which was a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith. So the circumcision is two things. It's a sign and it's a seal Now you think about a sign, a sign does not draw attention to itself. If you're driving down I-95 and you see this sign that says this exit to Columbia this way and Jessup that way, You don't see a bunch of cars parked along the shoulder looking the sign over and checking it out and saying, hi, they picked a beautiful shade of green And do you notice how it's got all those little sparkly things that your headlights shine off of and you know that glitter and that 's really nice lettering there, kind of a nice border around it. You know, you add aluminum too. I mean that good solid stuff, you know, and you know look how accurate it is. I mean it new, there it is, right you know, there's Columbian, there's Jessup, man That is one terrific sign. You know the noise cars park everyone there checking this thing out. See who gives a rip about the sign? You don't even notice. All you care is what the sign points you to, right At least he gave a little more response than the first service, which was a tad more than I got in Northern Ireland. I mean in Northern Ireland I try to get a little response And I said, you know, in our congregation we try to affirm the gospel with amens of gospel statements. And I said You know, that's not just because I like to know somebody's alive out there, but it helps you to affirm. So I made some gospel statements. I made one And you know what I got? I mean this this it really touched my heart. They couldn't bring themselves to say amen, but I saw a group of people in the back going I thought there's hope. Anyway, back to the sign. So you see Circumcision is a sign of God's cleansing. It's not a sign pointing to Abraham's faith. Because circumcision, if you read back in the Old Testament passages like Ezekiel 36, for instance, it talks about God cleansing the hearts of his people. He says, I'll sprinkle your hearts and I'll cleanse them. And then he talks about the covenant, and then in chapter 44, he contrasts that with those who are uncircumcised of heart You read Jeremiah 9 and other passages, it's very clear that circumcision refers to cleansing. But it's not simply, it is a rite of physical cleansing But it is that is simply a sign pointing to God's spiritual cleansing. So you see that phrase circumcised of heart that appears many times. Got a couple examples there. You see that throughout the Old Testament, circumcised of heart, uncircumcised of heart, talks about those who are cleansed in their hearts by Christ, his finished work applied to them, or not cleansed. Well now when you come therefore to what verse 11 is saying, it's saying he received the sign of circumcision, pointing to God's cleansing. And this was not only a sign, but it was also a seal. But again, notice what it's a seal of. It's not a seal of Abraham's faith. What is it a seal of? It's a seal of the righteousness that he has by faith. So once again, what the circumcision, the sign of the covenant, points to is not Abraham, it's God's righteousness. It's pointing to the gospel. It's saying that God has given a righteousness which Abraham laid hold of by faith. It appoints away from Abraham to the gospel. Now that's, I believe, critical in freeing up some of you who may simply have had Baptist teaching on this and are concerned about what when we baptize an infant, what we're saying about that infant's faith or salvation. And you understand that what this says is we're saying absolutely nothing about the infant's Faith or salvation. We recognize that as we baptize up here Daniel and John and Timothy We're saying nothing about their faith. They haven't expressed faith in Christ. We know that. But it's pointing to the gospel as a sign and a seal of righteousness. Now here's Something else I think is very important to understand. I genuinely believe, as one who was raised in this tradition, had to rethink it. That ever if you are a Baptist here this morning, every problem you have with infant baptism, you also have with infant circumcision. See, there really isn't any difference in the significance. And so what you have to wrestle with is that Romans 4, 11 and 12 explicitly says that circumcision was a sign of of righteousness that Abraham had by faith, but then it goes on to say he was the father of the circumcised Verse 12. He was told, you see, to circumcise his children. Not only Isaac, who would follow in the faith, but also Ishmael, who would reject it. That Isaac was told not only to circumcise Jacob, who would follow in the faith, but also Esau, who would utterly reject it. And so if you have a problem with baptism of an infant somehow implying some sort of salvation of that child or that they're in or whatever, some superstitious thing. You've also got the same problem With the circumcision of those children in the old covenant who did not go on with the faith, but whom God specifically commanded to be circumcised. So the third point is every male under Abraham's authority Not only as children, but also all as servants, were to be circumcised. Therefore, the fourth point is that circumcision obviously did not save them But it was only the faith that was like Abraham's. Again, verse 12. He is also the father of the circumcised, who not only are circumcised, but also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. That's the focus of Paul's meaning here, his teaching. It was the faith that saved them, not their circumcision. It was faith that saved Isaac and distinguished him from Ishmael. It was faith that saved Jacob, the heel grabber, the scoundrel, from Esau, who rejected the covenant and its promises. Therefore, baptism, like circumcision, does not guarantee or even presume salvation of the infant that is being baptized. It is an outward right that is speaking of the gospel, which works an internal spiritual reality when received by faith. Look back at chapter 2, verse 28. Paul said right there, a man is not a Jew if he's only one outwardly, that is, he's been circumcised, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical. Now you could take that verse and you could substitute Christian and baptism. A person is not a Christian if he's only one outwardly, nor is baptism merely outward and physical. No, a person is a Christian. This is taken to parallel now, verse 29. If he is one inwardly. And circumcision or baptism is baptism of the heart. By the Spirit. So as we baptize these children in a few minutes, we pray that God would be pleased to join this physical water baptism with the baptism of his Spirit in the heart. To bring them to faith in Christ. The baptism in itself accomplishes nothing of that internal spiritual change. And I believe that that's important to point out because we are incurably superstitious people, aren't we? We would so love to believe there is something external we could do That would guarantee our kids get into heaven. But the gospel is absolutely clear. It is not the baptism, it is only Christ. And you and I cannot change our kids' hearts. This is an internal reality. It is something that God has to do. The baptism gives us hope, which I'll speak about in a moment. But the baptism in itself is not a superstitious obligation of God to do anything in our kids. So, point five, the circumcision like baptism is a sign pointing to Christ, not to the person, points to Christ. In the Old Testament, it was clear that the circumcision was a cleansing ritual that was upon the organ continuing the family line. And it reminded every Israelite that there had to be a physical mineage that would culminate from Abraham through David to Messiah. But since Messiah has come, there is no longer an issue of physical lineage now. Now it is simply spiritual lineage. This says in verse 12 that Abraham is the father of those who have faith, the circumcised who have faith. Now Galatians 3 is even clearer. It says simply, you and I, who are believers in Jesus Christ, are the spiritual seed of Abraham. So the physical lineage is no longer the issue. Now it's a spiritual lineage. Therefore, the sign must change. It can no longer be a sign on the organ of regeneration. But even more significant is the fact that circumcision involved the shedding of blood, as all the Old Testament rituals did in order to remind all of God's people, that sin is a serious and deadly matter, and that in order to come into a relationship with God, blood must be shed in order to pay for the sin. But Jesus Christ has come and he has once for all shed his blood to pay for our sin. Amen? So verse chapter two, for instance, in verse twenty five, God says that he uh provided um Uh wait a minute. I mean uh excuse me, chapter three. Chapter three, verse twenty five. God presented him, Jesus, as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. Or chapter 4 verse 25. He was delivered over to death for our sins and raised to life for our justification. Whereas Hebrews 10:14 says, he was once for all Um had made his payment and therefore has sat down. Once for all, he has shed his blood. And therefore, because Genesis 17 says that this Sign of the covenant is an eternal sign. It's not something that is fulfilled in Messiah. It is an eternal sign. The sign must continue, but it must change. It can no longer be a sign that involves the shedding of blood, because Hebrews says there can be since Christ no more shedding of blood. Therefore, we need a sign that Points to and pictures cleansing, but doesn't involve the shedding of blood Now, think real hard. Do you see in the New Testament any sign that does not involve the shedding of blood that clearly depicts cleansing and points to Christ? Ah! I can see it in your eyes. Yes. Baptism. And that's exactly what Colossians 2 says, isn't it? Colossians 2:11 and 12 says, you have been circumcised with Christ. Not by the physical circumcision, which was the removal of a small piece of flesh, but through the circumcision of Christ whereby all of your sinful flesh has been put to death. Then it goes on having been baptized in him. So you see, what Paul is talking about here to Abraham in his circumcision. is speaking also about exactly precisely the same meaning of baptism, because baptism as a sacrament of cleansing without blood replaces, that's the next point there, replaces circumcision. It's interesting if you look in Acts chapter 8, verse 12, and the gospel was preached to the Samaritans and it's breaking new ground Interesting that that verse says that both men and women were baptized when they believed. Well why does he point out, why does Luke point out that both men and women were baptized? If it's not, in order to implicitly make the connection with the fact that they knew that in the old covenant the sign of the covenant was given to men only of circumcision But under the new covenant, this continuing sign, now no longer circumcision but baptism, is given both to men and to women. Check out Acts eight verse twelve later on to see. I mean it doesn't prove it, but I think that it explains why you Luke uses that language to specify that women as well as men received the sign of baptism. Sixth point then, by circumcision, Abraham's kids were placed in the covenant family. By baptism, your children are placed in the covenant family, the Church of Jesus Christ. Verse 12, again, he is also the father of the circumcised. Who are not only are circumcised, or, you see, the father of the baptized, who are not only baptized, but also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised, or before you, if you're a first generation Christian, before you were baptized. The circumcision, then depicts a spiritual reality that you and I as parents point our children to. Believe it's Significant that in Matthew chapter 28, when Jesus, remember, gave his great commission statement, go into all the nations. baptizing them, making disciples, baptizing them into the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit, then teaching them all the things that I commanded you. that it is baptism which begins, which initiates the discipling process, because baptism places you, the person baptized, under the authority of Jesus Christ. To teach them all the things that he commanded. And so if you're a member of Columbia Presbyterian, you've placed yourself under the authority of the session of this church or under the authority of Jesus Christ. Your children are under your authority, therefore, through you and your faith they are under the authority of Christ. Therefore, it is appropriate they receive the sign That initiates their discipling, you see, in order to teach them and call them to the Savior. Finally, seventh point is that this which we do That is, the baptism, initiating the discipline process, is not simply a psychological persuasive device Okay, you got Jesus' mark on you, got a toe to the line. It's not simply saying that, it's not calling them simply to the fact they have his mark of ownership on them, but it also depicts the hope That we have in the God of the covenant who set them aside in that covenant, that He partners with us in bringing them to faith and to new life. As I read in the last baptism we had back in July from Psalm 145, remember in verse 4, that one generation will commend your works to another, they will tell of your mighty acts And I pointed out that that word there, commend is the word, praise one generation will praise your acts to another And so we as parents who baptize our children, when we teach them about the faith, it's not simply cognitive information, this is what you ought to believe and what you ought to do. But you see, it ought to be exaltation. There ought to be a praising, a a entering in by our affection for Jesus that's contagious, that the kids see this And that they realize that our parents are depending on Christ, that we as part of this family are depending on Christ, and we're raised with that sense of delight in the things of God. You know, one of the things that God has taught us, Kathy and me, this summer, so much through not only what's going on in Julie's life, but with all of our kids Is in some ways how arrogant we were as parents in the early days. Kathy and I are both f first generation Christians And um so I think, you know, when we got married we had a fairly clear sense of all the mistakes our parents had made, you know. We're going to correct those all. We're not bringing any baggage into this marriage. We got the whole thing worked out. Kids going to be perfect. We know what the family is going to look like. And you know, there were those times that we look back now, the kind of self-deception of times when things really did. You know, there were those times in between all the hassles and the embarrassments and the mess up where you really look and you say Yeah, I really think our kids are a cut above. I mean, you know, we got this parenting thing pretty well together. We've read the stuff and we know what we're doing. You know, and then things happen And things like we have experienced over the last months, over the last years, and all of a sudden we are so humbled And two things have become very, very clear to us over these recent weeks. One is how absolutely inadequate we have been as parents. The pain of the soul searching, looking into our own lives, the dysfunctions of relationships of our kids, with them with us, and us with them, and say, how could this be? And realizing there was all this pride that said, I'm better than that. And God has really humbled us. To realize we're not better than that. We don't have any claim to say, we've done our job, God, now you're obligated to bring these kids to walk right. But the second thing that's come very clear to us in all the ups and downs is that baptism teaches us. That God is our partner in working in the lives of our kids. We are not praying against him We are not pleading desperately. God, do you care? Don't you hear? Why are our kids not showing the interest in the things of Christ? Why do they do such foolish things? Why does there seem to be a sometimes almost a dis Devising of the faith that we've given to them, and then to realize there's a much bigger picture God is not finished with your kids, and He's not finished with our kids. And we've seen that from month to month, week to week What God has done in Julie's life through all of this, bringing her much closer to Christ and Jason, and what he's doing in our two other kids. You know, it's just it's an emotional roller coaster. But God is teaching us stop just looking at ourselves. I did this right, so I deserve. I did this wrong, so I deserve. And it's all so self-focused. You see, baptism points us away from ourselves to Christ. Our hope is in Him. Have you availed yourself of that? Not as a presumption, but as a privilege. And as a congregation, it means we surround our kids. We don't just commit them to chim and company and say get them washed and groomed and discipled and send them back all ready. It's a joint effort claiming his promises. But it also means to you kids, if you've been baptized. That does not get you to heaven. You need personally, as verse 12 says, to believe on Jesus that your baptism pointed you to. That you personally trust him. Because if you don't, you are in far worse situation than a kid who is never baptized. Because Jesus has his mark upon your life and calls you to trust him. It'll forgive you and change your heart. He's our partner, his parents. Let's pray. Oh Father, how we need the hope that you give to us through the sign of the seal of baptism. Not only for us who have believed as adults, but also, Lord, that sign which comes upon our children, a sign of righteousness which is obtained by faith. To know that we are not alone. You do not just send down a set of rules and then say, have at it, and I'm going to check up to see how you do. But Lord, you show us In all the humiliation, all of our inadequacy. But through that that you are a partner with us, who alone can change the hearts of our kids. And he uses sinful activities as well as the discipleship to bring them to see their need for Jesus. Thank you that you do that. We want to look to you and stop looking to ourselves. In Jesus' name. Amen.