It was um Saint Patrick's Day and Saint Patrick has always been one of my uh favorite missionaries and Christians throughout church history He was a man who was kidnapped as a teenager by Celtics, warriors uh eventually escaped, got back to his home, the comforts that he had there, but in that process he had become a Christian And he sensed that God was calling him to go back to Ireland and to take the gospel with him to those people who had been his captors. He went back and took the message of Christ to people who worshiped the three-faced God, who demanded human sacrifice from them to appease his anger. There is one such sacrifice that archaeologists have found remarkably well preserved. It's clear that this person was not a warrior. They often sacrificed their enemies when they captured them in battle. This was one of their own. He was a prince, and he was a son of one of their local chiefs. He was one who died willingly He was one who died, you can still see, the traces of a smile on his face. He had died in a threefold manner. He had died by having his skull flattened by three blows of an axe, and then his throat garretted by a three-notted sinew cord And then his jugular vein had been neatly sliced so that the blood would run out into a bowl that they would offer as a sacrifice to the god. Now can you imagine the impact when Patrick came back to those people and he said, Let me tell you, the true God is Triune. And this God does not demand that you offer your sons for him, but this God has offered his son for you. So that you would be once for all forgiven, that the barrier between you and God would be once forever removed, and you would have eternal life in heaven with him. That message utterly transformed Celtic culture from a pagan, warlike culture. To a peaceful civilization that in fact preserved Western civilization during the Dark Ages The power of the gospel can transform a culture like that. And our culture's gotten used to that message. And so people now, when they see Mel Gibson's film, The Passion of the Christ, some are startled to once again realize what it means for a person to offer themselves as a sacrifice. So we're taking five weeks, we're in the middle now, third week, to look at what Isaiah 53 says about that sacrifice. We might also have our hearts moved and transformed by seeing the sacrifice that God made for us. Now, you see in the overview here His five stanzas in this. Let's get that overview up, thank you. And uh we have looked at the first three, that the Messiah will be unique He's despised, he will be despised, he will be punished. And now we're focusing the fourth stanza this morning on the fact that he was innocent And actually the third stanza says more than that. It says how he suffered in his innocence. So I want to look at three ways that Jesus suffered according to Isaiah chapter fifty three, verses seven to nine The first way that he suffered, Isaiah says, was that he suffered passively. That's your first blank there. He suffered passively. That is, there was no protest. He was oppressed and afflicted, Isaiah says. Yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth The picture is of a lamb, a lamb that willingly goes to whether it is to be sheared or whether to be slaughtered. It doesn't protest, it doesn't fight. Other animals might fight and bite and scratch and claw. A lamb doesn't. A lamb goes peacefully, willingly. This is the one who spoke from Sinai with a voice that terrified the people of Israel, so that they said to Moses, Moses, please don't let God speak to us again, because when he speaks, we're terrified. He who is the lion of Judah who roars with mighty power now goes voiceless to his own execution. He goes with no protest. Remarkably fulfilled over seven hundred and fifty years later. Matthew tells us among the other gospels how the Jews took Jesus to Pilate on that morning after they had held their mock trial. And they took him and because they couldn't execute, they needed room to give its approval. And they say Here we bring this one too, and Pilate says, Well, what's the charge you bring? And they say, Well, if he wasn't a criminal, we wouldn't have brought him. Really it's kind of an innate answer, but what they're saying is, don't get yourself all mixed up in what the sentence is. We made the sentence, you just approve it Then let's move on. The pilot won't indulge them. He says, What's the charge? And so this, well, he claims to be the king of the Jews. He's a rival king to your government. He's a threat to you. Gotta get rid of him. Pilate brings him in, he examines him, and after a few minutes he comes back out again, he says, I don't find any charge here worthy of death. You go take him and judge him yourself And they get infuriated, they become desperate. They've got to get this execution. And so they begin to charge him, and they amplify the charge of his being a king, and they go on and on and on in Matthew chapter 27 Verse twelve tells us when he was accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gave no answer. And then Pilate asked him, Don't you hear the testimony they're bringing against you? I mean, some of this stuff's ridiculous. It's bizarre, but Jesus made no reply. Not even to a single charge, to the great amazement of the governor. Here's a guy who has seen dozens, perhaps hundreds, of men being charged. And he's never seen a man respond like this one. Later on in the trial, Pilate has the audacity to say I find no charge, no guilt in this man. Therefore, I'm going to scourge him and release him to you. I want to just appease your bloodlust. Well what a ridiculous statement. He's done nothing worthy of any charge, so I'll scourge him. Scourging was reserved for some of the vilest crimes, the most serious crimes. Men sometimes died under scourging. And he says, well he's innocent, so I'll scourge him. Even at that point, Jesus doesn't protest. At no point does he protest the scandalous injustice of this mock trial. Now again don't don't miss and see not only the amazing demeanor, the uniqueness of our Savior. So that our impression is you whether you see the movie or you read the scriptures, the impression is that it's not Jesus on trial, it's Pilate, it's it's the leaders, it's the others But also, don't miss what an amazing prophecy this is seven hundred and fifty years before it was taking place. That Isaiah could say, not only will he be executed, but he will go passively. He will go without protest to this execution. That's the first thing. Peter also takes This idea and says, don't just admire it. 1 Peter chapter 2 says that he, when he was charged, made no response, so that you might follow his steps. That's that's real hard, isn't it? You know, somebody accuses you of something and they twist or they amplify, they distort, and you know, and you And everything in you, everything in me, when that happens, I just want to defend myself. That's unfair. That's wrong. You can't say that, you know? Brothers, sisters, your brother charges you to mom or dad, you know, your sister, you know. What do you do? Immediately, you know, I want to defend myself. And Peter says, you know, there's times, not all the time, but there's times when to hold your peace and to not retaliate, to not defend yourself By the grace of God will not only bring you into a closer fellowship with Christ, because you understand his mind. In the time when he was accused, but also can have a more powerful impact on the people that see it. Do you remember when Stephen was stoned by the Sanhedrin? It was a man watching, Saul, who had their coats. And he saw Stephen rather than standing and cursing those that were picking up stones to throw at him and saying, This is ridiculous This is a mock trial and why are you guys doing this? And rather we praise Lord Do not lay the sin to their charge. And Paul who became Saul who became Paul never forgot that. And soon he was following that same Jesus. And this week you and I are going to have an opportunity to retaliate. Because you're going to go through this week, and I I can guarantee you will not go through this week without somebody criticizing or accusing you of something that you think is unfair. And you can retaliate. You may be, it may be that you should defend yourself. It may be that God will give you that opportunity to remember this And in your fellowship with Jesus, to be able to say, I'm going to hold my peace, I'm going to hold my peace and suffer this By the grace of God, in fellowship with Him, that I might bring Him greater honor. It's not my reputation, it's not my image It's him. That's what Jesus did for you. Second thing it says that he did was it it talks about the progression. And this again is amazing when you think, hundreds of years before Isaiah specifies the oppression, I mean the um the progression of his trial Let's get the next one up there. There's five stages. You see them in your outline there. The fifth one is in the next verse. We'll hold on that. But he goes through with five stages of Jesus' trial and death , saying this hundreds of years in advance Now, let me give you the green there is my translation, which I can defend. It's also if you have an NIV, it's in the margin But um I believe that it's really the way you should translate the Hebrew. It makes the most sense out of the whole thing in context. By oppression, the word means to restrain, and so it could also be arrest by his arrest. And then by his judgment refers to a trial by which judgment is made. He was taken away. Now again, you've got this the heaping up of three things to show the intensity. This is Oppression, judgment, taken away, arrest, trial. He's taken away. And then uh the NIV and many other translations say, who can speak of his descendants? But I I think the alternate translation really is the one that Isaiah intended, and who among his contemporaries considered that he was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stork was due? Now the word the the word that Isaiah uses here, he was cut off, is a very special word. It doesn't simply mean he was killed, he was executed It means that he endured covenantal judgment. It's a technical term. For instance, in Exodus 12 and verse 15 When Moses says, don't eat the Passover with any yeast, he says, if you eat the Passover with yeast, you will be cut off. It's a capital crime. Because it violates the sign and the seal of God's covenant. So such a person would be killed, their memory would be erased, being cut off. Uh in um Genesis seventeen, that I just read for Arthur's baptism, the verse goes on to say, if you do not circumcise Your children, your , sons, that one uncircumcised will be cut off from Israel. So it's speaking of covenantal cursing Now this idea has its roots in an incident that occurred back in Genesis 15. So to make sense of this you have to go back to Genesis fifteen. Let me just take you back there in your imagination and your minds. Beginning of Genesis fifteen, Abram's still going through a tremendous crisis of his faith. God has promised that he's going to give him children, he's going to give him the land, he's going to make his name great. And he has absolutely zero. I mean it's not one out of three, it's zero. He has no child, he doesn't own a square inch of the land, and he is has no great reputation. And Abraham's struggling with God on this, and God displays himself to Abraham in a way that calls from Abraham faith. And the Bible says that Abram believed God and he credited, God credited to Abram for righteousness. And it's right after that that God then puts Abram in a deep sleep at twilight. And gives to him a vision that changes his life forever. Abram sees in this what he calls this horror of darkness He sees God take three animals, and God slays the animal and each of the animals, and he divides their bodies into halves. So we've got six halves of animals that are on either side of a narrow gutter. Their blood flows into the gutter and their blood's flowing down that gutter. Now, if you and I had such a dream like that, that'd be pretty strange. You think, you know, I don't know what I ate tonight, but I'm not gonna eat it again. For Abram it wasn't very strange. He was very familiar with that because it was a ceremony called the cutting of the covenant So Abram understands because he has at various times divided animals in this little gutter, and he's walked through that bloody gutter And he knows that by walking through that, what he is saying is, may what happened to these animals happen to me if I break my promise that I'm solemnly pledging through this covenant. Now, Abram's breath must have been taken away when he sees the blazing torch of God, God's presence, pass through those pieces in that bloody gutter. And Abram realizes that God is saying, I am pledging myself through this covenant to fulfill the promises that I gave you, to give you children, to give you this land, and to make your name great. And Abram perhaps smiles to himself to think , but that's impossible. God can't be dismembered. And he thinks, oh, pfft, of course! It's as impossible for God to break his promise as it is for God, who is spirit, to be dismembered. Good point. Hey, that's a very clever way of making that point, Lord And God is saying that. But he's also saying something much more. Now hold on to that thought, and let's just finish the progression. After Isaiah says he'll be cut off, then the next verse says, He was assigned a grave with the wicked, but with a rich in his death. Now in the Hebrew the word wicked is in the plural. And the word which is in the singular. This is a detail which for some of you have heard this before is a remarkable detail. Because Roman crucifixion always took those who were they had crucified and they just threw their bodies into a common grave And in a couple of days it would begin to decay and nobody would know who was what or where and was absolutely no dignity to it. It was just throwing the corpses away The Bible tells us that of course Jesus, though that was what would have happened to him by the Roman government, that didn't happen to him. There was a man who had become a believer, Joseph of Arimathea of the Sanhedrin, and he went to Pilate and he begged the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him that body. What a Rangren in his book, The Book of God, describes in imagination what would have happened next With sudden violent wrenches of the claw, Joseph yanked the spike from Jesus' left wrist. The body spun out and hung from the right arm. Joseph applied himself to the right spike. It whimpered in the wood, and Jesus slumped altogether forward into the loop of rope. Hold him, sir, Joseph whispered. Hold him. He scurried down the ladder and stood below the slouching corpse, under the face and the black rein of the dead man's hair He put the claw to the spike through Jesus' ankles. Langanus heard that he was weeping when he pulled that spike. Jesus came down into Joseph's arms, one at the bend of the knees and one around his shoulders. The head fell over Joseph's left arm. The mouth opened under Joseph's close gaze. Joseph of Arimathea was holding his whole treasure in all the world, in this world, and in the next one too. Your treasure and my treasure. And he placed his body in his new tomb, in which nobody had lain. Now why did God do that? Well part of it is because we know that it was important that Jesus be laid in an easily identifiable tomb So that when he was raised from the dead, people knew where his body had been and could go back to verify whether it was there or whether it was not. But I think I see also in this little detail of Scripture two things that are very precious to me. One is it's an insight into the heart of God and his love for the Son. When Jesus died on the cross, he said, it is finished. All of the humiliation, the suffering, the sacrifice was done. And I believe that God is saying in this, the humiliation is done. I can't wait for the resurrection. I'm going to begin to turn the corner on the humiliation now, and rather than the disgrace intended, I will give to him a dignified burial in Joseph's tomb The beginning of Jesus' exaltation. But even more than that, for you and me, is to be stunned At the amazing detail of prophetic completion. Intended to do, God had beforehand, by his determinant eternal counsels, predestined would happen in history. And whenever you read Isaiah 53, verse 9, brothers and sisters, you ask yourself, is my life out of control? I don't see God on the scene. I don't see what's happening. Remember, on that day in history when things seemed most out of control, God seemed most impotent, God seemed most not to care what was happening to the disciples at that time. He was in fact in control of every single detail. That his body, as had been declared by Isaiah over 750 years before, would not be laid with the wicked But with a rich man in his death. And so every detail of your life and my life Is under his sovereign control. Amen. That precious. Now, let's go back to um the uh this matter of the uh cutting off and deal with that under the third point He suffered passively, he suffered progressively, and he suffered purely, purely or innocently. He suffered vicariously for his people. Verse eight. See what he says again. Um who can speak rather translate who among his contemporaries Who that would have been there? If you see the film, you know, people are looking and how could they understand what is going on? That this is not simply a um travesty of Jewish and Roman justice. But who among his contemporaries would have considered that rather than being cut off for himself, he was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due. What a little detail that we'll deal with in the next week or two He's cut off, which means in Hebrew covenantal cursing, you are cut off and erased from memory. Yet verse 10 goes on to talk about he'll prolong his days and he'll see his offspring. So here's uniquely someone that's going to be cut off, but they're not going to be cut off. Now let's focus on what he's saying here. He's saying it's not for him It's done vicariously. It's for his people. The word vicariously is a word which means in the place of another person. A vicar is somebody who is appointed to minister on behalf of someone else. We talk about vicarious thrills when we go to the movie, you know, and we see the heroes uh vanquish the evil, the bad guys and all this, you know, and you you think You know, you're you're experiencing that that victory or the thrills conquering uh you know, defeating the dragons or whatever the adventure is. You experience it through another person And so Jesus was cut off for you. Now let's get back to the image in Genesis 15. Abram sees that God is saying, It's impossible, it's as impossible for me to break my word to you as it is for me to be dismembered. But God's saying much more than that. What Isaiah is saying is this servant is God, who in fact became flesh So that he could be physically cut off, so that he could in fact die for the sins of his people, as if he were the worst of all covenant breakers. In place of you and me. Like we said last week, we floke life Jesus takes the F, He gives us His A plus, and dies in our place And I've said that one of the best examples well known of the contemporaries times of thinking of the notion of vicarious sacrifices in that story of Father Maximilian Colby Franciscan priest who was placed at Auschwitz along with innumerable Jews , February nineteen forty-one Father Colbe was a man who, in tender spirit, shared his food, what little there was, and even gave up his bulk to someone who was in worse condition than him. who was soon known as the Saint of Auschwitz. In July of nineteen forty one somebody escaped from Auschwitz and the Germans' custom, whenever that happened, was that they would randomly pick ten prisoners. And they would put those prisoners into a cell and give them no food and water until they starved and thirsted to death. So they call out ten names, one after another. And there's a gasp and a moan in each case, and then they get to the tenth name. And it's a fellow by the name of Francisek Getronic. And as Gachanachek hears his name, he begins to blubber and weep. And he says, Oh, my wife, my children. And then the guards hear a rustling and a stirring from the back row and a prisoner makes his way forward. The dogs bristle for an attack. The s the guards raise their guns. Stop. And a voice says, I would like to speak to Herr Commandant. And for some reason they let him proceed. And Father Colbe comes to the Commandant and he says, Herr Commandant, please take my life instead of this man. I'm old. I don't have a family. And I don't do much work. Take my life Commandant pauses for a moment and then barks out, Permission granted Kachanachek says all he could do was to thank him with his eyes. He couldn't speak a word. A man willing to give his life in his place. It took Kolber with the other nine prisoners and put him in that cell The other nine died, and Colby continued to live, and in fact, they finally, out of frustration, injected phenol in his heart on August 14, 1941, to kill him A vicarious sacrifice. And Isaiah goes on to say in verse nine. That he was cut off. He was assigned this grave. He was the one laid with the rich. Though he had done no violence And nor was there any deceit in his mouth. He was not guilty of any violence or deceit And yet he was the one who was oppressed and afflicted. He was the one who was cut off. Covenantally cursed, stricken, smitten, afflicted by God, disfigured beyond human recognition And yet totally innocent. The poet Heine once had a vision of the gods holding a banquet on High Olympus. To that feast came a wan figure bearing a cross, which he laid down amongst the flowers, whereupon every god slunk shamefacedly away. Our God is unique. Our God has wounds. Our God is the God who died for his people. He is the only God, the true God. He is the God who, Paul says, compels us by his love. For he says, we judge that the love of Christ compels us, constrains us, but we judge that he who died for us. In him we died so that we might no longer live for ourselves, but to him who died and rose again on our behalf. And so I've offered to you that prayer, a prayer that takes the preface of this song in Isaiah 52, verse 15. And offers in response, Lord, Lord, thank you for being tortured and disfigured and punished for me. So did I. We'll never suffer your wrath. Can you say that? Were you able to fill in the blanks last week Talk to people who said they were thinking about that. Cause them to examine whether they could do that or not. Could you do that Could you do that and believe? The only way is when you admit that you can't establish your own record before God. You need his sacrifice. You need his life in your place. You are now Lord at the highest place calling people to yourself. Use me today so that someone who does not understand this message Who gained some understanding through me? Is that your prayer? For your understanding, for others during this time when people are talking about Jesus. Let's pray. Our Father Forbid that we would ever get used to the fact that you, Lord Jesus, who were perfectly innocent Suffered as the worst of all covenant breakers, the very curse of God. Lord, I pray that for anyone here who is wavering in their faith that you'd encourage their hearts in seeing, hear what Isaiah could have never known on his own, he described There were 750 years before the events in remarkable detail. And that detail was because you are the God of history who controls every event Even when it seems like all hell is broken loose and you've left the scene and there's no one in charge, you can continue in sovereign control, loving, tender control of our lives Pray that you would speak that hope to hearts that need it Lord, that you would continue to work in those who see this and yet hold you at arm's length and say, I have not bowed to Jesus to take my sin I believe he did it, but I don't want to give up to control of my life Lord, we pray, show to that person the utter foolishness of such controlled such misguided sense of their own autonomy, their being able to live their own lives apart from you. Lord, I pray that you'd speak to every person here, that we would confess before you, Lord, I need Jesus. That you would make us willing during these days, eager to be used of you, in opportunities where people are talking about the film or talking about the sacrifice of Christ talking in articles and things written and discussed, that we would simply be willing for your Holy Spirit to help us in some portion, something we would say. To bring your glory and to bring the truth to bear in love. Lord Jesus, how we thank you for what you did for us. How we thank you. Take our lives as an offering of thanksgiving. In Jesus' name. Amen.