By his wounds, we are healed. Think about that That's something you can say. That's what we've been looking at in Isaiah 53. Before we turn to that, let me I 'm sure those of you who will be asking, because some people have asked, our second granddaughter did hold off until we got home. was born ten minutes after we got home last Sunday. Little Emma, eight pounds, ten ounces, all of her. She is a joy. There happen to be a few pictures in the rear if anybody's interested. And now this Palm Sunday. We conclude the series, this special five-week series on Isaiah 53, which has been prompted by the movie The Passion of the Christ by Mel Gibson. Movie which has now exceeded over three hundred million dollars in box office receipts. Gallup poll released this week said of uh Americans polled, forty-five percent say they have either seen the movie or intend to see the movie. Nearly half of Americans if they That poll is accurate and follows through. So uh suddenly Hollywood has got religion. One interview with a Hollywood executive uh this past week. The executive said, quote, the primary religion practiced in Hollywood is money. We do not hesitate to worship false idols. If religion sells, we're going to do it. Now, lest you uh think that that means you're going to see a bunch of uh biblically based movies coming out, they are intending to produce more spiritual themed movies, more religious tight movies as a result of this. There will be a difference. Uh but of course with typical Hollywood discernment they think that we want to see see things like the Celestian prophecy a um movie about a female messiah, uh and another movie um on uh the Da Vinci Code that's going to be coming out, movie formula. So these are the ones. Now besides those, however Uh there is uh in the works a a live action version of the Lion Witch and Wardrobe that will be coming out And um perhaps the one uh of most interest in terms of biblical insight will be that uh Mel Gibson has hinted that he is interested in making a movie on the life of Judas Maccabe. to cover the period between the Old and New Testament. And I can see him doing that because that will be classic Gibson, you know, revenge of the good guys with lots of violence and blood and gore. So Maybe be saying that soon. Now because of this opportunity that's been unique, we have been giving away. There's still some back there, these books on the Passion of the Christ Uh Passion of Jesus Christ, uh we've been praying for conversations that God would give, and more of an openness and interest In uh spiritual things, in the work of Christ, in death Christ's death, and why he died. Um Two school teachers within the congregation have independently told me they have put uh stacks of that book, The Passion of Jesus Christ, out on tables in their schools. And when they've gone back and checked, uh they've been all taken. And um so um there's some interest there. In fact, they've been renewing the piles. Uh The next challenge is you put your name in there with the phone number and say if anybody wants to talk. So uh think of that as you give out the books. But um We are at the end of this series now. We're looking at Isaiah 53 because nowhere in Scripture can you find a clearer statement of why it is That Jesus was willing to endure such brutal treatment so willingly. Isaiah's message, let's see it again there, has uh five stanzas, each three verses. Remember, Messiah is being presented as the one who is absolutely unique, the one who is lifted in the highest place, reduced to the lowest place. He's despised by his people. He was punished, but not for his own sins. He was innocent. He was punished, as John saying, for us That's John saying was right out of Isaiah 53. And finally, the last stanza is that he will be eminently successful in all that he does Now in this last stanza that Tom just read for you, you see that Isaiah kind of brings about full circle the close of the loop because remember he began Chapter fifty-two, verse thirteen, see, my servant will act wisely or successfully, uh brilliantly ways that you could translate that. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. And then he finishes with these three verses about his success and his satisfaction in his success. Now, I actually preached these three verses back on December 14th, when on December the 14th we had eight inches of snow. So there weren't a whole lot of you that heard that. How many of you here were there on December the fourteenth? Yeah, see it this was the hearty souls. Now what I want you to notice, you see who those people are. Because you see, on December the 14th I mentioned, while we're all kind of huddled together here, this valiant remnant, I said that um when you read Isaiah's prophecy and consider That he wrote this about 750 years before it was fulfilled uniquely in the person of Jesus. No one else in all history is even a candidate For fulfilling the unique prophecies that Isaiah has given. And when you consider how brilliantly he accomplished it, how uniquely he accomplished it, how sacrificially he gave himself. That's enough, I said, to even make Presbyterians shout hallelujah. Now back on that day, we had a number of people shouting hallelujah I don't know if that was caused of the snow, and you know you kind of wanted to get the energy, but I got this theory now that people who are willing to come to worship in eight inches of snow are not your average Presbyterians. They're ones that are more likely to be excited about Jesus and be able to express that. And I want to see that if on a Palm Sunday when it's mere rain and you know and there's nothing very challenging about being here If we can still be as excited to say, Lord Jesus, you are wonderful. We can just, you know, express ourselves. If anybody says amen, I won't mind. Okay Now, the way I dealt with the text then and the way I'm going to do it now is that it's a little bit unique. I believe that what Isaiah is doing here, and um I haven't found anybody else that agrees with me, but you know, that never holds me back. I believe that what Isaiah is doing here is he takes the five themes Of not only this song, but also the other three songs of the Songs of the Servant. And he brings those to a climax You remember the Hebrew doesn't have the word very, doesn't have the word extremely. The way Hebrew emphasizes things is through repetition So what Isaiah does in these closing three verses is he takes the five themes and he repeats each one three times. Each theme appears in verse 10, in verse 11, and verse 12. It's actually rather remarkable to think here's five themes, each repeated in each of the three verses. And only I ever noticed that. Now probably, you know, if I talk to Isaiah in heaven, he'll say, I don't know where you were coming from, but uh, you know, it's a nice tryout. But I think it makes sense. Now you look at it and decide what you think. I give you the numbers and you can just put down the words because you'll see the words. I asked Jessica kindly to highlight in color each of the five themes. So, for instance, you see each one has the number, so you see each point, five points in the messy, and each one has a different color, although the yellow and the green don't look all that different. They really are, trust me So, I believe that what Isaiah is doing is bringing about the emphasis here in what I call progressive parallelism. That is, he is showing emphasis by the repetition which comes to a climax in the parallels. So, first point Isaiah says that he suffered. And of course, suffering runs through this theme, this song as well as the others. It's called the song of the suffering servant, so it's very clear. And you see, we looked at it last week. He was pleased to crush him. He was pleased to cause him to suffer. So uh that word, you know, means to to shatter, uh to destroy. Uh look at verse eleven. See again, number one, after the suffering of his soul, so clear there, verse twelve, you see it says that he poured out his life unto death, clearly talking about his suffering. And so Jesus suffered as no man has ever suffered. In the movie, uh all that could be portrayed is the physical suffering And as we've seen as we looked at this, that physical suffering of Jesus was really only one part of it. In fact, it wasn't the major part of his suffering. What was more significant was the spiritual, emotional suffering, because he became sin. Jesus took on your sin. He imbibed it. I remember seeing recently um just I didn't know this, um, that Some jockeys are so desperate to keep their weight down below 115 or whatever they need to be that they will swallow tapeworms. Now I don't know if you've ever seen a tapeworm. It's one of the grossest creatures I can imagine. And to imagine actually swallowing tapeworms says that's pretty desperate. But Jesus swallowed your sin and my sin. He who is holy and undefiled As it were, swallowed your sin to make it part of him. He became, Paul says in Corinthians, sin. And because of that, he was cursed because of becoming that defilement. How his soul must have been repulsed at taking that on. And becoming the object of God's wrath and his abandonment. Isaiah says, of course, this was not because of himself, this was as a substitute. That's the second point. So he brings that out again, all three verses. Go back to verse 10. He was uh he crushed him, caused him to suffer, and he made his Messiah's life to be a guilt offering You remember we talked about the lamb, that if you were to offer at the tabernacle, that lamb would passively be brought, you would confess your sin. As you laid your hands on the head of that lamb, and then the lamb's throat would be cut, and it would die as a guilt offering. You would die in your place as a guilt offering. In verse 11, it says that he will bear their iniquities, not his own. He's going to substitute, he's going to bear their iniquities. And then in verse 12, you see the same idea. He bore the sin of many. Now you notice it doesn't say he bore everyone's sin. It says he bore the sin of many. And so you have here that reminder that not everyone benefits from his sacrifice, only those who admit their need of Jesus. Only the person who's willing to say, Jesus, take my sins and take my life. When you ask him to take your sins, you must also ask him to take your life. He doesn't take your sins without taking your life. It doesn't take your life without taking your sins. But it must be both. And so as he takes both your life and your sins, he gives you new life. You must be willing to give over your life to him. Have you done that? Or have you just been listening to it as a passive observer? Only those here who have been willing to say that, Lord, take my sin and take my life, will He give the new life, which the Bible calls salvation. That's the third point. So Isaiah gives in each of the verses, he describes this in terms of salvation for his people. He does it three different ways. In verse 10, now we're in the blue. He says, um, he shall see his offspring. Now, his offspring, remember he was cut off, but his offspring are the spiritual seed that he is given. That vast number from every tribe and tongue and nation. And what is he going to do for them? In verse 11, you see that these offspring, those are his own uh he will justify them. He justifies the many. You notice that Isaiah says, by his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many. And commentators debate what that means by his knowledge. Some say what that means is that by Messiah's own wisdom or the knowledge of all that he has done He will declare the many to be innocent. Justify means to declare innocent. Literally, it means to righteousify. It is to declare legally righteous, innocent. However, I'm not persuaded that it's by his own knowledge. I think rather that what that phrase refers to is the many's knowledge of him. It's their knowledge of him that is the grounds of their being declared innocent. In other words, not what you do, but who you know that matters at the end of the day. Uh and so it is with you. See, it's not what you do. It's not what I do. It's who we know. If you know Jesus Christ personally, then at that day of judgment, where we pictured earlier in the series, And we come before God and we realize at that day we all flunked life. Right? I mean, you know, who's who's going to claim I got an A in life? We flunked But justification means that Jesus Christ comes for those that he knew, those that know him personally. And he stands before the father, and the father says his life got an A plus. And he credits the A plus of his life to us. And takes our F and suffers for it. That's justification. That's what it means. We live in a day where people say Judgment's no big deal. Don't think that that's really going to happen. Don't really think that guilt is something real. It's more just social conditioning. So I was kind of interested when um my wife gave to me this uh little packet that she had gotten back at Cape Cod last summer. It's a little towelette, and on the packet it says, um, wash away your sins, towelette. That's kind of intrigued with this, you know, it's heavenly scented antibacterial formula that kills sins on contact, it says. And the instructions say here's how to right your wrongs with a white. Directions for use. Remove moist towel it. 2. Devoutly wipe away any wrongdoing. 3. Spot check for stubborn guilt. 4. Wipe again as needed. 5. Discard sins and waste receptacle. 6. Go forth purified and moisturized. Now, you know you can this is like there's a whole line of this stuff over at Beauty First in Columbia Crossing. I'm not advertising it, I'm just telling you. This stuff has met some sort of, it's connected with some sort of need. Because we like to think that, wouldn't we? Like to think, you know, all the stuff I do wrong, you know, I just wipe it away. You know, it just will go. Because the gospel deals with faith We'd like something just tangible like this. Let me just wipe it and I'll I'll just see it gone and I I won't have to think about it anymore. But what Isaiah is saying is He's not saying that Jesus just wipes away our sin. You see, it's far better than that. He's saying Jesus took your sin. And therefore, you know, we sang that song, you know, I don't know if you noticed it, but we sang it over again. He has washed us with his blood. He has washed us with his blood and will bring us home to God. What he has done is by his blood, he has supplied that which will take away the sin forever Never again have to bring out a towelet or any other means of being able to take it away because Jesus has removed it once for all. He has justified the many. Amen? You don't have it. It's gone if you know Jesus. Now, third one in this one is the end, therefore I will give him a portion among the great That's salvation language because a portion is an inheritance. It's saying that we're his prize. And so it's saying that because we're his offspring, that he has justified, uh it's the picture of a conqueror who after his conquest gets treasure and that treasure is his pleasure and so he takes that and it is what uh he prizes to own to have And Isaiah is saying that that that treasure, uh that portion, if you will, uh, you know, what is that? Well, Isaiah goes on to describe it in chapter sixty to sixty-six He describes it in terms of a new heavens and a new earth. He describes it as a restored Eden. He describes it as the new creation In that new creation, you and I are there. And we're enjoying that creation. And we are there in order that he might receive our praise and our delight in him who ravishes our souls with the delights of all that he has given. And so this is the portion that he has. This is his prize. This is what he has given to you and to me. This is his joy. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2. For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, despising the shame. And he tells us in John 15 that he wants to share that joy. joy in you to be made complete. But Isaiah's focus is not so much on our joy in this passage as it is on his joy. It's a blessed Christ-centeredness that Isaiah is dwelling on. And so the fourth point then is to focus on his success. His success. And that success, you notice, is a success three times, three verses, that is stated as a success after his death. Now this is amazing. Look at verse 10. He says that he makes his Messiah's life to be a guilt offering, and he, Messiah, shall see, or the Father, either one, he shall see his offspring and prolong his days. Now the prolonging of his days is after the guilt offering. And if a guilt offering doesn't die, it's not a guilt offering So this is saying after he died his days will be prolonged. Then take a look at verse 11. This one's kind of intriguing to me because this this one is um it's so mysterious, it it seems, that nobody's been able to kind of leave it alone You see here the NIV says he will see the light of life and be satisfied. Now, the Hebrew actually only says he will see. But the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, added the light. And so the NIV and most other translations put that in there. You'll see the light. And then the NIV, if you have an NIV, you notice it's got two little brackets. It says of life. When you see those two little brackets, that means there's nothing in the original that that's translating. It's just kind of filling in what they think is implied. So they put in of life. So you have, he will see the light of life. But that's not what Isaiah said. Isaiah simply said he will see and be satisfied Now you see how elegant that is. It's just simply saying that he's going to be a guilt offering, he's going to die, and then he will see it, and he will be satisfied. You know, I don't know about you, but whenever I do something, I can see it and I may get some satisfaction out of it, but I can always look and say I could have done better. Yeah, I w I once built a deck. If I build a deck again, I'd do it better. I won't tell you all the ways I'd do it better, but it would be better. One perfectly rectangular, you know. You know, a and you know, y you make a cake, you know, you ever had you you know, kids you make a cake and you say, you know, it's edible. But, you know, it and so you're really satisfied. But you can do it better, right? So, you know, you keep trying to improve. Realized Jesus was giving something that was an absolutely impossible task. Son, go to earth in the form of a human, to be a human Live perfectly by law and die perfectly as a substitute for your people. Jesus did it, and he said, it's perfect. perfectly satisfied. There's nothing I would change. He sees it and he is satisfied. When Muhammad Ada decided to give his life to kill as many Americans as he could by flying that jet miner into the trade tower. He only could suppose what may be the effect of that sacrifice. He couldn't see it. He could only imagine Perhaps he accomplished more than he would have imagined, but he couldn't see. Jesus gave his life and sees the results. That's what Isaiah is saying. The servant's going to see the results of his sacrifice. Now who else in history could be a candidate for fulfilling that? You see, again, seven hundred and fifty years before it happened. Then look at verse twelve. He goes on that uh he um the the fourth Uh no, yeah, we're in the we're still in the fourth one. One little word there that's key. He's going to divide the spoils with the strong. Because he poured out his life to death. So the portion that he has with the Great, the dividing of the spoils of the conqueror, are after he's poured out his death, his life to death. In fact, it's because he poured out his life to death. Now that is not a statement that indicates resurrection I don't know how much clearer you can get. He is going to reign, he is going to reign as conqueror and king because he poured out his life to death. Now, last week I mentioned again, as I've done a number of times, that Jesus will always be in that body that he came in to die for you and for me. And every time I say that, I always have to stop and think, is that really true? And every time I preach it, usually there'll be one or two people that will come up after and they'll say, Come on, where does the Bible say that? Well, it's written a verse that says it. But it just seems too staggering. It's too much. Like pr one person said to me was asking about it this week. They said, it just seems like that's a really raw deal. I mean, God, y that's just too much. Why do I say that? Let me give you five bits of data from the New Testament very quickly that are the reason that I believe that the The Bible says this, although I even looked this week and I can't find any theologians that say it, although I first heard it from John Murray, professor of theology at Westminster probably thirty years ago. And I don't know why he said it, but here's what I find. You look in Luke chapter twenty-four, verse thirty-six and following. It describes Jesus' resurrection body, a body that can be touched, a body that tastes A body that can walk through walls. It's a supernatural body, but it's a physical body. In Acts chapter 1 in verse 11 , When Jesus ascends into heaven, the angel says, What? This same Jesus that you have seen go shall come in the same manner back to receive you. Indicating, just as you've seen him go, you're going to see him return. It's going to be in that same body. Thirdly, in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 21, you have Paul saying He is going to take our vile bodies and he's going to make them like his glorious body. So his body is the pattern for our body Fourth point, 1 Corinthians 15, goes even further. It says, his body is the first fruits of the general resurrection. Now, the first fruits of something is simply the first bits of the crop of the harvest. It's no different from the rest of the harvest. It is simply the first of the harvest. So Jesus' body is being described there by Paul as the first of the general resurrection body. But how do you know that he's still in that body? Well, if you read through Revelation, particularly this is this thing, Revelation chapter 1, verses 13 to 16, John has a vision of the glorified Christ in heaven. And that Christ he describes in a body. Physical descriptions. Now, those descriptions have more than just physical implications. But he is described still in that body and through the book of Revelation. There is nothing in Scripture that says he ever sheds that body or returns to a preincarnate state. So Jesus, in his success, in his reigning from eternity, sees what he has accomplished As somebody said to me after the first service, riddle for you, what is the only thing in heaven that's man-made? What's the only thing in heaven that's man-made? You kids think about this. I'll tell you the answer because I don't want you to wait. The prince of the nails in Jesus. They will be there forever. So you see, we have a Savior that continues to bear in his sacrifice, even in his success, the marks of that sacrifice. Now, when you and I see that, we are eminently satisfied. But Isaiah's focuses on Jesus And he says, what's even more important is that he is satisfied, and that's his last point. Jesus is satisfied. Jesus is completely satisfied with what he has accomplished. Again, go back to verse 10. Now we're into this kind of peachy thing here. For tan, I guess it is. Looks more like tan on on the screen there for you. Excuse me, last the last one. And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper be fully accomplished in his Messiah's hand. Remember it started off, the Lord was pleased to crush him, and then comes right on back to in the end The Lord's pleasure and his pleasure are united completely, fully, that prospers in his hand, and he has eternal pleasure from what he has done. Verse eleven. Again, he will see the light of life and be explicit, be satisfied. So there it is, can't be made clearer. Verse 12 Therefore I'll give him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong. Now that spoils Again, is the spoils of the conqueror, the one who has gained treasure out of his conquest. And so That is what Jesus uh gains from you and from me. Now the implications of that, uh just one little implication, is because he is dividing that spoil And he is satisfied in it, he takes pleasure in it, that means that you and I get to spend eternity with a God who is satisfied, with a God who is happy. I mean, you know, do you r you realize? I mean, who'd want to spend eternity with a grumpy God? And the Bible says that the God we will spend eternity with is a God who is completely satisfied. Now I mean when you just think about people that you spend time with here, how different your life is if the person that you live with is satisfied and happy Now imagine living with someone who is not only satisfied and happy, who has demonstrated that they love you enough to lay down their life for you, they're infinitely powerful All-knowing, all-wise, have created things beyond your wildest imagination to enjoy with them, and this is the person that you get to be with. Isaiah is saying, this is the hope that we have ahead of us. Back a few years ago, I read a story about a wedding banquet. This was in Boston in 1990. The fiance The two who were engaged went to the Hyatt Regency in Boston and they wanted to lay out this lavish meal. They had expensive taste. And when they finally decided on the uh crystal and the china and the table coverings and all the flowers and the the menu uh it came to thirteen thousand dollars and that was back in nineteen ninety. That could probably be about twice that now, about twenty six thousand. Thirteen thousand they needed to put down a deposit for sixty five hundred, so they wrote down check, sixty five hundred took off. Well the day that the wedding invitations were to come out, the groom got cold feet. He said, you know, this is a really, really serious thing and I I'm not really I don't know. I you know, let's think about it a little more. That was the end of that engagement. So the bride to be that wasn't gonna be, went back to the Hyatt Regency and she said, I need to get my deposit back because wedding's not gonna happen And the woman there said, I really sympathize with you. You know, I've experienced the same thing with a guy. Unfortunately, we can only give you 10% back. So you got a choice of either you can have the banquet anyway, or we'll give you $1,300 back. Well she thought about it and she said You know, ten years ago, I was living in a homeless shelter, and I got a job, a good job, I've been able to make a lot of money, and back on my feet. I'm gonna throw that banquet Only this time all the invitations are going to go to homeless shelters, halfway houses, crack houses, you know, people just down and out and Trying to recover. And so in June of 1990, the Hyatt Regency threw a banquet like they had never thrown before. There were bag ladies. The waiters and tuxedos were serving chicken cordon bleu. She changed the menu to boneless chicken in honor of the groom. And bag ladies and uh people with aluminum walkers were being served champagne and fruit cup And they danced late into the night. It was a time to be had. A time for people who would never guess that they could ever have something like that. You know, back at Christmas when our kids were young, when they were real little, they would ask for things and My biggest thrill was always to give them not just some of the things they asked for, but I'd always try to find something that would thrill them more, but they hadn't asked for it because they didn't know it existed Now by the time they got to be seven or eight, that was no longer possible because by that time they knew about toys that existed I would have never guessed at. But when they were really small, I was able to do that And it was such a thrill to give them something more than they knew existed. Jesus Christ is going to throw a banquet in which he is going to give to you and to me, brothers and sisters. Things that we never knew existed. He says in John chapter 14, I go to prepare a place for you. And when I have done that, I will come again and I will receive you to myself. In John 17, verse 24, Jesus closes his prayer to his father by saying, Father, I long that they be with me to behold my glory. The glory which I had with you before the foundation of the world. And you and I, who are a bunch of smiggles sitting here. who long for the transport and the redemption of our bodies. And if you don't know what Smiggl is, that's one of those Lord of the Rings little inside images. The little creature that was all kind of nasty and you know, and sometimes isn't that how it feels like we are? But Jesus is gonna take us from his sacrifice He's going to sit us at the banqueting table. And that honeymoon is never going to end. And Jesus is going to show to you and to me what it means to enter into his success. to be satisfied with a God who is satisfied with all that he has done for sinners. And we're going to enjoy that banquet and we're going to sit there and we're going to shout and sing even as Presbyterians to the glory of God. Now, if you don't know what that means, let me invite you to come the week after the Easter. We're going to have in the middle hour, four weeks. For people that may not know anything about the New Testament, or you know a little bit, no assumptions, look at one gospel each week: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. See what it means to know Jesus Christ personally. You want to get in on that? Two weeks in a day. Ten o'clock, it's gonna start. Just for four weeks But Isaiah wants you and me to look deeper into the person of Jesus, to look larger into what salvation is all about To when you read the news and you see the things that are depressing and it seems like God is just on the losing side, you know, it's like everything is out to demolish Christianity and our values and everything about Jesus and his honor You see that in the last 15-20 years, Saudi Arabia spent $70 billion in order to promulgate Islam. And to defeat Christianity and Jesus, building mosques and Islamic centers and schools and colleges. You have a Dan Brown who writes a book, The Da Vinci Code, in order to discredit Christianity, mixing a little bit of fact with a whole lot of fiction and speculation. And you begin to wonder, where is it all going? You read Isaiah chapter 53, verses 10 to 12, written 750 years before the unique person came along to fulfill that precisely. And you know what you say? Jesus is gonna win. No matter what they do, it's not gonna matter because Jesus is gonna win. Amen You and I have that hope. We live in the light of that hope. How do you live? Live, brothers and sisters, in the light of that hope. Be transformed by that hope. Be transformed by the hope of Jesus and his victory and his satisfaction in that victory, knowing Jesus will win. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus. Open our eyes to see the victory and your satisfaction in that victory you have accomplished. Lord, help us to live in the light of the hope of entering in and sharing with you as your spoils, as those who are the treasure of your heart To that new heavens and new earth where we will dwell with you forever and ever. Lord, help us that we might live in the light of that right here and right now. And for those that don't know what that means, Lord, to bring them a couple weeks from now to get into that study and know who this Jesus is. For you, Lord Jesus, have accomplished successfully all you set out to do, and that means heaven for us. Thank you. Thank you so much. Amen.