It's one of my uh favorite hymns. Uh This is my father's world. Why should my heart be sad? The Lord is King. Let the heavens ring. All right. Well, let's get right down to it. For those of you who don't know me, my name is John Song. I am the Director of Youth Ministries here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. If you could turn your Bibles to Exodus chapter 19. Exodus chapter 19. We are continuing our sermon series on what is the gospel by way of covenant. And we've arrived in the wilderness. Exodus chapter 19. Verses 1 to 6. On the third new moon, after the people of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, On that day they came into the wilderness of Sinai. They set out from Rephadim and came into the wilderness of Sinai, and they encamped in the wilderness. There Israel encamped before the mountain while Moses went up to God. The Lord called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be a treasured possession amongst all peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let me pray for us. God, we long for you in the wilderness. With hurricanes that have affected uh a great number of people in Haiti. The country, uh, an America that has been divided by so many racial, political, social lines, um, the circumstances in our life Every day in our relationships, in our work, in our families, Lord, we often lose sight in the wilderness of your great promises to us. It's often hard to see how your words, even your law, can provide us comfort. Father, I pray that today as we explore these themes in Scripture, We could walk away, encouraged, refreshed, renewed. Reminded again that you are faithful. Your law, your words never change. And that you have sent Christ to redeem us. Lord, may that be the thing that encourages us here. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, I want to start off by sharing a little bit of a uh of a little bit of a game with you all. Name that TV show. All right. Um here's the premise of the show. Couldn't be more predictable, right? A person enters onto a stage relatively unknown. Filled with fear or anxiety over what what they're about to do. Three judges stand waiting in front of them One preferably with a British accent. Awaiting to hear his story, where he has overcome adversity in their early life, is now living a normal life, but not really following their true passion. So the judges bravely tell them to perform, and suddenly something magical happens that causes everyone In the audience, the judges, the viewers on television, to see this person completely differently. This normal person becomes something extraordinary right before our eyes And when this person finishes, the audience erupts, right? And suddenly this person on stage realizes, maybe, maybe for the first time , That his passion in life is valued by others around him. Each of the judges confirm and they give praises, and at the end of the conclusion, the judges say, I want you. to be on here. The drama unfolds, everyone rejoices, and then we hit a commercial break. All right. During the commercial break, right, you chatter happens, you're you're oh my gosh, that was so amazing, right? Uh and suddenly this person who was once nameless becomes international news. Internet memes, Facebook fodder. Now, now what show did I just describe? Now many of you have your reality television competition show of choice. in your mind right now. You know I've just described the the premises of American Idol, the voice, X Factor, America's Got Talent. Britain's got talents, MasterChef, um, maybe to a lesser degree, shows that aren't so popular. America's next top model, so you think you can dance. The biggest loser, last comic standing, HG TV design star, cupcake wars, um, and maybe to a more deplorable degree, uh, Who Wants to Marry a Multimillionaire and um The all-too unfortunate Paris Hilton is my new BFF. So why is this theme so played out? on television. W why why do we continually have all of these shows? W why are we drawn to this kind of story? And perhaps the bigger question you are having right now is, what in the world does this have to do with Exodus chapter 19? Well , I'll get there. You see, the past couple of weeks we've been going over this question of what is the gospel? A question that on the surface we've covered is is a four-chapter gospel of creation, fall, redemption, new creation. And now we've been exploring this theme. of the Four Chapter Gospel through the story of covenant through Scripture. And how this plays out in the story is is God continually to coming into human history to rescue and redeem a people whom he created to love and worship him. A people that continually reject him, that continually spur in his favor, and despite that, God's disposition is one of grace. And throughout this narrative, God himself continues to enter into this story by way of covenant and reveal more layers of what his promises mean to his people. And here in this story in Exodus 19, we see these covenant promises being given to a people in the wilderness of despair. So for those of you who aren't familiar with the Exodus narrative, let me just set the scene here a little bit to the 18 chapters prior. The Israelites are in the midst of a massive exodus. freedom from the political, racial, religious, humanitarian oppression from Pharaoh in Egypt They were crying out for a savior, and prior to their exit, they experienced some of the most unbelievable things Of God's power mightily at work. I mean, you know, water turning into blood, th thunderstorms of hill and fire, disease, livestock and boils, locusts frogs, everybody sees opening. God turns off the electricity for a couple of days, right? Like divine stuff, right? God finally takes them out of slavery in such a dramatic fashion that we see the people of Israel rejoicing. And they are resting in the promise that God made to them. And the resting in the truth that God would lead them to the promised land. I mean, they finally feel like this is it. The Abrahamic covenant is going to be fulfilled. We are going to finally get that redemption that we have always waited for Right. It's like seeing that like Christmas gift. Underneath the tree, it's in the exact box outline of that thing that you wanted, right? You are just waiting for that day to come. I know it's too early to talk about Christmas, but who cares, right? Um you are simply waiting for the day. To be able to open your gate. And that is precisely what the Israelites are feeling right now. As they're going on this exodus, they're like, finally, the covenant will be fulfilled. Finally, we will receive the redemption we were waiting for. And then unexpectedly, God does something a little bit interesting. He sends the Israelites into the wilderness. For 44 days they traveled from the the hometown of Goshen to Shennai, uh Sinai, sorry, traveling with all their families, property, animals. Right, complaining kids, right? Going about at the pace of around nine miles a day with all of their everything, carrying everything with them. Travel for about 400 miles to get to Sinai, which, by the way, is nowhere near the promised land that God was going to send them to. And at this point, the Israelites suddenly don't have a rosy picture of God's promises anymore, do they? They start to doubt. What did God really promise to bring us here? What's happening here? The wilderness of despair for them brings primarily a theological doubt. amongst the people of God of Israel. Which leads then to their response that you see here. In the first 18 chapters, you see all different kinds of complaining and grumbling, which I'll get into in a little bit. But you gotta understand here, you gotta be able to make a connection with what's happening in the Exodus narrative. Is that that's the realities and the struggles and the doubts of every generation of believers. The Exodus is a type of exodus for all parts of redemptive history in every part of the covenant, in every part of our lives. This is why the Old Testament matters. This is far from just being a history with strange names that no one can pronounce. This is this is this is more than just the stuff that happened before Jesus came. The Old Testament matters to us. The wilderness wandering it for all of us can cause us to doubt God's covenantal promises. Because there is much surrounding our lives as distractions, both in the selfishness of the heart and in the lies of Satan, which are telling you not to trust in God. There are wildernesses that we run into, and then there are wildernesses that we create for ourselves through our sin. And every day that you are being continually told by the world That your life isn't as fulfilling as it could possibly be. That your life isn't as joyful or as fruitful as it could be right now. And we feel that no matter where you live. I mean, do you realize that the very fact that you attend this church means that you are in the relative proximity of, quote-unquote, the number one ranked city in America? Right? In America, supposedly the greatest country on God's green earth. And now even as I say that, your mind is creating reasons to dispute that claim. Colombia, number one, come on. Right? Our snow removal is terrible. We have to pay a Columbia Association tax. I mean, have you seen the parking on the mall on the weekends? I can't find a spot anywhere. The Chick-fil-A on Route 100, always packed. Can't ever get my chicken sandwich on time. We f we we sort of come up with these reasons of why even living here is quote unquote a wilderness. Now now those are superficial. I'll acknowledge that. Um But even in the fact that we live in all this comfort, let me get down to some real wilderness wanderings, wilderness of despairs that you might be Entering into right now that no amount of money, comfort, possessions, or perfect family situation, perfect schooling can assuage. There exists a tragedy in this world. And and you have to look no further than this is the devastation of let's say last week to confirm that, right? There's death that exists and it's inescapable. There's in our lives lives filled with regret, missed opportunities, broken relationships Failure, whether it comes from inward , how you condemn and blame yourself, to maybe the failure that you feel from others around you, that you you haven't lived up to the expectations of the people that you care about the most. This is constant in each and every single one of our lives. And you might be facing these realities here today, and you might just be like these Israelites in the Exodus in the wilderness. Wondering, God, what's what's going on here? What's happening? We will always be in a wilderness of despair, whether real, superficial, or not. And wilderness wandering doesn't necessarily mean that hard times have befallen you, but rather that you have lost your way. And living in the faith that God is faithful to his covenant promises. Wilderness wandering can sometimes just be the echo of Exodus 17:7. Is the Lord among us or not? Well, God steps into this picture in Exodus 19 with a reassurance and a revelation. The reassurance is what we read here when he says to them look at me with this with me in verse three, halfway through verse three Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings, and brought you to myself. How does God reassure people who are in the wilderness of despair? He's calling them to remember that he has been faithful to his promises. Remember that promise that he gave to Moses in Exodus 3. 12? He would take the people out of the land of Egypt and serve God on this mountain. Where are they again? Oh. Mount Sinai. Out of Egypt. God has done what he said that he would do. God is reassuring the Israelites that his promises are assured and amen. That they will be redeemed and restored because they have already been redeemed and restored from the slavery of their circumstance. These reassurances are there to remind them of the promise of the past. Like, you know, when you listen to your favorite song and it just comforts you. Um or or that that food that you always go to uh when times are difficult. Or or maybe the sight of a familiar mentor, a a teacher, a friend. It's like all of those things wrapped up into one. When God comforts and reassures us and tells us that he is faithful because he has been faithful, it's reminding ourselves again that yes, he is in control. No matter what wilderness we're in. Think about it. So how how has he done this in your life? Right? Last year, two years, five years ago, how has he redeemed you? How has he restored you? How has he brought peace and comfort in your life? Again, again, you may not be feeling that way today. But how has he done it for you in the past? God isn't done there in providing reassurances of his faithfulness. But not only there, he gives not just reassurances, but revelation. The covenant maker makes covenant promises because he desires the undesirable. And here we see in verses five and six the institution of the next chapter of the covenant. One very different from the covenant that he made with Abraham. Whereas the Abrahamic covenant was thin on details, the Mosaic covenant is filled with them. Whereas the Abrahamic covenant is broad, the Mosaic covenant, I mean, if you've ever read Deuteronomy in the subsequent chapters of Exodus, it's just a tad bit more precise. Just just a tad bit. The revealing of God's law is what happens here in the Mosaic Covenant. It's the beginning of the newest part of the gospel story. It's calling for the people of Israel to obey the voice of God in the institution of new laws that have now been presented to this nation-state. Now it's it's not like God's law didn't exist before this, right? It's not like surprise, murder's bad now, right? And that's not what that this means and what it's about. This this is rather just a progression of God's will moving from the person of Abraham, whom we learned about last week, right? To a people, to a nation, Israel. And with it will come the expectations of what it means to live in relationship and covenant with God. And before he gives the Ten Commandments which we just read in Exodus 20, before he gives the the the the law that which we find it detailed in Deuteronomy and and all throughout, in fact, the Torah. This prelude in verse 5 and 6 is his promise to the people of Israel. Look at it with me here. If you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be a treasured possession amongst all the peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Now that verse will make some people in this room who have read Galatians, parts of Romans and Ephesians, teaching of Christ and the Gospels, perhaps an alarm bell just went off in your head for you all of you theologians in the room. And for those of you who don't understand that discomfort of those who are who are a little bit nervous right now, let me explain the question. Some of you may be thinking, what is God doing here in verse 5? What is he doing here when he says that he telling them that they must obey his voice and keep God's covenant? I mean, does he really intend and expect for them to do that? I mean, did you hear about what they did in Exodus chapter 16 and 17? I mean, did God not see that? I mean, I thought God knew everything. Why would God give the Israelites a law that he very well knew That they could not keep. What is the purpose of God saying that He wants them to be completely obedient when there is no way, both in their history and Lord knows in their projected future? That they could keep God's law. The debate over Exodus 19. 5 has flamed many theological lightsaber fights over what God's intention really is here. Probably lost a couple of hands as well. The question that God is clearly demonstrating here is And the question that we have to answer is, how do we make sense out of all of this? Is God really saying to the people of Israel, I am giving you a works-based righteousness to keep? That if you obey my commands, then you'll be a role of priest. And then how does that make us any different from any other religion? Well we have to discern here is whether or not this covenant made with Moses And Israel is one that is just purely of a works-based covenant, sort of like the one made with Adam, or is this the covenant of grace? Is this the covenant that is really gracious to the people of Israel? If it's a workplace covenant, then one could easily see why Israel would have to be kicked out of the promised land, why they would have to go into exile. But is that really the reason why? Or is there something else going on here? I don't have enough time to go on with the nuance of this debate, unfortunately. But in short, I believe the answer and response that we can give to this question is this. There's very compelling arguments here that God is a covenant maker here telling undesirable people that he desires to be in relationship with them. And he desires to be in relationship by the giving of his law. And the revealing of his law here is actually a grace. It is a loving act. That he is doing this, not because he believes that they have the ability to fulfill the covenant apart from him, but rather that through the law they understand the heart and the character of God. And that they can walk faithfully with him. This is a loving act given by the God of the universe. This revelation of God's law, far from being something that we just Flippantly skip through in pages of scripture and say, well, this doesn't matter and apply to me anymore. This each and every single law that God gives is a revelation of who He is. His love, his mercy, his tenderness, his compassion, his steadfastness. It's a mean to give undesirable people here a heart to desire God. Now, there are some of this who would say that the giving of the law seems antithetical to grace. And I'll give you two responses, one short, one long. The short response is, how would you ever know that you needed grace without the law? How would you ever know? If you had no context to understand what you have done is wrong, how would you ever know that you could have ever received grace? The more lengthy answer that I would give is one of analogy. I think one of the better analogies I've heard on this is simply that of a teacher. On the first day, you know, in any class that you go to, right, the teacher hands you a sheet of paper. And what is that sheet of paper? It's your syllabus, right? Ah, right? The skip day for a lot of college students. Don't do that. It's a list of what? Expectations, rules, law for you to follow to demonstrate what it will mean to do well in that class, to demonstrate the relationship between the teacher and the student. Now no one looks at the teacher when they're passing out the syllabus and says, How dare you give me a syllabus to follow? This is ungracious. Do you know how unloving this syllabus is? Now some of you might say that because there's a lot of work on that syllabus, but But regardless of that, right? No no person's gonna be like, why would you reveal specific things about this class? How dare you? Right? Why not just leave it a divine mystery? That is so unloving that you would hand me your law to show what this relationship is going to be like. Oh. Rather the opposite, right? In fact, if anything, uh what do students often most complain about? Right? Oh the teacher was so unclear, right? I had no idea what they were expecting. I mean, if only the teacher were more explicit, I wouldn't have failed that exam. Right? They always, you know, they always say that. You see, the law is here, and the law is given in the Mosaic covenant for the Israelites to best understand how they can please, serve, and worship God through his commandments. Now some of us would say, well that's that's all well and dandy, but what about these laws? Do they apply to us today? And we we answer, yes, absolutely. I mean sure the sacrif the sacrificial and the ceremonial laws of the Old Testament, they're gone. Christ has fulfilled that. But the moral laws in the Old Testament, far from being something that's just archaic and old, uh Still hold weight for us here. There's still the best of what God has desired out of us here today. Again, just simply because it's an Old Testament command doesn't mean that it's not valid. Guess what? Killing someone today is probably just as bad as killing someone back then. Our sexual ethics still matter. Our devotion and love for the Lord matters. Our keeping of the Sabbath does matter. Being in community matters. All of this matters. They don't disappear because of Christ's finished work, but they are a response to the fullness of the finished work of Christ that He has given to us. So the law, far from being something that we can just simply gloss over, is something that is valuable to the church and to the community, and is valuable and necessary in our worship to God. They cannot be divorced from each other. So why do the Israelites need this? Why did the Israelites need the law? Well, we have to understand the Israelites as a people. Remember what I said with the Israelites, why they need the law? I mean, you have to understand the story. So let's go back to the Exodus story here. Exodus chapter 15 The Red Sea has opened miraculously. The people of God have gone through, they are now saved, and they now realize that they are completely completely free from the grip of Pharaoh. They start singing songs, beautiful poetic songs in Exodus 50 saying, Your right hand, O Lord, glorious in power. Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness? Beautiful language, poetic, so devotional What an incredible people, so thoughtful, right? What happens in the next chapter? They go on from singing this beautiful worship song to the Lord. In Exodus 16, saying to God's chosen leader in Moses, we should have died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. Why have you brought us out? to to hunger, right? In Exodus 17. Why are you bringing us out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock? Why? I mean are you serious? How quickly the wilderness of despair brings out our real thoughts, doesn't it? And it's so easy to laugh at the Israelites here because we know that where God is leading them. But the reality is is again this is the nature of our hearts. We far too often wallow in the misery of the wilderness and fail to remember the faithfulness of that which we have been redeemed of. We find it so easy to boast about our inconveniences to anyone who would listen to to put the blame on the God on on God, on other people, for putting us in a place that we wouldn't like to be in. We even go as far as to echo the cry of the Israelites. You know what, God? It was so much easier when I was not a Christian. Let me go back to Egypt. Why is this so difficult? Always forgetting, always doubting, always fretting, always blaming, always ungrateful, always unfaithful. That's the very definition of someone who is undesirable. And that is each and every single one of us apart from the loving grace of God How would you respond? If you were God in this scenario, how would you respond to the Israelites? You have done everything for them. And all that you have received is anger, complaining, rebuke. Challenge of your divinity? How would you act if you were God? I often go, um Camping with uh youth students. Um, and I remember the story of when I was uh at one particular campsite um in Elkneck State Park. Um which is uh about like forty-five minutes an hour drive away from here. And uh taking uh Howard County kids camping is always an interesting experience. Because there are certain questions that are asked by Howard County kids in camping that no, not many other kids in different contexts would ask. Things like where can I plug in my iPhone charger, right? You know, things like, you know, just just all sorts of conveniences, things like that. But it I remember this one story because I think it it speaks to this situation here of a student who will go unnamed. So we had decided that on one of the days of our camping that we would go hiking. Now this particular student, she was not a big fan of anything that involved Walking. And and and so so immediately when I said uh let's go hiking, right? Uh immediately the complaints started coming. And and all the things with the Israelites that you saw and the complaining guy you saw here. Why are we doing this? What are you doing? You are so unloving. I could get hurt. And then the classic Coward County line. You know, I could sue you. Right? I'm going to get hurt. My mom is going to get so upset. Right? And you are going to be in a lot of trouble. Say to her, don't worry about it. See, and I was laughing and I was smiling, and the reason why is because I knew what was on the end of this trail. As we were hiking and as she was just shouting, it's not too late to turn back. It's not too late to turn back. You're gonna be in a lot of trouble. Right? Um singing like a song really about it. Um I just kept on laughing and smiling, just you wait. We're almost there. Just you wait. At the end of this trail, see what she didn't know was that there was this beautiful like just lighthouse looking over this view. of of of of the river. I think it's the Chesapeake. And it's this gorgeous view. You can see for miles, the cities and and and there's this huge field that you can play on. And sure enough, when we arrived there, what happened to the complaining? Nothing but silence. She's laughing, having a good time. And at the end of the at the end of our time there, when we were there at the lighthouse and at the field and when we had when we said we needed to walk back, the response was predictable. Parents, you all know the response, right? Do we have to go now? You see I think this is what God does with us in the wilderness. When he gives us his covenant and gives us his law and he's desiring undesirable people, what he's doing, he's just walking us along this trail. Yeah. I know it's hard. Yeah. Just keep on going. A couple more steps. You won't believe what's at the end of this journey Every covenant people Is an undesirable one. As we'll read about and learn about and have we've already read about in Scripture, there is no covenant people who isn't In some way, undesirable. I mean, Noah was a drunkard, Abraham was a liar, David was a murderer and adulterer, Israel is unfaithful, the church delves into division and chaos and sin. Every single one of us in here, we do the unthinkable, we speak the unsayable We do horrible things to one another in the name of success and idolatry, and we hurt each other profoundly in ways that we can't even begin to comprehend. So what's left for this covenant of people to do? What can they do? What can they do? Nothing. The covenant people need to look for a covenant keeper. They can't keep it. They in no way can keep the law of Moses. The law that God has sent. So you know what this most holy, most awesome, most wonderful God does? He gives them a covenant keeper. He gives them himself. His one and only son, Jesus Christ. He looks at us, standing on that stage, nervous, unknown, undesirable, and he looks at us and he says, I want you. And I will reach out to you. And I will love you. I will die the death that you should have died. I will give you my righteousness. I will turn you into a perfect law keeper before the sight of God the Father. I will declare you to be holy, to be clean. Think about that in reality. That is the treasure that we have in the gospel That our God would send Christ to die so that we can inherit this promised kingdom. Exodus 19, 5. That we could be called the people of God The covenant law here is not just a list for our condemnation, not just a law to show us how we can live according to God's will. But it is here in this passage to point to us the one who has come, who would come, to fulfill the law in all its entirety. Jesus comes and says, I will stand in your place. I will stand for your failures and your punishments. And give us this perfect redeeming righteousness. The blessings of the law come from Christ, the perfect man. And here in this story we see the shadow of things that come. Now, next week the story is going to continue on. The covenant of David. And as we unfold this story even further, the law is going to play a very critical role in all of this. But before we get into the story that's in here, let's talk about the story of your life here. Do you stand here today feeling like you can be a covenant keeper on your own apart from God? Are you failing to trust in his faithful promises? Are you clouded by distractions in the wilderness of despair? We want to invite each and every single one of you. Here to rest again in the treasure that is our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. And his work on the cross, to worship him, to pray to him, and say, Lord, let me remember again. Help me to walk through this, resting in the truth of your promises. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. To remind us again that the law is a grace. The law is here to remind us of how much we need Christ. The law is here. to show us how we can see the character of who you are, loving, gracious, merciful, the one who keeps his promises, the one who desires undesirable people, the one who keeps the promises that we could not. God, you are amazing and glorious. Lord, may that just draw us into a time of now of singing and praise and worship to you. And for those in this room that have yet to trust in the Lord for their salvation, I pray that they would. Know that the gift of the gospel is freely given. I get to talk to somebody about the truth of this amazing gospel and accept and believe it. Father, we thank you for this time together. We pray all these things in your son 's name. Amen.