Good morning CPC. Is your God good? I feel like some of us need to wake up. Maybe it's just me Luke chapter 9. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to Luke chapter 9. For those of you visiting with us or on the live stream, I'm Pastor Bob, the pastor here, and it is uh A special welcome to those of you who are visiting with us either digitally or would that be digitally? Yeah, that'd be digitally. I'm not good with technology, but uh for those of you who are in analog form. Welcome to you as well. I'm going to be reading for us Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 23. Let's pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Lord, we pray that as we come to it, we would be mindful of the fact that you, the living God, speak through your word. And what a blessing it is for us to hear it. Only give us ears to truly hear it. Not just information, but Lord, may the significance, the meaning. Lord, affect our heads, our hearts, and our hands, that we might love you with body, soul, strength, everything, every part of all of who we are. And loving you, love our neighbor as well. Grow us, change us, work in us. And Father, we pray that you would bless the preaching of your word that follows. Lord, and help us to be encouraged and edified, built up, that we might go forth from here with great joy and with peace. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 23, the word of God. And he said to all If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God. This ends the reading of God's Word. We have just as a church looked last week at Peter's good confession of Christ. And I'd mentioned that in all three of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, that is a decisive turning point in the Gospel. Not only in terms of the nature of what Jesus says, but the direction in which he moves. You see, from this point on, Jesus having described and explained to his disciples in brief but with clarity that he must die Remember in the Gospel of Luke, the words immediately preceding what I read for us this morning say that Jesus told them the Son of Man must suffer many things. Be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And from this point on in the ministry of Jesus, his Path, his geographical presence is focused on Jerusalem. He is now heading to his passion, his death for us. And it's at this point in the Gospels that we find him saying to his disciples and others, if anyone would come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Because it says, if any would come after me, and then one of those things that they must do in order to come after him is follow him We're right to see that Jesus is talking about two different things here. Not only is he talking in general about the nature of the life of faith, if anyone would follow me in the way that I follow him, but it would include walking with him. And where is Jesus walking? He's walking to Jerusalem. So Jesus is telling his disciples in the crowds. That at this point following Jesus means not falling away from this difficult truth that the Son of Man has come to suffer, be rejected, and be killed, and be raised again. It is very easy for us to want a simple, moralistic, comforting, kindly savior. But this savior. Who looks at power unflinchingly is utterly rejected and crushed by it. Will we follow him? Will we have him to be our king, our captain, our friend? Those questions lie at the very heart of this critical part of Christ's teaching. And it's not a teaching simply for the apostles, the twelve, as they're called in Luke's gospel. If you notice the language of inclusion, He has just asked his disciples when he's just alone with them in verse 18, he says, Who do the crowd say that I am? Now, after this short interview that ends with verse 22 , Jesus teaching them about his suffering, we then read, and he said to all. Now the other gospels say, and calling everyone, the crowds to him, he said, This is for everyone. This is a word not just for the elders and deacons or the pastors and missionaries. This is a word that is for you, dear Christian. And it's kind of a tough word. It's a tough word with powerful motives And let's look at the toughness of it first. What does following Jesus require? There are three things that he says here. And he said to all, if any one would come after me, let him one deny himself. Two, take up his cross daily, and three, follow me. Deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow Jesus. What do those three things mean? What does it mean to deny yourself? It is an interesting feature of the language of the Old Testament Israelites, the Jews, that in Hebrew they don't really have a good idea for this. This is no one-to-one correspondence between the Greek of the New Testament and any vocabulary known to the Old Testament. This idea of denying yourself. is something that is radically new in the life and ministry of Jesus, radically new in its clarity, if not in its content. A meditation on the Word of God and on God's law, as Psalm 1 exhorts us to, would certainly indicate that we want to Love our neighbor as ourself and not bear grudges and in these in these and in many other ways deny ourselves, but declaring call with its kind of crystal clearness, deny yourself comes from the mouth of Jesus. What does it mean to deny yourself? Well I'll tell you what it means for me. For me it means that I say no to Bob Bjerkes. That's my name It does not mean that you say no to Bob Bjerkes. That's denying me. You are called to deny you. But what exactly does that mean? Well, how did Jesus deny himself? The best clue for that comes in the verses immediately preceding. The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed, and on the third day be raised. Jesus puts himself utterly at the disposal of God, the Father, who is working this great plan of redemption. Think about what Philippians chapter 2 says, that our attitude should be that of Christ Jesus, who, though he was. Equal to God in a sense, fully divine, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, held onto so tightly But rather he humbled himself and became nothing. He took on our flesh and was found even as one who would serve us. You see, here's this attitude of self-denial in which Jesus, the Son of the living God, who is God in every sense of that word, divine from all eternity The one by whom and through whom everything was created, the sustainer, the reconciler of all things, this Jesus, this Son of God. humbles himself and becomes nothing. Why? So that he can serve , that he might save. Denying himself means that I am willing to suffer, to play my role in this great pact of salvation between the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, by which the redeemed. Will be rescued. It means that I am going to be willing to be rejected and scoffed at, even by those who should cherish my presence. The chief priests and scribes and the elders of the people. It means that I will even subject myself or allow myself to experience that greatest of indignities the punishment for sins of which I've committed none. And I will entrust myself to the care of my God, who is able even to bring me back. From death itself. These are very close to the heart, if not the summary of what it means to deny yourself. To cast yourself wholly upon the Lord. To stop trying to be wise in your own eyes and figure out all the solutions to your own problems. To stop being so critical of others and lax with yourself. To stop imagining that you know all the answers and everyone around you is just straight up stupid It means to trust God with yourself completely in everything. And that's difficult to do. I cannot tell you how often I have been watching a football game. And I've thought I know so much more than that coach does. I can't tell you how many times I've watched a baseball game and said They should have pulled that picture last inning. And you know, in all of my imaginations like that, guess what? I'm actually 100% correct. You see, we don't naturally in our unbiased state have high views of others. We naturally invest our opinions, our perspectives with an absolute authority that interferes even with our relationship with the living. living God. Take my pompous attitude towards NFL coaches and baseball general managers And is it not the case that sometimes I, as your pastor, think, God, I wouldn't have done it that way? I wouldn't have written my history this way, or the history of my church, or my family, or my neighborhood this way. I wouldn't have written this chapter or this decade of world history that way. And what am I doing when that occurs? I'm dragging God out of heaven and claiming the right to sit on his throne I'm imagining that I know more. Far from denying myself, I'm actually denying God. I'm not trusting him. I'm judging him. To deny yourself means to be wholly dependent upon the God, with whom lies all power, all goodness, all justice. All mercy. And it simply makes no sense. But it's going to be hard to do that, isn't it? To utterly deny yourself and to cast yourself and your cares upon the Lord completely means that you are going to have to figure out what to do about the troubles that come your way. Because Jesus himself in the Sermon on the Mount says that don't worry about tomorrow. Each day has trouble of its own. Every day of your life has trouble. Aren't you glad you came to church this morning? Every day of your life you're going to have trouble. Well, Jesus says here that if you want to follow him after he's revealed the fact that he must suffer horrifically, horribly, fatally. He says, if you're going to follow me, if you're going to come with me, you deny yourself, and you must every day pick up your cross. Now let me tell you what that does not mean. Picking up my cross does not mean, and those of you who know me know that I have a an eye disease, retinitis pigmentosa, and I can't see my own hands now. Now I can see them. I see just a kind of a a a vector out of my left eye. The right eye is kind of useless. It's but it looks really good, my wife tells me Picking up my cross does not mean waking up in the morning and say, oh yeah, that's right, I'm legally blind. Bummer. Do I have the option of not acknowledging that? No. The answer is no. You see, picking up a cross is something you do willfully. Picking up a cross actually meant something in the ancient world. Jesus isn't making this phrase up. The cross, or the crux in Latin. had two parts. If you look at this cross behind me, you had the vertical part called the street base, kind of like a stripe, but I don't think there's any actual connection. That's just a happy coincidence That part was generally left in the ground. So if you went outside of any any town that had Roman influence or governance where they performed this method of capital punishment. You'd see a bunch of posts in the ground at the place of execution. This the steepes would be wo would the street bays would be we set and ground as a grim reminder to all That the Roman Empire had the power of life and death over you. Not for Roman citizens, but for everybody else. A Roman citizen could not be crucified. It's too humiliating and shameful. It was only for others. It was not an uncommon form of execution. Within the lifetime or the lifespan of people alive when Jesus was walking in his earthly ministry. Hundreds of people on multiple occasions were crucified at the exact at the same time. And those were just the kind of the the group executions. How many other thieves and robbers, like the ones on the right and left hand of Jesus on any given weekend , were strung up for all to see? Well, that street base was sitting the ground all the time. The patibulum was the horizontal part, the part the arms would be attached to. That was not left up all the time. That was generally stored at the place that we might call a prison. A dungeon, a place where the condemned were. And when the condemned made their last walk, they would be ushered out of their prison cell and they would pick up that patibulum And carry the cross piece to the place of their execution, generally accompanied by four Roman soldiers, and they would be fastened to that patibulum And it would be elevated up sometimes with ropes fastened in place on the strepes, and they would be crucified. Picking up your cross. Your cross. Picking up your cross meant that you are accepting That your life is over. It means that you are embracing the fact that this is your last day. I want you to think about the weight of this idea, this idiom of pick up your cross. It has this idea of willfully being a part of the horror that is about to ensue. We talk about biting the bullet or having a stiff upper lip, and those are mere tiny little distant echoes of what this notion would have meant in that culture. To pick up your cross. And doesn't it comport well with the biblical concepts of dying to yourself? Doesn't it fit well with the idea of mortifying or putting to death the sins of your flesh? See, it's an active determination that you are going to live as if this is true. That all that is wrong and sinful with respect to who you are and how you've lived has died with Christ, and you are in the process of getting it removed entirely from your life. To follow Jesus means to embrace your life and live it as if the outcome is certain. And your God can raise the dead. Take up your cross every day We think of living with one foot in your grave as if it's a bad thing to do. As if that makes you a a Debbie Downer or what's the male version? Maybe a a Dougie Downer What about living with one foot in heaven? The God who rescues us from the other side of the cross, even as he rescued Jesus, is our hope. And in denying ourselves, we are living with our values And our attitudes, our hopes and expectations firmly fixed to the world to come, which is our true home, where our citizenship truly resides. And imitating Jesus. That's what it means to follow him. To be a disciple basically means three things: it means to follow someone else in order to learn from them. So that you can become like them. Take any one of those three things out of your definition of discipleship, and you're no longer a disciple. Maybe you're a spectator. Maybe you're paparazzi. But becoming like Jesus is the whole point. Becoming like the one who denied himself and who took up his cross every day for the rest of his life until his crucifixion, he set his face to Jerusalem and walked towards it, knowing full well what would happen. And we are called to do the same thing. To take a good long look at our life with all the blessings and all of the effects of the curse. To look at the fact that even we are mortal, even we have issues in our life that are difficult and hard, and for us to, as men and women , Pick up those burdens God has deigned for us to carry for His glory and our sanctification, and do so with a will. Not morosely. But confident that the one who calls his servant to suffer many things and to be rejected by those who should accept him the most. And be killed will also be raised. What an invitation! What power might lie in living a life in those footsteps? What hope! In knowing that whatever comes, to whichever one of us, the worst happens, it is nothing compared to the power of the Lord Jesus, our risen Savior. And as he was raised, we will be too. Jesus doesn't simply give us that difficult call, he gives us three powerful reasons. Powerful reasons for why we should do this, why we should deny ourselves, why we should daily pick up our crosses, why we should follow him The three reasons start with the word for. Here's the first one. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. So let's boil that down to the one thing that's in common between both halves of that verse. Notice, for whoever would save his life will lose it. You're gonna lose your life no matter what. The first part of that is sort of subjunctive. Whoever would save his life, and the second one is not, will lose it. You're gonna lose your life The second part says, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. And again, whoever loses his life for my sake. You see, the common thing is you're going to lose your life. Let me ask you this, how many of you were around uh during the American Revolution? Or conversely, how many people do you know who are still around who were here during the American Revolution? You know what happened to every single one of them? They lost their life. Every one of us is gonna cross that river. And if no matter how hard we try to keep our life and to hold on to our life, we're gonna lose it. You're not keeping it But if you lose your life for Christ's sake, which means if you lose your life after having denied yourself, picked up your cross, and followed Jesus. Well then you will save it. Giving your life to Jesus, embracing the life of a living sacrifice. which is your reasonable act of service, of worship to your Creator and Redeemer , is the path to living abundantly. And a You can't keep your life, so follow Jesus. He can give it to you forever. Nothing, secondly, is worth the loss of your soul Look at the second reason Jesus gives. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? If you at the end of the day are going to lose your life, how does it profit you to become the richest person who has ever lived? Think about how quick your life is. I'm 57. I feel like I was 17 yesterday. Anybody else ever have that feeling? It goes fast. And all of your best experiences and all the hundred dollar bills you've had in your wallet, guess what? At the end of the day, does it really even matter? What did you gain from it? When at the end of the day you you you might say I would give all of my money for just one more one more year. And guess what? It's not an option. Nothing you gained can get you a single thing. Not one extra minute. Nothing is worth the loss of yourself. Nothing. The only thing That can give you a guarantee of the world to come that is favorable is following Jesus That means resting and trusting and accepting who he is and what he's done for you. That means denying yourself Turning away from all self-righteousness and with repentance and faith looking to Jesus. It means picking up the cross and treading in his footsteps. not in a church apse in the stations of the cross, but in living your life to God's glory even in difficult circumstances in your family. In your career, in our country, in the world. It means being like Jesus and being light and life and salt. Whenever and wherever you can. You see, the last reason is that your eternity depends upon it. It depends upon following Jesus. The last two verses go together. For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory, in the glory of the Father and of the angels. And then we have a different part of speech here, a conjunction, but I tell you truly there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Kingdom of God, the absolute reality of the end that will come, and the role of Jesus, the Son of Man, in that moment. Is sufficient reason that every one of us should feel the very voice of God pleading with us to turn to Jesus and be saved? Jesus makes it clear if we start from the end that some of them would see the Lord in his glory. And indeed, next week we're going to see that three of them do that very thing. Within a span of days at most. But all of us are going to one day see the Lord in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. And on that day, Jesus Jesus will either own us as his, or if we were ashamed of him in this life, he will be ashamed of us. What does that mean? That means that he will not, as Hebrews chapter 1 says, stand up in the assembly and be proud to call us brethren, sisters, brothers That means that he will give you the permission you have longed for to have an eternity without him. But oh friend, you don't know what that really means. Because to be absent from the presence of God, which so many want so badly. means also to be out of the reach of his attributes. Things like love, truth. Holiness, righteousness , power, presence Your eternity depends on your relationship to Christ and whether or not you have followed him, denying yourself, embracing that cross-shaped life, and becoming like Jesus. Have you been ashamed of Jesus? I can think of a couple times in my life where I know that the answer is a resounding yes. I recall one time, it would have been 1990, I was a senior at the University of Maryland College Park. And there was a girl, I can still picture this girl, sitting on the steps outside at the front of Coalfield House on the campus of University of Maryland, crying her eyes out. And I don't know that I have ever felt a stronger prompting to go and share the gospel with someone as I did that day. And do you know what I did? I did not Nothing at all. I walked to my car, started the key in the ignition, drove home. That has haunted me for decades. Because on that occasion, I was ashamed of Jesus. Have you had experiences like that? Have you had experiences like the Apostle Peter who denies Christ three times, ashamed of Jesus? Well, I want to invite you to consider this. Jesus says pick up your cross daily. That means that if you let it drop one day, pick it up today. And Jesus, as the Gospel of John makes so clear to us in its last chapter, goes out of his way to say to Peter, let's have a conversation, Peter, you and me. And Jesus will ask you if you love him as often as you are ashamed of him. Jesus loves you. And that is sufficient reason for you after whatever hiatus you've had in your Christian life. However much you've denied him, however many times you've shunned his cross, however many times you've exalted yourself above the very throne of God, Jesus is speaking to us and saying, You Deny yourself today. Pick up your cross today. Follow me today. And he's asking you, do you love him? Because the answer yes to that The embracing of a savior expunges records. It washes away sin that is As deeply ingrained as scarlet dye in ancient fabric. Will you daily, dear Christian, submit yourself, sacrificially serving the Lord and loving your neighbor? In the message notes, I cite Romans 12 and your community groups think about that and how these verses comport well with Paul's statement that we are called to offer ourselves as living sacrifices, as a reasonable act of worship. And dear friend, will you follow Jesus? Will you follow Jesus who offers himself for you, dying in your place? Will you follow the Jesus who denied himself so that you could be claimed? And will you turn from your sins, denying yourself, cast yourself upon the Lord Jesus, join him in living a life shaped by the cross? And be raised together with him in the world to come. That is an invitation for you, and it is a reminder to us who have already tasted and seen the goodness of God. Of the Lord. Walk with Jesus today. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your work in our hearts. Lord, we give you thanks that we are called to a life that on the face of it is is sometimes so difficult, but Lord, looking slightly deeper into the person of Jesus and his life today. Exalted on the very throne of heaven. Lord, it is a beautiful life. It is a life that is full of love and hope and glory. It is a life in which the tears that we shed are Guaranteed to be wiped away and put aside forever. It is a life of blessedness. And Father, we pray that you would give us such a perspective that we might rejoice before you and daily count our blessings and love our God. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. You'll find on the screens in front of you the Apostles' Creed. It is a confession of faith that has been used by the church for uh coming up on two millennia. We are going to use this as a profession of our love to God, and we are going to use it as a way of saying to the world and to one another that we are not ashamed of Jesus. Amen. Dear Christian, do we have the words up? Okay Dear Christian, what do you believe? I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary. He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. He descended into hell. The third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church. The communion of the saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen. As we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper together, the session of Columbia Presbyterian Church invites all of you who are baptized members of any Christian church, all of you who desire to live a life denying yourself. Picking up your cross and following Jesus, this is a table of the Lord for you. And one of the ways we pick up our cross. And engage in that cross-shaped life is by recognizing the death of Christ for us. And indeed, as we come in this table to this table in the lines that will form, We are proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your life for us and your death for us. Us. As we've seen it in Christ, Lord Jesus, you uh loved us so much that for the joy set before you, you endured the cross, scorning its shame. Help us to never be ashamed of you. And Lord Jesus, we come thanking you for your body and your blood, for the gift of yourself that we might have life before you Bless this cup. Bless this bread to us. We give thanks in Christ's name. Amen. Our Lord Jesus Christ, on the night he was betrayed, after giving thanks as has been done in his name, he took bread and he broke it, saying, This is my body. which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise he took the cup and said, This cup is the new covenant shed in my blood for the forgiveness of the sins of men. Many take and drink. As the Spirit leads you, I'd invite all of you to come. Come and take the elements, return to your seats, and we will we will partake of them together At Christ's invitation, eat all of you. And drink, you who believe. Lord Jesus Christ, help us. Help us now to abide in you that we might bear much fruit. And that you might receive much glory through us. And Lord, help us as your people to show forth many good works. That those around us might see your gospel. Help us to speak good words, that they would hear it. And help us to demonstrate such unity before the world, that the world will know, Lord Jesus, that you are one with the Father. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen