To our God that we have been led in worship, that we might take all our thoughts captive To rest, to see the Lord Jesus, to worship him as he deserves For he is worthy of our worship. We come to the Word of God this morning. We've come to the end of this brief series on worship. And this series of worship was, as I said, an extension of And Sunday evening reflection for the Lord's Supper service back in August, and wanting to build on what does it mean to worship. So we've looked together at the basis of worship, finding enjoyment. In the Lord, worshiping Him, glorifying Him, enjoying the Lord as the chief end of man. And last week we looked together at the role of lament. What does being able to cry out to God between a rock and a hard place, what does that look like for the Christian? As one author, as I quoted last week, asked, what does a miserable Christian sing? Is it okay for Christians to be miserable? And any glance for any time at the book of Psalms you will see, yes, indeed. It's very, very, very uh possible to be both miserable and to find hope in God, but to come to Him with that misery and that anguish. And that worship is precisely the place to do that. This week I'll finish with what does it mean to have wisdom and to connect that to worship? Wisdom and worship. You'll see this morning we're going to look together at these verses from the book of Ephesians. And this part of the book of Ephesians is just prior. To where Paul applies what he has just spent the first four and a half chapters doing to individuals. But before he gets there, he kind of reaches a crescendo. about wisdom and worship. So let's look together at Ephesians 5, 15 to 20 Be very careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what God's what the Lord's will is. Do not get drunk on wine which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Now, Heavenly Father, we ask that you would buy this double-edged sword of the Word Go to the very core of our being and enable us to live with wisdom in this day and in this age, to live wisely And to see that the end of our days, the goal of our existence, is indeed worship. What does that then look like, Lord, now? As we await and as we work, when Christ will come again, so teach us, Lord, to live with wisdom and to worship In Jesus' name. Amen. In nineteen seventy, at the announcement Really, at the shearing of his wife, Jim Crocey, learned that they were going to have a son. Jim Crocey was a singer-songwriter, you may remember. However, that song would not see the light of day for another couple of years. 1972. He passed away in 1973 after an accident. Posthumously, this song would then reach number one. That album which it was placed would stay five weeks on the number one billboard charts. The song was called Time in a Bottle. He wrote this thinking of his son who was going to be born in the world. It goes like this. And I my apologies to you as you will now hear this for the rest of your day, if you remember the song. If I could save time in a bottle, the first thing that I'd like to do. is to save every day till eternity passes away just to spend them with you If I could make days last forever, if words could make wishes come true, I'd save every day like a treasure, and then again I would spend them with you. But there never seems to be enough time to do the things you want to do. Once you find them, I've looked around enough to know that you're the one I want to go through time with. If I had a box just for wishes and dreams that had never come true, the box would be empty except for the memory of how they were answered by you. But there never seems to be enough time to do the things you want to do. Once you find them, I've looked around enough to know that you're the one I want to go through time with. Of course, Jim Crocey would have little understanding of just how precious time would be for him. When he climbed aboard the plane in 1973, little did he know that that would be the last plane ride he would take. Time is extremely precious. How do we have wisdom in this time and in this age? What would Paul have us do in regard to wisdom and worship with the time we've been given? Let's look together in his word. And see if we can glean something together. First, redeeming the time. Secondly, filling up, pouring out. Filling up, pouring out. Redeeming the time, filling up, pouring out. So together, as we look at this passage, I must tell you that I'm drawing largely on the King James Version Now the King James Version, I believe, in some ways gets at the essence of what Vinai V translates here is Be careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise here, making the most of every opportunity. Here, what Paul, I want to suggest, is telling us to do is to redeem the time. And in many ways, I want us to see that redeeming the time means a couple of things. It means first cultivating the resource. of time, cultivating the resource of time. Context is also important. Our context in which we live, but also connecting it then From what Paul was talking about to where we are now. So redeeming the time, cultivating context and connecting. Let's look at that together. Cultivating resources. One of the things he says here is that being very careful. So he's asking us, he's warning us. Telling them how you live, how you live actually matters, not how you think, first and foremost, but indeed how you think is not always how you live. For how we live is not born of our intellectual reasoning. It is born more of what we love. What we love governs more of what we do than how we think We've covered this before, but I want to go forward in suggesting that what he's asking us to do is to be careful then what is that we love. What we love will govern how we live. So we need to be aware of what our hearts love. And so he says we ought to do that, reflect on that with wisdom. To live with wisdom. And then he says, verse 16, making the most of every opportunity. The King James Version says, redeeming every opportunity, redeeming the moment, redeeming the time, redeeming this particular opportunity. Now, when that word redeeming is used, translated here as making the most of or redeeming the time, what he's referring to there is a marketplace word. That word redeeming literally and crassly laid out is this, to make a killing. taking every opportunity to squeeze out of it all that is all that it's worth And so he sang to the Christian, to live with wisdom, knowing yourself, being careful how you live, knowing your heart, what it is that you love, and he says, of course, making the most of every opportunity. So to redeem the time means that we ought to cultivate the time that we have. What are we doing with it? As Jim Croce says of the human heart, this idea. That it never seems to be enough time. And so the gift that God has given us If we're in any doubt, looking beyond our material gifts, looking beyond our opportunities, our access, whatever the case may be, The one gift that we can all agree on, whether you give thanks to God or not, right this moment, everyone in this room is living and breathing. And we are experiencing life. And we've been given this opportunity. To live as wise, what does it mean to squeeze the time, squeeze the value, and redeem the time we've been given? This is important for him. Because he says, and this is a part of the context. He says, because the days are evil. Now by this, he doesn't literally mean, because this is a phrase that Paul uses in his other epistles, he doesn't mean that he's experiencing particular evil against him. What he's talking about is something much larger. The macro context, that is , the age that is now and the age that is coming are now overlapped. In other words, that the time before Christ has now is now no longer. Christ has come. He has died on the cross. He's been victorious over sin and death through the resurrection. The resurrection being an historical event. And therefore God has broken into time with his powerful grace and mercy. by his son and has altered everything. Therefore, there is already the demonstration that the age to come of eternity Of the God who is victorious over sin and death has now broken in from the future, into the present, into the past, and now the age which is to come is now with us. Now it's not already fulfilled in every way. There is a not yet aspect, but there is plenty of already. And so there's these overlapping ages. Of the age when that has not been fully fulfilled or fully demonstrated to this age, and yet God is still broken in. And so he is saying that the context is the days when evil is still present, where sin is still allowed To take place on the earth and injustice and pain and brokenness. And yet, the solution, the answer, the covering for sin has already been given The king, as we've already read about this morning, is already victorious, and yet his kingdom has not come to full consummation and fulfillment yet. But it's coming because the prelude has already been poured out in the resurrection and the cross. And so he says here Cultivate the tie which you have been given. Redeem. Live as wise, not as unwise. Why? Because we are now in overlapping ages. Christ has not yet come again. So we ought to, in this context, understand that particularly now, until Christ comes again, the time that we have is a gift. Are we redeeming it? Are we seeking to use it? But for what end? He says, therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. So he's saying then that the cultivation of the resource of time, living as wise, in the context of these overlapping ages Then it must be connected to something. And it's connected first to the Lord's will. How we're to live How we're to redeem the time, how we're to understand the context in which we live is this: that the Lord has a will, and he's already poured that out. And that will he has demonstrated in his word. And that will Is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever, to find our rest in Christ, to see that all that we do, everything that we do, as He gets to at the end, for everything. And everything give thanks in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. So everything we have, everything that we are, all of our gifts It is all connected to the one who is reigning. And we are to take the time which we are given And to see that it is redeemed in the context of these overlapping ages, according to the will of Him who has sent His Son for our redemption. So how do we connect this to worship? Well, one, it's this great biblical theme of Sabbath. Of the Sabbath. You see, the scriptures tell us that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. And what the scriptures tell us in Genesis is that God on the seventh day rested from all his work, and he called all of his work good. But there's something interesting about the, if you go back and read the Genesis account, that at the end of each day, it says there was evening and there was morning, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, But on the seventh, it does not say, and there was evening and morning the seventh day. Why? It's telling us something that God has rested from his work. And that what the Sabbath was made for was made that we might be able to have time in which we are free. From work, free to find rest and to enjoy the fruits of our labor. The problem is the fall. Our sin, falling from the state in which we were created through our heavenly, or through rather through our first parents, Adam and Eve. Now time is no longer something that we think about as, oh boy, or work that we think about, this is what I get to do. Work becomes laborious. It becomes hard. And we become like slaves to striving. And success and working, and we forget how to rest. And so when we gather for Sunday worship, or when we gather for worship, it's not because it's something we have to do. It was something that was given to us as a gift, the Sabbath. And so we learn to find rest. This is not about time management, five ways to learn how to be more productive. Rather, it's understanding how God gave us the gift of a day from which we rest from our work and learn To cultivate and understand what does it mean to rest in Christ and what He has done for us? What we're able to do in Thanksgiving, that all that we have is a gift from God, that we take this time to feast With those who we are in relationship with, our families, our friends, our neighbors, and enjoying the fruits of the labor which the Lord has blessed us with. But because of sin, we've turned work into the goal. And so we forget how to rest. And then what we do is we come to the Sabbath and we turn the Sabbath into all the stuff we're not supposed to do. And yet we forget that it was also about what we get to do. That all of life is gift. And that when we come before the Lord, we remember that the Sabbath, because first it was a gift for us to find rest from our work and to enjoy all that God is and all that He has given and the fruit of our labor. Then Sabbath, because of sin, would become a picture of God's redemption. The Sabbath for Israel became the place where they were reminded of God's redemption of them out of the nation of slavery. in Egypt. And so they were not to work on the Sabbath, so that they could enjoy the bounty that God had given them, to say to the world around them that their rest is not through the work of their hands, but their rest is through the redemption. of God their Father. And in the New Testament we learn that Jesus The writer of Hebrews says, is the Sabbath rest for his people. That therefore Christ is the fulfillment that all the Sabbath regulations were meant to be in the Old Testament. And that when we come to worship, what are we doing? We're resting from our work and we are rejoicing, giving thanks, feasting, singing, praising all that God has done for us in Jesus Christ, and we can rest. From the work that we do Monday through Friday, and some of us Monday through Saturday, and take this day Not because of all the stuff we need to avoid doing, but the thing we can remember that we get to do. The Lord Has drawn me out of the slavery with sin and death and has given me redemption. The Sabbath is the picture of what Christ has done for you. And you can rest. You can enjoy the fruit of your labor. You can feast with family and friends. You can praise God You can laugh and dance and sing and eat. Why? Because it's the picture of what Christ has done for you. But all of it is done in his name. Now let me say this. Some Christians, some, have turned the Sabbath into the yoke of slavery again. It's all the stuff we can't do. But ladies and gentlemen, the Sabbath is meant to be the day when the thing that you're resting from is the work that God has called you to. So that work that you're doing Monday through Friday or Monday through Saturday, whatever the case may be. The Sabbath is to be the day set for you to remember that all that you have and all that you are doesn't come from that, but comes from Him who created you. Christ who has redeemed you And so it's a gift to you. And so for me, my work is largely people-oriented. Minister to people. I'm meeting with people all the time. It's people. I get to see people. But on Sundays are not exactly a work day or a rest day for me, is it? I've been working since 5. 30 this morning. And so by the time I reach this afternoon I I want to begin to take my rest, but then oddly enough, if you were to look at most of my Mondays, which is treated as my day off, my part of my a full day of Sabbath, you would likely not find me on a couch. I'm working with my hands. Now some may look in and not see much rest, but I will tell you, I rejoice. Kate, sometimes not as much as others. Some days I'll confess to you I don't want to work. But here's the thing. I get to work with my hands. And for me, I get to the end of that day and I'm exhausted physically. But I'm rejuvenated spiritually. So the Sabbath for me is a Monday. It's not Sunday. For many of you, it is How are you redeeming the Sabbath, that resource that the Lord has given you? For the sake of resting from your work. as a picture of the redemption that Christ has given to you from the slavery of sin. And let me just put it a little bit more. As one writer says this, God liberated his people when they were slaves in Egypt. God ties the Sabbath to the freedom from slavery. Anyone who overworks is really a slave. Anyone who cannot rest from work is a slave. To a need for success, to a materialistic culture, to exploitative employers, to parental expectations. Or to all the above. These slave masters will abuse you if you are not disciplined in the practice of Sabbath rest. Sabbath is a declaration of freedom. Now young people, you might just for what I said you you don't have to do homework on Sundays. Now come on. You thought it Don't go home today and go, Pastor Lovelace said that I'm liberated. But do you know what it means? It means that we also must cultivate the resource of time on Saturday. On Friday, Thursday, so forth. In other words, the reason why the Puritans spent so much time talking about the Sabbath is because they realized disciplines don't happen in passive ways. You can prepare. So, young people, you can study and do your homework prior to Sunday. Because right now that's the work that God has called you to. Adults, that means that you can do that work on Saturday so that you can rest. On a day. Now Paul says, not one day is more holy than another. It happens to be that we worship on Sunday because that was the day in which our Lord was raised from the dead. And the tradition of the church is worshipped on Sunday. But there needs to be a day in seven where you can rest from your work to remember that you've been redeemed. Now I spent half my sermon on that. Actually three quarters. So I need to do this at other point. Filling up and pouring out. Now, in case you were just wondering, why is he talking about worship that doesn't seem to have a connection, it's because of what he says next. Now, what is the Lord's will then? Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. And he's speaking to the whole church here. In just a moment, and though we're not going there, then he speaks to individuals in particular relationships But here she says, instead be filled with the Spirit, speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. Always give thanks. to God the Father for everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. The filling up. The filling up is very clear. He says, instead be filled with the Spirit. What does that mean? That means this is a an ongoing theme throughout the New Testament, particularly in John and in the writings of Paul. And what he literally means is this, that we Are to give ourselves to the work of the Holy Spirit Himself. It is the work uniquely of the Holy Spirit, which the scriptures tell us, particularly in the Gospel of John, that the role of the Spirit is To lead us in the scriptures. But more so than that, the Holy Spirit's task then is to unfold the meaning, the meaning of the work and person of Jesus Christ. So in other words, just as Revelation was being read to us What the Holy Spirit was doing in my heart, as I believe he was likely doing in many of you, is weren't you imagining what that looked like as it was being described to us? And in that moment, I felt both a longing, but also a deep thankfulness. Just on the edge of tears of just how beautiful and glorious is the Lord Jesus. And the glory of his face over these past few days as we've experienced this warm sun in the month of October, as that verse was being read, I imagine just how beautiful the sun has been in October and then imagining the beautiful space of the Son of the Living God. The work of the Holy Spirit is to take the Word and to fill you with such a vision, such a satisfaction, such a picture of Jesus Christ for you. That you would be filled up with his beauty, his importance in your mind, in your heart. And then, as Paul would say later, or earlier in Ephesians, that we, the those who call Jesus Christ as Savior, may have power to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. Therefore, those spirits work and ministries to take the truth about Jesus from the Word And to take it to the core of who you are, to empower you, to encourage you, to give you a vision for who Jesus is. This is the infilling of the work of the Holy Spirit. And when we come to worship together, the worship service should be the gospel of Jesus Christ enacted. Through the work of his people in liturgy of worship. God calling us, God inviting us to redemption through the confession of sin, hearing the grace of Christ. that covers all our sin, and then hearing the word come to us to make us more into the image of his son like a crafter with wood carving out an image. So the Holy Spirit uses the sword of the Word to carve out the image of Christ in us and then to equip us to walk with Him. This is what we do on Sundays, and the Holy Spirit comes and fills us. But then more than that, the verses tell us that not only does the Holy Spirit have a task in filling us up, then we get to pour out. That's also the Holy Spirit's task. He gives us a heart song. Notice just what he tells us to do there. He says to us that we are to sing, rather speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. A part of that heart song by the Holy Spirit is we take the opportunity, redeeming the time, to speak encouragement to each other. Let me say this to every one of you who are in relationship with each other. If you're a husband and wife, do this with each other. If you have children, do this with them. If you're in close relationship in a fellowship, community group. Speak this to a friend. If there is only one thing over the next week that you see in your friend or spouse or children that reminds you of the character of Christ, Take the opportunity this week to speak a word of encouragement that you see Jesus in that person in that way. Speak psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Read the word to one another. This is the pouring out. That's the encouragement. Then he he says for us. To sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. Praise and, he says, always giving thanks to God the Father. for everything. So this heart song is full of encouragement and praise and thanksgiving and I need to hurry, but I want to say to you. The church of Jesus Christ and those who call on Jesus ought to be marked by how ready And quick we are to say thank you But the hard part is not just thanking God for the good that comes. But that the Lord might cultivate in us the kind of praise and thanksgiving that Job sang, that even we could look at the suffering and the trial and even the lament. And say, even in this sovereign Lord, you will be good to me Because if the Lord has worked his redeeming power to take us from slavery into freedom through the work of Jesus Christ, and has placed our feet upon a rock that is Jesus Christ our salvation, if he is our Sabbath rest, then that transcends all of our circumstances. Therefore, we're not encouraging and praising and thanksgiving. Our hearts are not singing because our circumstances are aligning in the right way. But because regardless of circumstances, it is the Lord who is on our side. He is good all the time. This is the work of filling up and pouring out. But from beginning to end and everything in the middle, it is sustained by the grace of Christ. So why do we gather together for worship? Because we have to? No. Because we get to This is what the Lord is doing. When we rest this afternoon, when we feast together, when we encourage each other, it is because it's what we have to do? No, it is because of the redemption and freedom that we have in Christ. And now we become a singing, praising, thanksgiving, encouraging people who are able to rest, who keep time differently. Because our Lord Jesus has done something. Our Father has done something. Did you notice as I finished the words of Jim Croce 's song? He was singing about his son, who is going to be given birth? Why do we Want to make our days last. Why do we count them? Why do we need to redeem them? It is because of another son, a greater son. The Lord Jesus Christ, born to us, who invites us to live the rest of our days in all eternity with Him who enables us by his spirit to live with wisdom and to worship him in everything that we do. Let's pray. Now, Lord, I ask that you would enable us to worship, to redeem the time which we have been given. Make us wise, make us teachable by your Holy Spirit To consider what are we doing with our time and how we're living, to live as wise and not as unwise. But to do so, aided by your Spirit, filled with your grace. And then saying, Lord, the time that we have is then given as a gift. Now enable us to worship you and give thanks to you in everything. For in all things they find their fulfillment in Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, Lord, restore us that we may give our time to you and all of our worship. In Jesus' name. Amen.