Now we are back to Ephesians. But, let me say, only for four weeks Those of you who are new to us will notice this is the 66th message from this book, but we will only be in it for four weeks because I have told you before that as we anticipate Y2K coming, the turn of the millennium, and all the interest there is in prophecy, I am going to begin, I'm going to interrupt Ephesians for a series Some people might consider it a very long series. Around here it's considered a rather brief series. It will only go into the next millennium. But it will start uh five weeks from today and go up through into 2000 with usual interruptions on the Bible and the future And uh that's been one of the most difficult series I've had to prepare. You can imagine all the things I've had to read and how you gotta deal with this and that and everything. So I do believe that that has a lot of very practical usefulness to us. So we will be taking that up this summer and this fall. And what I'm going to do now is deal with Ephesians chapter 5. Do you remember we talked about the fact that 5 verse 18 through 21 is one sentence? And we looked at verse 18 some weeks ago before the missions conference, and now we will be taking a look at the verses 19 to 21 that follow that. Remember that I said back then when we dealt with verse eighteen, Be not drunk with wine wherein is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit But that's Paul's seventh and climactic command in this whole section that began in chapter 4, verse 17, about the Christian life, how to live it, the new life that is yours in Christ. Now once he has stated that climactic command, be filled with the Spirit, he then goes on in that sentence with four participles. Those are the ing words. that talk about what are basically four marks or four effects of that filling. Let's look at that again and notice what they are. He says, verse 18, do not get drunk on wine which leads to debauchery. Instead be filled with the spirit. speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, that's one, two, singing and making music or melody in your heart to the Lord. Three, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. And four, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. You could say then that these four ing words are the four marks of a spirit-filled Christian. I believe also that the pattern of these is very instructive to us. If you look on your bulletin outline, you'll see that I've tried to highlight that. You notice that the two central marks, effects, words have to do with worship. Verses 19 and 20. Singing and thanking. These you might consider to be the inner sanctuary of the temple of your life. These are directed toward God. But surrounding these are two effects, marks of a spirit-filled life. Which have to do with other people. These I call the wisdom. These are the issue of wisdom, how you relate to other people, how you speak, and how you submit. And that idea of submitting, then, to understand the flow of Paul's thought in this book, when he mentions that, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, he then develops that particular mark of a spirit-filled life All the way into chapter 6, verse 9. Kind of all flows out of verse 21 of chapter 5. And as I say, we'll take that up next millennium. But what we want to deal with right now are these four marks as he states them here. Now, again, I believe that the structure of this is very important, and I believe the structure teaches us two things that's worth noting as we begin the study of these four marks. First of all, I believe that it shows us that the filling of the Spirit is a bit different from what we often hear. The filling of the Spirit is evidenced, you see, in very practical, observable consequences. It's not a mystical kind of thing. You ask what is the mark of a spirit-filled Christian? Paul does not say it is that the person speaks in tongues, for instance. Now that's very significant. I think it's worth noting that here in a book, which is the basic manual of Christian living, Christian discipleship that we have in the New Testament Nowhere in this book, in this letter, in this manual of discipleship, where he talks about the foundation of the Christian life and how to live the Christian life, he touches on every major area of the Christian life. And nowhere is there the command to speak in tongues, nowhere is it abdicated or is it spoken of as something that will particularly help you in your growth and grace or in your knowledge of Jesus Christ. That's particularly significant, I think, when you look at this passage because he's talking about the filling of the Spirit and four evidences, four marks of that. And it is most particularly significant when you realize that the two central marks have to do with worship. If there's any place you would expect Paul to say, Be filled with the Spirit worshiping in another tongue or speaking somehow about this , it would be here that you'd expect that. But it doesn't appear. And so you see that the marks of a spirit-filled Christian are simple, observable relationship with God in worship and wisdom toward one another. Notice also the second thing about this structure is that um you see uh in fact I wanted to um To sum up those four consequences. Let me do that before I go on to the second observation. If you were to sum up these four right here before we get into them in some detail I would say that the four could be summed up as the four effects as joyful edifying of others in the body. That's wisdom. And then worship with the whole heart, that's the second thing, gratitude that transcends circumstances, that's the third, and then humble submission to others in the body. That's important for us to realize as we pray for God's Spirit to fill Columbia Presbyterian Church. A number of us have been praying that. We've had a couple of special prayer meetings for that. A number of you who have been involved in that have said, let's pray more. We need to do this more. And so at the end of this four-week series, we are going to have a special time that afternoon. Set aside all that afternoon, May 23rd. to be able to come together and pray for God's Spirit to fill us individually, as families, as a body. And if you were then to ask, what would we expect to see if God did that, you see, this is what we'd expect to see. The things that Paul describes here. They're not the only effects of a spirit-filled life, but Paul focuses on these right here, and so these are highly significant And what you and I should look for for, if God's going to fill Columbia Presbyterian, this is what we should expect to see. Amen? Well, let's look for it. All right. Okay. Now, the second observation on the structure is that our worship of God and our wisdom with people are integrally very closely related. I believe that's true. I believe that that's what Paul's saying here. Again, I think it's significant that the central two have to do with worship. surrounded by two that have to do with wisdom. So that you see that our wisdom grows out of our worship, which deepens our wisdom, which deepens our worship, and so there is a flow There is a pattern here that is set up. It's very practical. Why? Well Any of you having any trouble getting along with people? Having any trouble relating to anybody? You know, somebody in your life? Well, Paul says, if you're having trouble relating to somebody, one thing you might consider as a solution is worship. One thing you may think, no, we we tend to look as modern-day Christians, say, I'm having trouble getting along with these dysfunctional people in my life. I'll read a book on dysfunctionality and I'll identify their problems. And then I'll try to deal with those. Or maybe I'll even try to identify my problems and I'll try to deal with them. And I think sometimes we need to back off and get a bigger perspective A God-centered perspective, where we look and we say, if I'm having trouble, God says that my relationships with other people are closely uh related tied to my worship of him. Therefore, if you're having trouble, you're finding some of your relationships are a little afraid, you're finding you're pretty irritable with some people One thing you may do if you are finding you're not finding making progress in that is to say, this week I'm going to focus on my worship I 'm going to worship him with all my heart, meditating on the gospel, letting the Spirit fill me and igniting that gospel in me, and I'm going to cultivate a thankful heart that transcends circumstances. And then just look and see what happens in my relationships. You'll see that there is a cause and effect here that is I think that Paul is alluding to in the way he structures this. But this morning, we're simply going to look at the first one. Well focus on that first one speaking. First out of the four. And when you look at the beginning of verse 19 again, that's what we're focusing on, that's a pretty strange verse for a couple of reasons. Look what he says: speak to one another, or speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. I would suggest to you, that's strange for a couple of reasons. First of all, notice You would expect him to say singing to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, would you? But he says speaking with psalms Then notice that here are psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, which we associate with worship, but Paul says you address them to one another. Which is in contrast to the end of verse 19, where he says, Sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord. So you have here a very unusual construction. And it's whenever Paul does something that's really unusual, that's to make a point to get your attention. You and I are called here to speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. What's he saying? Well, first of all, to unwrap that, let's look at the clues to the meaning. Let's approach this inductively, see if we can find out what God intends here and see what he has for you and me. And I'll tell you, if you read the commentators, you won't get a whole lot of help. You get some, but they don't agree with each other, and it's a difficult passage. First of all then, why is he why does he talk about speaking in songs The reference to the songs there is a threefold reference. A lot of books have been written on just these three words. I once had a friend who was a pastor who did a doctoral thesis on the word and in verse 19 of Ephesians 5. Imagine somebody getting a doctoral thes I mean getting a doctorate, getting a THD on the word and in Ephesians 5, 19. And he was attempting to demonstrate through that word and that it doesn't mean three different things, but rather They're all referring to the same thing and all in the Psalms. I didn't agree with him, even though he's a good friend. But what does it refer to? The Psalms, of course, refers to the Old Testament Book of Psalms, God's book of worship. And I think Significantly also that word psalms in the Greek is a word which means musical accompaniment So uh it also uh tells us that there is in the Bible a warrant for musical accompaniment accompaniment in our worship. That's what the word means if if uh Paul didn't intend that. He'd probably have to qualify it. So it's talking about the Psalms with musical accompaniment. And then hymns He has in mind uh hymns of praise, songs of praise addressed to Jesus. Uh Christocentric uh praise to music. You have an example of that right up there in verse fourteen, a little snatch of a hymn of that day. Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, Christ will shine on you. Nice notice in your Bible that's in a little different type, it's set off a little different. um because it was part of a song. Most people, most commentators believe in that. So, you know, in those days it would have been something like, you know, wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, then Christ will shine on you. I can't vouch for that as the official tune that was used, of course. You're getting just an idea and um hopefully they sang it a little better than that, but you know, that's the idea. Now We continue to do the same thing, hymns of praise to Jesus. And spiritual songs is a third category that he refers to. Spiritual songs simply refers to songs about spiritual things. things of the Spirit, not necessarily directly praise. Could have been an exhortation, could have been a testimony. In fact, while all three of these ideas uh could be directly addressed to God, In all cases, we have psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs addressed to one another. For instance, Psalm 47 that we just addressed to one another. uh speaking to another, to one another in a psalm was a psalm that was not directly addressed to God, but was calling on each other. Psalm 78, remember I preached on some time ago, was a psalm addressed to parents about raising your children. Some of the psalms are instructional, not just worship to God. Same way with hymns. We sing hymns like the one in verse 14 that's not addressed, notice, to God. It's addressed to the sleeper. It's a call to wake up. And Christ will shine on you. You notice how many hymns we sing refer to God in the third person? crown him with many crowns. We're calling on each other to crown him. All hail the power of Jesus' name. Each stands and begins addressing a certain segment of God's people, the martyrs, the seed of Israel and the rest uh to worship him, to uh hail him. Uh so we do this all the time. Uh spiritual songs, the same kind of idea. So What I'm trying what I'm getting at is that he's talking here about speech which is controlled by joyful praise. But even more to the point, notice That he in the beginning of verse 19 has us addressing one another, while at the end of verse 19, we're addressing God. So why does he speak of songs of praise that are addressed to one another? Well, the idea seems to be that this is in a worship context Uh that seems pretty clear. He's saying, speak to one another in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. Then he goes on singing, making music in your heart to the Lord. Seems to be the idea of worship. It's even clearer if you look at the parallel passage in Colossians 3. 16, where he says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach, admonish one another with all wisdom. That's clearly interacting together, admonishing, teaching, instructing, and as you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs with gratitude in your hearts to God So what's he saying? Again, the context seems to be worship, but you have to understand the New Testament does not speak of worship services. It never uses that phrase. It talks about meetings of worship and things that we do in worship. Certainly it is appropriate on the Lord's Day. It is what God, I believe, intends that the first day of the week we come together and we worship. But it is not a worship service, a um something that is set aside that the New Testament speaks of in isolation from the other things we do together as Christians. You have here a flow, God speaks to us, we speak to him, we also speak to each other. And all of that is within the Christian meeting. So the idea seems to be referring to conversation that flows out of and is controlled by our worship. God intends that. He sets that in the meeting. Where we are at some points addressing God. By the way, you're never coming to worship. Do you ever notice that? What are we doing right now? God speaking to us? We speaking to him? We're speaking to one another? Notice what is happening It's important so that you understand what is going on here. So, you know, if you're are you calling your brothers and sisters to do something? Is this a testimony? Is a statement of worship? Is it a statement of worship? It's appropriate to Just be directed toward the Lord in that body language, however you want to do it. But you see, there's a flow that's going on here. Now What's it all saying then? What does he mean by speaking to one another in Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs Some of you may feel at this point more confused. You say, you know, I used to read that verse and I knew what it meant. Now after you've talked, I have no idea what it means. So what does it mean? Let me come to the point. Second point, the conclusion then regarding the meaning I think he's talking here about the joy of the gospel that controls my tongue. The joy of the gospel that is focused in worship that then controls how I speak to you and you speak to me. Again, remember the context of this In chapters 1 to 3, Paul has directed your attention to the fact that God's grace was demonstrated to you who were dead in your sin. Absolutely helpless. with no inclination toward any spiritual response or anything that pleases God. That is your nature. You are strangers from Him. Beyond being strangers, you were his enemies, trying at every point to dethrone him in his majesty and in his sovereign control over your life That is your nature. That's what Paul says in Ephesians 1-3. But God, by his grace, made you alive who were dead. Through Jesus Christ and your union with him in his death on the cross and his resurrection. He made you alive. He made you who were his enemies to be his chosen, cherish children, accepted into his family. More than that, he has made you to be the very temple of his living presence in you, residing in you by the Spirit. You see that? Yeah. Crashted brothers and sisters. That should light your heart. As you see that, you see, when we come together and worship, we reflect back to God. God, I praise you for giving me life in Christ, forgiving my sins, making me a living temple, calling me as your child. And as you do that, you see, and we address one another in that worship, that resets our conversation, our language for that week. Now, look at how this is the climax of all he's talked about in talking. Notice the pattern there. See that pattern on all three of Ephesians: the negative, the positive, and the reason. Remember back in 429, he had said, not tearing one another down. You should not in your speech tear the other person down, but always build them up. Why? Because you are his what? His Temple. See you're his building. He's building you in Jesus Christ. That's what he says in chapter 2 verse 22. Because he's building you up, you build one another up in your conversation, in your speech. Don't tear each other down. Chapter 4, 31, 32. Do not be bitter. Anger, brawling, you know, all that. Arguing, slander. gossip all that talks about rather he says put on kindness speak kindly to one another about one another why because you were what remember Forgiven. That's what he says, 432. Come on, guys. Get in there. Look at this. Forgiven. That's why you do it. Because you've been forgiven, that transforms your conversation. Then it goes on to chapter 5, verse 4. No crude talk, no cheap talk. But rather gratitude, talk that is controlled by a grateful heart. Why? Because you have been cleansed. See, I'm not I'm not forcing you to answer because I know the people that were at the first service are going to be able to say it, so they'll help you out. you guys think about. All right. Because you've been cleansed. Maybe I should do it. Find out if the ones in the first service could still do it. Then I'd weep and get off the stage if they couldn't or something, so Do I risk it or not? Okay, fourth thing, notice, don't dwell on the negative, chapter five, verse twelve. Don't dwell on the negative here, those things that He says, uh, shameful even to mention. Uh even the press has chastised other members of the media uh in this last week because not only of, you know, they said it's kind of a hypocritical uh posture whereby everybody abhors what happened in Lyttleton, Columbine High School, but yet there is detailed description of what happened to satisfy everybody's curiosity So that uh you know you gotta kinda both hands, you you you you know, win on both sides. You say, This is really terrible. Now I tell me all let me tell you all about what happened. And Paul's saying that when your heart has been changed Don't dwell on the negative. You don't want to get into the details. That's not something that you want to dwell on, but rather on what is good because you are now light You're no longer darkness. You've been transformed out of the darkness into light. So that's what controls what you speak on. Therefore, the conclusion. So, see it in your outline there. The filling of the Spirit He talks about in chapter 5, verse 18. The filling of the Spirit leads to praise that purifies our speech to bless one another. The filling of the Spirit, igniting the gospel in your heart and my heart, that hope that Steve preached on last week. That hope is ignited in us. That leads me to praise him, the inner sanctuary, which is then reflected to and connected to the outer sanctuary sanctuary of the wisdom of how I speak to you. That's done in worship to be a pattern for the week. You see that? So you speak to one another the gospel. We're going to sing that just after this. I love to tell the story, you see. I love to speak the praise of Jesus, the gospel, what he has done. And that also controls how I generally speak to you, to build you up, to not talk crude, to be able to dwell on what is positive, all the rest of the things that he's speaking of. You see, this is something as we come to the application now, that's the tough part. We come to the application, you see that this is not something that you do from the outside in. You don't say, oh, yeah, I got a Stop, you know, the cheat talk, the negative, the tearing down. I gotta change it. I gotta stop that. I gotta start doing the positive. I gotta start talking, you know, from Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual. You can't do that You know, try going for a week without any slander, any gossip, anything. Your speech reveals your heart. Therefore, what has to change is your heart and my heart. That's why, you see, this is not a separate command. Remember, remember the context. Be filled with the Spirit speaking to one another in Psalm. You see , it comes out of the filling of the Spirit, igniting the gospel in your heart. You see that? That makes all the difference. That's what you and I need. We come before God and we ask God. We confess before Him. This is what my heart's like. I open my mouth and out pops my heart It's ugly. And what I see is something that deeply disturbs me. So, application. Simply, number one Note first of all, it is proper to address one another in worship. Some Christians try to be more spiritual than the Bible, saying that worship should only be directed toward God. That's not true in the Psalms, that's not true in the New Testament. We have freedom to address one another, and there is in New Testament worship the blending of praise and exhortation. And that blending resets your speech for the week. So when you come here on Sunday morning, the Lord's Day, first day of the week, and you come in worship, There should be consciously in your mind, I'm coming now to reset my speech by resetting my heart. I'm coming now to dwell on the gospel, to praise God, to speak to my brothers and sisters, the Psalms, Hymns, Spiritual Song. And that controls the way I think and the way I speak through the rest of this week. That's why we may once in every seven days is barely enough to reset it, isn't it? Secondly, notice, this is why we strongly encourage you to have a time of worship in your cell meetings. Now, first of all, notice that we don't say that simply because of the effect. The worship in the cell simply honors God. That gives it its value in itself. God is honored through the worship. But also in addition to that We benefit because that worship resets the way we speak to one another in the discussion that follows I've seen it again and again in cell meetings where a time of worship it maybe didn't even involve singing, could be listening to a CD and entering into that or just what conversational praise Starting a uh I thank you Lord for and everybody just continues uh things that they're thankful for, I praise you for, his attributes, whatever. A time of meaningful worship will change the way the discussion goes afterwards. Discussion tends to be more honest, more faithful , more positive. You see, because there is that connection between our worship and our wisdom Between worshiping Him with all our hearts and speaking to another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs that controls what we say. Very practical. If your group has been doing perfunctory worship, maybe you ought to think about giving more attention to that to help you. And then finally, the last thing is the need for you and for me to examine our speech. As I said before, your speech is the window to your heart. And what do you see? You think about the things that characterized your speech this last week. Is there criticism? Complaining? Tearing down? Irritation? As Christians, often we're really hard on each other, aren't we? I still think of an article that Philip Yancey wrote where he said that after he met with President Clinton, he and a few other Christians that with President Clinton, the response he got from the evangelical community really shocked him. was hate mail. I mean we're not talking it was, you know, didn't agree or raised questions or brother one. He said it was just out and out hate mail It was vitriolic, poison. All of a sudden he realized how the rest of the world looks at evangelicals. You know, a bunch of feisty people And there is so often in us, because we're people of conviction, there is a temptation to need to straighten each other out, isn't there? Let me tell you how you ought to raise your kids, how you ought to spend your time, how you ought to be doing this, and you know, and I'm concerned that you're not doing this, and I think you you know there is the need Ephesians 4. 16, to speak the truth in love, 4. 15, to speak the truth in love to one another. No question about that. But is our speech, is our conversation with each other being controlled by the gospel? That's what he's talking about here Conversation that the spirit-ignited joy of the gospel is controlling so that it produces the things you see in the list above there. I look at my heart, I think of some meetings that I've had with people recently, where there's been this kind of tearing down, and you leave it with a heavy heart A heavy heart. Not a not necessarily a convicted heart, but just a heavy heart. And so As we look at the first of the four marks of what it will mean for the Spirit of God to fill Columbia Presbyterian Church, maybe that for some of you kids , Toward your brothers and sisters, toward kids in school, toward kids that you play with. God's speaking to you this morning. Maybe for some of you adults , your conversation with your kids, with your spouse, with others that you know, work with, people in your group, people you're close to. God is convicting some of us here. We can't change our hearts and our speech directly. It's through the gospel, the filling of the Spirit. That chose us Jesus to dwell less on ourselves and more on him. And as he does that, we will see our conversation change. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you now, and we come as those who realize this word speaks to us To expose the ways that sometimes, Lord, we have not been gentle Ways that our conversation toward one another has not been controlled by the gospel, the war simply by our irritation By our need to control or to set people straight to be like us. It comes out of our insecurities. comes out of all kinds of things that really aren't you. And so Lord, uh we take just a moment now for each of us That you've been speaking to, that we might be honest before you now. We might confess those ways that you've revealed our hearts. Are so self-centered, are so sinful. We ask you to forgive that and take that away from us. That you would fill our hearts now with the gospel of the Lord Jesus.