We have the privilege, the joy to come and consider God's Word this morning. Proverbs five is going to be our text. So if you have your Bible with you, please turn with me to Proverbs chapter 5. If you have a cell phone or iPad, please activate your Bible to Proverbs chapter 5. Uh we're going to be looking at the entirety of the chapter. I'm going to start in verse 1, and I'm going to read through verse 23. Before we read and turn to God's Word, uh let us go to Him again in prayer. Let's pray. Our great and heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for your great and your precious love for us. Lord, we are sinners and we need Christ. Lord, our hearts now are filled with different anxieties and fears. We are troubled. Lord, I ask that for this time, for this next half hour, that you would allow those things to be set aside, that we might focus and hear your word. Allow your spirit to open our eyes and our hearts. to hear what you have to say. Lord, we thank you that you are not a God that is afar off or distant, but that you are a God that cares and hears and considers your people. Lord, bless us and allow your word to sink deep in our heart. It's in the name of Christ we pray. Amen. Well people of God, uh hear God's word for us today from Proverbs chapter five. My son Be attentive to my wisdom. Incline your ear to my understanding. That you may keep discretion and your lips may guard knowledge. For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil. But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword Her feet go down to death. Her steps follow the path, the Sheol. She does not ponder the path of life. Her ways wander, and she does not know it. And now, O sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house Lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the merciless, lest strangers take their fill of your strength and your labors go to the house of a foreigner, and at the end of your life you groan. When your flesh and your body are consumed, and you say , How I hated discipline, and my heart despised reproof. I did not listen to the voice of my teacher. Or incline my ear to my instructors. I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation. Drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well. Should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be for yourself alone and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed and rejoice in the wife of your youth. A loving deer, a graceful doe, let her breasts fill you at all times with delight. Be intoxicated always in her love Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman, and embrace the bosom of an adulteress? For a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths The iniquities of the wicked ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of sin. He dies for lack of discipline, and because of his great folly, he is led astray. May God bless his word. We are considering wisdom. The last few weeks we've been doing a little series in Proverbs about wisdom, the way of wisdom. How do we walk wisely in this world? Well, why do we talk about wisdom? Why do a series on wisdom? Why is there a book of Proverbs devoted to wisdom? Why talk about wisdom? Well, I think the reason and the need to talk about wisdom this day is because there's a great problem in the church. There's a great problem in the church, and the problem is that we live like fools. And so we need wisdom. And we live like fools because we are often taught by fools. If you think about where many of us have been taught about our sexuality, our relationships, our view of marriage, where has it been? Well it's probably mostly been through the media, through TV, through movies, through music, through 50 shades of gray. It's reported that peers and media are the two greatest influences and powers on people's lives Uh your peers and media, but where do their peers get their information? They get it from the media as well. You see we have been taught that sexual immorality and selfless relationships are not immoral and not selfish. We've been taught that those things are actually love. And that's where real love is to be found. To live like what you see people doing on TV and in the movies. But you see, the media, the TV shows often disguise the consequences of sin. You don't see the pain of sexually transmitted diseases often on TV You don't see the pain of divorce. You don't see the pain of giving yourself to somebody body and soul. And then to see them turn around and go to someone else. We're only taught the fun part. The part that looks exciting because that is exactly what the fool is always looking for. We need wisdom. We need wisdom about our sexuality, our relationships, our marriages. We need wisdom. to be faithful to what the Lord has called us to and to be faithful to him. And so the scriptures tell us here in our text Learn the deceits and the destruction of false loves and lovers. Learn the delights of true love. The Bible is not a prudish book, but it deals with these issues and it deals with them very directly. And this is a timely instruction. For any person, whether you are young, whether you are old, whether you are single or married, this is important. This is wisdom. We need to learn to be faithful To our Lord and to our marriages. So let's get into our text. The father of this text, the author, he gives a lesson to his son. And the first lesson he gives his son is that false love is deceitful. And we see that in verses one through six. In verses 1 through 2 it reads, My son, be attentive to my wisdom, incline your ear to my understanding, that you may keep discretion, and your lips may guard knowledge We see the words of a father to his son, and in the very first verse of our text, we see the words my son. Now, if you've ever done a study of the book of Proverbs, in the first seven chapters, you see this phrase, a father addressing his son. My son, my son, my son. There's a first verse in every chapter. My son. Lessons from a father to his son. And this is a lesson for you fathers, isn't it? You fathers out there, it's a lesson for us. We should be teaching our sons about sexuality. Uh uh who should be teaching them? Uh it's not TV, it's not friends, it's teachers. Uh this is our responsibility as a church, as fathers. You have the experience. You know the mistakes. You know the temptation. And here is the father taking initiative to teach the young. And men out there teach the young men. Women out there teach the young women. And that's the instruction we we see here that they might have wisdom and learn. God is not a cosmic tilljoy. God tells us these things to preserve our life, to preserve our soul. It's kind of like the the mechanic doesn't tell you to put oil in your car because uh he wants to uh to put you down for the next week or have you just sit in his office. But the mechanic tells you to put oil in your car Uh and to change it because that's best for your car to operate than run. And God, who created marriage, who created our sexuality, He's giving us instructions not to be a killjoy, but He wants us to have the best He wants us to run properly. He wants what's good and lovely and pleasing to him. So he says, listen to me. My sons and daughters, listen to me. Listen to me. And in this text there, in the first verse, it says, guard uh your lips guard knowledge. Guarding knowledge does not mean that you have knowledge in your head under lock and key, and it's guarded by a prison guard. The guard knowledge means to speak knowledge. Don't let anything come out of your mouth that is inconsistent with the word of God. And so God is now pleading with His Son: listen to my wisdom that you may be wise. And what is he pleading to be wise about? In verse uh six or three through six, we see what the father is warning, uh what the father wants us to be wise about. Verses 3 through 4 read, For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil. But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. You see the father now, he says, listen to my wisdom. Listen, I have something very important I need to tell you. Are you all listening? I'm gonna paint for you a picture. I'm gonna paint for you a picture of an immoral woman, and you need to be aware of her She's an adulterer. She's a harlot. She is a stranger. All those words you could translate for what's used in that text. She lures her victims in with excitement and eagerness. Seductive kisses and speech proceed from her lips and mouth. They evoke images of liquid delights of love and sexual pleasure. There's an inseparable inseparable connection between speech And sexuality there, according speech, seductive speech, love songs, whispered nothings. She speaks in words that ooze seductive charm. Deceitful flattery. But in the end, and there is an end There is an afterwards. The proverbs constantly remind us and does not allow us to forget that there is an end. Her promises of false love are utterly reversed. Her delicious offerings are actually, we're told, now disgusting. Nauseating, bitter, says the text. Her promises of being gentle, smooth, and comforting turn into murder. Whoever experiences her experiences the opposite of what she presented. She is deceptive. Her honey becomes bitter, her smoothness turns deadly sharp. She's like a jar of honey, but on the inside of the label is a skull and crossbones Her deadliness here is intended for a message for the youth. Whether married or not, do not be deceived. Do not be deceived by her false love. Listen to your father's counsel. Be disciplined. Be self-controlled. Do not give yourself over to lust. And so the father continues now in verse 5 and 6, painting this picture for his son about the woman to beware of. He says, her feet go down to death. Her steps follow the path of Sheol. She does not ponder the path of life. Her ways wander, and she does not know it. You see that the pot the father has talked about her lips and what proceeds from her mouth, and now the attention goes down to her steps, her feet. The focus shifts from her head to her feet. From top to bottom, all of her, there is nothing good. She's a liar Death, hell, sheol are words that that are attributed to her and that follow her She meets her final ruin, and all who are attached to her go with her. Her ways are shifty and slippery in order to keep serious thoughts and consequences at bay. Serious things tomorrow, enjoy now, says the devil. Warning to youth and families about the wandering ways of this woman, warning not to be deceived by her. The path of life, the path of wisdom, means escape from the stranger. She wanders in moral darkness, she is aimless, she is an adulteress, an unfaithful wife, with no home, with no future, but staggers about in her sin And that phrase there that she does not know expresses her total moral failure. She no longer even distinguishes between right and wrong. Without a moral compass to give her direction, she strays to her death. So the father pleads And he says, see the poison, see the danger, see where she leads to death, hell, shield. And the Father, he now continues. He continues his plea to listen to wisdom to show the destructive nature of her false love. And he continues that path through verses 7 through 14. Verse 8 reads, And now, O sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Again, another plea. Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house. You see, verse 8 says, Don't even go near the door of her house. Flee Do not scoop fire into your lap and think that you will not be burned. Don't see how far you can push the knife into your chest without it hitting your heart. Run. Certainly don't go looking for, and if you do see her, run. But if we fail to listen to our father's instruction. We stand to lose everything. And that's precisely what verses nine through fourteen lay out. You will lose power. Years, wealth, the fruit of hard earned labor, your very soul You risk body and soul by coming to her door. She has set her trap, and she waits for you to fall in her deadly web. The end of the sun is gruesome. He comes to his senses too late. In verse 11, you see , says he groans When you groan, it denotes a cry of anguish from extreme desolation and exhaustion. Regret and remorse have come too late. He's been caught in a trap And verse twelve says, the fool now, he condemns himself as as solely being responsible for not listening. Do you see the picture the Father has tried to so vividly paint and portray of this unfaithful woman? Her mouth and her feet and you know he tried to to paint a vivid picture, a graphic picture of this woman, this adulteress, this stranger. She's a picture of of the w walking dead. Um vampires and zombies have all but recently been all the rage, but but zombies, uh zombies are always on the move, aren't they? They're always looking for their next meal. They're looking for brains, flesh, and they will not stop They are not satisfied, and they're always on the move, looking for the next flesh to indulge in, never satisfied, and that's precisely what lust is. Never satisfied, always looking for the next meal to devour, to consume. Do you remember what the Apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians 6? He says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither the sexual immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. As such were some of you You see in this proverb, the picture the father has been painting for his son of this immoral, unfaithful, adulterous person is not a mere painting. The author is using it. The paint is a picture, but it's also a mirror. It's a no-mirror picture. But the Father holds up a mirror for us. Showing us that we are like the immoral, dead adulteress. You all know the first commandment: you shall have no other gods before me. God says, our Lord says, you shall have no other lovers before me. I must be your first and true love. And if you read the Old Testament, Israel is often referred to as this adulterous woman, as they sought and worshipped after other gods. Judges chapter 2 says, they did not listen to their judges. They did not listen to their teachers. They did not listen to their father's instruction. For they hoard after other gods and bowed down to them. Jeremiah chapter 2 says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. Covenant infidelity. What are the things that you have sought before the Lord? What are the things that you have given yourself to? Before the Lord. Have you sought looks, comfort, the materialistic things of the the house, the car, the the electronic devices, the the reputation, the control, or or like this text, sex You feel like you you must have these things in order to be happy , in order to find delight, and you have to have them. Not finding our delight and our joy first, and our Lord, who has called us to do so. You see, well we have been the foolish. We have been the adulterous. We have been caught And our punishment and end is the same as the adulteress of this text: death, hell, shiol. And as Paul says, as were some of you. Paul continues in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, he says, but you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of God. You see, Jesus, our lover, our friend, he came down to purchase us out of the adultery that we so willingly gave ourselves to. He came down and perfectly fulfilled what we ruined. He endured grievous torments in his soul, painful sufferings in his body. Crucified and died and buried. He suffered death. He went to hell in the place of his bride. But on the third day he rose again from the dead. And so, brothers and sisters, when Christ rose again on that Easter morning, he left behind in the depths of the grave. Every one of your sins, every adulterous act, there they remain buried from the sight of God so completely that In that day, in the end, in the day of judgment, they will not be able to rise up against you anymore. By faith in Jesus Christ, though your sins be as starlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be like wool. Though you have sinned sexually, maybe greatly, maybe severely and deeply By faith in Christ, He clothes you and can close you. He can wash you in His garments of salvation and with the robes of His perfect righteousness. And so the father of our text here says, do not be deceived by false love. By its deceit, by its destruction. Run away, but no, no true love No true love, seek the Lord and love him. Have a marriage that reflects his love for the church and where your sexuality is properly and delightfully enjoyed. Be faithful. And so we our third point in verses fifteen through twenty is true love is delightful. It's good The father shifts from the folly of promiscuity with the unchaste wife to the wisdom of sexual satisfaction with one's own wife. The lights of a faithful marriage now over against its pathetic, deceitful, and destructive alternative Look at this verse fifteen that reads, drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well. The fresh water sources are a symbol that we often see in the Song of Solomon as well for the woman who provides a sexual delight and satisfaction for her partner. And therefore the son is commanded to drink from his own source, his wife. And the water stands for quenching one's thirst. And so we have this image. of cool refreshment for hot desires. The text assumes that the husband and wife that their bodies belong to each other And you are to find life, awakening, enjoyment, and delight in one's union with your spouse, not in the stranger, not in the adulterous And so verse sixteen says and asks rhetorically, should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets? And it's clear that there is to be no unleashing of the strings and the streets. It's for your wife, for your spouse alone. Of course not. The son is urged by the father to find his pleasure with his wife alone. And in verse 17 to 19, we come across these three let statements. Let them be for yourself alone, and not for the strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed and rejoice in the wife of your youth A lovely deer and graceful doe, let her breast fill you at all times with delight, be intoxicated always in her love. Verse seventeen again uh states this di uh do not let the stranger in. Uh let it be for your wife alone, not not images, not Not ideas and magazines or books or other people or yourself. The Bible teaches that marriage is the only proper channel for our sexuality. Well if you're single like me for at least the next week God has called you to where you are. He's he 's given you that gift of singleness. And some of you uh We'll be single for a little time, maybe some the rest of your life. But God is now calling you now to be self-controlled. So that if you are to be married, you will be a better husband. You will be a better wife. You see, I I didn't want to be patient with what God had for me. I wanted to use my sexuality before I was married And I know you who are not married yet and who want to be, you probably have that same temptation to want to use your sexuality in a way that God hasn't given you yet. But God wants to teach you. He wants to help you and help you craft you to be a better husband and wife. And the Lord warns me, and he warns you of such foolish thinking. To save and learn and use our sexuality for our spouse. Even if you haven't met them yet. It's for her. It's for him. And God has given you a gift of singleness at least for this time. So be faithful to the Lord Be faithful to him as your first love, and be faithful to the spouse that maybe you haven't even met yet. But if God has you married, many of you are, that is good too. And the message is clear. Be faithful to the spouse who you know. Your body and thoughts should be theirs. Seeing being faithful to our spouses is a way we can be faithful to the Lord. As Ephesians 5 tells us, our marriages are in fact a picture of Christ and his church. Our marriages should reflect Christ's love for his precious bride. In the bride's humble submission to Christ. In verse 18, we see the image of a fountain used again for the woman. The spouse is there to quench your thirst, to help even prevent you from temptation. So the Father prays that his son will have a wife who can quench that thirst in the most satisfactory of ways. In verse 19, uh we come to the description, uh another description used of the woman as a deer and a doe. And you think, why these animals? I could have maybe thought of some other animals to use to describe my uh beautiful and lovely wife, uh maybe a bunny rabbit. I uh I I don't I don't know, uh kangaroo. But maybe you have some particular terms that you share with each other. Maybe you say deer. Yes, dear. So why deer? Why doe? Well I think the author uh the these these animals are used because if you picture the bright Dark eyes, graceful limbs, and silky hair, and they symbolize the womanly attractiveness and her beauty. And there also in verse 19 we see the inebriation of love is featured. Here we have the only God-ordained intoxification. The blessings that was prayed for for the wife is now further elaborated, first implicit by animal comparison, but then more explicit references to her body. And the father says, Drench yourself and continue drinking. Saturate yourself with her love. And verse 20 says, Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman? And embrace the bosom of an adulteress. And this rhetorical question leaves open only one possible answer: fidelity. The view of the better and more delightful true love with one's blessed spouse rather than the absurd involvement with the adulteress So the father ends his appeal to his son, verses 21 to 23. He says, For a man's ways are before the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. The iniquities of the wicked ensnare him, and he is held fast in the court of his sin. He dies for lack of discipline, and because of his great folly, he is led astray. You see, the Father is drawing a a moral here at the end, based on the fact that God sees all things He lays down a threat that describes the fate of the wicked, retribution, punishment for the wicked. God upholds a moral order wherein sin brings punishment. A person reaps what they sow. God is the God of justice. He cannot let sin go unpunished. And maybe you have sinned. And though you have sinned, and the thunderbolt from heaven didn't come and strike you down at that moment. But the author says, sin will catch you, and you will be caught like prey in a hunter's trap. You will be caught in your evil doing. And so in verse 23 it says, All the wicked without exception, not just the adulterer, will die Every sin that you have committed will be tossed back up onto the shore in that last day to be seen by God. You cannot hide from your sin. You cannot hide from God. Time does not forgive your sin. Doing good does not somehow pay off your sin. And so the author leaves us with only one conclusion. Your only hope is in Jesus Christ. And you know this familiar verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. See, the only way not to perish is to believe in the only begotten Son of God, Jesus. If you confess your sins, God is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Jesus took your sins on the cross. He is our Savior. He is our lover and friend. He has purchased us at a great price. He has saved us from the destruction that is rightly ours. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and your sins will be removed as far as the east is from the west. They will be blotted out. And so I end by simply saying, reject the false loves. Do not give in to their deceit. See their destruction, but embrace true love. If you have been involved in sexual sin, come to Christ. Be washed. Be justified. Be sanctified. Allow him to put his perfect record of righteousness as a robe around you. Be faithful to your marriages. Be faithful to the Lord. And find your true love in Jesus. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Allow this word to sink into our hearts. Protect us. Let us have open eyes to see false love for what it is and how it seeks to deceive and to destroy. And let us find our our delight and our first love in you. Let us be faithful to the marriages that you have called us to and maybe will call us to Let us use our sexuality in a way that pleases you. Father, forgive us, we pray, and let us fall now at the foot of the cross. Crying out to Christ and know that all we have is Christ. We thank you for salvation. In the name of our Lord we pray. Amen.