As we looked at over the last few weeks, Jesus has now finished We know that what happens. So the detention is rising as these chapters go on, not because we know And rising those who oppose Jesus. As is the case in most close to the surface. Priorities become clear. Agendas become very evident. Two very different responses. Even as we worship. There's also a warning, a warning to remind us. How do we come to Jesus? Let's look together, chapter fourteen, verse one to eleven. It was now two days before the Passover. and kill him. But he said, not to the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people. of pure nard. Very costly. She broke the flask and poured it over his head. Sold for more than three scenarios and give to the poor. And they scroll it. For you always have war with you, and if you want, you can do good for them. But you will not always And truly, idly, idly, idly, idly, idly I see you where the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world. What she has done, and I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. And when they heard, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an opposite Pray with me this morning. Oh Lord, as woman did Regardless of cost. Of the places and lives where we try to withhold from you the cov And then we're going to do that. That are worth Truly, maybe. Alphabet, the parent company of Google, in two thousand ten Somewhat more aware of what the company does. The company is called X. Here's a sampling of just cloud by way of an interviewer. Did a a lengthy interest interview ever done with any employees of X. The interviewer walks into A scientist, a liquid crystal technologist An extra dimensional physicist, a The setting is X. The so called Learned is the following. No one at X would claim that it is on the verge of the An entire economy. Nor is company 's specific specialty the kind of basic science that typically thrives In both invention and innovation. Its founders hope to demystify and routinize the entire process. Discovery to product. And in so to write an operator 's manual for radical creativity All the kinds of that they've hired. But rest assured, alphabetical Room to throw space against the wall and see what might stick. It 's not a cost to change the blue Because what it does is it rises in the middle is what is valuable to you, what is the priority Without regard cost in their own specific way, which we will look at. But one in the gospel, the unwoman Judas Iscariot. You'll see in your bulletin, your outline, the priority. without regard to trust. So together, together. So you you heard it read. You We know that the tension is rising because They're looking for information. They're looking for ways to uncover so that they can take him and kill him. With their presence alone at his house would have been problematic. As we've looked at, taboo at best an absolute no-no for those who were devoted Prior to the Reformation, for which this is the five hundredth year, prior But oil anointing, and this traced its history and practice all the way back King Some Prophets Recognized the Lord's blessing. It was a it was a ritual Which is the idea where we get from in theology and from the scriptures Sanctification that when a person apart. And being set apart now, uh going through the process of growth in their understanding of who they are. Heart for specific use to glorify the Lord and to show in holiness This was more than a lot of people. Something else we learn from this passage, and as Jesus describes it, says, with an alabaster flask. And I'm very specific. Which belonged to this woman and family, very likely an heirloom. It would have been ha it would have been I don't know. And so this has been very valuable to the family. And only the most expensive of the Round bottom to it for a long neck. And when it was fine when this uh n that can have been poured out. Because when it was topped off, you we didn't you know it didn't have you know , You 're also giving up heirloom. So every single step The next we see in the text is the Nard, which would have been uh Its value was high. Because of where it was come from Not like toilettes we f the perfume counters, right? They give you the little tester bottles, which are mostly Small st of this snark would carry on for days. It was that this kind in an oil form. And still today it would cost hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars. Is with regard to Christ. It demonstrates her priority. And if we just if just a few seconds we see This is not a disciple doing this. Seems to be something nobody else in the room seems to understand. Life because of the ways in which the Jesus disobeyed the law. A dis which is problematic to disciples. Why? We see the disciples' response. Listen, you would you waste that? And care for the poor. That is exactly right. The problem is not that they desire to this to the poor. The problem is is not necessarily that they By their response, just how valuable Jesus is. But something else which is She's disregarding the poor. She's actually seeing the poorest one in the room Who is the fulfillment of the one who would be the suffering servant The disciples who not forget that he is worthy of all that they have, including If they see who he is, they not bat an eye at what she's doing. But they but She would have remembered to come speak of the purity of the Son of Man. The problem is you will always the poor for a time. But the reality is I 'm the priority. And this is what is at the heart of her devotion. tells us by secondary application that for the poor is never a substitute for worship. Because if we recognize The one who is truly the poorest, the one who is the Son of the Living God, who is made glow, the one who at the point He is the poor. And when we begin to worship him, the Son of the Living God, who was made poor, that we have to Place card the call to kill poor. Please hear me. We are called as a But never as a substitute for worship, but only as an outflow of worship. Is now seated before God the Father. We who were broken and poor because of our sin have been brought before we have a lot of people who are not going to be able to do that. Does that make sense? Or are you bored? Are you with me? Okay, stay with me. She is willing to give all that is valuable to her for the sake of honoring and worshiping. Remember what I said about anointing? Then in the Old Testament they would anoint kings and priests and some prophets. She's anointing a king, she's anointing a priest, and she's anointing a prophet. He's going to the She knows what he's about to do. Messiah, she gets There is nothing more about nothing more. Now on the flip side of the woman's devotion , the first time. Because he was about to do was going to garner him a certain amount of money. No, he was willing to do it regardless of the cost. For you if you simply X amount of money for all sign on the dotted. No. He simply is willing to About Judas passage. This sermon, yes, I had to read up on those d possibilities is denoting a place of birth because none of the other disciples are referred to that way. And so because we don't have a whole lot of options open for us. Offered to you just as a historic question mark. The word is scary. Bearer. Tiger Bearer. It's the it comes from this word sikari. Now Otherwise known as Sassin. Now whether it is in Spanish or it is in uh Airman. to take out and to plan to take any who seek to throw your agenda, your plan. If he had a problem with d it is very likely they would have named him the treasurer. It it's just like you wouldn't have made So the it's unlikely unlikely, not impossible, but unlikely that he was known or motivated by greed. But if in fact Ischiriad It would make sense of the fact that that uh Judas would and connected to the group of people who were Jewish national We know that the disciples didn't understand that Jesus was about to die and to die on a cross for sin to then be raised as uh Take button take name. That's what they were hoping. To restore Israel to former glory. It's very likely that Judas thought the same thing. And it's very likely that what Judas was doing. He would do. Meaning that he was no for any value to Judas. So why not give him up to the chief priest? Put all Jesus out. Not knowing what he would be paid, because he didn't allow it to be a good idea. Is part of all of that. Judas can be so close to Jesus. See his person. So you 're this Was willing to receive Jesus only insofar as if you have a lot And psyche can relate people and most certainly who Jesus is. When they greatly Then what? He means to draw this for this she knew That it was precisely, how become Jesus? How are we responding to what he asks us to do? Committal of self regardless of cost. The beauty is that Jesus gave of himself With other criminals buried at the center, though he was not. Jesus is, for those of us who read this test and who continue to look at the whole demonstration and uh The Jinda is attached to his name, for he shall save his people from their sins. Draw us into a peace, one One faith baptism to give him honor and glory. And from what we give up in our worship is an allegory But we receive return, no one can measure We were new purpose life. We begin to understand what it means to be human. Full of joy, who've received grace and mercy, turn to those who have need in our middle. As we have received , worship is In worship. As you've heard me say before May we never be outsung or out of the way. Nothing I have All that I have is f sense of you. All of life is a gift, Lord. To give our worship, not through S or through May give it vibrance because the Spirit of the Living God. You to glorify you, to worship you. You are worthy. You are worthy. And you