Zechariah chapter four, the entire chapter. Let's hear the word of God. And then the angel who talked with me returned and wakened me, as a man is waken from his sleep. He asked me, what do you see? And I answered, I see a solid gold lampstand with a bowl at the top and seven lights on it. And seven channels to the light. Also there are two olive trees by, one on the right hand of the bowl, and the other on its left. I asked the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord? He answered, Do you not know what these are? No, my lord, I replied. So he said to me, This is the word of the Lord to the rubbable, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. What are you, O mighty mountain? Before it's derubbable, you will become level ground. And then he will bring out the capstones, the shouts of God bless us, God bless us. And then the word of the Lord came to me. The hands of Jerubble have laid the foundation of this temple. His hands will also complete it. And then you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you. Who despises the day of small things? Men will rejoice when they see the plumb line in the hand of the rubbable. These seven are the eyes of the Lord, which range throughout the earth. Then I asked the angel, What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the landstone? Again I asked him, What are these two olive branches beside the two golden pipes that pour out golden oil? He replied, Do you not know what these are? No, my lord, I said. So he said, These are the two who are anointed to serve the Lord of all the earth. When it's reading of God's word. Now, maybe the Spirit enables us to understand and client. Verse 6 again. This is the word of the Lord, disrubbable, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. We come on this day of prayer to the second of three messages on this powerful text. Not by might, nor by power But by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. This was the verse I adopted for my verse for 1981 because of my recognition of the need in my life to depend more on the power of the Spirit And I plan to preach on it once to you, share with you some of the things that God had opened up to me. The Spirit of the Lord seems to have been striving with me, and the one became two, and now the two have become three messages I really resisted the third one. I fought that one for a while this week, but finally I just couldn't go any longer and so we'll consider this Once again next week looking at the entire chapter is the context of those verses, of that one particular verse But I want for us to see this morning particularly that this verse is focusing on the power of the Spirit in our witnessing. That's the focus of what God is trying to communicate to us here. You know, the stu the power of the Spirit can be seen in a number of ways. We talked last week about how the power of the Spirit is seen in creation, the stars, even grace worlds, and all kinds of creatures that God has made We see the power of the Spirit in regeneration accomplished, the fact that God separated the Red Sea to bring his people through. that he can raise up dry bones and give them life, that he can give to you and to me, who are dead in our sins, life in Jesus Christ. that he's the spirit of regeneration giving new life. He's the spirit also of sanctification, making us like Jesus Christ, producing by his power godly life in us. There's a number of ways we see the power of the spirit. But what's interesting to me in the study of this is that that phrase the power of the Spirit or the term concerning the wholeness of the Spirit or being filled with the Spirit in the Bible refers By far more than any other thing, to our witnesses. The power of the Spirit, the fullness of the Spirit in the Bible refers particularly to our witness for Jesus Christ. Now uh that's something that we need to grasp a hold of. Uh we need to understand what that means Uh when we talk about our witness, I'm talking about our verbal declaration of the power of Jesus Christ to change lives. To forgive sins, and that that power is available to others. That we do that in the context of a life which itself demonstrates that change I'm talking, you see, about our evangelism. Witness is different from evangelism in that evangelism is our precise declaration of the good news of the gospel But our witness is broader than that. Our witness is that declaration in the context of the changed life of the power of Jesus Christ, however that is seen. And what this verse is talking about is that that witness is made bold and effective by the Holy Spirit. And that we particularly come to know that in our own weakness. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. You see this connection of The power of the Spirit was witnessed again and again in the New Testament. For instance, you notice when Jesus came to the end of his ministry. And he was uh giving his last words to the disciples. We read in Luke chapter twenty-four in verse forty-five that he opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures And he told them this is what's written, that Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You're witnesses of these things You 're witnesses. Now they were very qualified witnesses, it would seem. They had spent three years in peace with Christ. He himself had been their teachers But Jesus himself says you're not qualified until you receive one other thing. Because I'm going to send you what my father's promised. Stay in the city until you've been closed with the power from on high. You can't really be witnesses, Jesus is saying, until you have the power of the Spirit in your lives. You and I Uh we aware how often we are witness of the lack of the power of the Spirit. But we're aware of the ineffectiveness of our witness. In fact, I tried to with my neighbors, with people at work, with others, I try to talk to them about Jesus Christ. I try to show them that I'm different And somehow it just seems that I tremble and I I look for other ways to get out of it and I'll say, Well Lord, that wasn't really an opportunity. You know, we sort of expect a person to pin it to the wall and say, What do I do to be safe? For us to recognize that there was an opportunity to witness. And we feel very shy about talking about Jesus Christ. And Jesus says knowledge isn't going to do it Uh you could take all the witnessing courses in the world. You could read all the books on it. You can sit around and make each other feel guilty about the fact that you don't do it. That won't do it So you need to wait until you receive the power from on high. So we read in Acts chapter one , verse eight He says you'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria , the end of the earth. See it again, the connection between the power of the Spirit and witnessing. So I'm suggesting to you The Zechariah 4. 6 , talks about might not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, is talking particularly about the power of the spirit in witnessing. Let's see how that works out in this text so that you and I can be as hurried concerning the power that's available to us as we call upon the Lord today, for his power to come upon us as a people and witnesses. Notice two things about this text concerning witnessing. The power of the Spirit is seen in our witness, and he's seen in our weakness. First of all, then, the Spirit of the Lord makes our witness bold. He makes our witness bold. Consider the situation that Zechariah was speaking to. Remember, there he is. We read this in verse 6 that the word of the Lord came to Zerubbabel. We talked a little bit last week about what the situation was there, the exiles that had come back from Babylon And they had come under Zerubabel 's leadership to build the altar of the Lord again so they could offer sacrifices to him. They had laid the foundation for the temple, and then uh the whole work had come to a standstill And now how is the church pictured in this chapter? When it's the derubbable that uh that's why I'm speaking Well you notice in those first couple verses he said, I see a solid gold lampstand with a bowl at the top and seven light bones Now we'll talk about this a little bit more next week, but I offer to you uh right now that that picture of the church as a lampstand If you connect that with the New Testament teaching on the church as the light in the world, that we're to let our light so shine before men, the very fact that Zachariah is picturing here the church as a lampstand Is his way of communicating that his concern is for the church as witness. Here's the temple lying in ruins. You just have a foundation here. And the temple is to be the witness to the Lord God of his covenant to all the nations around the earth, to see that temple and to come to it. Zachariah talks about the nations coming up to Jerusalem when they see the Lord's witness to himself there in the temple But the temple is in ruins. There's nothing there. What had happened, you see, was that uh they had begun to build the temple, and then some people wanted to join in with them. They said, let's build along with you Zach were rubbable and the others said, No, you not believers, you don't have any part of this with us. And so the attempted infiltration turned to opposition and persecution. And the people of the land finally wrote to Artisurx the emperor, the king of Persia. And they said, These rebellious Jews are trying to build up that uh city again that gave you guys all this trouble some years ago, you check back with Nebuchadnezzar's records and you'll find that's true. And we suggest you stop it. And Res listened and he stopped it. You put an end to the work right there. He said, you'll stop building that temple. It's against the law to continue to build this temple. What did they do? Ezra chapter 4 tells us they stopped. The work ceased for 14 years. Not another brick was laid. No work went forward in the temple. Why? Because the people were scared. They were afraid to stand out and continue with this work because it was forbidden. They were afraid of what would happen to them. And then God raised up Haggai and Zachariah Zachariah comes into their midst and he says, Oh people, don't you know it's not by might or by power that this is going to happen? But by my spirit, says the Lord. And so there's a revival that breaks out. People of God gather together and they begin to call upon the Spirit of God to come and to give them a boldness. What do we read in Ezra happen as a result of this? Read that they began to build the temple. They didn't look for any more permission. They just said, God has commanded us to do this. We must obey God rather than men. They began to build the temple If you came right back again, of course. Don't you know that's outlawed? Don't you know you can't do that? It's against the law to build this temple. We're going to report you to Darius, who's now the emperor. And so they asked the people, how do you respond to that? We read in Ezra in chapter 5, verse 11 to 17 How the people by the power of the Spirit now responded to this. You read in Ezra chapter five, they said, uh, you know, like before, well, you know, you see guys said no. I guess we better lay down our tools and go home Well, not now, you see, because now they've called on God and His Spirit is giving them boldness. And so they say, We're the servants of the God of heaven and earth And we're rebuilding this temple that was built many years ago, one that the great king of Israel built and finished. And then they go on to talk about how because of our sin God punished us And he had this temple destroyed and he put us in exile. He's brought us back and now we're going to finish it. And said in fact the sir God even raised up Cyrus to give us the permission and I you guys go check that. Meanwhile we're going to keep building And boldness, a supernatural boldness, a boldness to declare that God has called me to do this, a witness to him. It was not by might nor by power, but it was by his spirit. There's a picture of Jesus, who is the true witness. A picture first to see of Jesus, the true and faithful witness, who spoke in the power of the Spirit in great final boldness. Read in Luke chapter 4. Jesus says to the Spirit in chapter Luke chapter 4 and verse 18. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he's anointed me to preach. What is the result of the Spirit coming upon Jesus, the true temple that God has sent? Read in Luke chapter 4 verse 36. All the people were amazed and they said to each other, What is this teaching? With authority and power he gives orders even to evil spirits and they come out. Jesus spoke the word in boldness and power, even evil spirits, because the spirit of the Lord was upon him. And that spirit gave him great boldness He was able to stand before the Roman governor, Pilate, and witness to the truth, that he was the truth. He gave that same spirit of fullness, the very same spirit, I remind you, not a different spirit. But the same spirit to his church. So we read of the New Testament church that the power of the Spirit gave them boldness. You have a cowardly Peter, who on the night that the Lord Jesus was led away to be crucified, was asked by a little servant girl and someone else, Aren't you one of his disciples? You remember how Peter answered in that grave boldness and he said, Who me? No, I I don't even know the guy. Three times Peter denied that he even knew Jesus, and the third time so frustrated that with cursing and swearing. So he didn't even know him. Now just a few days later , have the power of the Spirit come upon Peter, not by might, but by power. But his spirit has come upon Peter. Peter stands up before a crowd of thousands in Acts chapter 2. And he says, You men have crucified Jesus Christ. And you must repent of that. You must come and you must lay down the arms of your rebellion. And you must come to Jesus Christ. That's the same Peter? The same Peter, but a different spirit. And 3,000 people we read are cut to the heart and become Jesus Christ. Why? Because Peter's a new man? Well, because Peter's working now in the power of the Spirit. A few days later, Peter heals someone who's lame And after he heals them, we read in Acts chapter 4 that the rulers and the elders and the teachers of the law take them in Now who is it in your life that most intimidates you? Is it your boss? Is it somebody whose uh respect that you crave uh but they're an unbeliever And so uh you're afraid to really talk out about Jesus Christ because you're afraid that if you do they'll mock you, they'll laugh at you. You kids maybe it's somebody who you want to be popular with Who is it that both intimidates you? Well, I tell you, whoever it is, but probably didn't have half the power to intimidate But these rulers and these elders and these teachers of the law sitting on their platforms looking down upon a mere fisherman, an ignorant man like Peter, could have the power to intimidate. What do we read? Acts chapter 4. In Acts chapter 4, verse 7 we read that these men take Peter and John and they brought them and began to question and said, by what power in whose name do you do this? What right do you have? How dare you go around preaching these things? And you read Peter withered away. Read in verse eight. Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers. Elders of all the people. If we're being called account today for an act of kindness shown to a cripple in her ass how he was healed, then know this it was by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified. That God has done it. That's boldness. I mean, can you imagine saying that to your boss? Do you imagine saying that to somebody who calls you into account for something you've done distinctively as a Christian? That's not by mind. That's not by power. It's by the Holy Spirit. God can't even identify with that. No, but God's Spirit is the same Spirit today. And He can produce that moment in you and me. God's Spirit is the same Spirit today who can take a man like John Sickert, who said that he was afraid to open his mouth about Jesus Christ, who would slink away when the subject came up As we've heard him tell us in others various occasions, that he's just as likely now if someone uses the name of Jesus Christ in vain to say, the Jesus Christ, and he'll say, that's a beautiful name. Let's talk about Jesus Christ. And begin with boldness to speak about Jesus Christ. What do you do? What do I do when somebody curses and says, Jesus Christ Do we slink away? Do we feel uneasy? And do we think, yeah, somehow I feel like I ought to say something. It's the fourth or fifth time this person's doing it. And somehow I don't feel right being silent. But I don't have a boldness. That boldness doesn't come by an aggressive nature. It doesn't come by you and me taking assertiveness training. It comes by the power of the Spirit. It comes by you and me yielding ourselves and saying, Lord, I I can't do this. Lord, I can't stand here and let this happen. You give me a bold speak for you It's the same Spirit who will give you and me the boldness to be our witness to speak her name. He doesn't only make our witness bold If that were all that he did, we would be very powerful. We might make a lot of enemies. We might bring down a lot of persecution, but not much else would happen The promises that he also makes our witness effective. The Spirit of God makes our witness effective. And his people had answered in the way that I described earlier, we are doing this for our God. And now you send that to Darius, they say. And so they sent him off to Darius. But now the question is, how did Darius respond? Here's the heathen king of Persia, and he receives this answer which he could read as insolence and rebellion. And how's he going to respond to that? People are saying, now Lord, you got us into this. Zechariah, you told us it's not by weight nor by power, but it's by my spirit. And we're counting on that, Zechariah, because our lives are on the line now. How did Darius respond to that? Do you remember? Read about it in Ezra chapter 6, verses 1 to 12. Darius read their appeal And Goliath said, I've looked back. The fact is true, Cyrus said, give these people permission. In fact, I want to forbid anyone who forbids them from building this temple By my own authority I support their building this temple, and if anybody wants to stop them from building this temple, I'm going to reduce his house to an ash heap and I'm going to impale him on one of the boards of his own house Darius says, furthermore, I'm going to pay for that pencil out of my own treasury. Anything that you guys have as cost you can't pay for, just bill it to Darius. Now that effectiveness. God changed the heart of the Persian Emperor because of the power of the Spirit. These people didn't even have an audience with him. There was no way that they could influence and affect him. God said, My spirit works in the hearts of kings. Do you believe it if the Spirit of God works in the hearts of people that you talk to about Jesus Christ? Do you believe that the Spirit of God can influence and can change hearts as we call upon Him to make our witness effective? No, it's so easy to think that it depends on the effectiveness of mind witness. But how clever I am in my presentation. But the Lord Jesus Himself was the model of that. No one's witness was ever more effective than Jesus Christ. He said, The Spirit of the Lord has come upon me. What to do? To declare the gospel. How he notice how he describes it in Luke chapter 4, 18 and 19. He has anointed me to preach good news for the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners, recovery of sight for the blind, to release the oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's peace The Lord's messages were so simple, weren't they? They were so straightforward, they spoke to the heart in uncomplicated, studied simplicity. And it was the power of the Spirit that made them effective. When Jesus Christ proclaimed liberty, liberty occurs When Jesus Christ told the dead man to stand up and walk, the dead man stood up and walked. Why? Because the words had the power of no. Because of the power of the Spirit by which Jesus Christ operated. And it's that same spirit as it worked today. When you talk to a person you say, You need Jesus Christ. Because, like me, you've sinned against God, you've walked your own way, and you've ignored him. God is righteous and just and he must punish that. But he's punished his own son, Jesus. And there's never a way that you'll be reconciled to him except through Jesus I urge you and plead with you that you will change, that you'll come to him, turn to yourself, and trust him. Do those words persuade people? And yet, haven't you experienced in your own life? Those words have changed you. They've changed your very life The power of words, the power of words used by the Spirit to bring about a life change in Jesus Christ. And so we read again and again in the New Testament that it's not by might or by power, it's not by words, but it's by God's Spirit that lives in change. You notice that Paul after his evangelized Paulant in writing on that and reflecting, writes in 1 Corinthians 2, 3 and 4 By coming to you, he says, was not in cleverness or persuasiveness of speech, but in demonstration of the power of the Spirit. So that your faith would not stand on men's wisdom, but on God's. He then goes on in chapter four to contrast talk with power. He says there's a lot of people going around talking and calling. But he said the kingdom of God is not in words, it's in power. It's in power to change lives Words, just uh the moving of our voice box, communicating sound waves to an ear, and it can change a life because of the power of the Spirit moving in that. I remember as one of you talked to me some time ago and said that something I had said had changed your life, had changed your whole thought patterns about yourself. The thing that struck me was you couldn't even remember what I said But it was God who had moved in me to begin to produce that change. I can't even remember the message or the name of the man who spoke the night I came to Jesus Christ I only remember the conviction that the power of the Spirit brought upon me in his pointing to Jesus Christ in his word. And so it's for you and for me. Paul said in 1 Thessalonians 1:5, our gospel came to you not in word only, but in power of the Holy Spirit. He begins to talk about the changes that occurred in their lives as a result of it. My only hope for you this morning is not that I'll be able to persuade you by my power, by my eloquence. Rather that the Spirit of God will change your heart. If you're not in Jesus Christ this morning, then he will show you your need for Jesus Christ as the word 's open That if you this morning are feeling weak, if you're feeling scared about your witness, if you're feeling guilty about what you haven't done, if you're feeling all kinds of conflicts about witnessing for Jesus Christ But the Spirit of God, certainly, will give you a boldness. Will give you a fresh new expectation. For what he can do in a person who's yielded to him simply says, Lord, I can't do it. I ask for your spirit to even make me Like you made Peter to be bold for Jesus Christ. Think of a fellow, John Hesselin He was a new missionary to Japan. Hesselink had had less than two years of Japanese language study when he was assigned, among other things, to go lead a Bible study in a Japanese prison When he went to that prison, they felt rather foolish. There's a bunch of pardoned criminals on condemned on the condemned row of that prison And him with his halting and stammering Japanese can hardly put a couple of sentences together. And here he is to lead a Bible study and to declare to them the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he said he was coming to that prison Week after week those men would be lined up and they would sit there stony face without any indication they were even listening. No response, no gestures, no change of a facial expression Week after week, all he would do is he could describe to him the simple truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He had done this week after week, month after month, so it began to feel like a fool for God And after a year, he said one day he was getting up to leave and he heard three men arguing with a guard. And he came back and he found out what they were talking about, and they were arguing with the guards for permission to be baptized And they came up to him and they said, You've been telling us now for a year about Jesus Christ and what he has done, even for criminals like us And we want to believe on that Jesus Christ and give him our life. And so in that Japanese prison, hardly even knowing how to communicate Having described the simple truth of the gospel, John Hisselin baptized three prisoners, who in just a few short weeks later Went to their condemnation were executed, as reported went rejoicing in anticipation of meeting their saviors And Hesselink, reflecting on that experience, wrote recently, to me it was a powerful example of how it is not the cleverness of my presentation or how well I present the truth, but it's the truth itself. That God uses to save people. It's the fact that they heard about Jesus, not that I was clever in presenting him. That it was not by money Nor by power, but it was by my spirit that the witness was made effective. And that witness is particularly effective when you and I realize our weakness For the Spirit of God is known and seen in our weakness. I remind you again from Zechariah 4. 6 that these people had given up For years the temple had laid in ruins. Fourteen years they hadn't done a thing on it. They were disheartened people. They knew their weakness. Zechariah came to him and he said, It's not by might or by power that you'll ever do this, but it's by my spirit that he will raise up his temple as a witness to himself. And when you and I come to realize our weakness, that should not drive you to despair. And that should be good news for you because God wants you to know your weakness. And if you say, you know, I've tried and and in the last couple weeks or months, you don't know how many times I've blown witnessing for Jesus Christ. Well Don't just sit there and wring your hands about that. Say, Lord, that's the kind of effective witness I am. You know how effective I am Now Lord, that just shows me again that I've got to depend on your spirit for boldness and effectiveness in making known Jesus Christ. Use your failures as a means of driving you to prayer together. To call upon the Spirit of God To make you effective, rather than to discourage you and thinking that it doesn't work or somehow until you get more training, you won't be able to do it That's such an easy trap you can fall into. If only I had, if only I knew, if only I could answer. God says it's not by might or by power. By my spirit, but the witness was made effective. Jesus Christ Himself was affected because of his weakness. You read in Philippians chapter 2 that he emptied himself of his glory, his power, his strength, become a servant, a humble servant, and through weakness Came to live with us. Hebrews 5. 2 tells us that he shared with us in our weakness. And you have what I think is a rather astounding statement of that in 2 Corinthians chapter 13 In 2 Corinthians 13, 4, Paul writes, to be sure Jesus was crucified in weakness. And yet he lives by God's power. Jesus Christ allowed himself in weakness to be taken by his captives To be nailed to a cross, to be crucified, taking upon himself your sin and my sin because of our weakness You and I could have never paid the penalty. You and I could have never done anything sufficient for God to forgive us and to receive us. But Jesus, because of his weakness , was crucified so that you and I in our weapons could be safe. Unless you realize and confess your weakness this morning, you'll never come under the power of Jesus Christ. If you say that there's something I can do for my salvation, you know it's part God, but it's part me too. That's sort of a cooperation process here. Then you'll never know the power of Jesus Christ. You and I must come to the end of ourselves. We must come to Jesus Christ in weakness , desperation Before we can know his power. And as Christians, you know our witnesses the same way. You and I must come in our weakness He must come as Paul, when he said that Jesus was crucified in weakness, yet he lives by God's power, and likewise we are weak in him. And yet by God's power you live in Him to serve you. Paul said that God used something in his life to show him that. Remember a few verses back before He said I had a thorn in the flesh, something that gave me a great deal of agony and anguish concerning of the weakness of my own frailty He says, I called on God three times, but his answer was, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. The power of the Spirit of God in your life and in my life is made effective when we realize our weakness. And so he said, therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weakness, so that Christ's power will rest on me. That's why for Christ's sake I delight in weaknesses and insults and hardships and persecution and difficulties because when I am weak, then I'm slow. Not by money, nor by power. By my spirit, says the Lord almost. So he says that he has his treasure in earthy vessels, jars of clay, so that it's obvious that the power is not of us, but of God. God has brought you recently to an experience of weakness. Perhaps you're a little discouraged this morning because of that weakness and that failure. The message to you this morning is that that weakness is to drive you to Jesus. That weakness is to bring you to his faith, so that you might in that weakness not be discouraged. But be encouraged to call on Jesus Christ for the power of the Spirit, so that your witness is a witness that doesn't demonstrate that we're a clever people, that we're a neat church. That we're a people who have it together. But we demonstrate the power of the Spirit. Because God even works in people like us He gets the glory and the grace. And that's the way he wants. Think of John Levine. A man who witnessed and testified for Jesus Christ back in the early 1600s. He testified so mightily for Jesus Christ that he was persecuted, as many other true believers were at that time in Scotland. And he had to escape into Ireland for his own life, along with many other Christians at that time. In one particular gathering at that time in the year 1630, a group of Christians met In a particular place called the Kerkeshats. And they met there to have communion and to have what we would consider today a kind of a rally of Christians And as they met there together, they met for one entire week in prayer and in hearing the word open to them. The Christians had a sense of something unusual coming upon them, and so they extended the meeting for one more day. And they called upon this young man, John Livingston, to open the word to them the next morning. And how did John Livingston respond? He responded, But as these not only knock each other, they bypass each other. And the Vingston said, I don't have any means to declare to this great hundreds and hundreds of people who'd be coming to this gathering the gospel of Jesus Christ. So fearful and so humbled with Livingston and the recognition of his own inadequacy to prepare, that he spent the entire night, that entire day before and the entire night in fasting and prayer, seeking God and struggling and agonizing. Lord, give me the power of the Spirit that I might honor Jesus in this. He recorded later that it was not until the early hours of the morning that God gave to his heart and to his soul peace and a message to deliver to the people. And early that Monday morning as hundreds gathered, John Livingston declared the simple truth of the gospel , the power of the Spirit. And 500 people responded to Jesus Christ that one day. And a revival broke out in that area. People came in streams to Jesus Christ. Not by light. Not by power. Not by the fact that if we could somehow have recorded that sermon and played it again, we could guarantee those results Because the power of the Spirit owned John Livingston's ministry in a weak and powerful way that morning. If there's one thing that you and I could learn from the Church of Korea today , You and I are called as witnesses here in Howard County to build up the temple of Jesus Christ. And you and I, as we realize our weakness in being able to not do this on our own strength, should be driven to prayer. But you know something? No matter what I say about prayer today on a day of prayer, no matter what you and I uh may discuss about it, we have an internal gauge that tells us how much we should pray. That internal gauge comes by and large from our Christian friends and particularly our leaders. If we find that the average Christian is praying about 10 minutes a day, we'll feel guilty if we don't pray at all. Or if we pray only five minutes a day. But we'll feel pretty good about praying ten minutes a day. And if we pray an hour a day, we'll start to feel uneasy that maybe we're taking too much time in prayer and wasting some time, maybe going overboard. In Korea, it's expected that Christians who are serious with Jesus Christ pray for an hour a day. In Korea, there are over 200 places called prayer mountains, places for Christians to gather simply to go and to pray. Prayer closets are common in c in Korea. One pastor was telling a visitor there that uh uh it's not unusual for pastors to spend an hour and a half a day in a prayer closet Simply with their Bible calling upon God to work in the land of Korea, to make his witness effective. How effective is God's spirit in the land of Korea? Well The Korean military chaplaincy is undoubtedly the most effective evangelistic tool in the world. For a number of years now, over 50% of Korea's army have been professing Christians. The Presbyterian Church started in Scotland. But the largest Presbyterian congregation in the world is not in Scotland, it's in Korea, with 50,000 members. The Methodist Church started in England, but the largest Methodist congregation is not in England It's in Korea. The Assemblies of God Church started in the United States. But the largest Assemblies of God Church is not in the United States. It's in Korea It's reported that in 1966, approximately 11% of the Korean population was Christian. By 1978, it was up to 19%. In 1981, it is was eight it was twenty-two percent, and some are projecting that by 1984, 30% of Korea will be Christians. Not by might, but by power, but by spirit. Well, Korea praise for the power of the spirit Will you join us today as we join together to pray individually, corporately, to call upon God Recognizing our weakness and the power of spirit come upon us as individuals and as a church in our witness through Him to raise up the temple of His people. As a witness to the nations, beginning at Howard Kelly. Let's pray. Oh, Lord, our God. We do talk about prayer a lot and the need to pray. But we know, Father, that how much we actually pray Just a measure of how much we believe that our work and our witness are not by our might or by our power, but by your spirit. And when we're honest with you, Lord, we know that uh that priority does not square with what we say Our Father, we pray that you would show us, as you showed Caesar Rebel and his people, the weakness, the helplessness, the hopelessness of anything affected being done in our faith. This week we will be weak and and we will be cowards. We'll be embarrassed when the subject of Jesus Christ comes up, and people will curse and swear and we'll be afraid to say anything in our own strength. But your spirit is the same Spirit who gave to those Jews so many years ago a bold and a powerful witness that changed even the heart of Goliaths. Your spirit is the same spirit that anointed Jesus to preach the gospel to the poor and to those who are in need of release. Your spirit is the same spirit who came upon the church after Pentecost in the the New Testament church time. To that same spirit waiting to come upon us, waiting to fulfill the promises that you have given for us to be bold and effective people to Jesus Christ where we were. our neighborhoods and our families. Father Lord, help us believe really from our hearts that it's not by mind, it's not by power. Nor simply by training or cleverness or prowess do we will become effective in our weakness. It's by the power of your spirit. We need to seek you. Seek you as hungry and thirsty people day by day. And to seek you today, rather than your people. Impel us, persuade us, change us, empower us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let us again pray to the Lord our God