As I begin this morning, before I lead us in prayer for the sermon, there is a disclaimer that I have to make. And that is that this is a frightening sermon for me to preach, because of what the passage itself says. It shows me my inadequacies in a way that I don't often like to see. And in studying this passage I'm aware that there are those of you in the congregation who know my inadequacies in these areas as well. And what I don't want to have happen this morning is for you to be Reading the passage, seeing it speak of Jesus' compassion, realizing ways and times that I failed you by not giving you the compassion that you both deserve and need, and deciding that Jesus has nothing to say for you this morning. So I want you to set me aside. I want you to listen as if I'm not even here. Because it's not my words, and their truth isn't based upon my credibility. This is Jesus speaking to you this morning. And I have to say that before we begin, so that you listen. Let's pray. Lord, as I've already said, this is a frightening passage to preach, and at times a difficult passage to read. And yet, Lord, it is so sweet. It speaks so clearly of your truth and of your love and of your compassion, a compassion that we desperately need. The Lord also charges us with a task. And I pray that as we hear your words this morning, as you speak to us That you would increase our Christ-likeness, that you'd give us an understanding of what it is you call us to do, Lord, and that you would give us your spirit that we might have the power to obey Lord, help us this morning to grow in our love for you, that we might do as you say the night you're betrayed, and obey your commandments. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus is traveling throughout the area in Galilee. He's early on in his ministry with his disciples. He's about for the first time to send them out. And Matthew records this text Jesus went through all the towns and villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. It starts with a bang. For you see, what it says is that Jesus saw the needs of the people. In verse thirty five, he's traveling through all the towns and he's healing, teaching, and preaching. You see, Jesus is doing something that we we tend subtly to avoid doing ourselves. He's with the people. Now, I was reading in some commentaries as I was doing the study for this passage, and it talked about the number of towns and villages in Galilee. And some people came up with an estimate of like three million people were in the area that Jesus visited. And here in the Greek it's emphatic, it says he visited all the towns and all the cities And he was with the people. We live in in the corridor between Baltimore and DC, and there's a whole lot more probably than three million people that surround us. If you get close to New York, there's a whole lot more than that. But we live here, and I'm not sure that we're with the people. I'm not sure that we see. I know that there's a lot of times I don't. But Jesus made the point of being physically present with the people. He traveled to see them. In some ways it's a lot like Clinton when he was running for election. He made a big deal of the fact that Bush was distant and isolated in Washington from the people. And so he traveled. He went to the small towns of the Midwest And he didn't fly. He didn't take a train. Well, he did sometimes, but most often he was in a bus. Hardly the means of travel that somebody with his stature would normally take I think Clinton may have learned a lesson from Jesus about identifying with the people. It wasn't new for Clinton. But Jesus was there and he met with the people. Not only was he physically present, but his eyes were open. He saw. And his heart was sensitive. Ready to be broken. And we see that as we see what he does. But before we move on to see what he does, I want to ask this question of you. Are you physically present? We can all answer yes because we're here. Are your eyes open? Are you seeing what's going on in the lives of the people around you? We can see that without being involved. But is your heart sensitive? Let me just ask a couple of pointed questions on that Do you know what's happening in the life of the person who's sitting on the same row as you are this morning here in church? Do you know what's happening in their lives? If you want to not really be confronted at first, go to somebody outside the family. It's easier to say that you don't know them. If you're a spouse, do you know what's really happening in the depth of hearts in your spouse? Do you know how they feel and what they think? If you're a parent, do you know what's really happening in your child's life? If you're a child, do you have any idea what's happening in your parents' life? But let's take it a little further away. It's a little tough sometimes to answer those questions. Let's go down to DC. Do you know what's happening on the streets of D. C. Do you know the poverty? Do you know the crime? If you do Are you distant? Have you erected a wall? It can be overwhelming. I don't even want to begin to look at Rwanda. We see the reports of bodies floating in the rivers. When we look at Bosnia, we see even in the last sermon I preached about forgiveness the story of that sniper who so successfully isolated himself from the people that he was shooting. They weren't faces, they were targets. You see, the needs are so overwhelming that we have a self-defense mechanism, and that says we put up a wall and we keep those hurts out. But what's remarkable about Jesus in this passage is he didn't do that He didn't keep the hurts and the people isolated from himself. We'll see more of that in a few minutes. But I want you to recognize that you begin with a physical presence. You continue with open eyes, but you're not done until you have a sensitive heart. You see, Jesus saw what was going on in the lives of the people around him. He recognized that they were ignorant. They were ignorant of God They didn't know who he was. And that comes more clear in a few minutes as we look in verses thirty-six. They were ignorant of God and they had no idea who he was. They were Jews, they were the chosen people of Israel, they were the covenant people and they didn't know God. They didn't know God so much that they were alienated from Him. They had a terrible need that they didn't even understand. And on top of that, they were ill. It says that Jesus healed every disease and sickness And Jesus' response, because he did have that sensitive heart, was to teach. It says in verse 35, he was teaching in their synagogues. He was proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and telling them that they did not need to remain isolated from God There was a solution to that distance. And he healed every disease. Now in the Greek it's really interesting because the same way that it speaks of every town and village, every city It speaks of healing every disease and every sickness. Jesus didn't leave them wounded. He made them better. He addressed their needs. But that doesn't solve it. And in point two, after he's done these things, after he's healed the diseases, in chapter 9 he even raises the dead. After he does this, Jesus says to his disciples, well actually before that Matthew speaks and says, when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them. Because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. He's already healed their diseases. They're better But he's moved to compassion. He's passionately moved by the needs that he sees. That's the next blank under point two, in case you haven't been able to keep up. I'm moving quickly. But he was passionately moved by the needs of the people. And if after he's healed them Normally, when I would read this passage, I'd think, well, yes, people who are wounded need to be healed. I can see that Jesus would be compassionate towards them. Let's go out and get involved in social action and meet their needs. But that's not at all what Jesus is saying. That's not at all what moved him to compassion here, because those needs have already been met. Let's take a moment and look at what it means to be compassionate. What is it that happens to Jesus after he's been with the people and after he's healed their diseases? The word in Greek basically is a word that simply refers to your innards. It means he was tied up in knots. It means his bowels hurt. Now, compassion is defined for us as sharing in the sufferings of another. But let me set the stage for a minute and help you to see some of what I think was going on with Jesus here. Because like like us, his humanity must have had the tendency to want to protect himself. I mean he in the Garden of Gethsemane points out that he sees enough of himself and values himself to the point that he doesn't want to suffer without reason. He says to the Lord the night that he's betrayed, Lord, if there is any way to take this cup from me, please remove it. But nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Here, he's got to have some underlying sense of self-protection. He's got to have a desire not to hurt. But instead of being like us and either seeing the life and not putting a face to it, or seeing the face and not putting the life to it, Jesus combines the two. You see, I find that when I'm distant, when I'm harsh, when I'm not compassionate It's because I may see that life clearly. I can look at the pictures of Rwanda on TV and and see that there is horrible suffering. And see that there's death. And I'll feel bad about it to a to a degree But I haven't seen the face. I don't know the person. And their suffering is not mine. So I'm not compassionate. For again, compassion is sharing in the suffering of another. And I can see faces. I see all of you here each week. But I may not know your life. I may not know those sufferings that you're going through, and I may not identify with them, with you. Jesus doesn't do that. Jesus takes the life, the sufferings, the hurt. He inserts himself into them. And he walks with the people and sees their face. And he combines the two, and he's broken. It's the kind of pain that makes you want to double up. It's not a physical pain that you feel. But it's like a while back when my children were riding the bus to school. And some of the kids were being really mean and just building on this attitude towards my kids. And my kids would come home crying. I knew them. Their faces were clear. And I couldn't avoid their life And so I felt their pain. But we don't do that well. Jesus did. That's what Jesus does for these people. He says, I know your life. And I know you. And I know your pain. But if it's not Their illness? If it's not their poverty? What is it that moves Jesus to share their sufferings? Why does he hurt? Well, he tells us in verse thirty-six, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. The visible needs are easy for us to see and begin to identify with because generally they're the same sort of needs that we share. If one of us gets sick, we can identify with that and we can respond to it. With medicine, with helps, with food. In some way we can actively respond to that But the disciples had only begun to understand that the needs of these people had already been met in their life. For you see, what they needed was a shepherd. What was going on? Jesus uses the word picture here. He says they're harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Now the Israelites would understand that image. Because what it speaks of is a flock of sheep. Who were great followers and horrible leaders. They didn't know where to go, and so they wandered and used their energy up. They were aimless They knew that they were in trouble, but they didn't know what to do about their trouble. And so they continued to move. And a flock in that kind of a condition will wear itself out to the point where they simply have no energy left and they fall That's what it means to be downcast. Some of your translations might speak of them as distressed and downcast. Well, a downcast sheep is a sheep that's exhausted, cannot go any further And in this case, because they don't have a shepherd, don't know where to go if they could get up. Jesus is speaking of the history of redemption here because these people were without a Messiah. They were without a Christ. They were without a Redeemer and they had no hope. They didn't know what to do. They knew that they were alienated from God. They knew that they were in trouble, but they didn't know what to do about it. And Jesus sees this. It's the reason for which he came He came to face that moment to help others to see that they needed a Messiah And at that point he gives his disciples a commission. He tells them to go to these sheep who are blind, who are wandering, who are exhausted. Do you see the people around you? It's easy to see some of the needs, although in Columbia it's not easy. You have to maybe go to Section 8 housing. Our deacons see the need. They go out and they talk to the people who are about to be evicted or who are about to lose their energy. And they see a need. And we can do something about that. But do you see the needs in the people who live next door to you? Do you see that they too are heared and helpless? That they don't have a shepherd. They have no leader. Do you see that they need someone to help them to be put in touch with the shepherd, their redeemer, the Christ? Regardless of how much money they have, regardless of the kinds of cars they drive, regardless of the house that they own and the possessions that fill it, do you see them as harassed and helpless Jesus had already met the physical infirmities. He healed them. Jesus wasn't compassionate because of their wounds. He was compassionate because they were who they were. The people around you need Jesus. Yeah, sometimes the people around you are obnoxious. Sometimes they're vicious Sometimes they respond to what you offer by cutting you to the quick. You extend the hand of compassion and mercy, and they take it off at the elbow. And your response then is to say, okay, enough of you. Take the dust off your feet. Jesus came, and who do you think they rejected? They rejected him in the garden when Adam sinned They had rejected him when he was born, and Herod attempted to kill him. They had rejected him each time he'd offered a miracle and he'd not gone on and met more of their physical and human needs Ultimately, they are going to come to the point where they reject him. They try him as a heretic, a blasphemer. They take him to the Roman authorities and they put him on the cross. There's no room for us to fail to extend the other hand You see, it's not because people are obnoxious to us that we can say, well, if you don't want the gospel, that's okay. Jesus doesn't leave us that out. Jesus in this very coming is preparing to be rejected. His eyes are on Jerusalem He knows that he's come in order to accomplish redemption for people who are about to kill him. And on the cross he says to his father, when he could instead call down twelve legions of angels, defend himself, go off the cross, and resume his own life. He says to his father, Forgive them, for they know not what they do. What Jesus is doing here. Well it's not in it its goal isn't to make us feel guilty, although it does that well, because frankly you will never be like Christ. As much as you grow in your Christ-likeness, you will never be Christ. And you'll never be someone else's Messiah, but you can. You can fulfill the quest that He gives you in this passage. For there are two categories of people Jesus is speaking to here. He's speaking to the disciples who are in touch with the shepherd. And if this morning you have a relationship with Jesus, you're a disciple. You are in touch with the shepherd. And he's speaking of those who are the harassed and the helpless, who do not have touch or contact with the shepherd. Who are wandering aimlessly, without hope, without energy, because they have wandered so far. And he says to the disciples, now , The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. For you see, Jesus is the shepherd, the redeemer that people need. It's easy to let this become a morality story to us and speaks of our opportunity to extend ourselves in the image of Christ to others who are who are around us. But if you settle for that, you have missed this passage. Because this is a centerpiece in the history of redemption. As Jesus is speaking here, he's come, and he's not able to say what he says except for one thing. The shepherd has come. He will accomplish redemption. He will lead his sheep. They will have a redeemer. There is no harvest without the cross. Jesus' atoning work makes that harvest plentiful. We're sort of caught here because he knows he's going to die and he can speak of the harvest, but he's not died yet, and therefore the harvest is still to come. It is plentiful, but it's still to come because it is all contingent upon Jesus' death and resurrection. What's not clear to the disciples yet is how Jesus is going to do it. Jesus is going to offer himself. He's going to take the guilt of the children of God, all those who trust in him, he's going to bear the weight of their guilt and their sin. He's going to cleanse them. And point them to their God. And so Jesus, while he doesn't make that clear in this passage, is clearly pointing to the fact that the harvest comes because he is the shepherd. The people are harassed and helpless, they need a shepherd, and he's it And right now, the workers aren't scarce, they're one. As Jesus is speaking to the disciples, he is the worker. He's the unique worker who can accomplish redemption, but he's the only one at this point who's doing the job. Because he's the only one that understands what the job is. But because he does accomplish that redemption, there is the possibility that it can be applied. Now you need to understand something just in terms of your own relationship with God. Jesus accomplishes redemption. He makes it possible there is an objective basis for your redemption, and that is in the death The obedient life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus. And that means now, for the first time in history, there is a possibility of being right with God. It's brought back in the past to the people in the Old Testament in anticipation. But if Jesus had not come, it would never have been possible. He makes that redemption, that union with the shepherd possible. But it's still got to be applied. And that application of redemption, that application of contact with the shepherd is what the harvest is. As Jesus is speaking, he's saying, these people need a shepherd, and I've come to be Him. And your job now, as a worker in the harvest, is to put them in touch with me. And that's important because as we look at those needs, as you look at the people around you this morning and you see the needs in their life, you can become overwhelmed. And if you think that it's your job to meet those needs, and your job alone. You won't. Even if you try, you'll stop. And even if you keep trying, you'll fail. You cannot satisfy the needs of the people around you. They will always ask for more. But the harvest is this: to put them in touch with the one who can, and to be a tangible expression of his love to them. And that's the labor to which we are called. But it begins with a different process. It begins with the command that Jesus gives, ask the Lord of the harvest, verse 38, therefore to send workers into his harvest field. Now it seems like such a harmless word. Ask It seems so small, it seems so passive It doesn't in the Greek. That word that we talk about as ask instead has a very strong sense. And that sense is to plead, to beg, to entreat, to implore Now I want to set it in your minds. For those of you who are parents, or those of you who are still kids and can remember what it's like to be a kid, for those of you who are a little older than kids and still have a good memory, that's I want you to go with me for a moment to the Toy Store. Yeah, today one of the big things is Power Rangers. I don't know what it is for the girls because my daughter's kind of grown out of some of those things. But if I were to take my son to the toy store and we were to pass by the aisle on which the Power Ranger dolls are found, my son will do immediately what Jesus asks us to do to the Father. It's not, oh Daddy, would you please give me this Power Ranger? I'd really like to have it. No. What any of my three boys will do well two middle boys will do. Dad! It's a Power Ranger! Gonna have one, please! Please, come on, Dad, give me a Power Ranger! No! They are involved. Do you pray like that for the lost? Do you pray like that that the Lord would send workers into his harvest? Do you have the compassion that moves you to see the needs? To ask the one who's in control. To fill those needs. And let me ask you this question. If you have that passion, if you have that desire for those people to be put in touch with the shepherd and for for workers to go into the harvest field, How would you feel about being a worker? Can you pray like that? And then go to the Lord and say, Me? Go. But Lord, you understand? They're my neighbors, and I might get embarrassed. They might reject me. Yeah, they're dying, but but nonetheless they might reject me. Can you look at the pictures of Rwanda? Finally putting faces to the suffering. And the uninvolved. The danger here is that there is such a tremendous amount of need That we may take upon ourselves again that whole idea of being the Messiah. And that's wrong. You are not the Messiah. But I'll tell you what. Jesus is. And he's capable of meeting all of those needs. He's capable of dealing with all the hurts And he's not asking you each and w every one to go to the airport today and fly off to Bosnia or to Rwanda or to other places. But are you praying? I'm not. Not nearly as much as I need. And I'm not compassionate because I am self-protective. What is Jesus calling you to today? What is it that Jesus wants you to do as his disciple? Well, let me backtrack for a minute. There are those of you here that may not be yet disciples. What he wants for you today is to leave that harassed and helpless state. He wants you to be in touch with him. He's here. And if you have any questions about who Jesus is, about your needs for a Messiah, for a redeemer, for a shepherd, then you talk to somebody here today. Don't leave until you've talked to somebody. But for those of us who know that shepherd, who have that confidence, and are long no longer downcast, no longer unable to move because we have no energy and we have no direction. Jesus is telling us a few things. The first thing he's telling you is to rejoice that you have a shepherd. You are not downcast. You are not helpless. You are not alone. Rejoice in a shepherd who loves you. And if you want to wonder about that love because you're feeling the hurts, look at the cross. I know that there are a lot of hurts out here. But Jesus meets those. He will take care of you. So delight in your shepherd But then it goes on beyond that. Take compassion. Place those faces with the lies. And be willing to hurt. Be willing to grieve. Because if you don't, you can't go to that next step, which is to pray earnestly, to beg, to plead, to implore, to entreat Jesus To send out laborers and to meet those needs. And if we're not praying for those needs, then we're not following Jesus And lastly, Jesus is calling you to be willing and ready to go. It may be to your neighbor across the street. It may be to your spouse. It may be to your family. It might be to co workers. It could be to Rwanda. But if you have that compassion and if you know your shepherd, he's not going to send you ill-equipped. He's not going to lead you to go where you're unwilling to go. Let's pray. Lord, we are your people. Thank you that you have taken us from being shepherdless and become our shepherd. Thank you that you've called us To meet our needs, that you have made us new creatures, that you have brought us to the point where we are now able to serve you and those around us Lord, the needs are overwhelming. Even in this congregation, and even in this part of the congregation this morning, there are needs that could sap us. Protect us from the idea that the solutions are up to us. Lord, help us to see that it is you who will redeem and who will rescue your people. And that you have called us to participate in it by being the hands and the feet, the eyes and the ears, the hearts But Lord, keep us in touch with you that we might not ourselves live as if we are without direction and without energy. And Father, I do pray that you would work powerfully. Please stop the suffering. Heal your people. Bring them to wholeness wherever they are, whether it's Bosnia, whether it's India, whether it's South Africa or Rwanda or Uganda or any of the places, including here. Where people are yet hurt. Where we long for the day when your kingdom comes and what we see is you face to face. Where the needs are not Not an issue any longer. But in the meanwhile, Lord, please work. Heal. Use us. In Jesus' name. Amen.