Turn in your Bibles to First Peter chapter one And I will open us in prayer. Hallelujah. What a Savior. Lord Jesus, we come to you this morning grateful for the redemption that you have accomplished for us. Spirit, we thank you for the application of that Redemption to us. And Father, we thank you for the love that you have lavished upon us because you have chosen us to obedience. Lord, teach us this morning from your truth. Show us more of yourself, and draw us into intimacy with you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Last week you recall we looked at 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 1 and 2 and we spoke of God's blessing to us in calling and choosing us and bringing us to Himself and not only leaving us as His possession But sanctifying us as his children and and bringing us that experience both of wholeness as as his children, but also intimacy with him as his children This morning is really a continuation of that. And I'm sorry that a week has gone in between, but I'm grateful for the worship this morning that focuses us on the fact that God has redeemed us. And if we begin reading this passage without recognizing what God has done, we won't be with Peter as he begins in verse 3. So let's turn to the passage. Allow me to read verses 1 through 5. And we'll begin. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ to God's elect. Strangers in the world scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy he has given us new birth into a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed. In the last time. Peter begins this passage with the exclamation: Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We come in Sunday morning and we have had a week of work, the lion's share of our weekend, and time to really be distracted. to be consumed with the demands that face us day to day. Sunday morning is oftentimes the most difficult time of the week because we're busy trying to get ready for something that we know we ought to enjoy For something that we know is is is a command, and for something that seems in many cases the sapus of energy. We come to worship Sunday morning and it includes the time of singing wonderful songs that focuseth on Jesus, but it also means that we've got to be dressed well. We've got to have our acts together. We've got to be able to face everybody who may ask us those pressing questions that we don't want to answer We have to deal with our kids depending upon what ages they are and and their spirited attitudes. As they say, no, I don't want to wear that. Or as they say, no, I don't want to get out of bed. There's a lot of issues that can distract us and focus us away from the purpose of being together here this morning. And that's not even taking into account the difficulties that you may be facing in your marriage, that you may be facing at work, that you may be facing with your health, that you may be facing with your children's health. And so we come here to worship and we hear Peter speak, praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we think, there was one time that I felt that way. Peter is coming to this conclusion as he focuses on God 's care for him and for all of God's children. You recall last week that we spoke about being chosen and what a blessing that is for God, the creator and sustainer of the universe, to set his seal of affection on me. To set this seal of affection on you. And to call us not only to heaven, but to spiritual wholeness here and now. As he sanctifies us by the work of the Spirit and takes away that curse of sin. Peter worships God as he considers God's care. But let me ask this question: how often do you find yourself flowing And I think that's a very good term for it. Flowing into spontaneous worship. How often do you find yourself joining Peter and just exploding with a praise be to God? When I was in Russia, the the first city that we were in was St. Petersburg, and we went there to meet a young man named Ilyas Sergeyev. Ilya is a college student. He spent a year in high school up in Pennsylvania With a very evangelical family. Now, Ilyah is an Orthodox believer. And so he's used to very formal worship. And he's used to very precise worship Vestments and repeated phrases, the incense, the beauty of the icons. And so when I got there and I met Ilya, and the first thing that came out of his mouth, this twenty-year-old blonde Russian Praise God. And I thought, okay. Obviously he's had a strong evangelical element in his life. And I reverted back to my 1970s attitudes towards Jesus freaks where the third word out of their mouth was Praise God every time. Unrelated to worship. It was idiomatic speech. Where they simply would continue to say these things over and over, maybe in an attempt to work themselves into worship. And so automatically my response to this young Russian was I'm going to have to watch him. Because I'm I'm very precise about my theology and I'm very careful about my worship. When God tells me to worship, I'll get a good attitude towards dutiful worship. But I began to track what Ilya would say And every time he said praise God, it was appropriate. And I began to realize that this 20-year-old Russian was worshiping God. He didn't care what I thought about what he said. He didn't care what the people listening to him at the table across the restaurant thought what he said. He worshipped God. He was in spontaneous worship. That was the beginning of my trip. The last people we were with were in Germany. And here is a very proper Prussian German. Now I don't know if you have stereotypes of Germans with the spiked helmets in a very precise order and a social status and all that goes with that, but those are Prussians. They're the people who have very precise, orderly ways to go. And not only was was Talgot o Prussian, but he was basically noble. His family background was a landed aristocracy. His name was von Bilau. And so here was Herr Traudot von Bilau. And I was driving in his car as he was taking us back to his house from the airport. And out of his mouth came, hallelujah. And I thought, what's going on here? This is oppression And I began to think, well, you know, God set me up with Ely. I'd better listen and find out what trial God is up to and whether or not this is just a cultural thing or whether he's worshiping God. And again The times that he would break out with a spontaneous Hallelujah in his German accent were appropriate. And he too was worshiping spontaneously And as God showed him something good, or as God accomplished something that he had been praying for, or as or as God showed him some aspect of himself, Charlgott would break out with, Hallelujah! And it was wonderful. It was refreshing. It was freeing. This morning, as we come to worship, we may be coming here out of a sense of duty or obligation. I did hear one amen. But I hope this morning that you don't leave having experienced worship out of duty or obligation. One of the things that I have to recognize is that being focused on the cognitive, I tend to be thinking a lot about what's true. And what I am supposed to do. Last week we talked about God's love and how He has chosen us, not out of obligation, but out of love and affection and pleasure. And how he calls us into a relationship characterized by intimacy and obedience. That is for his pleasure and ours. And yet, that doesn't resolve the issues in your life. That doesn't say that all those things that you struggle with aren't real. So, what is the role of our feelings in worship? Can I truly worship God if I'm not ecstatic? Yes, you can. Can I truly worship God if I'm not clapping my hands? Yes, absolutely, you can Can I truly worship God if I am not aware of who I'm worshiping? No, you cannot. And if you come this morning because you want to be seen worshiping, then listen to the message. And if you come this morning because you know that you ought to be worshiping, but you're still not feeling it, be encouraged by the message. It is God's message to you. And if you come this morning ready to worship and feeling like there's an explosion about to happen, then let it happen. Because worship of the whole person with God is good. And he calls you to intimacy. Now I don't know how many of you have ever been given an obligatory kiss by your spouse. Anywhere from a peck on the cheek to a closed lip kiss on the lips to a handshake. It's better than nothing. So God doesn't want a handshake this morning. And God doesn't want a handshake when you meet with Him in the Word every day. Well, as many days as you can manage, depending upon your schedule. God wants you fully involved with Him. God wants you passionate. And you know what? You can be. It is good. What is your focus this morning? What is your focus as you come to the Lord in the Word in your quiet times? What is preoccupying you Peter is showing us in these three verses that what preoccupies us ought to be nothing less than God. And I want to move into what Peter says in verses 3 through 5 to help us to begin to see that. Because Peter begins, praise be to the God of our Lord Jesus, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, having looked at that choosing and that obedience, but he's got more in mind. And he moves on and he talks about who, according to his great mercy. The first thing Peter says in in thinking about the character of God is that God has acted out of his mercy. Now if this is a merciful act, this is not something that I'm owed. And so the question that comes in is: do I really believe that God is calling me to a relationship with Himself that I do not earn? When I come into my relationship with the Lord and meet with him, not come into the relationship, but come into his presence. When I'm coming on the basis of my relationship with the Lord into his presence Am I coming because I believe that God owes me something? Or am I coming because God has lavished his love upon me? And really, the heart of that question is the question of do I believe I am a sinner? Do you believe that you are a sinner Now we we have developed a way of thinking about sin that I think insulates us from the reality of being a sinner. As a Christian, we may think that I'm a saint and a former sinner. And I've read a number of people who will talk about do not think of yourself as a sinner because if you think of yourself as a sinner, you're likely to sin. Think of yourself as a saint because you are. God has made you a saint. He has sanctified you and set you apart. And that's true, but you know what? Paul in chapter 7 of the book of Romans says, I'm a sinner. Yes, I'm a saint because God has redeemed me, but I am a sinner. I remain a sinner and I still battle my old self. And if you come to the Lord without a recognition that it is His mercy that has drawn you to Himself, And it is his mercy that holds you to himself, and that you are both a sinner and a saint, you do not know your identity. Because, yes, if I focus on being a sinner, I'm likely to sin more. But you know what? If I focus on being a saint, I'm still likely to sin And if I only think of being a saint, then I don't recognize the greatness of the mercy that God has lavished upon me because I begin to forget my sin. I begin to forget what I have earned. And I begin to think less of God and more of me. And that's sin. And that diminishes my relationship with the Lord. And that diminishes my ability to fight my sin. So the very thing I begin trying to accomplish by thinking of myself only as a saint, I lose And I have less ability to fight. You are a sinner in specifics. And if you're not ready to acknowledge those, I know people around you who will, including the Lord. Who according to his great mercy. I want to read again the beginning of chapter one in Ephesians, which speaks of the character of God's affection for us. Ephesians chapter 1, beginning in verse 4. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his son through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will. To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us, and the one he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according with the riches of God's grace, which he lavished upon us. Last week we spoke about how this is not an obligation that God has taken upon himself that he will mechanically fulfill. This is God's desire for his children, for you. According to his great mercy, he has redeemed me a sinner. His mercy is beyond boundaries. His love is beyond comprehension. Into a new birth and a living hope This is one of the more painful parts of what Peter's saying. He's given us a new birth according to the gospel. Jesus is come and he has lived an obedient life. He has died a willing death to pay the debt of your sin, and he's risen in power to bring about your redemption. Jesus sacrificed because I sinned. My sin is real. Your sin is real. It meant the death of Jesus. That's a sad and joyful thing. His love for you knows no bounds. God demonstrates that love for you in that while you are yet a sinner, Christ died for you. He made him who knew no sin to become sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. But it's even more painful as we look at beyond the gospel the claim of a living hope. As you come in this morning and you come to worship and you come to be with other believers, are you encouraged that you experience a living hope? Is your life characterized by a living hope that says, yes, God is good? Not only in the future, but here and now, because there's both a future element to this hope. That future element is the inheritance that we're going to speak of in a minute, that we will be with God in heaven. That's part of the inheritance. That's what Jesus accomplishes in his life, death, and resurrection. But there is a living hope which has a present element. And that goes back to verse 2, the sanctifying work of the Spirit. Is God giving you a living hope here and now in this life? Are you carrying on in power? And in pleasure? Or are you carrying one foot in front of the other because you want to make it to the goal and you only look forward to the heaven to come? Has life burdened you so that you you don't have hope for now? Whether it's in your marriage, whether it's in your relationship with your kids? Whether it's in your employment, whether it's in your dreams for the future, whatever it may be, is there something that so burdens you that you do not have hope for this life? Have you been robbed? Because God is speaking of a hope that is not only future, but is present, and that's where the pain can be. Because you may not believe you have that hope. You may not believe that God either has the power or the intention to take care of you now. He may be turning to other things. You may be trying to find some way of coping now. The only way of coping is the power of God who has given you a new birth to a living hope. Put him to the test. Take your burdens to him Jesus says, Come to me, you who are weary, and I will give you rest. Is that just a trite statement that he's making that has no basis in fact? Or is he promising you That the burdens you bear today he can't bear with and for you. And that his love for you and his promise of sanctifying you through the Holy Spirit is enough If it isn't, he isn't God. If you live only for a future hope, your worship here and now will be diminished or non-existent. Is God calling you to help That hope is also the characteristic of the gospel in my life, which says, yes, it is appropriate for me to recognize the two halves of the gospel. I am a sinner in greater depth and depravity than I can possibly recognize. I cannot see the scope of my sin. I cannot see the depth of what I'm capable of doing. And I need Jesus. I need someone else to change me. Peter says that the sanctifying work of the Spirit is that someone else. The other half of the gospel is that while I must recognize that I'm a sinner, I also must. Recognize that I am more deeply loved than I could possibly dare to dream. Because God has recognized the depths of my sin even when I cannot And he has said to me, I love you. See my son, my statement of love. See the spirit that I have poured out on you richly, both as a seal and as a deposit That is working in you to transform you and free you of your sin, to bring you into that experience of both wholeness and obedience and intimacy. Are your goals too low? Are you going to the Lord who can save you? By His great mercy, He has given us a new birth into a living hope. And have given us an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. Now I have to confess that when I start thinking about an inheritance, that word sets me off. Because I begin to think about something on a human level that says, This is my righteous claim. I have an inheritance of it because I am of the bloodline, or I've married into the bloodline, or I have served this person and given my sweat equity. And so when I begin to think of an inheritance, I think of something that is mine by right. This inheritance is yours by Jesus, by grace, by mercy. Do not do not hold to it as something you have deserved. I also begin to think of tax codes, probate court, and all the things that can diminish what might otherwise sound like a really good deal. I I'm a bit cynical when I hear about about uh either a large inheritance or a big windfall, you know, those people who win the lottery and get X amount of millions of dollars My first thought is okay, 60% of that taken away, you get 40% left, and you've got friends who want to get it from you, and you don't have much left And is this a blessing or a curse? And so my attitude towards the idea of an inheritance is to diminish it and not to treasure it, not to value it. Let me tell you, there's no probate courts in heaven. I won't say whether there's IRS agents in heaven, but there are no survey courts. This inheritance is beyond comprehension. The same way that the love of God is beyond our comprehension. It is a gift so good we cannot overvalue it. Because it means that I am going to spend eternity face to face with the God who has loved me with a love that is beyond boundaries Able to worship him. Now I don't care about what kinds of comfortable items may be in heaven. And I think that if you focus on streets of gold and pearly gates and mansions and wondrous things that you might be able to enjoy in succulent feasts, those things can distract you from the reality That you'll be with Jesus. To gaze on him and to see his love-filled eyes pierce me. That inheritance I encourage you to meditate upon. To reflect upon, to think about, to dream, to hold. And it is shielded by God's power. He says in verse 5 Who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. Now he's speaking both of the inheritance that is protected, which will never perish, spoil, or fade, but he's also speaking of us as the children of God. And he's saying to you, I will keep you safe I will hold you to myself. I will not let you fall away. Jesus speaking to the Pharisees, speaks to them about his sheep and those who are not his sheep. And in John chapter 10, Jesus says, I know my sheep, my sheep hear my voice. And he goes on to say, and I give them eternal life, and no one can snatch them from my hand. For my Father who's given them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of the Father's hand. Those that God has redeemed are safe. You are safe. God has loved you, He has transformed you, He will keep you And no one or nothing can take you from him. You are shielded by God's power. The Greek term there is dunymus. The room from which we get dynamite. And it's incredible. If you look at Ephesians chapter 1, you see Paul's prayer at the end of the chapter, and he says, beginning in verse 19 He's speaking of his prayer and he says, and his incomparably great power for us who believe. This is the same power that Peter's speaking about when he's speaking of our shielding. There's power for us to believe that power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised them from the dead. God's power is the power of creation. He created the universe. It is the power over death. He raised Jesus from the dead. It is the power to keep us safe. Jesus says of his father, no one can snatch my sheep out of the Father's hand. You are safe in his power. You are not at risk. You are not about to be lost. I wish I could communicate more fully to you what Peter is saying in this passage, but it's something beyond words. I can't work into your mind or your heart to give you an experience of intimacy with God. That's his province. But like Peter, I can draw you to reflect upon what God says of himself. And about the character of his love for you. And your responsibility this morning is to think about how I should respond. Do I believe this is true? Do I believe that God has done this for me? Do I believe that God can love me? Do I believe that God can take care of me and that my hope can be both present and future? This morning, as you reflect upon God's relationship with you and his ability to provide intimacy with himself for you. As you reflect upon his ability to protect you and care for you in this life and the life to come, your response should be what Peter begins with and ends with. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And in verse 6, in this you greatly rejoice. Do you greatly rejoice as you continue this morning in worship? If you're feeling guilty because you're not emotionally involved and you don't feel that tremendous intimacy with God and you're just not sensing that the Spirit is moving you forward, stop! Mechanical worship is better than no worship, but you don't have to settle for mechanical worship any more than you have to settle for a bad marriage. Any more than you have to settle for a difficult life. Because God can't raise you. He may not take away all the circumstances that make life difficult. But he'll change your perspective and he will satisfy you. Jesus says, Come to me who are you who are weary and I will give you rest. He's not blowing smoke. True worship Is a worship that is intimate with God. God wants you to experience that intimacy with Him. God wants you to recognize who he is, what he's done, and how he will care for you. God wants you to bring those problems to him because you can't bear them. You cannot bear them. He can. He has said he will. He will bring you peace He will bring you hope. Recognize the blessings that God has already given Recognize the blessings that God is in the process of giving. Recognize that He loves you. There are distractions that will have a hold on you. And in your perspective on life, you need to think about what those distractions might be. And you need to evaluate them. Are they good things that may pull you away from God because you'll settle for less than God? Or are they difficult things that make you weak and unable to come to God in strength? You don't have to come to God in strength. You never will. Come to God, the Father who has redeemed you, the Spirit who is transforming you. The Trinity that loves you with an undying and endless and limitless love. And says, to you this morning. See me. Is the gospel controlling your life? Should you settle for lust If you're not sure that you understand this, and if you think that there's more you'd like to talk about, give me a call. This is my passion. Because it is true. And because God loves sinners, and because God is in the business of bringing healing to sinners. If you don't understand it and you're you're in a small group or a cell community, bring those issues to them. That's the people who know you and will know how to help you experience more of Jesus But if you don't know where to go, and you have an elder, go to your elder, or go to me, or go to Alan. But don't stay where you are. God has so much more That's why Peter could say, In this you greatly rejoice. Let's pray. Jesus, we are woefully inadequate. We settle for so much less than you want to give us. And we try so hard in our own strength to give ourselves what we want. Jesus, I pray that you would fill us with what Peter experienced, that spontaneous worship. That is focused upon you and your power and your love. Lord, I pray that you would empower us to dream and to experience your love. Bring us healing and wholeness, and bring us the power to glorify you. As children who have experienced your love.