This past week. Uh last week you remember. If you were here you remember hopefully. If you weren't, let me tell you I I spoke on Second Corinthians chapter three verse eighteen We looked at that verse. We who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory, all behold the Lord's glory. Better translation. And we who all with unveiled faces are beholding his glory are being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. And I was trying to make the point in doing that and preaching on that, that beholding is a way of becoming. That we, as we behold the Lord, uh, in that process, rather than just focusing on our sins or the things that we need to change, to look and to see who He is and to see His glory in the gospel and in the face of Jesus Christ. Through that process the Lord changes us. He transforms us. And so I uh challenged you to spend the next six weeks Uh focusing on the Lord Jesus rather than on your sin, to be able to concentrate on how to behold him. And uh Then it's just a kind of a last minute sort of thing. I I added, uh, if you are interested in doing that, please put it on the gray slip so that I can pray for you And so I didn't know what the response would be and I looked at it this week and the errors five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty What up to fifty responses that in many cases referred to more than one person who was saying, I need this. We're going to do it. We're going to challenge ourselves to uh conduct this kind of an experiment that we focus on the Lord to see what he'll do in our lives, to behold him, to make that the focus of a half hour, one full TV sitcom per day to be able to do that till the end of June. And uh so because there were a number of people who asked afterwards Um how do you do it? You know you got me on this thing, but now what do I do? You'll see in the bulletin board this morning that there are some suggestions. Now please don't turn to them now and say, oh, let me redo this thing But you'll see three suggestions there on some things that you might be able to do to help you to accomplish that. And that's exciting to me Now can you imagine what would happen if this congregation became in the next six weeks a people who worship and behold the Lord Jesus and are freed from focusing on our guilt and our sin, but rather to see his glory and his grace and what he has done as he begins to work more and more in us to transform us. through that means because that's the means the Lord has given and that's right straight from his word. So I'm uh excited about what the Lord might do that in that because what we're really doing in this Is practicing the principle, a simple psychological principle, that you tend to become like what you admire. And that's why The advertising industry spends million dollars every year to contract with sports heroes to advertise their products Because if Cal Ripkin drinks milk, then by golly, so will I drink milk. You know? You tend to imitate the person you admire And so as we focus on the Lord Jesus, as we behold him , we will become like him in that process. Now, look in the bulletin outline for this week as I try to build on that, because what I want you to see that this is a there is a process here And that's right there under John 4. 24. You see, I behold Jesus to become like Jesus. That's what we looked at last week And God seemed to work, and a number of you saying that that's what I want. Help me in that. Alright? Now, let's build on it. When I behold Jesus, I must worship him. My worship of him must be more than duty. It must be a delight. And you folks notice that I'm focusing on a particular word there. If I'm beholding the Lord, when I behold him, I must worship him. To behold him is, to produce worship, it's the only appropriate response, as you and I see who the Lord Jesus really is And my worship of him must be more than duty. It must be a delight. Now, let me explain a couple of things here. First of all, that word must. When I say that I must worship him and that worship must be a delight I don't mean that must in terms of external constraint. You ought to do that. And if you're not doing it, you know you've got to somehow work it up. that you must by external constraint, but rather what I'm speaking of is the must of internal compulsion. Let me illustrate the difference. If you were to say to me, we're going to have a picnic this Saturday, would you like to come on our picnic? And I would say, no, no way, because I must perform my daughter's wedding this Saturday. Now, you knew how to get that in there somehow in an illustration, but it fits, all right? I say, I must perform my daughter's wedding. You say, Oh, do you mean you know you couldn't get out of it Uh she twisted your arm and and made sure that you were going to do that just because you were her dad. Yes, right? No. That's not the kind of must The must I mean there is there's nothing in the world to keep me from doing that. It's my delight to do it. I want to do it. I must do it. And so when you and I behold the Lord Jesus There has got to be working in us that internal desire that says that I can't just behold him in an intellectual way, just to simply look at him and then mouth some second-hand praises. But I must worship, and I must delight in that worship. Now let me say another thing about that. I am not saying in this that worship must be a delight, that if I do not feel delight, then I haven't worshipped. We're going to deal with that a little bit further on in the message, but what I'm saying here is that the ultimate goal is to delight in the Lord, and he will give to you the desires of your heart. Because worship is simply reflecting back to him the radiance of his worth. So as I do that, that must involve my affections, as Jonathan Edwards said. It cannot simply something that I do cognitively. It must involve my whole being Now that's clear not just because I'm giving you a psychological principle, but it's clear because of what Jesus said. When Jesus gave the most succinct and definitive statement of what worship is in the New Testament. In John chapter 4, verses 23 and 24, this is exactly what he said. So take a look at that if you haven't turned to it already. John chapter 3, 4 And we see in verse 23, Jesus here speaking to the woman at the well. Give you the context in a moment, but just see now the verses. Jesus says, Yet a time is coming and has now come. When the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in spirit and truth. And in truth. Now, what did he mean by that? Again, like last week, just look for a couple of minutes at the situation, at the context of this, so we get the flow of the thought Do you remember this is the situation where Jesus was coming up through Samaria in order to get to Galilee. And he In this process, most Jews would go around to the east of the Jordan in order to avoid Samaria. Jesus went right straight through, and he stops at this town of Sikar at the foot of Mount Gerizim. Now hang on to that word. We'll come back to it in a minute. Mount Gerizim. Right there there's a well. A well that Jacob had dug. And Jesus stops at that well and he asks this woman who comes out there to draw water for a drink. Now she's operating simply on the physical level, like a lot of people that you talk to today. You try to get them into spiritual discussions and after a while you think this person doesn't have a spiritual bone in their body If that's possible to think about that. But anyway, you can't get him on a spiritual wavelength. And so what Jesus does is he begins to talk to her about spiritual water, about a spiritual thirst. And she's not tracking him. She just keeps coming back to well, you know, if I wouldn't have to come to this well, that'd be nice. And he comes back to the spiritual water. And in order to put her in touch with her thirst, what Jesus does is that he calls attention to the bankruptcy of her moral life. He says, go call your husband. He says, looks down at the ground, sort of murmurs, I don't have a husband. And he says, You're sure right there. You've had five husbands, and the guy you're living with now is not your husband. All of a sudden she realizes she's not dealing with an ordinary person here And so she says, well, let's talk about religion. You know, I perceive you're a prophet. A little uncomfortable. Things are getting too close. And so she brings up a probably a genuine concern. It's one that's often discussed. But she moves to a religious controversy. You Jews say that Jerusalem is where you ought to worship. Now, we Samaritans say that we ought to worship here at Mount Gerizim, maybe gesturing up to the mountain that they're right there at the foot of. Because you see it was at Mount Gerizim that the Samaritans had built many centuries before a temple as a rival temple to the temple in Jerusalem. That temple had been destroyed about 150 years before this conversation is taking place by John Hyrcanus, one of the Maccabean princes. And so this is a a heated controversy. Your people came up and they destroyed our temple, and you say you can only worship at Jerusalem, and we're saying, no, that's not true. That we have a perfect right to worship here at Mount Garrison. What about that? And Jesus doesn't even wait for a question. You see, it's at that point that Jesus then interjects that worship is not a matter of where. It's a matter of who and how. And so it's at that point that Jesus brings in, verse twenty-one, believe me, woman, the time's coming when you will worship God the Father, neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. That will even be an issue. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Messiah is going to come out of the Jewish race. And yet a time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit. And his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth. Jesus is focusing her here on the essence of worship. Now let me cover briefly what that verse is saying, and I want to focus on a particular point of what he means when he says you must worship in spirit. But in order to see that, you've got to see the context of the verse, because the whole statement is that God is spirit and his worshippers must worship in spirit and truth. If you're going to behold Jesus during these six weeks, that has got to involve worship. And if you're going to worship, that worship has got to involve both spirit and truth. Now, what does that mean? Excuse me. First of all, it means that you worship in truth. You must worship God in truth. Two things about worshiping God in truth. First of all, it means that the object of our worship has got to be the true God as He has revealed Himself. We live today in a generation of needs, felt needs , the day of the subjective Where feelings are more important than truth, where we conjure up what God is like in order to meet my needs. The major concern, even for Bible-believing evangelical churches today, seems to be, what is it that meets my needs? What is the kind of God who will help me to get through this next week? And even though God is very concerned to get you through this next week, and He is a shepherd who wants to lead you and to care for you Nevertheless, if you are going to worship, which is going to be the very beginning point of getting through this next week, then you must worship God as He has revealed Himself. rather than the God of your own imaginations and conjuring. Now, what I'm trying to just make is a point here because I don't have time to focus on this is that we are tending more and more to slip from understanding what it means to worship God in truth. Even within Bible-believing evangelical churches. Because we are so immersed with the subjectivity of the culture around us that we are unconsciously being affected by that. Let me give you an example. In on U. S. News and World Report, good old John Leo this week writing about uh cultural developments, you know, he's a very good culture watcher. And he writes about some of the studies going on in colleges. And here's what he says. This is from a article in Mother Jones magazine by Karen Lehrmann. She says, sometimes these courses consist of consciousness-raising psychobabble, with the students' feelings and experiences valued as much as anything that the professor or the texts have to offer. These are touchy-feely classes with an emphasis on self-revelation and a safe environment presided over by an overtly warm, encouraging maternal teacher, with a celebration of subjectivity over objectivity. feelings over facts and instinct over logic. He says that the holy grail of this movement is the self-esteem movement uh the self-esteem idea, and that the uh movement towards self-esteem has produced, as he says, uh a an atmosphere in which feelings take precedence over facts and norms. Now what's the effect on that for us as Christians? If I were to tell you that we're going to hold a seminar On how to love, old love, manage your money, how to cope with stress, guilt, all these kinds of things, there'd probably be a fair amount of interest But if I said we're going to have a straight-up course on theology to understand God, how many be signing up? You see, theology is a lost interest today. Now, why? Because today we think there is no great concern There is no impetus in our culture to know who God is and what he's like. We've lost the sense that worship must begin by understanding who God is as he has revealed himself. So that I will be able to worship him in truth. And it's not until the Church of Jesus Christ recaptures The exaltation of the study of theology in order to know who it is that God is, as He's revealed Himself, that we might worship Him, that we're ever really going to behold Him In a way that's going to transform us and bring renewal and revival. I believe there is a very definite connection. It's been historically true, and I believe it'll be true in our own generation. So the first thing we must understand is if we're to worship, if we're to behold, we must worship God as He has revealed Himself. And that means during this six weeks You're going to study the Bible and you're going to look at that and you're going to say, I want to understand God, not just some blessing that I can subjectively derive from this. I'm going to let God set the agenda. Let him talk about himself. And I'm going to sit at his feet and learn. Now I'm not going to just learn who he is, because worshiping in truth doesn't just mean the object of worship, it also refers, secondly, to the manner of worship. It refers to how we worship God. And that's the second thing to notice there. How we worship God Is revealed by Himself. From the very beginning, God declared that there were right and wrong ways to approach Him. For instance, when Cain and Abel, just after the expulsion from the Garden of Eden, come to worship God, Cain is a veggie farmer and so he offers veggies for a sacrifice a salad uh abel works with livestock he offers a blood sacrifice God had apparently revealed that the blood sacrifice was what was necessary from the very beginning because of this idea of the shedding of blood and that the salad was not the appropriate sacrifice to make And so he accepts Abel's sacrifice. He rejects Cain's sacrifice. Tells him, sin's crouching at the door. He better master it. And Cain resents that. He says, I've got to worship the way I want to worship. I've got to bring what's meaningful to me. But God rejects it. You go right on down through the history of Israel where God defines how to be worshipped in the tabernacle. And when he says, build me a tabernacle, he doesn't just give a vague blueprint You know, here's a blueprint, here's how to build it, the dimensions, that's it. He talks about the labors and the wash basins and he talks about the particular sacrifices that are to be offered and what the candlestick means and all these details of all the furnishings and all the approaching of God in a different main three main different kinds of sacrifice, the sin offering, the bird offering, and the fellowship offerings, and all these things, because God says, you don't know how to worship me. You and I go by our gut feelings, we're always gonna get way off the mark. So to worship God is to worship him in truth, in the way he's revealed. That means that today, when we talk about worship and we have a worship team and we meet monthly to work at this and to study and prepare and we're going to be meeting again this Thursday. As you think about it, if you ever see a worship leader up here leading with a team, you know, and you might just for a moment pray, God help these people As they're leading us in worship, to lead us to worship in spirit, but also in truth. That we worship you and don't simply design whatever is creative. That's not an option to us. Whatever's going to turn us on, whatever's going to make you go out the door and fill out a slip that says, boy, I really felt great today. I worshiped It's not necessarily true. You could feel great in our worship at all. We could just produce some sentimental feelings in you by singing some old favorites and having a rousing time But to worship God in truth is to worship him in the way that he has declared that we're to approach him. And that was the whole context of this discussion. The woman says, Hey, we Samaritans say Mount Gerism is good enough for us. Jesus says, You don't know how to worship. God has said that his name is said at Jerusalem, and you must worship me here at Jerusalem. Then he says the time is coming when it's not going to be a matter of geography, it's a matter of who That who is the all-central focus, but our worship is directed at Jesus Christ. Now that's the truth of worship. And I could say a whole series on that and did a series many years ago on that, but I'm not going to pursue that. Now I want to get to the idea of spirit. The idea of spirit, worship must be in spirit, also has two ideas to it. The first is that it refers to the Holy Spirit. Worship must be by the Holy Spirit Now that means two things, I believe. First of all, it means that you and I can only worship after we've experienced the new birth by the power of the Spirit. You can't worship Jesus Christ this morning if you're dead in your sins. If you've never come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness, if you've never come to confess that you can't bring a to God an acceptable offering of your sincerity and of all your good deeds and all the things that you're trying to do and helping other people and the rest of that, it's never going to outweigh the sin, the offense of your wrongs against God. You must first be born again. And that's what he says, just the chapter before that. He says in chapter 3, verses 3 and 6, you can't even see the kingdom of God unless you've been born again, let alone worship him. And so you must be born again in order that you will be able to come to God to bring worship because that worship only comes through the acceptable sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross for your sin, as you trust Him, in your place. If you haven't done that, I plead with you to make that the first step. You can't worship God until you do that. If you have any questions, talk to me. Put on your gracemi that you're interested in talking about. That we'll get back to you The second thing I believe, though, that this means for all of us as believers concerning the Holy Spirit is that we worship by the assistance and the power of the Spirit. Have you had a dry time this past week? You know, you said, boy, I I was kind of excited last Sunday and I said, boy, I'm going to get into this, and I opened up my Bible and I still didn't get anything out of it. You failed me, Al. What happened? You know, here I thought that it was going to be a piece of cake and I was going to open up and glory was going to pop out of those pages this week. What happened? Let me ask you something. Before you began, did you pray for the power of the Spirit to open your eyes to behold the truth of Jesus Christ? Paul says in Philippians chapter 3 In verse 3, he said, It is we who are of the true circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God, who glory in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence. in our flesh. Were you putting confidence in your flesh? Okay, I'm going to just open this thing up and I'm going to focus on for a little bit. Got a couple cups of coffee in me. I'm going to go at it Jesus says here that true worshipers must worship by the Spirit. That Spirit is the Holy Spirit who is going to change your heart and enable you to see Jesus. So if it didn't work so well this week Take a look at the suggestions and the bulletin board, but make sure that you start that time by saying, Lord Jesus, I can't see truth, spiritual truth. I'm like that woman. I operate on the physical, secular. I just want to drink of water. And you're trying to reveal to me the living water. I can't see that. I can't understand that. Holy Spirit, open my eyes this morning. Help me to behold the glory of Jesus. You worship by the Spirit. But the last thing that I want to point out, and this is the focus of what I wanted to get to, and to only have a few minutes, but I'm going to try and do the best I can, and that is the last thing that it's not only the Holy Spirit, but it's also the human spirit. spirit that Jesus is talking about here. He's saying we must worship by our human spirit. Now you notice in the NIV that the S In verse 24, is a small S. God is spirit, and his worshippers must worship in spirit and truth. Now I believe that John, characteristic of a lot of things that he does, of his images blends two ideas that John means both of these things, the Holy Spirit and the human spirit. Of course the translators, that's the difficulty of translating. There's no capitals or small letters in the Greek. It's just pneuma, you know, and that's it But for us, we have to decide certain things. And so you look for a clue, you say, what was he talking about? This Holy Spirit or our Spirit? Is it a capital S or a small S? Well, you can't really tell. Same word But what I want you to see is that the word spirit that refers to the Holy Spirit also throughout Scripture again and again and again refers to our emotions, our affections. For instance, don't have time to turn, but just uh look there, Job 7 verse 11. Job speaks there of the anguish of his spirit In Psalm 34, verse 18, that's my mistake, verse 10, should be verse 18. The psalmist speaks of being crushed in his spirit. He's depressed, he's discouraged, he's talking about his emotions. In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, Paul contrasts his spirit, his feelings, his emotions with his mind in worship. So there's a contrast there between mind and the spirit or the emotions. In 2 Corinthians chapter 2, he talks about having no rest in his spirit. NIV even translates it mind. But the word is pneuma in the Greek, it's a spirit. He has no rest in his spirit. Now, but particularly in terms of context, it's more important how John uses this. So you turn over to John chapter 11. And you see there that Jesus, uh there's a reference by John to Jesus Spirit. Now what's that referring to This is, you remember, where Mary comes to Jesus because Lazarus has died and she's weeping. And Jesus responds In chapter 11, in verse 33 , we read that when Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit. That same word in John 424. He was deeply moved in his heart, his affections, his emotions, he was troubled. Obviously not referring simply to the fact that he cognitively thought, that's too bad, you know, this woman's sad. I gotta register that and do something. He was gripped by that. Our Savior was touched with the feeling of her weakness and her grief. He was troubled in his spirit. Now take a look at John chapter 13 and verse 21. Here you have the Last Supper And Jesus is announcing that someone is going to betray him. And look what it says about that. After he had said this, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified, I tell you the truth One of you is going to betray me. Troubled in the spirit. So clearly, this refers to that emotional part of our nature. And if you're to worship God, you must worship him in spirit. Now what does that mean? Well, you know, I give you some examples there. If you look in uh this the point number two of the whole range of emotions that the Bible speaks of. Those are just some that you see in the bulletin outline there. as examples of what the Bible tells us. Grief that we feel for our sin, expressed in Psalm 51. The longing that we have for honoring God. Why are you cast down? I want yet to hope in God and to honor Him. Psalm 42, a reflection on the psalmist's emotions. There's the worship emotion of fear and awe at the presence of God that Isaiah felt when he not only saw the Lord filling the temple and he saw the smoke of glory that was filling the house, but when the seraphim spoke reflectively to one another, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts You think I said that were loud, they said it, and the whole doorpost and the threshold and face shook with the sound of their voice. And you can imagine what Isaiah felt. He didn't say, You know, I ought to feel some sort of uh expression of awe and fear at this. It just simply came. Isaiah prostrated himself and he said, Woe is me, I'm undone. And that's the way worship is. It's fired by the truth, but it's spontaneous in its response. That's what Thomas I gave him in that outline at the beginning. It's something you don't just say, I ought to feel this. You look at the scripture, you behold the glory of Jesus, and the emotion is the inevitable response of the must of the heart I must wonder at the mercy of God. I must feel gratitude at his love for a sinner like me. Tom read earlier in Psalm thirty, My joy my mourning is turned into dancing. How many of you felt that when he said that? You know, you read that thing and he's talking about joy and delight, and you and I can read that and we're so tuned out that we just read it and yeah. You know, the morning's turned into dancing and enjoy and delight. And then you go on and say, now is there anything here for me? Yeah, it's ridiculous. God is trying to speak to our hearts. He's saying, worship me in spirit by having your spirit fired with the truth of my word. Now, when you do that , what you know, what if you don't feel that delight Does that mean you haven't worshipped? You said, boy, you know, I now I feel worse rather than better, because then I feel like now this week not only I gotta behold him, now I gotta you know I gotta feel something too. I gotta feel this delight or I haven't done it right. No, that's not what I'm saying. Notice the third point, the progression. There is a progression of our emotions that we feel. The progression is that you and I need to start. And what I'm basically saying here, brothers and sisters, is be in touch with your heart. Be in touch with your heart and be honest about what you're feeling. You and I very often, I think, don't get anything out of that beholding of the Lord because we're not in touch with our hearts. We're reading that as data that's not gripping us where we are. And let's face it, where that may first grip us is in the area of sorrow. That may be the first thing that we feel Now that sorrow is a God-honoring sorrow because it is a sorrow for sin recognizing that I don't exalt him. I am not responding in the way that I ought to. And that's often true of the psalmist. Again and again and again you have the psalmist reflecting sorrow as the expression of his worship to God. For instance, the theme of this whole series, Psalm 37, verse 4, delight yourself in the Lord. He'll give you the desires of your heart. Very next Psalm, right after that, Psalm 38. He's expressing the sorrow that he's not delighting. My guilt, verse 4, has overwhelmed me like a burden too heavy to bear. My wounds faster and are loathsome because of my sinful folly. I am bowed down and brought very low. All day long I go about mourning, my back is filled with searing pain. There is no health in my body, psychosomatic connections, you see. I am feeble and utterly crushed I groan in anguish of heart. Not a whole lot of dilating there, is there? But he's in touch with his heart. That's the important thing. He sees the scripture. He sees who God is and what his holy righteousness demands. And he says, all I see is in my heart a lack. I see in my heart a coldness that I lament, and I'm sorrowful for that. And so I confess that to the Lord. That woman that Jesus spoke to was not in touch with her thirst. And what Jesus was seeking to do in that dialogue was to put her in touch with that thirst. To produce that longing, that sorrow for sin in order to see him as the living water. Because once we feel that sorrow, we can move on to the next step Of the progression of our spirits in worship, and that is the feeling of longing and desire for the Lord. Lord, I feel sorrow, grief, guilt, I feel Terrible, I feel uh that I have let you down. I feel crummy, empty, bankrupt, but I long for you. And your word gives me reason to hope. So that same Psalm 38 goes right on to say, All my longings lie open before you, O Lord. My spying is not hidden from you. I'm not just here talking to myself. Problem with almost a lot of our worship is we're going around just talking to ourselves You talk to yourself and you'll get yourself pretty depressed. I get myself pretty depressed. I've got to get away from myself. And remember that my longings are in the face of God. He is here with me. And so I express that to him. My heart pounds, he says. My strength fails, even the light's gone from my eyes. I'm longing for you to come and to meet me. And then that longing for the living water comes in hopefully as you fire your soul with the truth of the gospel, the realization that He is there to meet you. And so that longing becomes, lastly, fulfillment, the fulfillment and wonder, as the Psalm expresses it in Psalm 63, where he says, My God, you are my God earnestly. I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My body longs for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. And then we remember that Jesus said, Woman, if you knew who it was that stands before you, you'd ask him, and he would give you living water. Then she says, Well Lord, give me this water so I don't have to come here to drink again, draw from this well. Jesus says to her, Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water that I will give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Have you seen that this week? The Jesus wants to be to you that spring of living water producing in you The streams of water that well up in your heart and soul to eternal life. He says, come, meet me Come and delight in me to see who I am. He says to the woman, and she says, When Messiah comes, he'll do all these things. And he says, I who stand before you am he. Jesus stands before you this morning to say, Come, come and meet me. Come. Don't be satisfied with a worship without affection. Don't be satisfied with a Christianity that's heartless, but come to worship with all your spirit as well as your mind. Ken Graham captures something of this, and I'll conclude with this picture of what I believe is the kind of worship Jesus is speaking about. It's from his little book, The Wind in the Willows. Speaking of mole and rat coming into the woods where they're experiencing an awe of the transcendence before them And then suddenly Mole felt a great awe fall upon him and all that turned his muscles to water and bowed his head and rooted his feet to the ground He was no panic terror. Indeed, he felt wonderfully at peace and happy, but it was an awe that smote and held him, and without seeing, he knew that it could only mean that some august presence was very, very near Perhaps he would never have dared to raise his eyes, but that though the piping was now hushed, the call and the summons still seemed dominant and imperious Trembling, he obeyed and raised his humble head, and then in that utter clearness of the imminent dawn he looked into the very eyes of his friend and his helper. Rat, he found breath to whisper, shaking. Are you afraid? Afraid, murmured the rat, his eyes shining with unutterable love Afraid of him? Oh never, never and yet and yet, O Moal, I am afraid And then the two animals, crouching to the earth, bowed their heads and did worship. Let's pray. Lord, how we long for our hearts to experience that kind of trembling awe and love and delight. We know that that is done by firing our spirits with the fuel of the truth of your word. So Lord, we pray, put us in touch with our spirits. That we might feel that longing, that sorrow, and then that we might look into your word and believe the gospel and see in the face of Jesus the one who meets us to be our living wire. Quench our thirst, O Lord, as nothing else can do. That we will worship and give to you the honor that you deserve. In Jesus' Jesus' name. name.