Some time ago I had the privilege of being in a very special place called Traffic Court. Maybe some of you by the chuckle have been there yourselves. But I would let you know that I was there strictly as an observer. That's that's the truth. I was there as an observer. And one of the things that I observed was people's faces as they came into the court and took their seat. Anxious faces, wondering what in the world is going to happen to me when I stand before the judge They were all waiting for the judge to appear, and you can see them sitting nervously in their seats. And before the judge came out, there was a courtroom officer Who provided instructions to all those whose names would be called. And one item in his set of instructions caught my interest. He said, looking at everybody in front of him, he says, if the judge asks you about your driving record, please tell the truth. And then he turned around because behind him was a computer and a monitor next to the judge's seat. And he pointed to that and he said, All that the judge has to do is press in your identification or sound X number into the computer, and your whole driving history will appear on the screen. Talk about fear And then he went on to say, he says, if you're caught lying, you can be fined $500. Not much. Well, maybe too much. Again, he said, tell the truth. This is the last Sunday of 1990, where we come together, as Ken said, to worship. As a family. And so this morning I would have us reflect on our worship of God, not just worship our worship of God this morning. But our worship in the past month, in the past year, in the past two, three, four years. Let me put it to you this way. Have you sensed that in the past year or two that you've grown in your worship of God? As your knowledge of God has increased, has your love for the Lord increased? Has it been expressed in worship of the living God? Do you sense that you've drawn nearer to God as the years have passed? Now don't stand here this morning as one who's going to judge you concerning your worship of God. I can't do that. But I dare say that if each one of us had to stand before the judge's bench as all those people had to in traffic court If we were to stand before not an earthly judge, but a righteous holy judge, and he asked us about not our driving record, but our worship record. What would we say? Would we tell the truth? Well we say, well Lord, I've been to church 64 times this year. I've been to concerts of prayer fifteen times, and Lord, I've had my devotional times, well, most days, Lord Consider him who is our God and our Redeemer. Consider him who sees clearly into your heart and to my heart. What would he say about our worship of him? What would he say about your private, about your personal, your family worship? What would he say about our corporate worship? Would he be pleased with what what we've offered him in 1990? And will he be pleased with what we will offer to him in 1991? Well maybe if you're like me, you really haven't thought a whole lot about this In Psalm 50, we find that God looks into the heart of his covenant people. And he does A strange thing, perhaps, strange to us. He judges his people. He evaluates, he assesses the worship of him. And why does he do that? Because they had lulled themselves into thinking that their worship of God was acceptable and pleasing, that it was okay. But in reality, it wasn't okay. Listen as I read the first 15 verses of Psalm 50, noting the pictures and the images that the psalmist paints for us. We'll see that if our worship of God is to grow, if it's to mature, if it's to develop and to be pleasing to Him, then we must see a fresh God's perspective on worship. Hear God's word. The mighty one, God the Lord, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to the place where it sets. From Zion, perfect in beauty, God shines forth. Our God comes and will not be silent. A fire devours before him, and around him a tempest rages He summons the heavens above and the earth that he may judge his people. Gather to me my consecrated ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice. And the heavens proclaim his righteousness, for God Himself is judge. Hear, O my people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you. I am God, your God. I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings which are before me. I have no need of a bull from your stall or goats from your pens. For every animal of the forest is mine, and the cattle in a thousand hills. I know every bird in the mountains, and the creature of the field are mine. If I were hungry I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all that is in it Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Sacrifice thank offerings to God. Fulfill your vows to the Most High. And call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me. Let's pray. Lord, we ask that you would search our hearts by the power of your word. That your spirit would bring your word to our hearts and minds, that you would teach us this morning, for you are the teacher. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The first thing that I want us to notice is that the context For our worship of God is a covenant. A covenant relationship with God. You see that in your first point. A covenant is our context for worship. What I mean is that our worship of God is possible because we are related to Him in covenant. And they covenant. And generally we can describe a covenant as a pact, as an agreement between two or more people. But when we talk about a covenant with God, us being in a covenant relationship, with God, there's not any hint that in this pact, this agreement, we come on equal footing. There's not 50-50 proposition with God. We're not equal partners in this covenant with God. In God's covenant with us in this pact, he has never consulted with us as to the terms of the covenant, as to the terms of this relationship with him. But rather in this covenant relationship, we see express God's absolute sovereignty For he alone has decided the terms of the relationship, the terms of this covenant And in this covenant, God promises to protect and to provide for his people, and his people promise complete fidelity and obedience to all the terms. So, on the one hand, if you are outside of a covenant relationship Then you can really never give to God worship that's pleasing to Him. But on the other hand, if you are in a covenant relationship with God Then you must give him worship if you are to be faithful. You must give to him worship according to his terms, according to his stipulations. And so as his covenant people, as his covenant children, we have agreed to worship God on his terms. Not on our terms, but on his terms. Now, if you look at verses 1 through 6, you'll see that the psalmist paints a picture, and I believe it can be similar to a courtroom scene. And in this, the psalmist portrays God coming as judge into the courtroom. You see that in verse 3, our God comes and will not be silent. And then in this courtroom, God the judge summons, you see in verse 4, he summons the heavens above. And the earth that he may judge his people. These are the witnesses that he's calling. And then in verse 5, he calls to himself the accused party. See in verse 5. He says, gather to me my consecrated ones, those who made a covenant with me by sacrifice. So he's calling Israel, those who made a covenant with him, to come because he's going to judge them. And the imagery that's used to describe the judge's entrance into the courtroom in verse 3 You see there they come as a fire devours before him and around him a tempest rages. All this imagery points back to the events Of Mount Sinai. For recall that Mount Sinai, where the Ten Commandments were given, where the law was given to Moses and the Israelite people. That the covenant with Israel was further established. And shrouding this event, if you recall Moses up on the mountain, Israelites at the foot of the mountain. Shrouding this event, there was lun thunder, there was lightning, there was smoke And if you were an Israelite, and if you heard this psalm in the worship service, you would be reminded of what you had promised God. When you entered into that covenant, what your fathers had promised God and what was passed down to you. And Exodus 19, verses 5 through 8 talk about that covenant How the Israelites came and joined into that covenant. And verse 8, you see how the Israelites say to the Lord, All that the Lord has said, we will do. They say that to Moses, all that the Lord has said we will do. We will be faithful to the covenant. If you are in Christ Jesus, then you are in a relationship, a covenant relationship with God. You are in a covenant with God through the person and the work of Jesus Christ, and because of our redemption, because of our union with the Lord Jesus , We too must say, Lord, all that you want of us, all that you have said and required of us with regard to worship, we will do. We will do it, Lord, because you are our God And the Lord hears that and he holds us accountable to what we have promised. And just as God summoned the Israelites to the judge's bench, so he summons you and me. Not into a courtroom. But he summons us by his word and by his spirit. And he asks us a question. He asks you and me, a very personal question. Have you been giving to me? Worship that's in keeping with our covenant. Have you been faithful to the terms of that covenant? I think that if we can grasp That worship goes on within this context of covenant, then we'll be better able to worship God in a manner that's pleasing to Him. And for those of us who are in Christ Jesus We know something very precious because on the one hand we know that we have not always faithfully kept the covenant, have we? That we're covenant breakers. But if we are in Christ, then we know that Jesus is our representative covenant keeper. He has kept all the terms of the covenant. And in Christ Jesus, our God, who comes as judge, who comes as convict, he's not against you. He's not against me, but he's for you and he's for me. And he woos you and he woos me to himself. Because he wants to show us a better way of how to worship him. He doesn't convict and then leave you alone. But he convicts and works in you and then brings you to himself and he says, ah, this is what I want to do in you so that you worship me from the heart. To show us an excellent way of worshiping Him. But He also comes, and as He comes to show us the excellent way, He warns us of dangers that we need to avoid. In our worship of him. You see this in point two. Dangers to avoid in our worship of God This morning I want to talk about two dangers, two pitfalls that we need to avoid. And the first one is ritualism. Ritualism. See that in implied in verse 8. Verse 8, the Lord says, I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings, which are ever before me. From one perspective, Israel did all that God had required of them with regard to worship They continuously brought their burnt offerings to the Lord. And so God says in verse 8 that he doesn't reprove them. He doesn't rebuke them for their offerings per se. But when we read in Leviticus 1 and chapter 6, we learn that these burnt offerings, we learn something about them, that Israel was to present a lamb every morning and every evening. Now the characteristic feature of the burnt offering was that it was completely consumed by fire. It was given to the priest, the offerer brought his his animal to the priest, and the priest would slaughter it, and then it would go. And he would lay it upon the altar where it was consumed. And it was completely consumed by fire it was a Holocaust offering The animal that was holy sacrifice ascended and smoked and aroma to the Lord. Neither the priest nor the offerer could eat any part of it. And God is saying, in this regard, Israel did well. They were faithful about this. Week after week, month after month, year after year, they sacrificed lamb upon lamb upon lamb. It become a part of their lives, it become routine. They were used to it. Nothing new in it The same is true of us in a different way. But we too are faithful. We're faithful in coming to church. We're faithful in our devotional times. We're faithful in our tithing. We're faithful in our praying and our singing of songs. And so on, day after day, week after week, year after year. But here's the important point. The burnt offering was meant to signify complete self-surrender to God. Complete and total subjection of the worshipper to the Lord God. And the offer was saying to the Lord, God, just as this animal is totally given to you, So is my life totally yours. There's nothing that I withhold. All of it is yours. Receive it, Lord. But the danger is that this attitude of total self-surrender may at times be forgotten With the continual offering of worship week after week, month after month, year in and year out, there is the possibility that ritualism may set in. And the result of ritualism is a worship that looks good on the outside, but doesn't express total surrender to the Lord God. And what's produced is anemic ritualism, really empty worship. The Lord peels back the pious faces, the religious activities, that spiritual veneer that we engage in constantly, and he looks straight into your heart, into my heart. He gets past all that spirituality. He looks into our hearts, and he sees what your worship and my worship really consists of. If we are to worship him in spirit and in truth, then we must offer up all that we have, not withhold anything that we have. To our God. We must give him our heart, our mind, our soul, and our strength, for he wants the outward forms of worship, all the activities, as means of expressing the worship of the inner man. Worship of the heart. The two go together. We can't separate the two. To give to God anything else is hollow. It's the shell of the sacrifice without the life in it. Imagine this past Christmas receiving a beautifully wrapped gift. With your name on it, you pull it out from under the tree. With excitement, you open it up, only to find that it's empty inside. Empty, beautifully wrapped in gifts. Think at times that we give to him worship. Things that look pretty, things that are done decently and in order, but in reality, sometimes they're empty. And God says to you and to me, be careful. For that's not worship at all. That's not what he has in mind. As I approached my seventeenth birthday, I asked my parents for just one gift. I said, Mom and Dad, I would like for you just to give me one gift on this birthday. Would you please buy me a van? Go for it, Tito. Oh, they just nodded and chuckled and I thought, well fine, well nothing lost if they don't buy me a van Well, the night of my birthday after dinner, my mom said to me, Tito, well did you see it? I I said, see what? She said Did you look? So I went over to the kitchen window and I pulled up on the curtain looking out in the parking lot, expecting to see a van parked there. I did I didn't see anything. And again she asked, Well did you see it? And so I ran over to the door and I opened the door and there it was. This ten inch by seven inch by five inch yellow plastic van parked on the sidewalk. Well mom, I wanted a van, but it's not quite what I had in mind. I wanted something I could get in. I think sometimes in our worship of God, we give him things that perhaps he never had in mind, things that look like the real thing, but really is not. There's another danger that we need to avoid, and that's thinking under point two B thinking that God needs Our worship, thinking that God needs our worship. In the ancient Near East, there was a conception among the pagans That their local deities or local gods that they had strewn across the land, that these gods got hungry. Now, if your neighborhood god got hungry, the only the obvious thing that you wanted to do was defeat it. 'Cause the last thing you wanted was an irritated local deity. And so the response was you sacrifice as many animals as necessary to placate this particular god. I believe this conception, this pagan conception, had infiltrated the worship of the Israelites. That's why the Lord responds in verse 13. Look there in verse 13. He asked the question, do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? That's ludicrous. God doesn't get hungry. God doesn't need to be fed. He doesn't need sacrifices to enrich him. There is no need on God's part that is satisfied by the offering of sacrifices. Well just to show that Israel's conception of him is absurd, God argues in verse 12. Look there in verse 12, he says, if If I were hungry. Israel, if this were true, that I needed anything, he says, if I were hungry, I would not tell you. For the world is mine and all that is in it. That's why in verses 9 through 11 he says what he does. He says, I have no need of a bull from your stall or of goats from your pens. For every animal of the forest is mine, and the cattle in the thousand hills. I know every bird in the mountains and the creature of the field are mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine God drives home that point so clearly that he's not in need of any of their sacrifices. Maybe we fall into that danger at times of having this twisted view of God so that we think that He needs our worship. Maybe this is conscious, maybe most likely subconsciously, you might think this, that perhaps we're doing God a favor by coming to church. That he needs us to be here. But just think for a moment of who God is That He is the infinite creator, that He is a self-existent one. He is the creator and the giver of life. Before anything ever existed, God For he spoke all creation into existence, God before anything ever was. Therefore, God is not in need of our services. He doesn't need our worship services. God doesn't need our songs, He doesn't need our monies, He doesn't need our prayers, He doesn't need our hymns, He doesn't need any of that. But He wants it from you and from me. He wants worship that comes from the heart, from you and from me. He delights in it. He takes pleasure in our worship of him. Not because he needs it. In reality, we need it. We need to worship him. But we were created for that purpose to worship the Lord. We need it, not the Lord. Yet it's amazing to me to consider that He delights. In our worship, that he takes pleasure in it, and that he smiles upon us when we worship him with our hearts. See, from God's point of view, worship does occur in this covenant relationship. And because we're in Christ Jesus, not only does he warn us of the dangers that we need to avoid, but he also tells us of the elements, some of the elements in heart worship. So we see that in point three, the elements of heart worship. We see that in verses 14 and 15. And in verse 14, we see that worship is characterized by communion and celebration. Communion and celebration. In verse 14, God says to sacrifice thank offerings. Now from Leviticus 7, we learn that these thank offerings were part of a piece where they're called fellowship offerings. Now, unlike the burnt offering that was completely consumed by fire, so that the priest, neither the priest nor the offer, could eat any part of it. The thank offering could be eaten in part. As a priest took it and laid it upon the altar, a third of it was God's portion. And that was consumed by fire, and that rose in its smoke and aroma to the Lord. And another third was eaten by the priest. And the last third was eaten by the one who brought the animal, by the worshipper, the offerer. And so what we have here in this thank offering is a picture Of the priest, of the offering, God communing together, eating a meal together, having an intimate experience of worship. And that's what the Lord wants from you and from me. He wants this intimate heart communion with you. He wants us, he wants you and me to sit in his presence. To hear him speak to you. For he delights in you. He loves you. Have you heard that lately? Have you heard those words from your father? And then he wants us to speak to him, to tell him of our love for him, to tell him of our needs, to feel his embrace, to be changed by his presence. Oh, we know that we have this communion with God through Jesus Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ was that ultimate thank offering given on our behalf. so that we might have fellowship, that we might have communion with our Lord. We can also understand this thank offering in another way. And that's just that, an offering of thanks. An offering of thanksgiving to the Lord for his excellent goodness and his grace to us in Christ Jesus. You see in Hebrews 13, 15, the phrase there sacrifice of praise is that same phrase, the same thought that's translated in Psalm 50, a thank offering. So this thank offering is our sacrifice of praise, of thanksgiving to the Lord. It's worship that calls us to ascribe praise to God for every blessing that we have, especially as we Reflect on 1990 and think of the blessings that we have. God calls you and me to praise him, to thank him. This thank offering is a calling to you and to me to rejoice in him for what he's given to us in Christ Jesus, that he's taken us out of death and brought us into life, into his marvelous light. Oh, it's rejoicing that we are children of the Father. And that He's not against us, but that He's for us. Think about a year ago. Many of you may recall this, the news clips in Berlin, Germany, where that wall was being destroyed. I remember seeing those clips of people standing on the wall or around the wall and they were celebrating. They were going wild. They were going mad. They were happy. They were ecstatic. Because that wall that once separated them was being demolished. And how much more should we rejoice knowing that the wall of sin that once separated us from God the Father has been destroyed, has been annihilated in Christ Jesus Oh, we have, brothers and sisters, every bit more reason to celebrate and to rejoice For he is our God who loves us, who has pursued us, who has subdued us, and made us his own. Oh, perhaps some of you are here, and there's still that wall of separation between you and God. That wall of sin hasn't been demolished. Well, I bid you to come. To come to Christ Jesus. For in him that wall of sin is destroyed. In him you can have new life, in him you can celebrate, in him you can worship, and only in him. So I bid you to come to Jesus And worship also entails our crying out, our calling out to God. See that in verse 15. God says, and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you and you will honor me. Just amazing to me to consider. That God sees my praying, that God sees my crying out to Him as worship. I think of times that I've cried out to God. You can think of times when you've cried out when you called out on God in desperate need because of loneliness, because of grief Because of hurt and pain so deep. And God sees that. God, your father sees that and he's delighted in it because In your praying like that, you reveal your dependence upon God. You show that you're utterly dependent upon Him, and that's what worship is all about. That you depend upon your Creator and your Maker. Ah, the Lord God, our Covenant God. He comes to you and to me, as a judge who convicts, who looks into our hearts And he asks that question, what's your worship of me like? Has your worship of God grown in the past year? Have you sensed that you've drawn nearer to God? You know, we we think of how we grow in so many areas in our Christian life and we want to be Growing in our knowledge of God, we want to grow in our knowledge of Scripture. But I, for one, have not thought too often in how I might might grow in our my worship of God It's something that just happens day after day, week after week, year after year. So I want to challenge you, I want to challenge me to consider what 1991 might be like. To can to pray that the Lord would make it a difference in your worship of him in 1991. And you see there in your outline, there's this triangle with awe and intimacy and celebration. On the back of your outline, and now these aren't things that you can conjure up mechanically, but these are AIDS to help you to look and evaluate your your own worship. Do you see some of those elements? And then you see this as that circle goes around from private to public Worship, that they're intertwined, that what you do at home during the week affects our corporate body worship on Sundays. If you want to have a good time on Sunday, if you really want to celebrate Then celebrate during the week. Rejoice during the week in your own times with the Lord And let that the Sunday experience influence your worship of God during the week, privately and in your family. So you see there how I've challenged you to list, and I would encourage you to do that this afternoon, to list ways in which you can enhance your private, your family worship, ways that you in which you might possibly enhance your corporate worship of God. I want to close with a story of Lucy. Lucy, a six-year-old girl who went with her mom to a church committee meeting. Mom gathered with all the adults, and they gathered in front of the church, and they were sitting around in a circle talking about who knows what, and Lucy was in the back of the church. And she was entertaining herself, coloring books. And at the close of the meeting, the adult's meeting, about an hour or so later, Lucy's ears perked up because she heard the adults praying and she listened to them pray. And she thought to herself, wow, those are beautiful prayers. She thought some more, and she heard some more, some of these prayers. Again, gosh Lord, if I if I could only pray. Like that. And all of a sudden she got the surge of energy. She stood up on the chair and she shouted out on top of her lungs, Jesus! A B C D E F G H and she went right on through the entire alphabet. And there was this elderly man who turned around and went back to where Lucy was and sh he said to her, Why in the world did did you shout out the alphabet? And she looked at him with the big blue eyes and said, Well, I heard you praying, and I wanted to pray like that, but I didn't know how, so I gave Jesus all the letters and I let him put that prayer together In Lucy, you could see her heart. Prayer of the heart. Worship of the heart. That's the kind of worship that our Lord delights in. May we give that to him today and every day, for he is worthy of it. Amen.