One of the hardest things to do as a pastor is to worship Because while you're sitting here this morning worshiping, the greatest temptation of any pastor is to ask the following question: How is it going? Was that the right song in that right place? Did those verses that were read make sense? And slowly but surely, most pastors, when they are honest, we very quickly and quietly Are submerged in worship analysis and not worshiping But I want to thank you this morning that I prayed and was cognizant of that temptation and how often I fall into it. And I want to thank you for reminding me this morning to worship the Lord And so I'm thankful for the verses that have been read, the songs that have been sung, and the prayers that have been prayed. But we come this Sunday morning to a final sermon on the Psalms. We spent the summer here looking at various Themes within the Psalms. We began in June looking at how the Psalms meet us in our sorrows. In the month of July, we looked at the various Psalms, and there are many, that lead us in worship, that tell us of the different elements within worship. And we've spent the month of August looking at particular Psalms that are specifically prophesying and pointing to Jesus. And these Psalms then were picked up in the New Testament by Jesus Himself and the Apostles and given their full Christocentric interpretation. It is our prayer and hope that you have been encouraged by looking at the Psalms. But this Sunday I wanted to finish the Psalms by looking at its final Psalm, Psalm 150. And it is this psalm that is a fitting conclusion to all the psalms. I say that because The Psalms themselves are divided into five books. Each of those books within the Psalter, as we call it. End with a psalm that has doxology in it, giving God the glory, giving him the weight of praise that is worthy of him. But this Psalm, in its brevity, but in its beauty, is a fitting conclusion to the entire Psalter. Hear now God's word as it tells us about worship. Psalm one fifty. Praise the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty heavens. Praise him for his acts of power. Praise him for his surpassing greatness. Praise him with the sounding of the trumpet. Praise him with the harp and the lyre. Praise him with tambourine and dancing. Praise him with the strings and flute. Praise him with the clash of cymbals. Praise him with resounding cymbals. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord, praise the Lord. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? You, O God, have created us in your image to worship you. Our greatest challenge, Lord, is not that we don't worship. It's the answer to the question: what do we worship? Your word declares for us this morning that you are the one who is to be worshipped. And so, Lord, we pray, because of the beauty of the work of Jesus Christ, his victory over sin and death through the resurrection, his being seated at your right hand And by the promised presence and power of your Holy Spirit, open our eyes that we may see you. And help us to worship you. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So, in preparing for this sermon, I gave the outline to our very capable administrative team. They printed out the bulletin exactly on time, and then I realized there was an outline point that I failed to include. So we will do it this morning manually. So in your bulletins, there is space there on the inside flap if you would like to take notes. So this morning in looking at this psalm, we're going to first look at who do we worship? Secondly, we're going to be looking at where do we worship, why do we worship, how do we worship, who is to worship. It is, if you will, the who, where, why, how, and who again of our worship. So let's dig in together. And what I'll be doing this morning is going down through this psalm in its entirety, demonstrating to you that I did not cook up this outline and some magical creative fuzz, but rather it is all here. Let's begin with the basic. Who Are we to worship? You'll see this most prominently, of course, in verse one. It says, Praise the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty acts. In fact, you will see Not only in verse one, praise the Lord, but you could simply look at these verses and count them with me. Lord one, God two, and then it goes one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine Ten, eleven different times it refers to the Lord, the one who is worthy to worship. The only one who is worthy to worship is the Lord God. This is the psalmist telling us, if you will, summarizing the entire Psalter from Psalm 1 to Psalm 150. The one that it continually goes back to over and over again, declaring, it is the Lord God. And as we look back at our summer in the Psalms, we recognize as we just look at the different themes that we've looked at. It is God who meets us in our trials. It is God who meets us in our sorrows. It is God who meets us in our poverty. It is God who meets us in the midst of our sin. It is God who shepherds us. It speaks of God not only as a shepherd, it speaks of God as a mighty shield, a defender. It is God who is a refuge. It is God who is a rock. The psalmist is saying without explanation, but merely, if you will, as a beginning, but also as a summary of everything that has come before. It is Yahweh, the God of Israel. Who is worthy of worship? That is why, as a Presbyterian church, we declare loudly and clearly The pastor or the music or the worship leaders or the ministries or the building. None of these things are ever close to the center of worship, are never part of the equation except as the ones Who are to give glory to God, it is God according to our very confession that says, What is man's chief In other words, what is his ultimate goal? And that is to worship God and to enjoy Him forever. What is also interesting is what is implied here. Notice the salt the writer is not at all describing necessarily Whether you worship. No, he's saying to all human beings as an implication that first, yes, the one who is the one to be worshipped is the Lord God because of all these things. The one who is creator, redeemer, and shepherd. But secondly, he is saying, by way of implication, not whether you worship, but who do you worship? The Psalm itself. And I think you will be hard-pressed to find an argument for whether the human being should worship at all. You don't hear the scriptures trying to convince other human beings that you need to worship. Because implied in the Psalm is the fact that all human beings are worshipers. And so the question, if God is the one who is to be worshipped, then the question is, who do you worship? Or, if it's not a who, what do you worship? And we've talked about it before. It is this that worship itself, and the English word. Finds its home in the actual word worship, giving to something ultimate worth. In fact, Gary Ahrens, our worship leader this morning, has already used it throughout our worship. A signing to God Ultimate praise. Worship is the assignment of praise, value, and worth to someone or to something Bob Dillon, that great theologian , said it another way Many of you who are around could say it with me. You've got to you've got to serve somebody. Those of you who didn't know, we'll talk later. You've got to serve somebody. It's not whether you serve. It's who do you serve? What do you serve? The psalmist says Not whether you worship, but who. And the one whom we worship is the Lord God. And then he says, where do we worship? He tells us. Verses 1 and following. He says, here, verse 1b, Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty heavens. So he gives us two locales that seems at first glance to somehow be a definitive list. But in fact, if we look closer, it is not a definitive list. It is all encompassing. Notice what he says. He says, praise God in his sanctuary. And what he's demonstrating there is he's talking about the nation of Israel. It would have first had its meaning for the nation of Israel. and that is their central place for worship was Mount Zion at the temple there to ascribe that place. as the place where God dwells. But then the psalmist adds, in these words, he says, Praise him in his mighty heavens. So he looks out into the universe. You can imagine the psalmist looking to Mount Zion saying, Praise God in his sanctuary, but also praise God in his heavens. In other words, we've sung of it before. His canopy, his tent, God's dwelling place isn't just the sanctuary, it is all the universe. In other words, that where we worship isn't just by a particular place of a locale, it is everywhere. That while, yes, for the first readers of this psalm, they would have understood it to be the temple, and they would have understood in the rest of life. But as we've learned this summer that the Psalms find their ultimate terminus, their end, in Jesus Christ, in the revelation revelation of how God would be a Redeemer, how God would be a shepherd, how God would be a refuge, of a rock of our salvation, it would be in Jesus Christ. And here is what Jesus says. You remember early on the Gospels, we hear of Jesus speaking to the woman at the well, and she challenges him. She says, you worship God on this mountain. We worship God here. And Jesus says to her, a time is coming and has now come. Where you will not worship God on this mountain or anywhere else. You will worship Him in spirit and in truth. That the revelation of Jesus Christ coming into the world, bringing salvation not only to those who are Jewish who believed, but to all who will come. That Jesus would give forth his spirit and that he is not just to be worshipped in a particular temple, on a particular city, on a particular hillside But he is to be worshipped in spirit and in truth. And where does his spirit go? According to Jesus, his spirit is with every believer wherever they are. Meaning, where we worship is everywhere. But also we hear the Apostle Paul when he says in Romans 12, 1 and 2, we hear it in these words when he declares Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. So therefore, that Jesus has declared that what was in the temple and in all of the universe is now everywhere because of the giving of his spirit, our very bodies do not belong to us. They belong to him. We worship him with our bodies. We worship him with our minds and our emotions. We worship him and submit all things to him everywhere. I've said it, I'm going to say it a third time. It is this great quote. There is not one single square inch. Of God's universe where Jesus does not say mine. Everywhere. Every relationship Every activity that is all-encompassing. And the psalmist means to appropriately overwhelm us. It means that we worship as individuals, and that individual worship leads into the corporate, to the community, of the body of Christ gathering together for worship. that corporate worship then bleeds out into our individual worship and our everyday lives. If he is the one who is worthy of our worship, then if he has created all things. Then our chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. But that is the where But let's look at the why. Look at verse 2. Verse 2 says, Praise him for his mighty acts of power. Praise him for his surpassing greatness. So, what he already said was one of self-evidence by saying it is the Lord God who is to be worshipped. In verse 2, he tells us the why the Lord God should be worshipped. And he says there are two things: God's acts of power and his surpassing greatness. His acts of power and his surpassing greatness. This idea of acts of power, his powerful deeds, let's consider for just a moment that if we were Jewish and we were of the Israel nation and we heard this psalm for the first time. There is no doubt in any mind of any Israelite hearing this psalm when the phrase is used. God's mighty deeds, his acts of power, what that was in reference to. There was no question. The one singular event that was the watershed moment was when God freed Israel. He called them out of slavery in Egypt under the tyrannical head of Pharaoh and freed them from slavery and called them out to himself. to be a people for him and for his glory, to be a nation and a city on a hill, to worship him before all nations. It is that act of calling Israel out of slavery and into relationship with himself as the one true God, who is above all gods. That Israel understood how mighty and how powerful God is And here's the beauty of God 's power. It isn't just the naked demonstration of God yanking them out of slavery from under Pharaoh. You'll remember, and if you're not familiar with this story, we can simply look at one window into that story. God frees Israel Pharaoh is can now convince because God has moved him so to free the people of the Israelites from the nation of Egypt out of slavery. He sends them forth. They are loaded down with wealth. They have more than they could have ever imagined. And they are now fleeing Egypt. And they are going because God is leading them through Moses. And they reach the Red Sea. And what happens? They turn around And they hear reports, and they can see that now what once was Pharaoh being willing to free them, Pharaoh is now pursuing them with his own armies. The nation of Israel looks to Moses and complains to God and complains to Moses and says, What have you done? Have you brought us out here to simply die in the desert? And do you know what they say? We would rather be back in slavery than to die in the desert. Now, here's the beauty of God's power. It's not just the demonstration of raw power. It is the power of his grace. That in that moment where God was demonstrating his power and leading them out of slavery, they are now Doubting God's wisdom and doubting his leader. And they say, what are you thinking? And what does God do? Does he crush them? Absolutely not. In his grace , He opens up a pathway and parts the Red Sea, and they are led in victory. Out from under the weapons of their enemies. And he crushes their enemies. God 's mighty power isn't just the raw use of power, whether it be earthquakes. or showers or clouds or lightning or snow. It is the fact that behind it all, it is the power of his immeasurable grace. And what is pictured here is God's mighty acts, that God would do the most mighty act ever known in human history, but would also be seen as the most foolish use of power. That God would submit Himself to the cross for our rebellion and our sin. That what God's ultimate mighty acts would find their fulfillment in the most mighty of Acts. Let me describe it this way. Author Michael Allen describes it this. He says God does not compromise with sin, nor ignore it, nor call it good. On the contrary, God removes it by submitting to the cross to show that love is stronger than death. Let me add, love is only stronger than death, love is stronger than rebellion, love is stronger than pride, love is stronger than rejection. Love is his grace is mighty, and it is powerful And he goes on and he says, grace in its disruption surpasses all that we imagine or can think. For the psalmist, the why of worship begins with God's mighty acts. Let me ask you. What I asked you earlier, not whether you worship, but who do you worship and why do you worship? Let me invite you into what all of us should be invited to. It should be a theater of self-doubt. We need to be willing to ask ourselves the hard questions: what do I worship and why do I worship it? What this morning are you ascribing ultimate value? And let me ask you a further question. If you know what you are ascribing ultimate value to, does it have ultimate power? Let me ask it another way. If you worship your success, if you're describing either educational, professional, relational success, ultimate prize and value. Let me ask this question. Will your wealth ever forgive you? Will your success ever give you mercy Will people always forgive you? The answer to that is no If you are utterly undone by failure, regardless of the pursuit If you are undone by failures in relationships and you find yourself spiraling downward regardless of its cause, the question you need to ask in that spiraling down is to stop and ask yourself, have I ascribed ultimate value to this thing? What am I serving? Because it is only the Lord who is to be worshipped, because it is only the Lord who rescues. He is the only one that gives grace. He is the only one who gives mercy. Let me in let me allow you in on a little confession. It I'm being very honest here. I was with a man this week. with whom I've been sharing the gospel with for a little over a year now. We were riding our bikes together. And I've haven't had many moments like this in Maryland. But a car driver of a car decided to yell out the window at us Ask us in a loud tone, why are you in the middle of the road? Even though our arms were pointing left and we were at a left turn. The obvious did not seem to have a grasp on his knowledge at that moment. So even as I describe it, I can feel myself getting angry I turned to him and I shouted, for which I cannot repeat. We made the left turn, and I looked at my friend, who looked at me with bright eyes, and I said I am deeply sorry. But you see who I am I wasn't mad that day. I was in a good mood. I was riding my bike. But in a moment I lashed out. My comfort was impended upon, was impeached, and I was like, what are you doing? And I just lashed out from my heart. And then I thought, Lord, can I see that guy somewhere else on this ride? Maybe I'll just need to apologize to him. Hopefully he wasn't going to chase us down. But in that moment I realized that what here I am naked before I'm a sinner, naked before this guy. I've been sharing the gospel, I'm a pastor for goodness' sake. And yet there I stood, simply like him, a sinner in need of grace. God's mighty acts. He forgives. But also his surpassing greatness. His surpassing greatness. We assign ultimate value to God because he is worthy of our worship, because he is a God who saves, yes, but he is a God who does more than just save. He gives life. In his greatness, he doesn't just redeem and save us from sin. He empowers us to live He doesn't just create, he sustains. He doesn't just begin, he brings it to conclusion because of his greatness. We believe that the Bible teaches that God creates, we fall, God redeems, but it will be God who brings all things to conclusion. God in His greatness will make all things right. And we worship him because he is a God of greatness and of eternity and of infinite power Who what he has begun, he will bring to an end. And on that day, when Jesus returns, every tongue will confess, every knee will bow that Jesus Christ is Lord, and all things will be put to right. This is the God of greatness that we worship and why we worship Him. But how do we worship? It tells us in verses 3 through 5. It tells us about instruments. And it's varied instruments. But but beneath that it's telling us that God is telling us how He is to be worshipped And God's word demonstrates for us how we are to worship. In fact, we've already done it this morning. God tells us of the elements of our worship. We know we need to be careful of innovation in worship because those who innovated in a way that dishonored God in the Old Testament died as a result. You can go back in the book of Leviticus and other places in Samuel and so forth where they die because they came up with ideas about how to worship God that He did not prescribe. God prescribes for us how to worship him. Praise, confession, repentance, giving, hearing from his word, responding. Worshiping Him through the Lord's Supper, the honoring of Him through baptism and confessing faith. These are the elements of our worship. But the beauty that not only is God within prescribing of how to worship him, in these verses we learn the various ways that we can glorify him. The list of instruments were the instruments known to them at that time. It isn't meant to be just definitive. It's meant to be exhaustive of the instruments they had. Which gives us a wonderful breathing room for the kinds of instruments that can be used for giving God praise and glory and honor. But underneath all of that, if we simply see this psalm and go to it and simply say, well, this is how God tells us and prescribes for us to worship him. We will have missed what's underneath, verses 3 through 5. Notice each of them. Each of the verses begins 1 through 5. Begin with this, praise him. And in verses 3 through 5, he talks about the instruments. And here there were professional musicians who were supported by the temple gifts. that they were to give their entire lives for, coming up with songs through melodies for the psalms themselves to be used as the people of God, the people of Israel, worshipped him in the temple. And all of that was meant this beneath the prescription and the instrumentation is what is at the heart of worship. It's joy and reverence. We are to give every instrument to him in worship. We're to give all of our gifts, all of our talents, and give them in service to worshiping him because why? God's grace has disrupted us. And his mighty power and his surpassing greatness has invaded our lives with his redemption. And we respond with praising him with all that we have. Everything, joy and reverence. Because we praise him not with flippancy, but with devotion. Giving all that we have for his glory. But finally, who is to worship? Verse 6 Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. We know the one to whom worship is to be directed, but it ends with who is to worship. This is all encompassing, again, let everything that has breath, everything that has breath. This is the final verse of the final psalm, which is to be the The calling glory of the people of God, which in the Old Testament was Israel. In the New Testament, it is the church. Now, let me bring this to a conclusion. In Psalm one hundred five, God calls the people of Israel to stand before the nations And to call out all of his glory, all of his mighty acts, tell of his greatness and his power That is, the people of God are always worshiping, surrounded by those who don't believe. And there may be some of you here this morning that do not believe. We are glad that you are here And we recognize that if you do not believe and you are here, there may be many things I have said that make no sense to you. There may be things that we've prayed or words that we use that make no sense to you. But there is one thing that we do want you to See and to be a witness to. That we believe that God has called us out. Not just from sin, not just from slavery because of a sinful nature. He hasn't just forgiven us. He's called us out to do something with our breath and with our life to recount his greatness and his power to whomever will hear and witness We are his witnesses in the world, among nations, to give God praise and glory. And so we are glad that you are here. But if there are things that you don't understand, you have questions, ask someone. We want to tell you of his mighty acts and why and who is the one that we worship. But we find the Church of Jesus Christ here, Church of Jesus Christ. Let me remind you of why we're called church. It comes from the Greek word ecclesia. And we hear this in the words of Peter. In his first letter, he says these words. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God. That you may declare the praises of him who Ecclesia called out. So the word church finds its home in the word Ecclesia. The word Ecclesia literally means ecclesia Called out, a people who have been called out. Called out of sin and misery, its death, its pain, its brokenness, into a people, a chosen race to worship him. The church finds its beginning. It finds its life. It finds its end in worship. Peter says, as the final words to this sermon, but you are a chosen people. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness and into His wonderful light Once you were not a people, but now you are a people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. May God be praised and may He be worshipped for His mighty acts and His wondrous greatness. Let's pray Lord our God, you are worthy of our worship. Help us, we pray, to worship you and you alone. Help us to ask the question, who do we worship and why? And renew us by your Holy Spirit to be a people called out of sin and death to worship. To glorify you and to enjoy you forever among all nations Declaring that we were once a people who had not received mercy, and now we have received mercy. May God be praised. In Jesus' name, Amen