Continue now too from sibling worship with the sixth item This morning. Worship is an offer. The ethic of biblical worship is to become an offering. Let's take a look at the scriptures. We hear God's word as He speaks to it from Psalm 96. Psalm 96. Sain to the Lord in these falls. Saying to the Lord all the years. Praise of the Lord. Say his name. Returning travels from day after day. Deplore his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. The greatest the Lord and most worthy of savage. He is to be feared above all gods. the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens splendor and majesty before him. Praise and glory in his sanctuary. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of nations. Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord that glory do his name. Bring an offering. And Colin 's folks. Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness. Tumble before him all the earth. So among the nations the Lord reigns. The world is firmly established, it cannot be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity. Let the heavens be good. Let the earth be blind. Let the tree be bound and all that is in it. Let the fields be jubilant and everything and done. And then all the seeds of the fall will sing for joy. They will sing before the Lord, for he comes, he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in the righteousness. And the people in his truth. What is particularly verse 8 of God to the Lord that glow through his name, fill an offer and commit to his faith. That he considered these words from God's own eyes , the failure. It's been able to pause in a moment of time. Father, whether these words are familiar to us or new to you. You have something you want for each of us to learn from you. You speak this and your words shall not return voice. You will accomplish the purpose of each anything. And we join with that promise and camous for each of our lives, that you would accomplish your purpose in us , through your words ministering to us this morning. enable us easily work at receiving what it is that you want to give to us. We might present ourselves to you as an answer. In the moment. is to give. Monsieur is a response to God's revelation and salvation. And yet more and more today, wisdom and Christianity also is being used as a commodity to truth. Something to conclude from our own performance. Take, for example, a recent article from the Futurist magazine written by Ted Hughes entitled The Teacher of Religion in a Post-Industrial Society. Peter says this to say , quote, there is now a strong stand which I believe will conclude for including the moral and spiritual demo of life as commodities to be acquired and according to the taste and whims of shopping in the religious marketplace. You know, winds become a shopping selling all women 's generations. That's that's the center for us. Uh devoted the topic for as the center of our whole community. And that orientation of being copied and communicated. has entered into our understanding of what worship is and of what even the gospel is We think of religion as it's coming about is in many forms as a consumer product. Something for us to benefit from, personal growth tests and other things. all this all religion can do to you. And sometimes it's like a Christianity can let loose and be a free energy And you've got to compete with others to talk about what Christianity and God and Jesus can do for you. Judy summarizes by And members of the view in public will soon be able to sit at home and watch the religious course. And in addition, by pushing buttons on handheld consoles, they will be able to order a book being recommended or make a financial plan. It will be religion without geographical proximity, without eye-to-eye contact, without personal commitments, and with our fellowship. It will be a religion totally at the continuum Well you and I may say that as Christians we realize that our perspective is not different. Let's not be naive to think that that kind of thing has been perpetrated and advanced even in what part of the product first. You know that there are 1700 system programs on every week. And with that kind of orientation, this reality being presented to consumer product. It affects our understanding of nature. It affects our understanding of what we tend here to do. Whether it's to be spectators to conclude something we offer to us. Or whether in fact you come here Sunday mornings in order to give something to the Lord. God says, asby to the Lord, but glow is into his name and bring an offer. The community of things come to given something. The Bible teaches that there are two kinds of our things. There are first of our, as you see. that way an offering for sin. And very suddenly the Bible teaches about offerings for versions. Well it's important that we keep in mind is a tension between these two kinds of arsenal that he described in the old fashioned. Brother again tells us to come into his point and bring an artery. So as soon as we see that invitation to come into God's course, we're reminded that God is telling us to come into his presence. But as soon as we talk about that, we're reminded of the words of Psalm 23, Psalm 24. Well God says, who can come in to his foot? He who has fluid and a pure heart is lying on. He can come in to his foot. and into your spirit. Before before you and I, as killers who do not have clean hearts and do not have a pure heart, can come into God's presence. He must bring an offering for sin. The Old Testament , the one article for the outside of the temple for the people, was the altar for the sacrifice. the altar for the bird offering. And if you and I were, I believe, in the old testament, we would come up to that altar, he would bring a sacrifice, and then he would watch the priest take that sacrifice after we've laid our hands on it and such that thing. He would then take that sacrifice and everything else would be passed to us. You would simply watch him take that boy or take that boat, watch him split it straight, watch the blood pour out, watch him lay it on the altar, watch it be consumed by the flames. And completely passively, you will watch the priest make the offline. That 's a picture. Because when Jesus Christ came the great high priest He offered himself as the finished and the complete offering, the sacrifice to sin. And what do you and I do? Nothing but that. We don't participate in that. We don't add anything to that. We don't do anything except like Jesus, the great high priest, offer himself and our all We watched him offer himself on Calvary here. We watch him be crucified. We watched the nails go into his hands and into his feet. And we watched him be sacrificed for us. And you and I do nothing. But the purple will be accomplished to them. And yet as we come day by day in our wake up, morning by morning and funding, we realize that because of that offering, the veil of the temple is in the And now you and I as peace in an inn, not just to the holy place beyond that altar of that offering, but into the very holy of holy, into the very presence of God, and on what basis? So you and I claim with offering. Deep. You are the ones who come before him as the priest and say to God, Lord, I've done nothing to offer you. When I come there, and I train, but I can come into it, but I can see a bad thing. What 's the cost? that Jesus Christ means he needs it to me. Is it to me that perfect means by which you can community to the presence of God? Or is it something which you can do that? and you're not a part of it. It's not something that you own and pay. Jesus Christ is not part of your life personally. I would give you age you and please with you. But if you do not know Jesus Christ personal, if his sacrifice is something that you have simply watched and have never received But this morning, but today, before another day will go by, it should examine your heart. And it could receive the offer of Jesus Christ. The offering for him is something that you and I can never make. We can only see it. We can only say, Lord, you've got it for me. We must do this existing privately and we must do it publicly. So no danger without coming week after week and talking about the class itself. I was reminded of our days of the view. I was outside and I passed by a whole hill of bacteria and fulblings. And as I passed, I was in a bit of a hurry and I almost continued to go along without even popping. All of a sudden I stopped and I was jawed as I remembered, I'm passing a whole hill back a bit. And all of a sudden I remembered the first time that I saw a hill of gasodor. Do you remember the first time we saw a whole hill of Bacodia winding and sending If I started that game and the star was so blue and the clouds were puffy white , my father started girls so much younger than I am now. They look to me like magic. To see those cups of gold and silking fragrance and watching them bab their heads to and so. And it was like a rendience. And I realized that DVD, I'd take back a bit for gun. I'd almost come to the place where I could pull quite fire. Oh yeah, I'm gonna hold back a bit. What a fun Out of pain stuff. Well, the battery girls haven't changed. I've taken it for me. This film is wonderful and is magical and it's fine of the magic of your imagination and creation is very everyone. Lord, help me to meditate back again to God. Lord, help me to meditate to try. Jesus Christ is God. When you and I come day by day before God, and thou come, and when we come before Him publicly and worship him from them. God deliver us from every view about the cross of Jesus Christ in Saint Love. Let's get to something new. Oh yeah, we know all about that Um my mind can wander. It can wonder about if it's not even moving or whatever, but this time And you know I find this to be a major source of discussion in the right of many people. Because we're not really comfortable with our working and our The principle is this. God wants for us to understand the gospel in the simplest terms in order to come to you. It only takes the rest of our lives to unfold a deeper and deeper understanding of the gospel. That deeper understanding of the gospel has two sides to it. What is the understanding, the deeper understanding of the profound sense of things that we have in our side? The understanding of that simple results make the violence guarding when you come out. And you know I'm being expensive by the genociding, the victims of the Holy Spirit to see more and more of our chemistry. Maybe it was just a little reminder again of where you go again doing that. Maybe it was an age of expression, an age of revelation, so it 's just a kind of personality. Lord, I said to you again and again I won't do that. And Lord, again and again I swear. And Lord, this more this very week I've been just passed on to my face prostate. Thank God what kind of person am I? Sometimes I wonder if I even know you are. God intends that to be a voice, a great lesson. But you see, if you take that understanding and start there , To be very display. What the Lord wants you to ask us to see is consistent with that. And at the same level, He wants you to see the grace of Christ displayed at the same time. He wants that you showed you the deeper level of sin to also show you a deeper level of grace. So that if you see that in yourself, you look up and you come out. God, you've forgiven me that too. Well, Jesus, you covered that too. That whole thing has been washed away. I thought it was different. But now that you told me more to me, you tell me more of your forgiveness, now I understand more of the process. You see what I'm saying? Worship. In order for us to worship, we must first understand the offering that was made for us. That understanding of that offering must be and it must be very common in our senses. And if you have gotten out of focus about that , I know that what God's doing is He's leading me on the greatest steps of obedience now and discipleship. He's bringing yourself back to the grace of Christ of the You're gonna be the same. You're gonna get damn hardy. Because you're gonna see more of the sin when you see the grace, and then we get out of bonds. It's like one time I went over to the athletic place and I was so concerned in getting the right court to pick out that I forgot my underwear. So many times, you know, we can be so concerned about the things that are the implications of the gospel that we forget the gospel. And we've got to get back to the basis. We've got to get back to the past. That's why, when we come here to worship, we come down. The cost must be permanent in our worship. We can't ever come here without reminding ourselves and reminding the Lord, we come here on the basis of the 24th of Jesus Christ. You never get tired of he and that. You know, the father never gets tired of healing that what to do. He never gets tired of hearing me telling us what he did to me. And we must do that. Part of our worship is an offer. It's to remind God and to remind ourselves of the offering made for sin, for the integration. Secondly, worship, we also bring an offering for worship. Not only an offering for sin, but an offering for Because in the Old Testament, once the sacrifice is made for sin, then the believer could approach God with a second kind of offering to race. And the Bible considers that there are several kinds of offerings for worship. There's consecration offerings, a thank offerings, peace offerings. Many kinds of offerings that we're not sure things, but something to give to God, something of ourselves. Notice in Psalm 96, versus We're called there to bring an offering and come into a court. The word there to offering means a gift. The word used in a couple of the other psalms concerning bringing a gift to a king. And you notice there in verses 7, 8, and 9, the words ascribe, literally those words ascribe are in the Hebrew view. What we found there is good to the Lord, all families of nations. Youth to the Lord, Lord and Holmes. Give to the Lord the glory due to his name. And then this is another one and offering. Give to him a gift. Give to him an offering. and come into his course. We also teaching a voice that you give to God, not to be concerned with what I expect from God. But in the Old Testament, the words of God was done, what the UNESCO believed with At that time as we were, we watched the truth youth to die. We want truth to form the given. We know the word literature that we use concerning our worship. That word litergy is a word from the Greek later, which means serve or service. And with the Greek word to translate, number 169, where we're told there concerning the creature, number 169 Isn't it enough for you, God's speaking to the Levite, and the priests? Isn't it enough for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the rest of the Israelite community? and brought humanity and called to do the work of the Lord's tabernacle and to stand before the community and minister to them, to serve them. The word there is performed in its Greek translation, it is. The priest was the one who performed the service. He performed the service of the tabernacle to God and he performed it to the people. Chapter 18, verse 14. Only you, the Levites and the priests, and your sons may serve the Lord in connection with everything at the altar and inside the person. I'm giving it to you the service of the priesthood as a gift. Again, the believer is passive. No doubt it's clear from the scripture that the people serve God is Deuteronomy 10, 12, and many other places, you said, served the Lord your God as true for all the people. But in the works of Serbus itself, it was only the priest who was active. The people simply watch. If you have an example of this, you remember we see time at Christmas time, Luke chapter one. Remember there were meet where Zach Rah offer the morning incense? That's the morning offering. Uh what do we mean then? Remember Zach Rah? He went inside to the holy place and all the people were outside. They weren't in their offering when they came to God. They were all outside. All they could do is pray to God. They left and they waited for the priest to come out and pray the offering to me. The sacrifice had been given. And that was a sacrifice of worship, you see, the preaching, arising to God, a pleasing sacrifice. But the people didn't do that. They were passive. In the New Testament, all of that changes. brothers and sisters. Every one of you in our teachers. You all now believe the Holy Spirit. You don't have to wait anymore for Zacharias to come out And to say, I've been in there serving the Lord and I've made the offering to him. Every one of you in the offering. You approach God's very presence, not only the holy place Well no believer could come in the Old Testament. You know the Old Testament believers never saw the canvas books? They never saw these cell breads. But they never saw the altar of them things. But they never saw that. He could not go in on pain of death. All they ever saw was the altar for the sacrifice for sin. They never saw the place where the service was done. And even the priests never saw the holy place, the holy of holy place, where the Ark of the Covenant was, where God's own presence was. Only the high priest and him only once a year Could the one there to offer a worship? We and I come out only to the holy things. We come into the very holy of holies. And we come and we offer to God our worship. So as we come morning by Sunday morning by Sunday morning, we have come to the very presence of God, as we saw a couple weeks ago, to the very last week. to the very heavenly Jerusalem, to the presence of God Himself on the throne. What God has said in 1 Peter 2. 5 Remember that property that we looked at so much last year. You like living forms of new buildings with spiritual house to be a holy peaceful offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. So what are they talking about? Farm 96, they bring them afterwards and come into a case. What is that offering, that spiritual sacrifice of offer, that you and I, as believers in the last page, the last age, the new age of the spirit, come to offer to God? What are phase of these time? First of all, an offering of praise and thanksgiving. Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews 13, verse 15. To Jesus therefore let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of faith, the fruit of which we confess his name and give thanks to his name. With these days that you worship the Lord and somebody we come together, the offering that you give to God are your words. I sacrifice the faith. Grace. Point on anything. Fancy teeth. Wish I had a bull or a goat, you know, that I could be law for God. Well Did you know what God said in Isaiah chapter 14? He said, let's come to him offering him the bowl of our lips. That's literally what the Hebrew there says. We asked it about the bull of our lips. Because we see words without feet. Those of you since we in Mr. Jerusalem's class know that this week the verse is commemorated. Some of you was first sent me 12. No one can say that Jesus is married. accept by the Holy Spirit. That means don't say the words at it. What it means is of course that our world is accepted by our heart. And you can't say those words in your heart, unless your life is only by God. Words are deep. Words are very, very Because words with your heart. You think that word is deep. Have you ever been cut for the very heart? by words of condemnation, sarcastic words, words that are personally the very pair. On the other hand, have you ever been down and just charged? And been encouraged and lifted up by a word simply spoken. A word of encouragement with enclosing your heart. And lifted here is nothing else to do. This is peace. I've gotten through a number of things. I've got used to kind of a frustrating day. A number of things have gone wrong. One of you came into my office and he just stopped him for me to offer key words of encouragement. He just lifted my whole building and men allowed to me to do that Words are as important as the person is to us. You don't care about the person, the words don't mean that. The person actually can't help you much. Why are our words such an important sacrifice to God? No. Because we're important to God. Because he's made up in his own element. And God himself says when you thy people are receiving an adolescent. We offered about a half or bite of flavor for lipstick and salty blades. What can offer and come into your court to please them without worry because they're important to God. Realize this morning as we sing and as we pray, picture to yourself our crowing up our whims to God and offering them. Picture us offering the prayers on an altar and praying to God, receive our praise. Picture that in your mind if it helps you. Because that's what it is for us. It's a sacrifice, it's a offering, and it pleases you. So does application one then in that connection? Some kind of beef suggestions. And we read from that. Again and again. We're so full of our guilt, we're so We feel feel so foolish and we're so aware of all the things that we've done down , that we forget that we can see that, and we can go inside it by our property. Remember, if your worry is this morning, but it's a hard to use it. I worry to give the God display. He goes even out of his guilty heart and the foolishness of the chest and a heart that loves him. God refused out of the heart that asked him. God And so when you ask yourself this morning, is this a good service or is it a bad service? Don't measure it by the time, please. But don't measure it by what you got out of it. Measure it by what you do inside your heart and faith. What do you mean? What are you supposed to do as a body of his people? People offering to him to sacrifice his praises to him. They never do refuse anything, but please fight the Not what we get, but what we give to the Lord. Secondly, the application, second form of application. Remember that we are in the new age. And therefore we are all priests. And it's because we are all priests, we all are offered in given worship. Or you are properly restless or bored in a worship service if you are not rightfully active. You know, people have said this down. Worship has got to be closed down. I'm a spectator and I just feel there's something wrong and missing. Those believers are believ are believed prompted by the Spirit of God. There is something wrong. Because we are all in the holy place. We are all priests also to God. sacrifice of faith. And we ought to be active in doing that. You no longer want a peace up here sacrifice on your behalf. Every one of us, all of us are involved as peace willing the offerings ourselves. And therefore, use the opportunity to get our to lead. You give opportunities in the service at various times, particularly in the Lord's Supper service, sometimes also in the morning, for you to lead us in fail and comfort Let me suggest to you that you felt a prompting of the Holy Spirit. Don't ignore it because you think you'd be foolish or because it would be poor that we don't want how quite a crazy If you're prompted by the Holy Spirit to say something, however simple, can't have a faint. It might be something that somebody else here is really rejoicing, and the Lord would receive pleasure and honor. He'd receive praise from it. And so don't wait just for a few people who are very easy at doing that and find it easy to sign up and express themselves and just count on that. Maybe God wants you to say something that may be very simple, but it's unique to you On the other hand, you notice I say this, don't be intimidated by a man leading it. Don't feel like if you haven't said anything, that you ought to. Simply disappointment. You may sit there for years and never stand up and lead us in worship. And God be totally pleased with us. It would be wrong if you did it just because you thought you ought to do it because you haven't done it. Feel free to sit there silently. Because you can simply enjoy and enjoy some days you might stand up and read or all of it as a kind of days you think. Don't feel intimidated. Slip that down And you'll be the feel that you're prompted, but don't be intimidated to feel like you ought to do it. Let's all join in together to please God, not simply be aware of how we look. Secondly, the second author of the New Testament is to do good and serve. You notice Hebrews 13 and 15, the Jesus therefore has offered continually to God The sacrifice of faith that feed as our lips to confess his own is followed by those fixes. And do not forget to do good and to scare the devil, for with such sacrifices, have you Philippians chapter 4 verse 18 picked up on the 23 where Paul writing to the Philippines says I received four payment and even more. And I'm awfully surprised Now that I have received some of that possibility, just a gift this is something. Thanks, a gift for his support and for his own sustenance, for him to be able to have something to live by and thank you for the gift that they thank But many times he looks at it. you. He says, these are a present offering, an acceptable sacrifice, even to God. He's sharing with me, he says, with a sacrifice even to God. Made us applicable to read. The simple act of kindness and devotion to God are a most lovely and eloquent help of that. What do you do you ask the time of another brother and sister and so as an offering to God? You perhaps this morning a little weary of all the things that you've done together Williams of the time that you've given to people, viewed of how much we've given of thoughtfulness, to help money for body consists. If you're at all here with your well-doing this morning, I wanted to be extra way to be changed. Even though other people may not see them , God says he pleased, and he says he's not pleased. You notice that we don't think this the Hebrews 1415 and Philippians 4 is God calls us to that offer. He specifies them. Don't forget to be with the still of other fellows. That sacrifice is God's fees. Also , with a struggle often, with what God is seeing. What nobody else has related. Thank you. You seen what you've done. You seem not after thoughtfulness and harmless because you intend it as well. He receives it as an offering to himself. Don't miss the delight of knowing if you do those things, but they're an offering to the Lord. And if you see what you're doing. And part of the third thing that we offer to God is the new person who teaches eat our very body and mind. We offer to him the offering, the sacrifice of the our body. Romans 12, verse 1. Therefore I raised you, brothers, and you of God's mercy to offer your bodies of a living sacrifice. holy and speaking to God, which is the spiritual worship. See he says in in 1 Peter 25 But if we are priests who offer spiritual sacrifice. Romans 12. 1 says that that spiritual sacrifice ultimately is our God. It's a response to his mercy, you notice, that has been encountered by Paul in the first 11 chapters of the book of Romans. And then he says, wrapping all that up in your mind. He says, Lord, therefore, I beseech you by those nations that I've been telling you about. And the grace of Christ and the sacrifice for you since. Which is a found by learning of God and the eye. You can offer yourself, not a dead sacrifice, but a living sacrifice. And because you are a living sacrifice, you got to renew that each day. You make it a habit to be straight consciously simply firm to the enjoy. I want to be your person, this day. I want to lay myself on the altar to belong to you and to give up my rights and my person and my body and all that I I offer myself to you as an offer of sacrifice. Someone has once said that the trouble with living sacrifice is her because she's falling off the eye And therefore you and I must remind ourselves, day by day, to get back on to the altar, to be able to give ourselves to the Lord in response to His mercy for given us. We offer our body all of the land with an offer deep for the Lord. Beautiful. Maybe God is speaking to you. Without some censorship that you have. And that censorship you know deep down in your heart is keeping your way from the Lord. And yet you really like that thing and you don't want to have to give that up and you want to be popular. And when it comes right down to put these stuff, you say, well Lord, I'm not sure Because I'm not sure I'm everyone. That says that you have the privilege of offering to him your body, your life is free, as an offering. To lay yourself on the altar and say, Lord, I'll give up that. I'll give up that copyright in order to belong to you because you please divine offering. Revise. What about the time? Someone who said recently some research to the dynamic somebody concluded from it that the two main sources of succession in women are low self-esteem and the disruption of time. Well uh we're not dealing with self-esteem this morning But what about laying your time on the altar? Given to the Lord, that time that you have, which is so difficult to manage. Now but part of the management of it is to give it to the Lord faith, to lay it on the altar, to please in front of him, an offering to him, for that you have them. Your career. God at work. Have you had in mind your aspirations of your career and where it's going today? Have you ever laid it on the altar? Have you ever given it as an altar of worship to God? Put it on the altar and said, Lord, I want my life to go and I can live as you want it to be. To accomplish what is most important to you, the gift, the talent, the training, the youth is that I have Confusely lay it on the audio of Jesus Christ for the answer. What about your reputation offer? Never talk about the Lord Jesus. So you're afraid of what that might be to your reputation. Before therefore opportunity after opportunity comes and goes. You're not so worried about law. Because of how foolish you might appear. And you will into lazy reputation. And the fact I can ask you. What about you failing? We live in a time of waiting. a time of always preparing for some time when you'll settle down. And never have laid upon the altar of God, your spelling, your teaching, and respecting Have you laid on the altar the fact of whether God intends for you to get married or not? Have you laid your body on the altar and don't you go? Have you laid on the altar the thought that God has a ministry for you now, not some other blissful time in the future, then things will be more subtle and more still? Have you laid yourself? You see the point? There's a continuity between how we live our lives during the week and the words that we say on the same. And the words that we say in worship on Sunday are only including that the lives out of this great distance, but it is through Jesus Christ, the end of the day. Come. Let's give to the Lord. Give to Him. Blow His name. Let's give to the Lord the glory view to His name. What comes from honors? The fear of our goods and power. The given of our bodies. Let's bring that off and then come into this. Splendid word. All right , we can see our case and we can try. And if you are a wonderful God, a God of great people, a God who is both just and the justifier of the one who needs you. How amazing! We cannot comprehend how you can be so just and justified. How enclosed for your greatest display fully success is in the past. Lord, we would give to you our acts of caring and being good. Over this past you demanded, Father, in times when perhaps he's been tempted to indulge himself to you. We've been tempted to give up in well-being. We've been tempted to yield to we. It is even you. Father will never be. Can you tell the father that we would uh be enabled to label for you a way line? our body. It's a rule number for you in a particular area you would sacrifice an offer are cut across or the very uh natural desire to we have to withhold ourselves to you. Help us fathers to not simply say in some very general way we give ourselves to you. The Father is that in specific ways, in meaningful ways, to come from the depths of our heart, because of your emotions, we might respond by the treating of our bodies with an awful thing for working. To give ourselves to you. Hollow, be pleased, be satisfied, be delighted with our worship lavish upon you. As we pour out ourselves is merely pouring out that ocean upon Jesus. And as we give ourselves to you this morning because we love you, we keep our opponent to us.