We are spending uh three weeks in the middle of weeks of January, both in the sermons and the middle hour, on the subject of worship. And today is the last week So we've done with the middle hour, the three worship leaders interacting on worship, and this is the last message on it for some time. And I want to reflect on the fact that you can't discuss worship today very long with people before getting into a discussion of contemporary versus traditional, right? Especially in the last 20-30 years since the advent of the Seeker Sensitive worship services. a very concerted attempt to make sure that we as Christians are sensitive to the culture and adapt to it and worship in forms and styles that are not mysterious to people and put them off um but that enable a person to come in who is secular and unchurched and And uh, well, kind of, as it said, have them feel comfortable in the worship service. However, in recent years, um There has been more criticisms of the seeker sensitive movement from all kinds of directions And it's a very volatile discussion because um as if you were here in the middle hour, uh you heard from Tim and others, we feel pretty strongly about our music, don't we? I mean you don't mess with my music because my music is the right kind of music to listen to And uh if you don't like my kind of music, well you know, there's something wrong and I don't know how you can worship or the kind of stuff you want to listen to and you know, we really I mean music is not something you play with. It's It's right up there with scripture for some people's minds, you know. But uh a fellow like Tim Keller, pastor of a church about fifteen years old in Manhattan uh has a typical attendance on Sunday mornings of about twenty five hundred, I believe, at this point, many of whom have come to faith in Christ in that congregation, out of very secular and unchurched backgrounds. Uh, is a fellow who's thought a lot and uh written some on worship and he's expressed some concerns. This is a guy who has uh access to all kinds of uh worship styles. I've worshiped there and had a Metropolitan Opera singer do the special music in the morning and then have a girl uh barefoot uh do a very contemporary song that she had written from her latest C D in the evening worship. So with that kind of milieu and here are a couple of his observations His concerns about some of the seeker sensitive adapting worship is that he says we may have overadapted. Four concerns. One This kind of service has removed transcendence from its services by utilizing light, happy music, and tone Complete accessibility of voice using dramatic sketches that create a nightclub or TV show atmosphere, but our generation hungers for awe. Secondly, these services ditch connection to history and tradition and have gone completely contemporary in all cultural references, from sermon illustrations to decoration to antiseptic suburban mall office building settings. But our generation hungers for rootedness and love, a pastiche of ancient and modern. Thirdly, these services emphasize polish and technical excellence, slick professionalism. We've never been charged with that around here. And a management technique, while their generations hunger for our generation hungers for authenticity and community rather than programs. And fourthly, these services emphasize rationality and practical how-to maps, while our generation hungers for narrative and the personal. Well, this has led some people to react and say, yep, we've got to remember that the only audience for worship is God. And therefore, what really matters is not what you get out of it, it's what God gets out of it. We ought to go away saying, not just what did I get out of that service, but What did God who received this get out of it? Very valid question. But what does the scripture say? The scripture is our final test on this, not our opinion, even in music. And what the scripture says is that while it is absolutely vital To ask the primary question, what does God get out of it? He in fact is not the only audience. The scripture says that we must be very aware Of what the seeker is understanding. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 2, when Isaiah talks about the blessings and the power of the new age when Messiah comes. He says it will be characterized in the last days the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as chief among the mountains. This is talking about God's people in worship. That's a symbol And then he says, it will be raised above the hills, and all nations will scream to it. Many peoples will come and they'll say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths. Description of seekers coming to worship, saying, There's something here. We need to find out about this God. God seems to be in your midst. Let's find out what this is about In fact, Psalm 105 in verse 1 is a call to secret sensitive worship, give thanks to the Lord, call on his name, and make known among the nations what he has done. So we call on his name to him, but we're also in that making known to those who are outside of faith what he has done. In the New Testament, Paul deals with this question very explicitly in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 In First Corinthians chapter 14, uh the lengthiest passage in the New Testament about worship, the particular topic at hand there is this matter of speaking in tongues in a worship service. Some of you are familiar with with what that's all about. And what Paul's talking about here is the place of tongues in a public worship service. But in that discussion, there are three verses in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 that bear directly on this question of those who come from outside into a worship service and how we need to be aware of them. Some guiding principles for worship at CPC as well as some practical application to you personally. Let me then read from God's Word, 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verses 23 to 25. Now, thanks, Michael. That's verses 24 and 25. Let me give you 23 as the context. And then we're going to focus on verses 24 and 25. God's Word says, So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in tongues, some who do not understand or some unbelievers come in. Will they not say that you are out of your mind? Because speaking in tongues you can't understand is a foreign language that's ecstatic, language that is unfathomable But, verse 24, if an unbeliever or someone who does not understand comes in while everybody is prophesying, speaking God's word He will be convinced by all that he is a sinner, and he will be judged by all, and the secrets of his heart will be laid bare. So he will fall down and worship God, exclaiming, God is really among you. The point is quite simply that unbelievers who come into a worship service need to be able to comprehend and understand what's going on and what's being said in order for the gospel to have an effect on their lives and to change them, to show them that God is there. And from that simple observation, I'd like to draw Three points, three principles for worship at Columbia Presbyterian you see in your bulletin outline. So take a look not only up here, but at your bulletin outline to see what those are. First point, you see there, unbelievers are expected in our worship. First blank, expected. Unbelievers are expected in our worship. You see that verse 23 and 24. He says there that here's all the saints that are gathered in worship, and he says, some unbelievers come in, some who do not understand. Then again, verse 24, if an unbeliever or someone who does not understand comes in. uh then here's what's going to happen. Now you see that in the blue, the unbeliever, someone who doesn't understand. The word there, uh someone who does not understand is uh actually um the Greek word is idiotes. from which we get our word idiot. Now let me be very clear and hasten to Be very clear to you. If you are here this morning and you do not believe in Jesus Christ, we're not saying you're an idiot. That's not what Paul's saying. Uh he respects the minds of those who have not come to Christ. Uh the word in its uh the Greek word idiotes means someone who doesn't belong or fit into the group. For instance, it's used of a group of lay people mixed with professionals. You know, the people that aren't part of the group are the idiotes. And from you can see through the years that kinda got to a person that doesn't fit anywhere. That's the idiot. And some of us understand that. You know, you just I don't fit, you know, I feel like an idiot. That's what we say He also uses the word unbeliever, just simply without faith. So he's saying here that this is perfectly appropriate. In fact, it's to be expected, and we expect that at Columbia Presbyterian. I know without a doubt that not all of you here, if Jesus Christ were to come back right now, if we were to die, if this place were to be vaporized by a terrorist attack, we would not all be going to heaven There are some of you here who have not committed your lives to Christ. It's a simple fact. You're here for all kinds of reasons. Last week we counted at least 16 people who were here for the first time, just last Sunday alone. Never saw them before. It was her first visit. For all kinds of reasons. People say, you know, drove past, saw the sign out there. Looked like an interesting building. See a lot of cars there. Seemed lots of lots going on. So I thought I would just stop in and see what it's like I've had people say I was jogging around the lake and kind of driving out. I'd see this all the time and I kind of wondered well what goes on over there? I tried on a Sunday morning sometimes All kinds of reasons. Friends come, relatives come, people for baptisms, for any kind of all kinds of things. So we expect That as we worship here, it's a mixed multitude of those who believe in Jesus Christ and belong to Him by faith, and those of you who are Checking it out, you're curious, you're questioning. And I want you to know that we're delighted that you're here. We really welcome you We don't tolerate you. We're delighted that you're in our midst. You want to find out more about Jesus Christ. But the second point Paul makes, and this is what's important for us Is that the church's worship must be comprehensible to them? It must be something you comprehend He says there, if you are speaking in this unknown language, verse 23, the unbeliever is going to come in and he's going to say, You guys are out of your mind, what is it? And I hear all this Gibberish going on, and I don't understand it, and I you know I think I'm in some sort of a cult and what's going on here. But do not make the mistake of restricting what Paul's saying to only the question of tongues How tragic it would be if there was somebody who parted over 400 kids that went through this room yesterday to play basketball with upwards If there had been a family or somebody here who had been at the Upwards game heard about the tragic death of Lindsay Grace Lazo And her friend, who we don't know, but Lindsay Grace was playing basketball here last week. And they heard about that and they said My God, we never know. I wonder if Christ has some answers for my life and what would happen to me if I died And so you've come this morning , never been to church or church service , and you come, and we sing hymns that are so foreign in their musical um genre to you that you say seem like nice people But man, they they got their own culture and I don't relate to it. And they stand up and they sit down and they do this stuff and I never know and I feel like an idiot. I feel like I don't belong And and maybe what they're talking about, about Jesus, you know, maybe there's some truth to that. But I don't think I'll go back because I just don't feel like I fit there. Now, let me tell you, we're not here to make you feel comfortable. But there's a difference, a razor's edge, between putting you off anybody who comes in here seeking Because of cultural insensitivity versus gospel inability to comprehend spiritual truth Garrison Keeler, who's written a lot of books that most of us are familiar with, grew up in an evangelical context. And one of the things that Keeler goes out of his way to say and to mock is what he viewed as a bizarre, self-centered subculture Of people that called themselves Christians. Let me give you just one quote from many I could give from Lake Wobagon, summer 1956, describing himself when he was a 14-year-old kid utterly obsessed with crude bodily functions and sex. He's sitting in a worship service, and he says, I sit every Sunday morning with the sanctified brethren in Aunt Flo and Uncle Al's living room, the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, on a card table in our midst, And listen to men praying their long expository prayers. O thou who didst pass over the dwelling places of the children of Israel, so to watch over us thy church, thy faithful remnant, as we seek to uphold thy word In the midst of a great spiritual darkness, and we sing mournful dirges to the risen Christ, and read all the owliest and crankiest passages of scripture, and I think If these are the Lord's people, then who am I? Certainly not one of them. He says, I felt like a fish trying to sing. Nothing supernatural. Just a bunch of people who thought that if you agreed with them, you're going to heaven. If you don't, you're going to hell. And he was utterly put off. I'm not excusing Keeler's rejection of the gospel as if he had no light to respond to. But how tragic if what is communicated is that we are a group of people who have our own subculture and we don't really care that you can comprehend it Rather, what Paul says is that worship should produce a conviction of the reality of God. That's the third point. He says that worship Not only should be comprehensible, but the result should be conviction and conversion. Conviction and conversion. Again You notice he says here that he will be convinced by all that he is a sinner. Now, actually, that he is a sinner uh is not in the Greek. The NIV just kinda adds that to complete the idea. Literally what it says is everybody's prophesying, people are declaring the word of God. Now that was in that time a lot of people were doing it. Now we focus more on somebody who prepares and is able to bring a message, but it's the same idea, bringing God's word. He says he will be convinced and will be judged by all. He will be convinced by all and he will be judged by all is what it says. So I think what he's saying here is he will be convinced, he will be persuaded, convicted, of three things. And it's the three things you see outlined there in the text. First of all, he's going to be convinced And he will be judged by all. He's going to be convinced of this notion of judgment. The word judge there is a very interesting word. It refers to a pretrial hearing. It's not the trial, but it's a pretrial hearing. Before the main hearing or the main trial. So what's being done here is that here's this person, he comes in and he's not thinking about judgment and accountability of his life He's just walking in and saying, I live to myself and that's it. And I hear from God's word that there is a judgment, and that judgment's coming. And these people are declaring to me now something that basically says, Are you ready for this? Is your life ready to be able to come before God on your own merits? And I'm I'm aware now, I'm aware there's a judgment. I'm judged by all these things that I'm being that I'm hearing And then notice that he says, secondly, the secrets of his heart, that's the green, are going to be laid bare. Not only is there a judgment, but I'm not ready to meet it. Underline that in your Bible. That's really important. Every worship service Should lay bare the secrets of your heart. We are so into comfortable messages of unconditional love and grace. That we have forgotten that preaching is also for repentance. Preaching should lay bare the secrets of our heart. You should feel not only understood, you should feel penetrated by God's Word. How many times have I heard through the years I felt after this morning that you've been hiding in our house in the closet, listening to our conversations and reading our mail and reading my journal and my diary. I feel like I felt sorry for all the rest of the people who had to sit there and endure your message when it was specifically only for me. I feel like for the first time this morning, I gotta look into my heart. I've been bitter against God for what He hasn't given me and all the things that I've had to suffer and endure, and I feel victimized by insensitive and cruel people all around me. And suddenly this morning, I realized it is me who is so self-absorbed. I go to God in prayer and I say, God, uh, why don't you answer my prayers? And I've seen this morning that my prayers are only for my comfort and my glory I've seen that I'm all wrapped up in myself, and it's no wonder I can't love anybody because I'm so self-absorbed. I've seen that this morning. My heart has been laid bare I feel startled by seeing myself for the first time as I really am. The story is told Of a primitive man who, when the first time he was shown a mirror and gazed his reflection, recoiled in horror and disgust That's me. That's what I'm like. I think I'll go find another church Where I hear something comforting and about stories that carry me along and make me feel good for the rest of the week. Let me tell you, without an honest recognition of what your heart is like and what my heart is like The gospel is like junk food and will never produce worship. Thomas Watson said God has created the eye for two things, to see and to weep. And when you and I see what we're really like, we weep. It's a startling, disconcerting thing for me to see what my heart is really like. And to still be able to stand before you by God's grace to minister his word. We run from it Chuck Colson, when he tells about his conversion, describes how he went to his friend Tom Phillips ' home and Phillips shared with him, probably uh feeling quite inadequate, to share with this fellow who had such a tough reputation, shared with Colson the gospel of Christ and his saving love. Colson says, when I heard him talk to me about what my heart was like, I felt like a battleship that had just been torpedoed midships. And I made some lame excuses about having to leave, and I got out of there as quick as I could. And if you've read his story in Born Again, you remember how he describes he got in his car and he sort of began to drive away. And I wanted to put it all just out of my mind. But I couldn't And I began to weep. I began to see my heart what it was really like, how self-absorbed I was. I began to weep so bad I couldn't drive and I had to pull off the road onto the shoulder And there he talks about how he for the first time had his heart laid bare before God. Gradually, his tears of agony, as he threw himself upon Christ Turn to tears of relief and of joy. Have you ever experienced anything like that? Have you ever experienced where God lays bare your heart and then begins to bring the gospel in the most amazing way to see? What his love is really about. You see, he goes on to say here, the third thing, after the secrets of his heart lay bare, so he will fall down and worship. Not just negative. See, the the idea is not that, you know, Columbia Presbyterian, we're not into grace and unconditional love around here. We just want to make you feel rotten. The point is, until you and I begin to see what we're like, which inevitably makes us feel rotten, we don't worship because we don't understand grace, as it really is. So the third thing you see there, C, is that um or excuse me the the um The first thing is he'll be judged the secrets of his heart. Yeah, and the third thing is that the transcendent God is present in this worship. He sees that. He understands that. Verse 25. Now, how does he say this? How does he say God is really among you. I believe that there's a progressive stage of three ways that a seeker who might be here this morning going through this would say that. The first is surprise. Wow. This God that I'd kind of written off and heard in all my courses in psychology and history and everything else in college, and they all said, you know, the Bible is just men 's words and is full of contradictions and all the rest of this and that God of Christianity doesn't exist and I you know I just kind of dismiss that and I'm going along trying to make sense out of my life Tragedies like the Lazo situation or anything else, I can't figure it out. All of a sudden, bam! God is here, He's real. There is a transcendent God. Surprise, shock. But then I believe there is the second way he's saying that moves, God is really among you, dread My heart's been laid bare and it stinks and I'm offended. But then I think God sees my heart. He knows everything I've thought and that I've done and how offended he must be. God is here and he knows me through and through. Dread. But then there is the worship, there is the gospel That comes, that Paul describes as he goes on after describing the worship service. He goes into chapter 15 and he says, let's look again at why we worship The gospel that I received, I passed on to you as of first importance. Chapter 15, verse 3, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. The Messiah, God, in his glory, has come in the flesh. He who is innocent He who is accepted by God, king of the kingdom, has given it up all to die for my sin. Take the curse that I deserved. According to the scriptures, fulfilling all the hope of the one who would be that perfect Lamb as the sacrifice for your sin. And not only did he die, but he was buried. And the third day he rose again according to the scriptures. And then he goes on to describe that and explain that and defend that. And he finishes up in verse 50 of chapter 15. So I declare to you, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Listen, I'm going to tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, not all die, but we will all be changed. Some of us, most of us, will die, but those alive when Christ comes will be changed in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet For the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed, for the perishable must clothe itself with the imperishable, eternal life, the mortal with immortality And when the perishable has been made clothed with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true. Death has been swallowed up in victory Where O death is your victory. Where O death is your sting? The sting of death is sin. And the power of sin is the law But thanks be to God, He gives us the victory to our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. That's the hope that the Lazarus have this morning. That is the only hope. On the life of an eight two eight-year-old girls snuffed out. Has death had the final word The gospel is your sins can be forgiven through Jesus Christ. And you can have the hope of your perishable mortal body putting on imperishable immortality through Jesus Christ and death. Will be vanquished when Jesus comes again. And so he falls down and he worships. Have you seen Christ? Have you seen him in his glory and his provision for a weak, poor, pathetic sinner like you and me? Not until we glimpse him in all his glory and his grace, with our hearts laid bare before him, do we fall down and worship. And so in Columbia Presbyterian, we have a balance of three elements in worship. There is the awe. It comes as finite, dependent creatures realize we stand before a holy, infinite, personal God who is creator. And we're in awe of him. But there must also be that element of intimacy through the gospel This God, who is far removed in his holiness, has come near through his son Jesus Christ and said, through him you can call me Daddy. And we can be not only prostrate at his feet, but we can crawl up into his lap and gaze into his face and say, Daddy, I love you. And then there is the element of celebration. The celebration that goes beyond the all and the intimacy to realize that Christ has died according to the scriptures and he has risen again and is coming again. And therefore we celebrate his resurrection, which is why worship is on the first day of the week. To celebrate what Jesus Christ has done. And to rejoice and to fall down in worship and adoration. Experience that? I mean we're weak. But that's our goal at Columbia Presbyterian. You see the three things there, conclusion. To take seekers into account so that by our language, our explanations, our music, we are neither controlled by the culture nor are we insensitive to it. The last thing we want you to think is if you come in here as a seeker, that these people all have their act together. They're all good people. Rather, that we are simply forgiven sinners who are discovering more and more of what grace means. In all of our lostness, we have been saved. God is our Father. And say, you know, I can identify with these people. They are as pathetic as I am. But God has met them. And there's hope in the gospel for even me. And then secondly, that we should expect to see conversions. It's not enough for you to see that. That's nice, and I understand, and I, you know, think about that for three or four years, you know We have prayer teams that pray every service in the back. But those of you who are without Jesus Christ, who don't know that you have another week Well, come to give your lives to Christ. And that's why we have the grace lift. So you can write in there. You know, God has spoken to me this morning. Please, I want to speak to a pastor. I want to talk to somebody. Take advantage of that. Put in there in the remarks if you want to speak to me or to anyone about your relationship with the Lord Jesus. How can we help you? That's the thing we want to do. Personal And uh let me also say that if anybody is interested in seeing how God works, you know, come and join those prayer teams. You don't even have to sign up, just go back there and join them, and if you feel like doing it once a month, that's what all that's every nobody does it more than once a month. Unless they just, you know, can't keep out of there. But normally it does once a month, one service a month to go back there and pray and then I give you feedback by email to tell you what God's doing as a result of the prayers that you pray And then uh we need to be aware as we greet visitors too. You know, that these people that God is bringing, we don't know where these people are. And you might say good morning to somebody this morning who's here and is just seeking Christ, is confused, and and your interest and your warmth will be a factor in them coming back Finally, our worship then should be a balance of the familiar and the transcendent. The familiar, not that we speak to ourselves in some subculture But not, on the other hand, that we're so comfortable that we lose the sense of the transcendent. The late John White, who is one of my favorite authors, tells about a time he was pastoring a church and He said in the church uh he saw the people loved to sing, but he sensed it was not worship. It got to bother him so much that he finally called the elders and the deacons into his home to talk about worship. He said, let me talk you know concerned about our congregation. I you know, I think we're really understanding worship. Let me talk to you about worship. So we talked about worship and what it was and Expressing God's worth and all the rest of that. And he said, now let's let's go to prayer. Let's just worship. Let's just speak to God about his worth. And he said he went to prayer and And basically what everybody prayed was, Lord, forgive us, we're really lousy worshippers. Boy, we do a shoddy job. No, no, no, no, no, that's not worship. I'm talking about focus on him. Look at him Now come on, he said, let me try to demonstrate this. Let's let's pray. Let's try it again. So he says, hey trying to worship, and he said, it was pathetic. I was so frustrated and I was discouraged and I'm trying to worship and I'm saying God You know, help me to worship and I'm just trying to worship. Then he says, then it happened. Before me, there was a vision Of a column of unearthly fire. The fire of the holiness and the majesty of God. Let me tell you what he says about that in his own words. This rising column of unearthly flame burst through the floor, and he says, at that point, my worship changed immediately and utterly. My struggles to worship were gone. I was so physically weak I could hardly stay on my knees. I shook, I trembled, I wept, my nose began to run, but I didn't care. But oh how I worshiped. I do not know why God did what he did except that that worship at that moment that previously had been hard, almost forced out of me. Now flowed from my inner being in floods hampered only by my sobs and my running nose He says, when you see the glory of God, you can't do anything but worship. What if the Holy Spirit broke through in our services and gave you a glimpse of the glory and the majesty of the fullness of God? And the grace of Christ to you and to me to transform our worship. Let's pray. And Lord, it would seem silly and almost scary for us to say, we would ask you, Holy Spirit, to come upon us, to visit us, to come and to show us Christ like we've not seen him. To come and awaken our hearts, lay them bare before you to see what we're really like, and then to see what you are really like. For worship is simply the inevitable expression of coming into terms with reality. Oh Lord Jesus Lord, if there's anyone here who resists and says, I 'm I'm scared, I want to stay away from this, penetrate them, torpedo them as culsome amidships Give to them an inescapable view of their hearts and of their need for Christ. And then show us each, Lord, Lord Jesus, how accessible, how available you are to those who are broken, who come before you, that we would fall down. That we would worship and adore and see the glory. Oh God, open our eyes to see Jesus. Amen.