As the children are dismissed, the children's church, if you don't have a Bible in your laps, they're on the back rack. I'm still going to pester you about having a Bible so that you can see what it is we're talking about from Scripture. And uh It's one of my goals to see that rack emptied each week. As you have a Bible, if you turn in first into First Kings eighteen, verse twenty, I'll open us in prayer. God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, we come to you. We long to know that you are God. We long to know, Lord, that you are turning our hearts to you. We long to respond by worship and by following you. And so we ask Jesus this morning that you would be here not merely to be present, but Lord, to transform. For if you do not change our hearts, as we read in the prayer regeneration, we're powerless. And so open our eyes, open our minds, open our hearts, Lord, transform us that we might be followers and worshipers of the Lord. In your name we pray. Amen. This is the last message I'm going to be bringing from 1 Kings 18. Some of you may be thinking four messages from one passage. Give us a break. My thought is there's so much more in this passage that should be known that would encourage us, that would show us more of Jesus. That I intend to do a lot more study personally, even as I go through this. But there's a question that I that Elijah poses early in verse 21. If the Lord is God, follow him. If Baal, follow him. And the question really is a question of who do we believe God is? Who do we follow? The Israelites were called by Elijah and through Elijah by God, for he says in his prayer, that I do all these things at your command. To answer the question by this trial. The Israelites, you see, wanted comfort, they wanted survival, and they would go to and follow and turn to anyone or anything that promised them comfort and survival. Today what we want to look at, we've looked in the first message back in July at the issues of our idolatries, that that this passage points out the idolatrous nature of people. that we will do like the Israelites. We will follow whatever promise us what we want. We look then at the fact that Even like the prophets of Baal, as God reveals himself, we're in trouble because we can't redeem ourselves. And yet God does redeem. In Elijah's prayer, he says, You have turned their hearts back. God gives that gift of redemption. We looked last week at the fact that God reveals Himself and pursues us. That God is the one who makes himself known, and God is the one who will take us wherever we need to go in order to know him. And today what we're looking at is what's the response that this knowledge calls for? What is it that God wants us to know What is it that God wants of us, and how do we respond? What does God want us to know about Himself? How do I individually know that the covenant God of Israel is the God of reality. There's only one, and He's it. Then what does God want? What does God want of me? What does God want of us? And then lastly What is it? What is it that characterizes my response? How do I respond to the knowledge and to the call? And so we see that in this passage God answers the question who He is. Verse 39. The people knew who God was, and they fell on their faces prostrate and cried, The Lord He is God, the Lord He is God. He revealed Himself in the previous verse by sending fire from heaven And consuming the sacrifice so effectively that there wasn't anything left but the dirt. The problem for us with that is this this is words on a page. And there's an awful lot of words on a page in this book. And I have a lot of words on pages, I have words on screens, I have words all over the place. I hear words from people. There's lots of things that I come to hear, either by sight or by ear. And this is another example of that, but God, how do I know who you are? How do I know if you are? How do I know that there's anyone there? God answered for the Israelites. He sent fire down that they saw, they felt the heat, they heard the roar, they saw the sacrifice on the altar, and the next moment the sacrifice was gone. God, what will you do for me? To show me who you are. We're going to look more at that as we go through the message this morning, but I want to tell you as we begin that that's a false division. When God answered that question for the Israelites, he answered it for you. He answered it for me. I don't need, and we don't deserve, more. God has acted. God has revealed himself. God has answered the question, and it's a resolved matter But I want you to see, as we've talked about in several of the messages from this passage, that the Lord's purpose is to make himself known. His purpose is to make himself known. And to redeem for himself a people who will worship him. God intends for you to know him. He reveals that in creation. If you have your Bibles, look at Romans chapter one. In verse 18, we read, The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress The truth, who suppress the truth by their wickedness. Since what may be known about God is plain to them. Because God made it plain to them. For since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen Being understood from what has been made, so that men are without excuse You cannot live in this world and claim ignorance of God The only way you're ignorant of God is that you actively suppress truth And that makes us aware that this is not an issue of knowledge. It is not an issue of knowledge, it's something else. But God shows himself clearly, and his judgment upon humanity who rebels against that revelation of himself is that we are suppressing truth and are without excuse. God not only reveals himself in creation, God also reveals himself in this word. God shows himself over and over and over again. He not only acts, and this is what I want you to see by understanding that he reveals himself in the Word, He not only acts, He speaks. We can look at a distance at each other's lives, and we can see what each other does, and we can have some sense of who we are by the things that we do and don't do. We can look and see much of who we are. As a matter of fact, Luke 6, Jesus says in chapter in chapter 6, verse 42 and following. That our behavior, our behavior is actually the fruit of our identity. Out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. Jesus says that who you are at root Who you are is manifested by what you do, whether it's the behavior of speaking or whether it's other actions you take, but who you are is known. And in the same way, God has made himself known by his actions. But much more than his actions he's spoken. If you only had an opportunity to watch somebody live, you would know them a little But you wouldn't know what motivates them. You wouldn't know what they're thinking. You wouldn't know why they do what they do. In a sense, it's almost like a difference between a good novel and a movie Because in the movie what you tend to see more, unless they go into a narrative monologue, is the action. But in the books, in the books you frequently have much opportunity to read what is the thought, what is the desire, what is the motivation. of the person who's acting. Because in a book you can do it much more easily than you can in a movie. God speaks. God speaks to make himself known. God acts in this particular story. God acts time and again in history. And he does what is necessary to make himself known. In this story, we see in the prayers of Elijah in verse 37 and 38. 36 and 37, I'm sorry. We see what Elijah's prayer is, is that God would reveal himself. Make yourself known. Make yourself known this day as the God of Israel. Make yourself known to this people by your actions that you are the God in Israel and that you are turning their hearts back. God revealed Himself in a powerful way to the Israelites, and their response, as you see in verse 38, is to fall on their faces in worship. And to proclaim that Yahweh, the covenant Lord, is God. We see this most clearly through Jesus. We see this God revealing himself and giving his heart most clearly in the story of Jesus. For God not only acts and he not only speaks, he comes. And he comes to live with us To take upon himself our identity. Jesus is the second person of the Trinity who is completely and fully God. But he takes upon himself complete and full identity as man. Becoming the person Jesus, God and man in one person, Emmanuel living with us, knowing us And redeeming us. Because it's not merely an issue of knowledge. It's not merely that God would show Himself, it is that we be capable of knowing Him I loved what we read in the poem and then prayed. It's more than an issue of knowledge for A dead man can't know. A dead man can't respond. And yet what we prayed, I was dead in iniquities. Having no eyes to see thee, no ears to hear thee, no taste to relish thy joys, no intelligence to know thee We are incapable in our own to know God. Because our desire will be to suppress that knowledge We'll talk more about that in a moment. But I want you to think of an analogy. I don't know if any of you are colorblind. But this is much, much like being colorblind. Because the colors are there. God has revealed Himself. God is acting. God is speaking. God has come. He is known. He's made himself known, and we we are inadequate and incapable to see him because we're colorblind. And while the colors are there, we don't see them. Something has to change. Something from the outside must be different for us to be able to know and to respond to God. And so in Jeremiah 24 He speaks of what needs to be different. And in Jeremiah chapter 24, God says, I, I will give them a heart to know me. God says, I will give them a heart to know me. I will heal their blindness. And in the poem, as we read it One moment. Two moments It pays to be resourceful. In the poem, we read and we prayed, but thy spirit quickens me. Has brought me into a new world as a new creature. Has given me spiritual perception. Has opened to me thy word as light, guide, solace, joy. God redeems, God transforms, God works And so, what does God want from me? We're called to follow the Lord. That's our calling. This morning that may seem like a small thing. But what does God call you to do as you follow Him? It may be that in your life there is a pattern of sin, but you know that God is saying, stop. Stop. It may be that you are to change what you're already doing In order to obey and to worship and follow Him. It may be that there are things that God is calling you to this morning, and He says, Do. There may be things that God calls you to do that you're not doing. But God leads. God will lead and you are called to follow. The Hebrew term is to walk after, which would remind us of Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1, as Alan is so adequately in And thoroughly explained to us is a statement of walk in a manner in equilibrium, in harmony, in balance with your identity. God calls us to follow. God calls us to live in obedience to Him. God calls you to stop your sin. God calls you to add righteous living. God calls you to things that you think You can't do. God calls me. God calls me to refrain from sin that I am tempted and have patterns to commit. God calls me to stop my arrogance. God calls me to stop my selfishness. God calls me to love others well, sacrificially Beyond my abilities, God calls me to live in community and to be honest and transparent and open, to be able to give and to receive truth. To give and receive Jesus, to hold others to Him, and to willingly allow them to hold me to Him. God calls us to repent powerfully, deeply, honestly, the sins we commit. Sins we'd rather not even see. God calls us to use our gifts, to give of our treasures, to step out of denial. God calls us to follow Him and see ourselves as He sees us. And it's so easy not to do that It's so easy just to go day by day and moment by moment. It's so easy to sear your conscience and to deny what the Spirit is saying to you And to continue. I'm with a group of men, and we're going together through a study. And one of the things that we're doing in that study is we're taking a fearless and searching moral inventory of our lives. How have we wounded others? How have we sinned? What have we done? How have we in turn been wounded? I've been a Christian for a long time, but if I'm not strategically and consciously looking at my life, if I'm not working diligently to see who I am, to encourage others to speak freely to me and reveal to me what they see. And I believe that's a part of my calling to follow Jesus. Because Jesus is the one who's already taken an inventory of my My life. He's already paid the debt of my sin, and he's unwilling to leave me in its snares. I'll talk more about that in a moment. But the third point we have to wrestle with is how do we respond? How do we respond to knowing God? Are there changes you need to make? Are there changes you need to make in what you believe and how you live and where you go as God leads you? One of the ways that we respond is denial. And I think this is particularly true for those who are still questioning: is Jesus God? Is the covenant Lord of Israel truly God? Must I follow him? I want you to see from the story that Ahab watched the contest. Ahab was there on Mount Carmel. Ahab saw everything that Elijah did, everything the Israelites saw. And he didn't repent. He did not worship. Ahab saw God and was unchanged. God even in chapter twenty, two chapters later, over a period of two years involving warfare, as the Arameans came to conquer Israel and God says in the first battle, because they say that I am not God, I will deliver this multitude. into your hands, so that you, Ahab, will know that I am God. Chapter twenty, verse thirteen. A year later After the defeat, the Arameans come back and say, Well, God, their God Yahweh is the God of the hills, and we we fought a battle in the hills. Obviously we'll lose. So let's fight a battle in the valley, where our God is strong. And God comes again to Ahab, who had not seen and believed, and responded with worship and repentance that God, Yahweh, is the God who is. Comes to him again and says, Because the Arameans say that I'm the God of the hills, by the way, Ahab, they acknowledged me, but you have not. They have at least acknowledged that I'm the God of the hills They say that because I'm the God of the hills and not the God of the valleys, that they will come again with an army to beat me in the valleys. And Ahab, I will show you by the defeat of this multitude that I'm the Lord, that I am God. And he gave victory to Ahab. And even after that third experience, as God revealed himself to Ahab, Ahab did not repent and worship. It's not a matter of knowledge. It's not a matter of knowledge. Satan knows that God is real Satan knows that better than any of us. James 2. 19 says, you believe God is one. You do well. The demons also believe. And shudder. The demons know God and they respond with rebellion. We respond with denial. God, if you would show me who you are, the same way you showed it To Elijah. The same way that you showed it to the Israelites. If you were to send down the fire from heaven here and now, if you were to do some miraculous act to show me who you are, I would believe. We have the testimony of Scripture to reveal God to us. He reveals it to us in this story and thousands of others We also know that God planned to redeem his people by sending Jesus to restore us to intimacy and righteousness. We know so much more than the Israelites on Mount Carmel knew. If we're looking for God to show Himself to us more directly, Jesus has a parable to show us the depths of our denial. Lazarus and the rich man in Luke 16. Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees and to the scribes. He's speaking to them about the hardness of their heart and their unwillingness to know God. At the end of the story, the rich man who's in hell, languishing, speaks out to Abraham, who is comforting the poor man in heaven. And the rich man says, Then I beg you, father, that you send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, that he may warn them lest they also come to this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. But he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to him, If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, Neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead. Sisters, it's not a matter of knowledge. Everything you need to know, you know There's a different form of denial that many of us as believers live with, and it's self-protection. We live in denial of the inconsistencies between our professions of faith and our lifestyles We have tendencies to turn blind eyes to what areas of our lives are incompatible with our professed love for Jesus. And so we live with attention. We know that we're in sin. But that sin promises comfort. That sin promises escape. It promises pleasure. It promises good. And so we live with the tension. We live with the inconsistencies. We are angry people. We want to escape. We enjoy and endure our selfishness. We want to protect ourselves. We'll live with dishonesty. That's who we are. That's why that inventory is so absolutely essential for me. I have to see me. I have to repent of the concrete specific sins that my heart causes. I have to own the fact that that's who I am. Because if I don't, I won't hold to Jesus. Jesus reveals the result of his inventory of our lives, both for believers and non-believers. And if you look at chapter 25 of Matthew, there's a parable Jesus gives of judgment. And he says to the believers, well done. Thank you for serving. Thank you for feeding me when I'm hungry, clothing me when I'm naked. And they say, But Jesus, when did we do this? And Jesus says, if you did it to the least of these, you've done it to me. But to the unbelievers, he says in verse 41, then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me. You who are cursed into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry, and you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave me nothing to drink I was a stranger and you did not invite me in. I needed clothes and you did not clothe me. I was sick and in prison and you did not Look after me. And we in our self-protection will respond and say to him, much like the unbelievers do , Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison and did not help you? We want to continue to live with those inconsistencies, those areas that are inconsistent with our profession of faith and the sanctifying work God is doing in our lives, because, like the Israelites, we want to pursue. Our idols. But there's another response that we as believers will give, and that's worship. We will worship God. The Israelites did. They fell on their faces. They fell on their faces as they finally saw God's work and responded by falling on their faces. It's an act of worship, but it's also an act of honesty. They're honestly declaring that they are not worthy to see the Lord, much less be close to him. God came down in that fire. God was present with them in the Shekinah glory as He accepted their sacrifice. And they fell on their face, like everyone who comes into direct contact with the Lord does. They fell on their face in fear and in worship. For we are not worthy to see God. We are not worthy to come to that intense and And intimate recognition of who God is. We're not worthy for relationship with Him, but He, as Elijah praise, has turned our hearts back. He's given us that gift. There's a particularly glorious picture of worship. We already saw one as Tom read The Story of the Transfiguration, where three of the disciples saw Jesus as he is in glory. And their immediate response was to fall on their faces. And after they fell on their faces, they saw Jesus as he lifted them up and said, Be not afraid. But as Jesus enters Jerusalem, as he's preparing for that great sacrifice that will redeem us, listen to this story from Luke 19. When they came near to the place where the road goes down to the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices. For all the miracles that they had seen. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. I tell you, he replied, if they keep quiet, the very stones will cry out. Jesus is to be worshipped. God is, as he's seen, to be worshipped If your hearts are not filled with the desire to worship, it's because you're not seeing him The very stones will cry out in worship. Inanimate Inanimate creation must respond to the glory of God. How can we not? But the call in chapter eighteen, verse twenty one Is not merely to worship. If Yahweh is Elohim, walk after him. Him. You're here this morning to worship. You're here. And you might say, I'm here because I know enough of God to know that this is the place that I'm called to be. I belong with his people on his day worshiping him. But he owns all of you. And the call for you is to follow him. The call for you is to look at what he sees as he sees you, and to see him as he He is to search for him. To plead with him that he will show you who you are And to follow him. We talked in the beginning of the message about the fact that there are things in our lives where God is calling us to change. There are sin patterns in our lives God is calling us to set aside. There's a failure to obey that God is calling us to begin. And to obey. Obey him. There are things he's calling you to do differently today. If the Lord is God, follow him. Let's pray. God, I am so grateful that you are one who reveals yourself in your actions, in your words, in your presence. That you are one who not only reveals but transforms and gives us the gracious gift of repentance. That you are not willing to let us wander, you pursue. That you want our hearts and will settle for nothing less. And so, God, we ask that you will help us to see how you are at work in our lives. Give us the grace to know that it is your hand that is pursuing, and that we would delight. In your pursuit. That we would repent of our sin, for you've given us the freedom to repent, not to fix, to repent. That you have given us a spirit to know what it is you are working in us to change. And that it is not merely a matter of what we know, but it is a matter of the heart that you give us to know you. That you give us your spirit so that we will be able to follow your commands. and your decrees to satisfy your desires. Lord, we long to know that as we cling to you, you delight in us For as we know you and as we worship you and as we honor you, you take tremendous delight in us. And we pray, Lord Jesus, that you would do deep work in us. In your name we pray, Amen