Polls consistently tell us that Americans believe in God. About 90 to 95 % of Americans say they believe in God. So I guess it's safe to say that most Most Americans believe in God. However, what distinguishes the God that most Americans believe in is that he doesn't have a name. He may be associated with Jesus. Jesus. But there's no content to that. He has no character or personality that 's revealed to us. He doesn't make any demands on us. He doesn't give any commands to us. He certainly wouldn't ever dare tell us how we should live our lives. This God who doesn't have a name is safe. You don't have to fear a God who doesn't have a name. Unfortunately, This God doesn't have any relationship to the God of the Bible or of Christianity. So for a number of messages now, you and I have been looking at the God of the Bible who has in fact several distinct by which he has revealed himself to us, to make himself known to us as the one true living God. Who requires our worship. And this is the God that we want to get to know, isn't it? It's not the pocket-sized God who's the figment of our imagination, who we may want to pull out in times of trouble. But the true and living God, who has revealed himself in this book, the Bible, and says, This is what I am like. This is the God who revealed himself to Moses in the burning bush. It said, I am Yahweh. Remember his name Yahweh means basically the foundational meaning of that is I am who I am. I'm the self-determining one. I am the sovereign God. You can count on me to keep my word and my promise to you. And then we've seen how this most basic covenant name of God by which He reveals Himself to us is a name which upon that foundation, as you see in your point and outline there, upon that foundational fact. He is the sovereign power. I am who I am. You can count on me. He has constructed, as it were, three pillars, three particular ways that he is sovereign. And what that means for us, three Distinctive revelations of who he is as the covenant-keeping God. It's interesting that he does this in Exodus chapter 6. in revealing himself to his people who are in bondage. I think that's significant for you and me. I think it's a characteristic of us as human beings that we're more interested in what God is like When we feel ourselves to be in bondage, don't we? When you and I feel ourselves to be in bondage to our habits, bondage to the shackles of a dysfunctional family. In bondage to our personal compulsions, it's at that time that we ask with more immediacy and genuine concern, God, what are you like? Are you able to deliver? Me. Who are you? What does it mean to know you? And how can you deliver me from the shackles that I'm in? And so it's in Exodus chapter 6, when Israel is in slavery, in bondage. And God says, Let me tell you what I'm like. Let me tell you the meaning of my name, Yahweh. So that name, Yahweh, which appears in your Bibles as the name Lord with a capital L small capital O R D. distinguished from Lord with small letters O-R-D, which is the name Adonai that we've looked at in the past. But when you see that word Lord as you see in Exodus chapter 6, if you haven't already turned to it in your Bibles, please do if you have a Bible with you. Exodus chapter 6, verse 2, you see there that God said to Moses, I am the Lord. And literally, the Hebrew, it simply says, I Yahweh. There isn't even an M or a. It's simply I, Yahweh. I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob as God Almighty, El Shaddai. But by my name, Yahweh, I did not make myself. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan where they lived as aliens. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. And then God reveals those three basic things about Him. Three things that are so basic that if you and I are to say that we know God, the one true living God, who really is, not the American figment of our imagination, not the civil religion, God. Not the pocket size, when you're in trouble, it's nice to know somebody to pray to, God. But the God who really is. These three things are so basic that in order to say you and I know him, we must know these three things about him. Three verses, six, seven, and eight One characteristic in each verse. One time in each verse he says, I, Yahweh. Verse 6, we see him as the sovereign what? Yeah, you somebody ought to remember by this week now. What's the person? Thank you, Debbie. Sovereign remarkable. Redeemer, okay? That's the left pillar over there. The sovereign redeemer. Now the copier is being uh it's receiving CPR every couple of days, and um, you know, we sort of crank it up and you know give it some call. And get it going and so some of you may have kind of messy outlines and messy bulletins. And uh you know, we're making sure that the trustees get the messiest bulletins of all so that there'll be some action, but I assure you they are seeking to take whatever action. Can be taken. But if you have a messy bullet and a messy outline, it can't be helped. We're sorry. It's not just because it's summer. That's the nature of things. But if you can see through that the left They're uh part of that uh the kind of the left room of the house, the left pillar, is sovereign redeemer, I will free you from bondage Who's the words there? That's the first thing we looked at. Verse 6, therefore say to the Israelites, I, Yahweh And I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. I'm going to free you. of your bondage to Egypt. The second thing we saw last week is in verse seven that he is the sovereign one Or there is a sovereign relationship. Good, thanks. Hanging in there. Sovereign relationship. I will be your God. And you, my people. It's not an impersonal redemption that he accomplishes. Kind of throws it out there and says, Well, you know, anybody wants to get free, come and accept Jesus. But he's saying, I have called you personally into a relationship with me. And so verse 7 says, I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. Then you will know that by Yahweh, your God, your Elohim, your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. That's the second thing that we have seen. Now we come the third characteristic, which is in verse 8. The third characteristic of this sovereign covenant-keeping God who is the only true God, not just our favorite brand of God as Presbyterians. Here we see it in verse 8. Verse 8 says, I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give. To Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you as a possession, I Yahweh So that third characteristic is sovereign what? You don't know that one, do you? I know you're all expecting it's got to be an R, but it's not. It's sovereign inheritance Now I'm sure that some of you thought I would be slave to alliteration and I would work in an aria there somehow, but that would not be accurate to the text, and you know I never do things like that. So it's sovereign. Why are you laughing? I don't like that. Talk to you guys later. Sovereign reward? Yeah, it's good. Stick it in there, Peter. We could brainstorm a few here, we'll get enough. There is a sense of that, except that it's something he gives us not as a reward. You'll see that in the third point. But anyway, hang on there. It's a sovereign inheritance that he gives us. I will give you the land. Those are the blanks there. I will give you The land. Now notice how that's emphasized there in verse 8. God says, I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hands. Here's God saying, you know, it's as if I'm swearing by myself. God says, I swore that I would bring you to this land. I'm going to do it. And it's a land he says that I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. So this is a land that God is giving. And he says it again: I will give it to you as a possession. Why? Because I, Yahweh. And you notice in each of these statements, I will redeem you, I Yahweh. I'm going to call you into relationship with myself by Yahweh, your God. I'm going to give you this land of possession. I Yahweh. Now I remark on that because I have never seen a book, I have never seen a treatise anywhere that says that this is the basic meaning of Yahweh, the covenant name of God. And yet I would submit to you that this is the biblical definition in these three verses. When you put it on the foundation of Exodus 3, which clearly lays the foundation and the meaning of his name. To this name, Yahweh, the covenant name of God. Now you can check it out, read, look To cross-references, do your own study. But I would suggest that because you have in each of these cases the statement by Yahweh, this is what it means. That whenever you read in your Bibles, Lord, with a large L small capital O R D, these three things ought to go through your mind. He is the God who has redeemed me out of bondage to call me into a relationship with himself, and not simply to gaze at him on a cloud all day, but to give to me a land as an inheritance. That there is something very precious about what He has given in the full order salvation that is summed up in these three characteristics of his salvation name. In fact, this name is the name from which we get Jesus. Jesus is then the New Testament, Yahweh, only there is another name. And we'll look at in a couple of weeks, begin to look at that, which is I think even more precisely the New Testament equipment. But anyway, we'll get to that later Let's look right now in terms of this part of Yahweh and three questions to ask of verse 8 in order to tell something about this inheritance, this land that he is giving to us. First of all, what is this land like? What is this land like? Well the land is described Very succinctly back in chapter 3 where he had first talked about his name, Yahweh. Back in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 8. God says, so I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians, to bring them up out of that land, and he says three things about it here. Notice, he says it's a good land. It's a spacious land and it's a land flowing with milk and honey. It's a good land. That word good is the same word used in Genesis chapter 1 to describe the Garden of Eden. It's a very good land. It's a delightful land. It's a vacation spot. It's the kind of spot that you'd want to go to to spend as much time as you possibly could to be there. It's a good land. In fact, Deuteronomy chapter 8 expands on this good land, and he says, Moses says there it's a land with streams and pools, springs of water flowing all over. It's a very delightful land that I'm bringing you to. Because it's a spacious land. Plenty of room for everybody. I'm going to be all crowded in. And in a day when uh acres get astronomical prices in Howard County and in the cities in our country, it's good news to know that God's got enough land. He's saying there's a spacious land, you're gonna be able to spread out. gonna be crowded in you'll have as much land as you possibly can want or desire or can take care of or can use. It's a spacious land. Then he says it's a land flowing with milk and honey. It's an abundant rich In this land there is no want, there is no lack. There's everything your possibly your heart could desire, flowing with milk and with honey and all kinds of good things. And again, Deuteronomy chapter 8. all the pomegranate trees and the fruit trees and all the rest of the things that are so rich and abundant, you say, now I look at that and I don't think of Palestine. We need to realize that Palestine, when God was describing it here back in Exodus 6, didn't look anything like it does today. Archaeologists to know that it was in fact a land that was uh abundantly forested, had rivers and streams and pools. And all that changed. Deforestation, a number of other things. You know, it wasn't like it was uh uh New England or something, but it was certainly different. It was a forested, it had wild animals, had lions living in it, a lot of other things. So you know that it was a very different kind of land. It was a rich land. And so this is the land that God is describing. Now what does that mean to us today? What does that mean for you and for me that God says to Israel, I'm going to give you this land? Well, it means something Hebrews 11 tells us that's very precious. Because the Bible tells us that for you and for me This land, Canaan, is a picture of the land that God is giving to you and to me. This land, which is the inheritance of Yahweh. Hebrews chapter 11. In verse 9 and 10, we read that this land was a picture of a land that they were still looking forward to. And that land, that city The Bible tells us in Hebrews eleven, nine, and ten, is a permanent home of whom the designer and the builder was God Himself. Now we have just amazing constructions and cities and plans of things that are built from the materials that God has made. But can you imagine what kind of a land, what kind of an infrastructure it would have, what kinds of cities, and what kind of a place it would look like? If there was unlimited resources, God Himself, with the imagination that has built Grand Canyon and Yosemite and all the things that you and I see and marvel at That this God Himself is going to design this land directly. He's going to build it. And he's going to build it with all the unlimited resources at its disposal. And it's going to be a permanent land. Nothing is ever going to destroy this land. That's what Hebrews 11 is telling us. It's a permanent land that is the inheritance of the Of God's people. That's the kind of land this is. What kind of God is it that has built this land? Let me remind you again that our God is the God of the richest of imaginations. A brief quote from Dale Millard's book, My Son, my brother. brother, my friend, may help us to understand this. He talks about God's imagination. And he says here, God could give have given us water. In some service serviceable prosaic form. But simple utility was not enough for him. He is Jesus the generous, pouring out upon us such an extravagant profusion of sensual beauty. Beauty in clouds and snow and mist and dew and icicles and rainbows and waterfalls and raindrops in brooks that trickle, in rivers that roll, and breakers that roar. Until overwhelmed, we almost forget that the iapinocent iridescent stuff will, by the way, quench our thirst and clean our hands and cool us when we're hot. Shall we forget fire and color and music and sex and beasts and foliage and good black earth? The same hand is recognized in all So we sit back and we join our fingertips in thoughtful meditation and speculate that God, if he doesn't particularly like beauty, perhaps he doesn't at least mind it. Indeed, he thought enough. He's the maker of voluptuous delights. We are the shrivel ascetics. Oh, let us never think that heaven and the land that God has made could ever disappoint us in the slightest in the imagination. Imagination of God who has built it and made it. Alright, think of that astounding poem by Anne Cousins. A 19 stanza poem called in Emmanuel's Land, based on the writings of Samuel Rutherford, in which he pictures heaven. And that poem begins. The sands of time are sinking. The dawn of heaven breaks. The summer morn I've sighed for, the spare sweet morn awakes. Dark, dark hath been the midnight. But day spring is at hand, and glory, glory dwells in Emmanuel's land. Oh, there the red rose of Sheridan unfolds its heartsome bloom, Fills the air of heaven with ravishing perfume Oh, to behold it blossom, while by its fragrant span, where glory, glory dwelleth. In Emmanuel's land The king there in his beauty without a veil is seen. It were a well-spent journey, though seven deaths lay between The Lamb, with his fair army, doth on Mount Zion stand, and glory, glory dwelleth in Emmanuel's land. O Christ, He is the fountain, the deep, sweet well of love. Streams on earth I've tasted more deep I'll drink above. There to an ocean fullness his mercy doth expand. And glory. Glory dwelleth. In Emmanuel's land. And on she goes to describe the riches of the glory of that land that Yahweh has said in Exodus 6. 8, I will give you this good land. This is my inheritance for you. Where is this land then? If we see what it is like, where is it then? That's the second question that you have in your own life. Where is this land? Moses is very extremely. Explicit about where this land is. He says, I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And he describes it, he locates it back in verse four of chapter six. He says, I also established my covenant to give them The land of Canaan, where they lived as aliens. He describes this further back in Exodus chapter 3. And so this is a real land. Now that's very important for you and for me to understand. It's not a It's a real hunk of of uh real estate called Palestine, Canaan back then, between the Mediterranean Sea and the River Jordan, about the size of New Jersey. A bit nicer than New Jersey, I Travel a lot in New Jersey. My wife's parents live in New Jersey. It's very nice spots in New Jersey. But uh the land that God is going to give us Well, I won't even describe it in comparison with New Jersey, lest somebody be offended. It's a beautiful land. But What does that mean for us? Is that what God's going to give to you and to me? He's going to recreate Palestine. He's going to get us all jammed in there somehow. The New Testament tells us no no no. Again, back in Hebrews chapter eleven, and we see where this land is. Hebrews chapter eleven, in verse sixteen Very crystal clear. The Bible tells us, beginning at verse 15, well take even a look at verse 13. He's talking about Abraham and Isaac, he's talking about Sarah, and he says, All these people were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised. They only saw them and welcomed them from a distance. They admitted that they were aliens and strangers. They're looking for this land, this particular piece of real estate that God called Palestine or Canaan. That's what they were looking for. However Hebrew says, don't mistake this as if that was the ultimate meaning of that verse, as if that were the ultimate fulfillment of the promise, for verse 15 says, if they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would not have, they would have had opportunity to return. But instead They were looking for a better country. Now it can't be any clearer in the next phrase. A heavenly one. They were looking for a heaven. Hebrews tells us. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. Jesus said in John 14, I'm going to prepare for you a city. And I'm going to come and I'm going to receive you to myself. You're going to dwell with me in that city. City described in the book of Revelation as the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven. Isaiah describes this in Isaiah chapter 60. He talks about that new Zion, the recreated Zion, in chapter 60 and 62, and then in chapter 65, just in case you missed the point, the first four chapters, Isaiah says, I'm talking about a new heavens and a new earth. Know all this which is going to be recreated in God's inestimable imagination and power. This is a place. Now it may be an entirely different dimension of reality. I'm not going to say it's located in a particular place. Part of reality. I think it may be a whole new dimension of reality. But the fact is that there is a place Called heaven, just as there was a place called Canaan that God brought his people to. And that's important so that you and I don't think of heaven as kind of an idealistic figment of our imagination. It is a real place that God is going to. take us to it exists and we will see it and we will feel it and we will smell it and we will enjoy it We'll walk up and down and fly or whatever else we'll do there, but we will live in it because it's a place. God has prepared for us. Now how do you obtain it? That's the third question, finally. How may we obtain this land. Well you notice again what God says in Exodus chapter 6 and verse 8. Very specific. He says they're all going to bring you to this land I'm going to give it to you. I'm going to give it to you as a possession. Now you notice this emphasis on God giving it. He emphasizes this again and again in the book of Deuteronomy, again and again and again. And you start at chapter 1 in verse 8, and you can just use your cross-references and go right on through the book. Again and again and again. God says, the land that I am giving you to possess, the land that I I am giving you to possess. Over and over, God says, You didn't earn this, you're not going to get it by your sweat of your brow. You're not going to do anything to to get it to obtain it by your own efforts. I am giving you this land. Just in case you miss that. God says in Deuteronomy chapter 9 verse 6, understand then that it's not because of your righteousness that the Lord Yahweh your God is giving you this good land to possess. 'Cause you're a stiff-necked people. Just in case you and I think, hey, hey, we got heaven, you know, we're pretty good. You know, we we're better than the other people who are secular humanists who don't have heaven. We have heaven That makes us better. That says you're as stiff-necked as the rest of them. I'm giving it to you out of my mercy. I am giving you this land from grace. Psalm 37. God describes this land. He goes again and again to a beautiful Psalm. Think of Psalm thirty-seven, always in terms of heaven. Because when you read that, God says again and again, you look around, you see the wicked, and they seem to have so much, and they're possessing all this and that. Seems like they've got everything in. Here you know you're looking and you're saying because of your principles and you won't compromise, and therefore you seem like so many times you're doing without God says that's okay. They're going to be cut off But because of your righteousness, because you are righteous, you will inherit the land. That land that God is giving for us to possess. So the righteous inherit the land. Matthew 5:5 says the meek will inherit the land. Now we usually hear that the meek will inherit the earth. But the idea is therefore that the meek will inherit the land. The land of God's promise. That's what Jesus is talking about in that beatomy. But what is that land? Well, in Romans chapter 4 What it is and how we possess it are the clearest in anywhere in Scripture in one single verse, Romans 4. 13. Because in Romans 4. 13, Paul says it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he He would be heir. What's heir? Heir is to have an inheritance. That's the whole point. He's going to get an inheritance. Now, what's his inheritance? that he's going to be heir of doesn't say the land, does it? What's it say? Heir of the world. The world. Romans chapter 8 tells us that there is this whole new creation that we're groaning to see And that's what we're straining for by the Spirit. Romans 4. 13 says, this is the promise. This is the inheritance. God's giving you a transformed world. New heavens and a new earth. That's the fulfillment of Exodus 6. 8. But through the righteousness, he says, it's not, you see, through law, not through what Abraham did that he got this, that he was heir of it. But through the righteousness that comes By failure, to return God. Heaven is so great you and I could never start it. What a mockery to think that you and I could ever do things, anything that would cause God to say, Well, you're good enough, I'll let you into heaven. You and I deserve nothing but his wrath. Deserve nothing but to be cast From his presence into a place that's more full of brimstone than beauty. God has given to us heaven Because of Jesus. So he says, remember that verse 14, if you try to live by the law, then you'll never receive a promise, because you can't mix promise and law. You promise something, you say, I'll give it to you, and then you say, if you do this, you just taken away the promise. Because you and I could never keep God's conditions. So he says there's only one whoever can kept the conditions in order to inherit this, and that's Jesus. Jesus kept the law perfectly and fulfilled every condition. To receive this land. So you and I come and we receive it by faith in Jesus. And if this morning you're resting in your trust and your faith in Jesus, then the land is yours. You and I can simply rest in the fact that we are heirs of the very best that God can design and build, of which the springs and the pools and the streams of Canaan at the height. Of his beauty were but the dimmest possible reflection. So you and I have a hope beyond any hope. And even our imaginations can begin to conceive. Now, what does that mean, folks? Let me draw it all together by three final, simple, practical applications. I believe that in this God intends that that Hope is able to carry you and me through any suffering or trial that this brief world could offer to us. Whatever disappointment that you have or are experiencing. Whatever loss of health and vitality, whatever loss of dreams, if those things have been given to Jesus, and you say I simply am locked into a situation In which what I have hoped for will never be fulfilled, and I've come to see them and look it square in the eye. Then the Bible says, don't keep looking there lest you become bitter Look rather at Exodus 6:8. I'm bringing you to a land, God says. I'm Yahweh. And I'm bringing you out of this bondage, and I'm bringing you into a land that your imagination hasn't begun to conceive of. I didn't just make water to clean you and to be able to drink. But just as you look at the various manifestations of beauty and water, think of the rich imagination of God who's given to you a new heavens. And a new earth that's directly Built by him with unlimited resources and imagination. God says, when you think about that, and you think that so soon are you going to enter into it, Johnny Erickson says, just a few more steps down the path and we'll go through What is it that you can't receive from your Savior's hand in this life? What is it that's too hard for you to put up with and to praise and to honor him with the glory of trust and joy in your hearts? Rest. Resting in that hope which He's given to you as Yahweh. So, brother and sister, don't go a day or a week Without meditating on heaven, for is your joy, the inheritance which is yours and mine, to receive from him. And secondly, I believe that this hope is intended to deliver us from the curse of materialism. You see, if you and I really believe that heaven's a place and that God has made it and it has so much more to offer that we could possibly. possibly imagine. And we really understand that. Then how can you and I stand in envy of what those who are without Christ have here? What is it that you and I can say, oh, but if only I had this, then I'd be happy, and I've got to put out some more effort, and I've got to set aside some of these priorities of the kingdom or of my family or any of these things that God has said in his word that this is what it means. To seek first my kingdom. Well, you know, maybe just a little less because I'd be so happy if I had that. If you and I really understand the land that He's giving to us. So you and I are free from that. Now that's easy to say, but it takes daily meditating on this for the reality of it to grip us. You know what every year we go to Cape Cod and let's get pre soon. We go up there and there's homes up there that just blow your mind, you know, sitting right there off the bay, and I look at that and I And you know you begin to think and you begin to move from appreciating and enjoying the beauty to coveting As soon as you begin to do that, joy and satisfaction is going out of your spirit. You begin to make designs and plans. Well maybe if only this and if we did this, and maybe if we planned and we did this, maybe we can get a little bit more of that. There's nothing wrong with the planning. But that orientation around the things of this world remove our taste of heaven. Colossians chapter three. Paul says, Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. For you've died, and your life's now hidden with Christ and God, and so when Christ, who is your wife, appears, then you will appear with him in glory. So think about those things. And it will free you, it will free me. But the curse and the shackles of materialism can never really satisfy. And then finally, I believe that this hope is intended to give us a deeper and greater longing for our Lord Jesus. Because when you think about What he is given in this inheritance, that he's called us to be his , you realize that the center of it all is to see Jesus, to be with you. Deuteronomy chapter 11 says that The blessing of the land is that God's eye is upon that land. It says day and night. It's never out of his sight. God is with that land. And the beauty of that land reflects him. When you and I think of heaven, we think of the fact that the beauty of that land reflects him. And it's him that we want to see, and it's him that we're going to enjoy, and it's him that we love. And we so we say, Lord Jesus, I'll come more quickly. But if Wednesday wouldn't be too soon. Even tomorrow, even this afternoon, so that you can take me out of all of this Be with you to enjoy that land. Roseanne Cousins puts it in that poem that I quoted from before, in Emmanuel's Land. She says, so Soon shall the cup of glory wash down earth's bitterest woes. Soon shall the desert briar break into Eden's rose. The curse shall change the blessing. The name on earth that's banned be great. Raven on the white stone in Emmanuel's Land. Oh I am my beloved And my beloved is mine. He brings a poor vile sinner into his house of wine. I stand upon his merit. I know no other stand. Not e'en where glory dwelleth in Emmanuel's land. The bride eyes not her garment, but her dear bridegroom's face. I will not gaze at glory, but on my King of grace, not at the crown he giveth, but on his pierced hand. The Lamb is all the glory of Emmanuel's land. They've summoned me before them. But there I may not come. My Lord says, come up hither. My Lord says, welcome home. My kingly king at his white throne, my presence doth command, where glory, glory dwelleth , in immaculate man. Are you headed there this morning? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how our hearts yearn and long for the fulfillment to see and to be. Emmanuel's land. To know that you who are Yahweh has said that I will bring you to this land. I have made it, I've designed it, I've constructed it. Lord Jesus, you've Taken two thousand years to prepare that place for us. What must it be like? Oh Lord. Give to us that hope and that longing and shed from us the shackles of materialism that we might look for Jesus to come. And to bring us to that land in Jesus' name. Amen.