It was just a little over a year ago that Kathy and I started praying about whether we should buy another house. We'd been seventeen years in the place where we had been living on Tamar Drive and We had I had received an inheritance just recently and there were a number of questions of whether we should fix up, we anticipated a number of expenses in the next few years Or whether we should uh find another place, what to do in terms of uh retirement and how to invest for that, what we should do. Lots of questions And as I thought about those kinds of questions, perhaps you've had those kinds of things, a large decision, do you do this? Do you do that? It brought me back to Psalm 23. Because in Psalm 23, the Lord tells us that He is a shepherd who leads us. And so during the last months, we prayed a number of times: Lord, you are our shepherd, lead us. As we look at this psalm, as we've been doing in this series these last weeks, we want to see, again, another facet of what it means that the Lord is our shepherd. It's an amazing thing we've seen that the Lord calls himself by this name Yahweh Rahi, the Lord our shepherd, that the one who is the infinite, eternal, creator of all the heavens and earth describes himself to his people as one who is a shepherd. That David, who was a shepherd, wrote this psalm because he understood something about the relationship of a shepherd to sheep. That David, when he wrote this, understood how dumb sheep are, how they need to be led. Have I reminded you enough times that sheep are dumb after the last service David Nace came back and he said, sheep are really dumb. He said, you know, sheep are so dumb that if a mother has twins, she forgets one of them. She just sort of casts it off, you know, and doesn't recognize it. One sheep, that's all you know, you that's all you can really concentrate on. I mean sheep are so dumb that sheep jokes make blonde jokes look sophisticated. I mean, you know. Sheep are dumb. But there is a very precious relationship between a shepherd and a sheep. The shepherd loves the sheep And so we have seen this amazing thing that God describes himself in his relationship to us as a shepherd. And David says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be in want. And then he describes seven pictures for us of how God provides and how he shall not be in want. The first that we looked at last week is that I shall not want of rest. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. And that has both the idea that he enables me. Because he frees me from fear, from friction, from pests, from hunger. I am fear from worry. He enables me to lie down and to rest. I think also that idea there, it's a causative in the Hebrew. He makes me, he causes me to lie down, means that sometimes he knows that we would need rest. And he makes us, he sets us aside, maybe illness or some other thing, to get our attention. He makes me at times to lie down and to give me rest. We saw he also then secondly provides refreshment. I shall not lack for refreshment. He is the one who leads me besides the quiet waters, the waters of himself. That I might be refreshed by the living waters of the Fountainhead Jesus and come to Him that I might have my own soul refreshed at times And know that I can draw upon that eternal and ever-present source of refreshment for my spirit. We saw thirdly that there shall be no want of restoration We describe the situation of a cast sheep that's fallen off balance and sheep are somewhat unstable, especially if they're fat and have a lot of wool and So a sheet can roll over and not be able to get back up again. His center of gravity just sort of locks him in there and his hooves are flailing uh in the air. And he is helpless, utterly helpless, until the shepherd comes to restore him, to set him upright in that frustrating, helpless situation. I shall not want for restoration when I'm helpless and frustrated. My shepherd shall come. And he will set me up again. He'll restore my soul. He will bring me to a place of stability. And then we come to this next matter of his provision. At the end of verse 3 , this matter of guidance. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. The question of knowing God's will A very important question for all of us and many decisions and choices and direction that we want to know in What is God's purpose for us? What is his will for us? How many Christians are asking that question constantly? But if I only knew what God's will was. And here we have a promise. In verse 3, he guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. I shall not want for his guidance. And so as we prayed about this matter of our house, we specifically, a number of times, Kathy and I would claim this verse: Lord, you are our shepherd to lead us in paths of righteousness. Help us now to do what is the right thing in the path of righteousness that you want to lead us. Help us direct us. And I thought about how, in our wedding, Kathy had chosen The only time I'd ever heard this song sung at a wedding, but she chose the song to be sung at our wedding, Shepherd like a Savior like a shepherd lead us. I don't know if any of you have ever heard that hymn, but it It's a precious hymn you don't hear very much anymore. Savior like a shepherd lead us, much we need thy tender care. In thy precious in thy uh what is it? What kind of pastors? Pleasant pastor, thank you. Yeah, it's been 27 years, you know. In thy pleasant pastor speed us, for thy use our souls prepare. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, thou hast bought us, thine we are. And so that's been a hope for us and a comfort that the Lord brought our lives together and like a shepherd, he leads us. And I believe that we see in this one little statement here, in this half a verse, three principles of guidance from Scripture. This isn't exhaustive, but there are three important principles here that we had to wrestle through, and I want to offer to you. As we consider God as our shepherd who leads us. First of all, notice that there's the need to move on. The need to move on. He guides me. He directs me. He leads me. He guides me is the blank there. And this is the problem of stagnation in the Christian life. Left to themselves, what does sheep do? First they you know, eat a little bit of this grass and then they move on to the next pasture and they'll eat a little more grass and just sort of wander aimlessly about and they need to be guided, but you know, at least they just sort of keep moving around. No. That's not what sheep do You know what sheep do? They stay in the same pasture, and they'll eat the grass, and when they finally eat in the grass, then they pull the roots up from the grass, and they finally will turn the pasture into an utter wilderness Because they're too stupid to move on to another pastor. Sheep are stupid. I mean, they'll just hang there. They're such conservative, timid creatures. That they would rather feed and overfeed and waste the pasture that they're in than to move on to some new pasture. And sometimes the Lord needs us to move us on. The problem of stagnation. We like the familiar. We're like sheep. We want the comfortable. We want what we know. You know the old adage of God's will, you can't direct a motionless ship. And that's certainly true of our lives. We need to be moving in our lives with the Lord Jesus in order to be directed. And so in this matter of the house, we had to take some steps. We had to Outline and think what are the pros and what are the cons, what are the different factors that are involved in here. The cost of fixing up and the effort of moving and what that's going to mean. how to evaluate our current neighborhood ministry, the potential the best we understood it of another possible place. All the different things we could think of that bore on our lifestyle and what this meant In order to see how God would direct and then take some steps to see how he might work in those steps. And in our own overall lives as Christians, we need to be taking steps. We need to move for the Lord to direct us. Woody Allen made a film a little while ago called Manhattan Murder Mysteries. It was about this problem, believe it or not. The problem of stagnation and the fear of change. It's about a middle-aged couple in a middle-aged marriage, and they're in a rut And the wife's solution for that is she wants some excitement and some adventure. And you see how that works out in the movie. But through the whole thing, you see constantly the tension between her and her husband Because he wants the familiar. He fears change. And so every time she's trying to stretch him out of his comfort zones and move him into another area, you know, Woody Allen's just always, you know, well what do you need to do this for? You know, and he's just trying to protect and hold and and pull himself in. And beautifully he portrays the tension between the husband and the wife, she who wants to stretch out into new areas, he who wants to protect and is fearful of change and wants only the familiar. That can be true of us as Christians, can't. We fear change. We know what we have. And even though we may not be altogether comfortable with it, in fact we may find that we've been grazing in the same pasture so long that we're turning our spiritual lives into a wilderness of stagnation. Nevertheless, we're afraid to move on. Now, how does the Lord move us on? Maybe He'll put someone into your life that you'd rather avoid. And you don't want to learn how to love that person. You'd rather avoid them and stay in the familiar, and he wants to move you on to learn how to love a difficult person. Or maybe there's some verse of scripture. And you look at that verse and you say, I uh you know I'm afraid to take that at face value, because if if I take that and I don't just rationalize, well that really can't mean that and all that You know, that's going to stretch me in my faith in an area that I'm very uncomfortable with. Or maybe it's a matter of convictions. You have convictions as a believer, but you don't want them to be known at the workplace or in some uncomfortable setting. Not only would it be embarrassing, but it may cost you something. And you're afraid to move on, to let that conviction Perhaps concerning as many agencies, government agencies are now finding pressure concerning what's called diversity Which is an approval of a homosexual lifestyle, an affirmation of certain things that we see in contradiction to Scripture. And do we speak up to those things or do we remain Within a comfort zone, a familiar pasture that gradually gets turned into a wilderness because we're afraid to move on Or maybe it's an area where the Lord wants to teach you how to give up your rights instead of defending them and protecting them, and it's risky. What's going to happen if you don't fight for your rights? It's moving on into another pasture for the shepherd to lead you. And as a church, I believe God wants to move us on. It's so easy for us to have a facility and to be comfortable and say the programs will function. But we believe that God is leading us into more of an emphasis and a commitment to making disciples. To a radical orientation, perhaps a restructuring of who we are and how we function as a body, that we will more effectively make disciples of the Lord Jesus. What does it mean to be his disciple? What's the New Testament mean? Not what does contemporary Christianity allow? And how to speak to that, how to be able for us as a body to grow, move on into new areas in this. Or perhaps as a body, as we think about this evening, the meeting that says that we've got a lot of opportunities in this base of operation. And yet there's a lot of need. Just be here in the middle hours as an adult and you'll find out some of the problems. In being able to make disciples, the teaching situations are very poor. And yet uh there's a lot of things even during the weekday. And so we've said, it seems that the Lord would move us on to even after just kind of taking a sigh of relief to say, we need to extend the facility we have here, to put a West Wing on there, and to be able to do more things. Are we ready to move on to that? It's a step of faith. The shepherd moves us into new pastors. And so I urge you, you'll hear a little bit more about that later, to come to the meeting at 630 this evening for us to see how God's moving us on and to see what steps of faith he wants us to take, because it's important that all of us have input on that. He wants to lead us, to move us on to new steps. But you see, the second principle there is that it's not just a matter enough to move on, but he guides me in paths of righteousness. In paths of righteousness. This is the problem of wrong choices. The problem of wrong choices. What are those paths of righteousness? The paths of righteousness, of course, are told we don't have to guess what those are. He leads me in paths of righteousness. Paths of righteousness are those ways that are directed by his word. Hebrews chapter 5 The author is speaking to a group of Christians there, and he says that by now, by this time you ought to be teachers. Rather, you need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God's word all over again. You need milk and not solid food, because anyone who lives on milk, still being an infant, isn't acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. And that righteousness is the following, the imitating of the life of the Lord Jesus as it's spelled out in Scripture. Now, how do you get that But solid food is for the mature who by constant use have trained themselves to distinguish good from evil. They read scripture and they say, this is a path of righteousness. Now I'm going to decide, am I going to take that path? Am I going to compromise? Am I going to move out from that? Going to rationalize, make excuses? This is the path of righteousness. You don't have to guess Most of God's will for you is already told to you and to me in his word. We don't have to guess about what that means. But now there's two ways that we speak of God's will. One is the revealed will of God, that's here Don't commit adultery, don't steal, do this, worship the Lord, give a tenth or a proportion of what he's provided for you, the rest of that. Those things are revealed. What about the other side of God's will, that which is not revealed? God did not say the harasses should move from Tamar Drive. What do we do? How do we understand his particular, unique, unrevealed will for us? Let me suggest to you a passage I find one of the most helpful in all of Scripture on that. It's Ephesians chapter 5. I don't have time to look at this in depth now, but I want to call your attention to the fact that if you look in Hebrews Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 to 17, you see an interweaving of these two facets of God's will, his revealed will and his unrevealed will. And what Ephesians 5 basically says is in the beginning it says, Imitate God. That's what Hebrews 5 is talking about. Imitate God, imitate that path of righteousness. He spells it out. Don't walk in darkness, do walk in the light, and give a couple of specifics about that. And then he says in verse 8 that as you're doing this, for you who are once darkness, but now are You are now light in the Lord, then live as children of light, for the fruit of light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, the paths of righteousness revealed in Scripture. Now then notice verse nine Excuse me, verse 10. And find out what pleases the Lord. Or in the in the Greek it it could be translated, finding out what is pleasing the Lord. In other words, as you and I look at what Scripture says, we Spend time in it, we say, Lord, this you told me to do. I don't know what you want me to do about my job, my career, my house, the rest of that, but I do know what you want me to do today in terms of honesty, integrity. being upfront with people and caring for them, loving. My neighbor is myself. What that means is you spell it out in your word. Okay, that I can do. As I do that, I learn what is pleasing to the Lord. I discern Hebrews 5, good from evil. My conscience is sensitized. I begin to learn more thoroughly. This is what the Lord likes. This is what pleases him. This is what's on his heart. You're finding out what's pleasing to the Lord. So you're training your mind. And those things that are unrevealed. Then he goes on back in them. Verses 11, 12, you know, back again. These are the things to avoid. These are the things to do. Then he comes up to verse 15. Be careful then. How you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity. There it is again. You see, in what it is, here's an opportunity. Can I step out in faith in this? Can I honor the Lord in this way? Or am I going to say, well maybe it's not convenient now. I'll do that some other time. Right now I've got to finish this project I'm doing. Making the most of every opportunity because the days are evil, the time is short. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. And that Lord's will there is that unrevealed, unique will that he has for you. As you lay out those principles, learning what's pleasing to him, making most of each opportunity. And so this is how he leads us in paths of righteousness. And that meant for us. And as we looked at this whole issue of the house, that there were certain principles we had to decide. Are we going to compromise on these or not? It's going to change our lifestyle? Are we going to get into burdensome debt? What are the certain principles that guide us? There's a lot of temptation in these kinds of things as we look at in our own culture. And so as we weighed those and we evaluated those and we tried to look to see what the Lord's will would be, what the principles were for living in the light of eternity And ministry and all the rest of this, then we had to examine what is the most difficult thing of all, and that is the attitude of my heart. What am I really living for? And that's the third thing that you see here. The need to move for the right reason. The need to move for the right reason. Now when I say move here, I'm not talking about the Harris's moving. I'm talking about the need to move on in our lives, moving in general in our walk with the Lord Jesus. You see what he says there? He guides me in paths of righteousness, and then there's a reason for his name's sake. For his name's sake, this is the problem of wrong priorities. The problem of wrong priorities. Why do I do what I do? Here's the hardest part, I believe, of knowing God's will. And that is, what is my motive? Why am I doing what I'm doing? Whose name is it that I want to exalt? Mine or his? Whose name do you want to exalt in your life? Now at this point, if you really begin to think about this as a Christian, you can go crazy. Because who of us can claim a hundred percent pure motives in everything that we do? You'd never do anything. There's a point where you have to say, Lord My the orientation of my life is committed to honoring you. And here is where I think we need to see one of the biggest problems in Christians. Finding and discovering God's will. And that is, for many of us as a Christian, I think we view God's will as there are maybe three or four or five options in this choice I have to make. One of those is God's will. The other two, three, and four, you know, they're all the ah buttons. And if I hit the right one , Then I will please God and I won't suffer. If I pick the wrong box, the wrong door, the wrong choice, Then God's going to be angry, and He's going to punish me, to correct me, because I've displeased him. I missed it. I blew it. I'm out of his will. Now let me suggest to you that that is entirely contrary to the notion of Psalm 23. Because in Psalm 23 you have a picture, not Which is, I believe, the the root of that view that we have of a human father who sternly is always looking to say, here's the thing you're to do, and so you better find the right one, because if you don't Then you're gonna know it. You displease dad. And our view of God is very often based on our view of our human fathers. We could never quite please them. There was always the sense that if we did the right thing, he'd be happy. We'd be okay. But if we did the wrong thing, we'd be out of his favor and we'd know it and he'd punish us and we would always be fearful. That we were not going to be pleasing him and therefore we were going to suffer for it. But this picture is of a shepherd. Who says, I know what your sheep, what you sheep are like. You wander off and we make wrong choices and we do this and we do that. But the orientation of our heart is constantly being brought back to, I want to glorify his name. He's leading me in paths of righteousness. And sometimes I hit him and sometimes I don't. And my motives are always a little bit distorted and polluted. But the fact is my life is existing, my whole life, not just this isolated incident. Lord, I really want to do your will here. But the orientation of my life is generally not legitimate. Jesus at the center. But I just, you know, I'm I'm fearing I'm going to make the wrong choice, so bless this choice. But it's out of context of all the paths of righteousness, of living for his name's sake, of rather loving that name, because we say your name is Shepherd. Your name is Yahweh, the eternal, sovereign, covenant God, who redeemed your people into a relationship with yourself with an inheritance for eternity. And I love that name, and I want to lift up that name. It really doesn't matter what happens in my life so much as honoring the name in my life. Now, Lord, in the context of that, I love you and I trust you. You will lead me in paths of righteousness. You see the different orientation? One of love rather than of fear. Savior, you're a shepherd to lead me and to guide me into these paths of righteousness for your name's sake. So what that meant, and what it means for you and for me, is that my benefits in his name, as you see there in the outline, are never ultimately in conflict. But I must always start with concern for his name. Sometimes we think, you know, do I want to do what I'm going to like or do I want to lift up his name? You see, and that's from the evil one. Because with God, those two things are always merged together, lifting up his name. Will in fact be the thing that will benefit me the most. But often it's a matter of trusting him to see that, to know that that's true And so what it meant for us was we said, okay, here's what we're going to do. We found a place that we both agreed on. That in itself was enough of a, you know, I mean, get all these different priorities, he'd say, hey, good plan, how about that? So we made a bid on this place. And they turned it down. They lowered the price significantly, but they said we said we're going to do it contingent on the sale of our house. They said, no, no, no, no. We gotta move And so we're, you know, we want that's it, no no contingency. You take the risk. We prayed about that. We said, well Lord, should we do that? We said, well That could give us in a pretty stressful situation. Then your whole life is wrapped around you got to sell this house, get that house, you know, and the whole thing, you know, bridge loans and all the rest of that. So we prayed about that. We said this is not gonna honor your name And so we did something that had to come through a matter of of consideration and prayer. We said, Lord, if you want us to have that place, then we pray that you will sell our place before they sell theirs. And so last weekend we simply put our place up on the market, put a sign out in front of the house, and the first person that walked through bought our house. for more than we thought we'd ever get for it. Then we put a bid on the other house, which was lower because now we didn't have any contingency, and they accepted it without even countering. Now I say that not because, you know, I know there's a real danger in telling you that, because for some of you you could say Well, how can he do that for you? You know, I got things I got to do too, and why I gotta come in that happening with me. You gotta be a preacher to get that stuff? No. Let me tell you, there's a lot of other areas in my life where I'm not seeing God do what I think I would like to see him do. I mean it's kinda like well selling a house that's easy but changing lives boy now there that's a biggie But i you know for us it was such an encouragement to our faith to see you know God could do this in one weekend and could do all this that we could never Conjure up. We could never do this on our own. Oh, you know, our friend Mori certainly was a big help in all this. But the fact is, God did a mighty work. Now, for you, you may not be seeing that. And that's why he brings us on to the next step. He says there's times when we walk through dark valleys. He leads us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. But even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Because you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Sometimes the path of righteousness leads down a dark ravine, a rocky gorge. In the east in Judea where they shepherded the sheep, there were a number of these valleys. And they had these fun names like the Valley of Robbers, the Valley of Graves, the Valleys of Wolves, the Valley of Death. Those were the kind of names they had. And David's saying, maybe it was a particular valley, but he's saying, even though I walk through that valley that symbolizes Whether it is my own death. Or the terror thinking of a neighbor who's got a son with a brain tumor. Or a loved one within my own family who has died, who is in the process of dying, even though I walk through that valley. Not a pleasant path Nevertheless, the fact is that you're still with me. I think it's very significant that in the Psalm to this point he says, He makes me lie down, he leads me, he restores me, he guides me. But when he goes to the valley of death, you know the he. Notice the he changes to you. You are with me. The psalm becomes intensely personal at this point. Because the sheep needs to know above all else That the shepherd is still with him. And so it may be that you're walking through a valley. And as you walk through that valley, what you need to realize is not simply that if God's with me, everything's going to work out. My house will sell on a weekend, or I'll get this or that, the job, the promotion, whatever it is that I seek. The fact is that the shepherd is with me, guiding me, directing me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake in the way that honors him. And his rod and his staff are my comfort. Now what does that mean? Your rod and your staff. The rod is the symbol of his protection. The rod of his protection, the shepherd's rod, was really a club. It was a small club that he carried, and a Near Eastern Shepherd was able to wield that club to throw it with deadly accuracy. In fact, Philip Keller tells of a story in his book, Shepherd looks at Psalm 23, of a shepherd that he was with one time that overturned a boulder, and there was a coiled cobra under that boulder. And he said, with lightning speed, before he could even see it, the club left his hand and killed the cobra, smashing its skull. The rod of the shepherd was something that he could throw at a lion or a bear And it had deadly force. The Bible speaks of the rod of Moses as a shepherd And do you remember when God said to Moses, Moses, what is that you have in your hand? He said, just, you know, it's my old shepherd's rod. He says, well, throw it down. Remember what happened to it? It became a snake. God said, pick that thing up again. Alright, he picks it up by the tail, a little ginger, and becomes a rod again. And that rod became the symbol of God's power against his enemies in Egypt. He hits the Nile River with that rod and it turns to blood. It's that same idea that God uses when Gideon, you remember we talked about before, the Lord was my peace, God comes down and the angel and he he has the Gideon makes the offering and he says, if this is really you that's going to deliver us. Show me. And God says, strike that offering with your rod. Gideon hits it with a rod, and it's consumed with fire as a symbol that God's going to protect and deliver his people. The rod is the symbol throughout Scripture. Do a study on that, and you'll see it's the symbol of His protection and power for His people. David saying, Here, your rod, the fact that I know that you have awesome power at your disposal. That comforts me. It's not that you can't take me out of this situation. In fact, Jesus, when he died for our sins, rose again, so that we know that even through the valley of death, Jesus will triumph. We will meet him, and we will have resurrected bodies and meet those who have gone on before us in the Lord because of his power. Amen. Even though we walk through, we don't end in the valley of the shadow of death. We walk through that valley because of the power of Jesus. But God is with us in his rod. comforts us. Also his staff comforts us. The staff is that thing you're familiar with. The shepherd's crook? That's the staff. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. The staff was not so much for protection as for guidance and we're back to that idea again. The shepherd would use that crook when the sheep were wandering off the path to guide them back on, kind of nudge them, you know, back onto the path. Sometimes the shepherd would walk with that staff simply resting beside the sheep to keep in contact, and sometimes he would use the kirk of that to gather the sheep to himself, to pull them over to him. So he could give it a hug to rub in some oil on some of the pests or to give them a rub uh to just make them feel good. That's how tender the relationship is between a shepherd and a sheep. He uses the crook. To draw the sheep to himself, to keep in contact with them, to guide them. Your rod and your staff, your staff that lets me know that we have a personal relationship. You're walking through this valley with me, and you're keeping in touch with me. What a comfort it is to know that the shepherd will never leave you. What's your situation this morning? Is it a need for wisdom and a choice? Is it a need to move on to new pastors? Is it a need to know that the shepherd is with you in a dark place? And to know that he will never leave you nor forsake you Jesus the Shepherd stands here this morning to meet you, to guide you into paths of righteousness for his name's sake. And to walk with you through every circumstance. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you who are our shepherd, we thank you that you will never leave us nor forsake us. And that your desire is to direct us into paths of righteousness for your name's sake. And Lord, we recognize that as sheep we wander. And how we thank you that we do not have to go crazy asking in every decision, is this your will? Am I going to miss it? Is this right or is this wrong? But rather That the whole orientation of our hearts would be, Lord, what is going to lift up your name? What's going to honor you? How can I know you more thoroughly and walk with you more closely and be more useful to you? And so, Lord, we pray that you'd continue to guide us and to direct us individually, as families, as a congregation as we move out into new areas of faith. And that for those, Lord, in our congregation that are walking through dark valleys, we pray that you would comfort them, that you are with them, that you will never leave them. And that the rod of your power is wielded in their behalf in the name of the risen Savior Jesus. That they will not remain in that valley, they will walk through that valley with you. And that the staff of your comfort, drawing them to yourself, maintaining that contact, to know that you will never leave them nor forsake them. Is a reality and not simply a dream. Lord, we represent here many different kinds of needs. And we pray, Lord, that you would show yourself in every way sufficient for those needs as we look to you. For Jesus' sake, for his name's sake, to be honored in our lives and in our midst. Amen.