Well back once again to the series on the names of gods. And that series we began about three years ago, almost three years ago. ago. Uh back in May of nineteen eighty nine. How many of you have begun attending Flaming Cross the period since you began that period? Okay, that's a good number of good proportion of them here, so we can get somebody want me to start it again. Well the second best thing is that you'll see on your bullet outline. On the back of it there is a summary sheet that puts on there the names that we've covered. The first eight names. So uh there they are and that gives you the name name and the the translation and the meaning and the primary scripture is uh if you are desperate to get the content there are thirty two messages on these eight names and uh they' are all in the office. So if you feel like uh you got thirty-two hours or what I guess you know less than an hour apiece uh you can pull those tapes out and you'll get the background. But we're gonna continue On this morning. And what we want to do now is to get into a new chapter of these names, because now we're going to begin to look at at some of the compound names that build on the name that we considered just before the last one. And that was probably the most definitive name of God of the The name Yahweh or the name that you think of often as Jehovah, which is translated to your Bible, capital L C Is the name which is God's covenant name. And it's the name that's defined in the book of Exodus And just to give you at least a a a little bit of review on that, that name is the name which means that God has sovereignly redeemed us from bondage into a So there's three ideas in that name First of all, that he sovereignly redeems us from bondage to sin. And second, that he redeems us into a relationship with himself And then thirdly, that he gives us a reward of an intelligence to look forward to. The three key ideas, therefore, are freedom, sonship, and heaven Those are the basic three ideas of that name. They're also the basic three ideas in the gospel, aren't they? And they have time references. If you look at this means you think of the fact that the idea of freedom from bondage is what God has done. That's the past. We are free From the bondage of our sin. We're experiencing more and more of that. We are currently, presently, his sons. We are in that relationship of friendship. whether a male or female in that relationship with him as father. And in the future we look forward to the inheritance of heaven. It will be enter into. And what we're going to do, you see, is to take that name, Yahweh, and we're going to see that God builds on that name a number of times in scripture. And we'll take a look Look, at least what I'm presently planning to do is at look at nine of those names. Nine compound names built on the basic covenant name Yahweh. And the first that we're going to look at is this name that we have here. this morning that we've already been hearing about, he's named Yahweh Jura. Now you may have heard of that as Jehovah Jira, some of you may know the scripture song Jehovah Jairah my provided, the Lord provided for me. Interesting thing about Hebrew is of all those J words we use, Hebrew has no J. So whatever we do to pronounce those, we know that it's not a You probably pronounce Europe. Jesus is not Jesus, it's Yeshua. And it's not Yah, it's not Jairah, it's Eura. And so uh Uh you've got to sort of adapt to that. If you think of his name as Jehovah Yahweh, it's really probably Yahweh Urah. That's the same name. And that name comes from Genesis chapter twenty-two and verse 14. We read there that Abraham called that place, the Lord will provide. That's Yahweh Yah And to this day it is said on the mountain of the Lord it will be provided. Now he calls the place Yahweh Ura And yet that place is where God reveals Himself in that that particular way. And so we think of this as a revelation of God. That's reason we're studying the names of God And so what we're thinking of this morning is how God revealed Himself as Yahweh Yahweh. First of all, then let's consider the circumcision That's the first place. It's been maybe thirty-five or forty years since God called Abraham into the land. And he saw him a promise at that time that he was going to give him the land and he was going to give him a sign And out of that sun , his line would come one with whom all the nations of the earth would be blessed Abraham waited for that promise, and for twenty-five years he waited in faith. And then finally, perhaps twenty-five years After that promise he was made, Abraham and Isaac were given a son. Isaac. The joy of their hearts. In fact, Isaac means last it. And now it's another perhaps ten, twelve, fifteen years since that time. Liz it back And Abraham looked back over the years of companionship he shared with Isaac. We've read together They hike together, they camp together, they fist together, play ball together. I don't know how they play ball together. I don't know when the first ball was invented. You ever think of that, you know? When was the first ball invented to play? I I don't know. But you know, they played whatever they played in those days together They shared experiences of humor and tears. Abraham 's whole heart is wrapped around Isaac, probably the center of his life You can't think and talk about very much without getting into Isaac. And it's at that time we come to Genesis 22, verse 1 We revealed that sometime later after the previous incident, God tested Abraham. Now, if you call Abraham, you're going to be tested Imagine that Abraham would have said, I've walked with God all these years. I've seen his faithfulness. I've seen that I can trust him. He's good to me. Let him test you. I love him. Then we go on. We read that he said to Abraham, he said to him, Abraham Abraham said, Here I am. Then God said , Abraham, take this on. Your only son, Isaac , Lastus, whom you love. You go to the region of Moriah sacrifice him there as a bird offering on one of the mountains I will tell you about. What must have gone on to Abraham's mind. You hear that word from God. Really, God, you're making a mistake. You don't really mean that. I can't believe believe that God would be saying to me what I'm healing. Not only is Isaac the joy of my heart, not only is he lasting in my life He's the son of the promise. How bad can you fulfill your promise if you take the son who is the promise? And God, you what needs to Take be my son, this precious human being, and sacrifice him as an animal to cut his throat and to burn his body on a sacrifice altar Like a lamb? Like a heathen beast? The details of the response that Abraham And made for God that night when he had it out with him on the slopes of the Asheba. We're not told, you notice. To notice the way that God gave that command. Notice the tenderness of verse 2. God says, take Your son. Your only son. This is the one your heart's wrapped around. The son that you love God doesn't minimize what the relationship is. I mean he says offerings for the bird offering. Can imagine the hours that followed of Abraham having it out with his God And Abraham saying, God, how could you be like that? I can't believe what I'm hearing. Surely, God, you you're making a mistake in what you're saying. God isn't like that. So many times I've had in my office people will sit down and we'll talk about the situation, the problem in their lives, and we'll look at scripture and we'll say, this I know it's hard to hear, but this is what God says to do. How many times I've had people say that I know the Bible says that, but I can't do it I simply will not do that. God couldn't ask that of me. I don't believe that a God of love would have him to do that. simply unable. But Abraham knew God too well for that reason. He 'd walked with God too long to simply say to God I can't. And so somehow in the agony of the hours ahead, Abraham came to the place Well he was able to say sincerely, God, you've commanded it. I don't know how I'll do it, but I'll do it When God speaks I again. Can you imagine what Howard Cowley would be like if the Churches of Jesus Christ were filled with people like Abraham. He said, no matter what the cost, no matter how impossible it When God speaks, we do what he says. Unquestioningly and unquestioningly You notice verse three because early the next morning Abraham got up Saddled his donkeys, took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac. When he had cut enough wood for the burnt offering, he set out to the place that God had told him about. You know He doesn't say a couple days later, well, God, you didn't say when I needed to sacrifice Isaac, you just said that I needed to do. I don't know about you, but I find in my own life that one of Satan's greatest points to get me to disobey is to get me to delay. my obedience. If Satan can just get me to put it off a little bit and say, well, I don't have to do it right now. Let me think about this. I don't want to do something rash. I need to think about this at prompting of the spirit to speak to someone and to give to to do something that his word says and and you sense that's what God would have you to do now. And I'm I'm not used to doing it. It's a step of face beyond where I've gone. If you can just get you and me to delay and think about a little bit more. You know, we're we're conservative You don't want to be rash. You don't want to do something foolish. Think about it. And more times than not, that delay will turn into disobedience. Probably my guess is that when Abraham finally settled in his heart, this is what I need to do. He also decided I need to do it now. I cannot put this off. Early the next morning. Delayed disobedience is simply a step. Delayed obedience is simply So Abraham gets a couple of servants and gets the wood, and off they go, and we read in verse 4 that it was a three The third day Abraham looked up and he saw the place that they were going in the distance. Can you imagine what those three days must have been like for Abraham Probably Isaac's cracking jokes, you know, along the way and he's talking about the things that they've done and can do and what they'll have as plans ahead and he Going on and on. As a young kid, he's just sort of frolicking around and having a good time. Every step of the way changed for the old man's heart. These are my last three days with my son. Sometimes it's probably was caught up in the laughing with laughter. And then there would be that stab of memory of what they were going to do. And then it comes to that place Notice what he says in verse five Same with the donkey, while I and the boy go over there. We will worship and then we will come back to you. Well why do you say we Was Abraham just covering? He hadn't told Isaac what he was going to do, he hadn't told anyone. Was he simply trying to cover and say that, well I'm not going to tell you, it's only going to be you But was there at that point something of that face that we're told about in Hebrews eleven that says that Abraham Believe that God should even raise Isaac from the dead, if necessary, to accomplish his purpose. And then Abraham perhaps believed somehow in a way I can't understand, we're coming I don't know. If you notice they go on then to Moriah. took the wood for the burnt offering and placed it on his son Isaac. He himself carried the fire and the knife. And as the two of them went on together Isaac spoke very innocent question. Father? Yes, my son. Uh the fire and the wood are here, but uh where's the lamb? For the burnt offering. God Himself will provide the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. Communication. Not Yahweh here, there it's Elohim. God. Did Abraham covering again? Was he just not wanting to reveal to Isaac what he had to do? Or was there in that obedient? So that bit of faith somehow God's gonna provide. For you and for me there's been times, aren't there, when that step of obedience you have So excruciating that all we can say is somehow God's gonna provide interest. I don't know how. All I know at this point is I've got Then they come in verse 9 to the place that God had told them. And Abraham built an altar and raised the wood on it Some point during this process, it must have dawned on Isaac. sacrifice. And Abraham reaches for his son, and we read that he bound his son Isaac and laid him. on the altar. And all of a sudden, the unthinkable his idol I'm disciplined. One of the things that I think of us as parents makes us so protective of our kids is the fact that they trust us so much, isn't it? When they're young, they're so helpless. And they're so implicitly trusting others. They'll put their lives in our hands. Because they know that we'll never hurt them. It never occurred to Isaac that he was in any danger to go with his dad up on Mount Moriah. Until his dad begins to tie him with cords, like we have seen him tie so many lands. And then his dad begins to bind him to the wood on the altar. What must have been in Isaac's mind to think, My dad is going to kill me And in Abraham's heart to think that my son who's trusted me, who's been laughing and cracking jokes all the way up, I'm going to take my son now And I'm going to bind him to the altar, and I'm going to cut his throat, and I'm going to burn his body on this wood. The scripture doesn't say anything about Isaac's Isn't that interesting? He submits. And Abraham comes to that point where God still hasn't intervened and verse ten says he reached out of hand and he took the knife to slay his son. And then all of a sudden, the angel of the Lord called out To him from heaven. Abraham. Abraham. Here I am. Do not lay a hand Now I know that you feel God Those you have not withheld from me your son, your only son. Isn't that interesting that God says there Now I know. I mean it's almost like God is saying, I was kind of wondering if you're going to pull this off, Abraham, but now I see you're just ready to plunge into my sin. So now I know you'd really go through with it. what God means? Somehow I don't think so. Remember at one point Jesus was looking at Korazan and Bethsaide And he said to them, You Corazon and Bessiaida, if the works that have been done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon and even Sodom, they would have repented long ago in fact Cloth and ashes. So God not only knows what our hearts are and what we do and think. God even knows what we would have done in other circumstances. He knows what Tyre and Sidon would have done if they had been in the position of Kharazin and Bose. Now that's our mission. So I don't think that God's saying, Well, I really didn't know if you had it in you, Abraham, and I'm glad to see that now you do He's saying, now it I know, in the sense that he's saying, Now it is revealed. You see, now Abraham knows, and Isaac knows, and you and I know, and Abraham In the process has been changed. He didn't just know something he didn't know. He's been transformed in the process of that testing. There's times when God is going to challenge you and me to something that we have That is perilously close to becoming an idol. You see, I think what Abraham was doing and what God was doing in Abraham Abraham's life was that he was saying that Isaac had moved from becoming the son of the promise to becoming the idol. Around which Abraham's life revolved. No longer was the giver first place, but now it was the gift And God had to intervene because Isaac had become between him and Abraham Is there something in your life this morning that's in danger of coming between you and Jesus Christ? Something that God has given you out of his goodness Something which in itself is a good thing. Nothing wrong with it. A possession. A car. A house, something that you've enjoyed. But now it's become an idol Become something that's between you and Jesus and you realize in your heart that it's not something you sit on lightly, that you could still have your joy and contentment if it were gone. But if it were gone, you'd be bitter toward God Perhaps as an experience or a hobby. And that hobby has come from the position it held in your place before to give you recreation so So that you'd be more effective in your service for the Lord Jesus. And now you work in order to enjoy the hobby. Other things fit around this activity Or maybe it's a relationship. The relationship with a husband or a wife. Or the longing to have a husband or a wife or even your children. Something in your life or someone without which you can't be content before God Your love for Jesus returned to bitterness. God may be speaking to you through Abraham this morning. Yahweh Ura. And saying, Do you trust me to provide for you? Am I enough? I want you to lay that thing on the altar. I want you to bring that thing to me now. And I want you to trust me, to not possess it, but to once again simply be a steward. to enjoy it. See, I believe that when Abraham finally came to that place up on Mount Lion , of seeing that he would sacrifice I Isaac. And then having Isaac returned to him, he was no longer in bondage to Isaac. He was now free. And there was a new freedom in his relationship with Isaac as well as with the Lord. And if there's something like that in your life this morning, the Lord doesn't want to take it from you As if he wants to steal from you something that gives you pleasure. He simply wants to release you from bondage to that in a person Having said that, look how God proves himself. Abraham looked up and there in the thicket he saw a ram caught By its horn. He went over and he took the ram and he sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called that place the Lord. Will provide Yahweh you. To this day it is said on the mountain of the Lord Will be provided. Can you imagine Abraham grabbing that ram and that which he a moment before felt that would take every ounce of his willpower to raise that knife and to slash the throat of Isaac, he now takes that Isa that that ram and he binds it to the altar so quick that the ram's head's spinning. And before that ram even knows what hit him, he takes that knife and he slashes his throat and the blood pours out and he has that ram caught as The sacrifice well. because now it's instead of his son. We think for a moment instead of what Abraham felt What must the Lord have tell us? Yahweh looked down and saw this ram tied to the sacrifice High to the altar and realize that one day he'd offer his son for you and for me. And there'd be no one to intervene. But as we looked at just recently, Jesus would prostrate himself, throw himself on the ground and get seminary And cry out, Father, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. I wonder if Jesus, when he cried out, everything is possible for you, thought of Abraham offering I Isaac and Abraham in his mind thinking, God, everything is possible for you. Lord, don't do this. Provide some other way. And seeing how God miraculously provided the ram , then Jesus realizes it's your sin and my sin is going to be forgiven. There is no other provision for him. And he must go for him. Jesus is that Interesting that verse fourteen says that God called that place Yahweh Yur. And that place indicates to us that God is a God of history. He reveals himself in a particular place. And then he goes on to say, and to this day it is said, On the mountain of the Lord, it will be provided. Now that mountain is very significant. God had Abraham travel three days to get to that place Because Moriah was the place where Jerusalem would be built. And that hill Was the hill where the temple would be constructed, where all the sacrifices would be made. And just a short distance From that hill outside the gate. It was another hill, the hill of the skull, called Gotha. It was on that hill But Jesus eighteen hundred years later would be sacrificed. Now isn't it interesting that if you think about the authority of scripture. That here we have something predicted eighteen hundred years before its occurrence on the particular place Concerning an absolutely unique event. It's there. On that mountain, it will be provided. There's something else interesting about that verse is that verb there, it will be provided. In the Hebrew, that's all one word. In the Hebrew there's no difference between it and he in a verb like that. And so you could also just as easily translate That verse. To this day it is said, On the mountain of the Lord, He will be provided. So that is where Jesus was provided for you and for me. And to sum up then briefly the three things that this means for you and for me, the meaning of the name for me. First of all that the Lord will provide there his son for me It's there that the sacrifice was made, the only possibility of sacrifice for your sins And for my sin. And if this morning you're not trusting in that sacrifice, you have no other sacrifice to trust. Yahweh Yira, the Lord will provide the sacrifice. And if you want to substitute any other sacrifice for Jesus Christ in your life, God will not receive it. Because you're spurning his offering. God knows what he's doing. He said Jesus is the only one eligible. He's the only one who kept the law and was eligible to be the sacrifice, the innocent Perfect Lamb. You need to trust Him if you're going to stand before God without His condemnation. On your head. But if you stand in Jesus Christ this morning, the assurance that you have is that God has provided Jesus. For your sins. Amen. He's provided Jesus once for all. And with that, the meaning is That He will provide for you all that you need to accomplish His perfect will, His perfect purpose in your life That's the second thing. All that I need to accomplish his perfect purpose in my life. Romans 8:32. God will freely give all things necessary. He's already given his son. Will he not with him freely give you all things? But the all things that he gives to you are not the things necessarily simply to make you comfortable because God's more interesting interested in your conformableness to Jesus than in your comfortableness in this world. But whatever you need and I need To be more like Jesus and to know his contentment and his joy, God says, I've provided it. It's part of Jesus. Second Peter 1 3 He says he has given us all things, he has provided all things that you need for life and for Godness. There is nothing that you need unstable and I may have to move and I have to do this and that and I I'm really not sure that God is going to take care of that. We're full of fears and worries, aren't you We all have them. Sort of little niggling worries and fears that rob us of our peace. The third thing to see in this that God is going to bless us Provide every material need that I have in the course of my life. Now you see the problem is we tend to reverse the order of these things, and that's why we lose our joy. We think the really tangible biggies are the things that I need this week and next week and how's God going to get me through this and how He's going to provide for that, particularly in the material And oh yes, I can believe that he can provide some of what I need to be like Jesus, and some of it I'm not so sure. And oh yes Well of course I believe he's provided Jesus for me to go to heaven. Well, you know, I mean that's what the gospel is. Sure, I believe that. You see how we reverse what God says? God says The really impossible thing was that I provided Jesus instead of you. See that's what verse 13 says. Instead of his son. I provided my son instead of you. That's what's impossible. That I'd be able to do it and willing to do it for the likes of you and me And it was perfectly accomplished. Now he says, along with that, of course, I'm going to give you everything you need to become like my son because that's part of the salvation. And oh, yes, by the way, all the things that you need day by day And if you and I can see Yahweh Yiri in that context God has provided all the impossible. Jesus has risen. He's provided all that. Now of course with that, He'll provide for me everything I need. Day by day this week. So whatever it is that God's testing you in this morning, let me tell you, Jesus Christ stands here before you to tell you, I will Provide for your needs. The question for you and me is where is he testing us tonight? And how are we going to respond? That's right. Lord our God, we want to bring before you our Isaacs. Those things that we love and we're afraid you'll take away, or those things we wish we had and we're afraid you'll never give. And we say so goodly, the Lord will provide. But in our hearts there are those doubts and those fears And Lord, for some of us this morning you're calling us to lay on the altar that which threatens to come between you and us. We want to be like a Abraham, Lord, we want to be free from the bondage of those things which grip us. Give to us the victory now, we pray Hear us as we offer those things up to you.