We are continuing this time, this morning, we are bringing to a conclusion our meditations on Psalm 23. And we are coming to consider uh the end of what it means that God is our shepherd, Yahweh Roe. Consider again those words that you've just heard sung, words that are among the most familiar and precious of any in the scriptures. The Lord is my shepherd, Yahweh Ra'i, and I shall not be in want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me through paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yes, and even though I would walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil For you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over. Surely. Goodness and love. Shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Amazing how just hearing those words can bring peace. Not because simply it's good poetry But for the Christian, because it's true, because the eternal God, who existed before anything else, who existed from eternity, has revealed himself to you and to me as a shepherd. He's a shepherd for his people. And that's a precious word, shepherd. But we see that it's also here a very personal word. He is my shepherd. Not all of you can say that. I imagine in a group this size that there's more than one of you here who can look at this psalm and say that's pretty, that's beautiful, that's nice. But you can't say my shepherd. For you can only say my shepherd when the Lord Jesus Christ is that great shepherd of the sheep who has come. To become a lamb, because all we like sheep have gone astray, and to become that lamb to take upon himself your sin and my sin. It's only when we've come to see that we as those sheep who have gone astray need the shepherd to come to rescue us, to forgive us our sin. And to follow him, that we can call him my shepherd. And so I long that each one of us here this morning could be able to say, My shepherd. You see how the implications of that unfold in the Psalm, because the psalmist then says, as we've looked in the past those three weeks in February, How the psalmist says, I shall not be in want, and he spells out seven ways that we he would not be in want And the one who changes not, who is a shepherd to David, is the same shepherd today for you and for me. And we shall not be in one in the same way that David said, if we know him as our shepherd. And so we saw, as we looked in February, first of all, he 's saying that I shall not be in want of rest. He makes me to lie down in green pastures, and we saw how sheep do not lie down in green pastures unless they are free from fears and friction from other sheep and pests and hunger. The shepherd takes away the fears, and sometimes he enables us who want to stop and lie down. In peace and rest. And other times he causes us against our will to lie down and to be still and to know his rest. He makes me, he enables me. To lie down. We see that David saying, Here, I shall not be in want of refreshment He's the shepherd who gathers from the rushing streams that quiet pool of clear water for us to drink deeply the thirst of our souls from him, that fountainhead of living waters. He's the one who supplies that thirst quenching draught of all the thirst of what you and I so desire. For this Psalm deals not simply with the felt needs, the things that are on the top of our consciousness, but it deals with those deep needs of our hearts and His provision to satisfy our thirst. Not only that, but thirdly, the psalmist has reminded us that he restores our soul. And we saw the picture of the cast sheep, you remember Sheep that have kind of a not only a little low IQ, but they're a little unstable in their center of gravity and sometimes they roll over. When they roll over, they can't get back up again, and they're flailing with their hooves in the air and bleeding helplessly drawing any wolf that happens to be hungry within a square mile radius. And there they are, just absolutely frustrated and helpless. And the shepherd comes and he restores the cast sheep. David says he takes me when I'm in my most helpless, frustrated situation. He sets me back up again. He restores my soul. Besides that he says, I shall not be in want of any guidance. For the shepherd moves us on. Sheep, remember, would just Graze the same pasture into wilderness if they are allowed to go by themselves, but he the shepherd moves me on. He guides me, he directs me. On into new areas of growth and stretching of my faith, into paths of righteousness, those paths of his choosing As I fill my mind with his word, he's the one who gives me a new value system, new priorities, paths of righteousness to choose. Those paths which are for his name's sake. The sheep reflect the shepherd, healthy, well-fed, contented sheep. Bring honor to the shepherd who takes care of them. You and I must always remember that in this matter of guidance, we exist for the shepherd, not the shepherd for us. We're his sheep, in order that we might bring honor to his name. And so he leads us in those paths for his namesake, that he will get the honor through our lives as contented, happy, well-fed sheep. Even when those paths guide us into deep, dark valleys, even a valley called the Valley of Death. And we saw that fifthly he provides his presence and his protection in those situations. In the times when I'm down in that deep dark valley , Where it doesn't make sense to me what's going on. I remember back in the early 70s working with a fellow who had a daughter. She was 15 years old. She had Hodgkin's disease. She was in the fourth stage of it, which was almost always fatal at that time. And we prayed. They did what they could. And I remember going through those deep, dark valleys with him. He's a close friend at that time. And as we prayed and cast ourselves on the Lord, we saw that God was beginning to heal her, and we saw that flourish, and she got through it, the cancer went into remission. And she got married because of the treatments. She wasn't able to have children, but adopted a couple of children. And God answered, and we rejoiced together. That he had done this marvelous, wonderful thing that seemed near near miraculous. Just this week I got a phone call from a friend who has kept in touch with them. They're we're no longer near each other. This friend called to tell me that their daughter, Lisa, had died this weekend in reaction to medication for a flu. Why does God take a person through Hodgkin's disease and all the terrible things of that and brings her to the place where she survives it and we say God has answered and then years later Here he is still burying his daughter, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Just this week yesterday. Last week a friend or neighbor across the street who has been battling cancer for the last couple of years said he had a recurrence. But he said they have a new drug and he said, um, boy, they're gonna get it this time. He went back in one Monday. It was supposed to be outpatient treatment. No problem. He hasn't come out. His brother came over yesterday to tell me he's dying. They say he's not going to live to Easter. And though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, remember how the psalmist changes at that point the he to you. You are with me. I don't have the answers to the mysteries of why. I don't understand why God heals Lisa in the early 70s and then takes her in 1995, a mother in her late 30s with two children. I don't know why God takes my neighbor across the street and others continue to live. I don't understand the reasons. I don't understand all of the whys and the wherefores, but the psalmist says the fact is, you are with me. It's your presence and your protection. And your rod is that symbol of your protection. It's that club that the shepherd uses to drive away the enemies. It's that club that he can wield with deadly accuracy against a wolf or a bear. It's that rod that was the rod of Moses That God made the symbol of his power against the Egyptians. That rod with which he smote the red which he smote the Nile River and it turned to blood. It was that rod that he smote the Red Sea and God um smote the uh rock and God gave water out of the rock. It's that rod that was the symbol of his power and of his care for his people. But there was also the staff. You remember the staff was the symbol of his presence. It was that staff, the shepherd's crook, that the shepherd used to bring the sheep to himself, sometimes to walk alongside them, just touching them with that staff. In order to keep contact, to know, I am with you. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you're with me And I don't have the answers, but I know that you're with me, and I know that anything that I have suffered, Jesus has understood infinitely more because he went to the cross. But he doesn't just simply leave us in a place of saying, I can get through it. I can endure this. But in the last two points of provision, we see joy and hope. That's what I want to focus on this morning. Notice in the last two cases, he says, You have given to me not only the awareness of your presence and of your protection, but you provide for me joy in that situation. Now you notice that this joy, verse 5, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. What's that picturing? Well, first of all, notice that it's a realistic picture. Because he says, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. This is not saying that life is a peaceful pasture just frolicking around with a shepherd. We see the enemies in this picture. There is the acknowledgement that we live in a world full of enemies. One of the scariest things about our world today is that those enemies seem arbitrary in many cases and totally anonymous. You take the case of Colin Ferguson, just sentenced this week, I understand, at 200 years in prison. Fellow who on the New York subway Uh pulled his gun and shot six people dead, wounding another nineteen people. And in an unusual gesture, the judge this week allowed the survivors of that families of the dead and those who were wounded to confront Ferguson before the sentencing. And what a heart-wrenching time if you saw any of the pictures or read the things that were going on, a woman Reading the letter from her 12-year-old daughter whose father had been killed, saying how she still wants to tell him what happened in her day. But her dad's gone. And others describing the heartbreak of sisters, husbands, and fathers who were lost or wounded. An enemy? For what purpose? What reason? Or the poison gas in the Tokyo subway? uh not the same line we had ridden, but in the same station back last fall. And there arbitrarily it seems, some passengers on a train. Some of them killed, thousands of them injured through poison gas. An enemy, but an enemy without a face. This year, this week we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the GIs liberating the concentration camps in Europe at the end of World War II. Hardened soldiers who went into these concentration camps and became sick to see what terrible, unthinkable things that human beings were able to do to one another. Enemies. I remember myself a number of years ago being attacked on the road at one o'clock in the morning. Coming back home from a trip. And um I still remember as the guys got out of the car and they came to my car to get me um after they had driven me off the road thinking That's an enemy who wants to do me harm, perhaps to kill me. And how God at that time uh wondrously delivered me out of that situation. Some of you have heard that. For anybody that doesn't know you, ask me afterwards, I'll tell you the story of how God did that. But the horror of seeing someone to think that person wants to destroy me, wants to hurt me. And our enemies aren't always anonymous. We have enemies in our lives, people that we know that want to hurt us, that think evil of us, that want to make our lives more difficult. That want to punish us, that want to bring us, do us harm. Sometimes because we're Christians. Behind that, there is that whole area, the spiritual powers, the demonic influences, the enemies of this world against which we battle. A fellow did a survey recently. He found out that surveying Christians, he said that um forty-seven percent of those that he had surveyed. Had felt at one point or another a spiritual evil presence in the room where they were. That's nearly half Christians. Say that they have felt at some point an evil presence non-physical in the room where they are I asked the first I didn't plan to do this before. I asked the first group about that and had a number of hands. How many here have ever experienced an evil a sense of an evil presence that you couldn't see in a room that you felt was a very personal presence? Just put your hand on the same A number of you too. I've had that experience. It was a uh at that time was a terrifying experience, although God used it for great good. I'll tell you, you go through an experience like that, you realize how inadequate you are, and how it casts you on the Lord to cleave to Him like you hadn't before. Enemies. Another person asked a group of people, he does seminars, and he asked from time to time, how many of you have ever been awakened at 3 o'clock in the morning? By some terrifying sense of evil or something that just startled you into wakefulness. He said, typically about a third of the people will say that that has been their experience. Evil. Enemies. But what does he say? Is our experience in that. Notice what he says: that there is a rejoicing in pleasure in this situation. Because he points out the provision. Not only the enemies, but look at the provision. Three things that he does in the midst of the battle. First of all, he says, My table is full. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. Now the Hebrew word for table here is a leather skin that would be laid out on the ground. And you would simply, you know, kind of like a picnic, you know, you'd lay it out on the ground and put the the food on it, and that was called a table. The table referred to the provision, referred to what you had there And so at this point you see this image of a sheep is becoming a little more human. Now you've got a kind of a mixed metaphor. And what David is saying is, here in the midst of all this, my enemies, the picture I I get here is like uh a campfire where you have a circle of wolves around, you know, and and the fire keeps the wolves at bay. But here Here in the midst of the enemies that are all ringed around, gnashing their teeth, is the sheep with his shepherd. And I'm sitting there at this table, and the shepherd there has his rod and he's got his staff, and those enemies know they can't come to disturb this fellowship. And now it is just me and Jesus And I'm looking in his eyes, and I'm knowing his protection, and I'm knowing his presence, and there's a sense of peace in the presence of the enemies, and I'm feeding with him, and nothing can disturb it. Nothing. He set the table right there in the presence of the enemy. As it were, an anticipation of the victory feast of the shepherd in that last day. Not only is there this feast that I'm having with him, but he says, He's anointing my head with oil. Now that that's a very precious picture because you see, in the Old Testament, oil is always the symbol of pleasure. of joy. For instance in Psalm 104, when the psalmist is talking about all the good things God provides, he says in verse 14, He makes the grass to grow for the cattle, plants for man to cultivate, bringing forth food from the earth. wine that gladdens the heart of man, and oil to make his face shine, and bread that sustains his heart. So the oil is part of that joyful experience in a hot desert In that dry area they would put on oil and the oil felt good in the heat, kind of like suntan lotion, you know, I didn't have it then, but it was something that just soothed you and it felt good Ecclesiastes describes the same kind of thing in chapter nine, where he says, Go eat your food with gladness, drink your wine with a joyful heart, for it is now God It is now that God favors what you do. Always be clothed in white and always anoint your head with oil. Enjoy life with your wife whom you love. Picture of joy and pleasure. kind of a sensuous picture. And oil is a part of that picture. In fact, uh when uh when Joab wants to uh get David to bring Absalom back home. He tries to have a woman act out a parable and she's to come to David as if she's in mourning and sorrowing. And he specifies to her in 2 Samuel 14, 2, don't put on any oil. Now the NIV says cosmetic lotions, but it's the same word in Psalm 23. Don't put on any oil. I don't want anything that's going to show joy, you see. And that's the idea. Oil is a picture of joy. And here we have him saying, you anoint my head with oil. I'm the honored guest at an Eastern feast. If the host came and spread a table before you and you were the honored guest at that feast, the first thing he'd do when you sat down was he would anoint your head with oil. And what he was basically saying is we're going to have a great time. And I want you to feel in this oil that's coming on you that you're going to have joy at this feast. You're my honored guest. Come on and delight in it with me. And so you see the picture of what he's presenting here. But not only does he anoint my head with oil, he says, my cup's overflowing. I mean, there's not just a little bit you have anymore, you know, boy, this stuff's really good, but you know, it's overflowing. It's spilling out the cup. And that's probably referring to the cup of blessing in the Passover. You see that that cup which was the cup of thanksgiving and joy in the Passover The wine that was the picture of joy and delight of God's deliverance of his people. And so the picture here, right in the midst of this battle, in the midst of the enemies, is that I'm sitting here at this table with a shepherd. And my table is full, and my head's anointed with the oil running down, and feeling that good delight of that, and my cups overflowing. Then you come into the New Testament. And what does Jesus do? The night before he's crucified, he calls his disciples and he says, I've desire to eat this feast with you. And he spreads out a table. And on that table, a table which is full of the Passover ingredients, he then takes the cup. The cup of blessing. He says, This is my body, this bread that's part of the feast. He holds the cup and he says, This cup is my blood. And before he's delivered that to them, what's he done? He doesn't simply anoint their head with oil. He washes their feet, as we saw last week. And so you see Jesus coming even beyond the shepherd. And I think there's a kind of an idea here that from the tip of my head to the soles of my feet at this feast I am loved. Jesus comes and he serves me. And so you come in this feast before the enemy. And Jesus says, the enemy can't touch you, because I'm giving myself to you in this feast. The enemy can never destroy you. You can rejoice. You can be at peace. Because I've taken all of his strokes. Anything he could do to attack or destroy, he's done to me. And I bore it in your place. He sets a table before me. He anoints my head. And that anointing we see as we come to the book of Acts in chapter 2 is that anointing which speaks of the Holy Spirit poured out upon us as oil in his power and his presence. To give joy. The fruit of the Spirit is joy and peace. The cup is the cup, not of God's wrath. We'll look at that more in detail next week as we look at the cup of Gethsemane and understand what that cup is and why Jesus was so terror-struck as he saw that cup. To know that He has given to us the cup of salvation. That cup described in Psalm 116 of God's salvation for you and for me. And the joy that comes from it. But he doesn't end there. He goes on in that one final last seventh provision where he says, You've given to me hope. It doesn't even stop here, but rather in the end, there are two parts in verse 6 Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life. That's referring to this life. Goodness and love all through this life. Someone has called goodness and love, the Lord's two sheep dogs, to follow his sheep. This sums up what verses one to five have been saying in particular. And they say it as an all-encompassing statement about our lives. Don't miss that one little word there. All. You see it? Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, not just those days when I'm lying down in green pastures, when I'm having my thirst Totally quenched with the life stream of Jesus in a peaceful situation when he's restoring my soul and I can feel the restoration. But also in those times when I'm walking through the valley of the shadow of death, the death of someone who's close to me that I love, the death, impending death, perhaps my own body. All the days of my life, goodness and covenant love shall follow me. Then he finishes up by saying that that's nothing compared to the hope of that day when the shepherd returns. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I will be dwelling with him in heaven forever. One day you and I will be in the shepherd's home. You'll be in his house. What will that be like? What will his house be like? Him who folded up the mountains to make the peaks as we see, who created the lakes and the streams and the rivers, who created music and art. Who made ice cream and chocolate? What will it be like for him to have us in our house and to be able to say, here, come and live with me in the epitome of my imagination and creation? Forever and ever and ever. Remember the stories I've told you in the past of Richard Baxter. A 17th-century Puritan preacher who was described as a man who lived through a very, very difficult time , He lived through the persecutions that were so heavy upon those preachers of the gospel at that time. In fact, when he was 70 years old, he was sentenced to 18 months in prison. Baxter shouldn't have lived to 70 years of age. He had tuberculosis when he was in his early twenties. They threw him in prison. They took everything that he had. Lost all of his goods, lost his home, lost all his possessions. Survived the tuberculosis, but he had a cough the rest of his life. You know, he had this cough, nagging cough. This guy had a cough for over fifty years. Not only did he have a cough, he had frequent nosebleeds, migraine headaches, digestive ailments, gallstones, kidney stones He was described by one person as a virtual museum of diseases. He said that for over fifty years he seldom experienced one hour free of pain. Was he a morose fellow? Somebody wouldn't want to be around? Richard Baxter exuded such joy that as pastor of that little town of Kidderminster of two thousand people He led almost every one of them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and he didn't just get decisions, he discipled them. In fact, he discipled them so effectively that a hundred years later people said they could still trace the effect of Baxter's lives on those who had reproduced disciples after them, generation after generation. What enabled a guy like that to go on? What enabled him? I mean can you imagine going to Baxter and saying, boy, you know, I got a rough life. Boy, I'll tell you, you know, you don't know. You don't know how bad I, you know, all you'd have to do is look at you, cough a couple times, you know you you'd be reduced to silence. Somebody complained to him once and they said, Well, I got it rough and you know, how come you're so joyful? You know, what gives you all this? I know what your life's like. He ran him back. He said, You want more light and heat, my friend? Then spend more time in the sunshine. Baxter made it a practice of spending a half hour every day meditating on heaven. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. What a precious statement that was to him. And he would think about that and he would meditate. In fact, the guy wrote a book on it, The Saints Everlasting Rest. Still a classic. Because he said, In this life, following the shepherd, his goodness and his love, follow me all the days of my life. But my hope Is that that day when the shepherd comes back, I will dwell in his house forever This morning, what need is there in your life that the shepherd hasn't met? What is it that you say that you're lacking? What is it that you've been complaining about and feeling down and self-pity about this week, and you say, but where is God in all this? What provision has the shepherd been unfaithful to you to me? Can you say he is your shepherd? My shepherd, and unless you can say he's my shepherd, he won't be meeting those needs. For he meets the needs only of his sheep. Are you sure of that? If you're not, I invite you to put on a little gray slip before it's turned in with the offering. I'd like to make sure he's my shepherd, something like that, so that we can get back to you to talk about that. When you look at verse 5 and you see the conflict, the spiritual battle that you're in , get that taste of the table, your head anointed with joy. To be able to know that your cup's overflowing, the cup of salvation of Jesus that transcends all the circumstances Do you need to spend some more time with the shepherd at that table alone, morning by morning, in his word And how's your hope? You looking forward to that day when the shepherd comes back? And you and I We'll see him and know that we will dwell with him in his house personally Forever. Do you have that sense, Christian, that this place is not home? No matter how long the road, no matter how rough it is, we're going home. That we're headed home. Amen? We're headed home. We're going home to be with the shepherd. We're going home to dwell in his house forever. We're going home to know his goodness. We're going home out of the fold, into the pen, into the mansion, to that place where the shepherd himself will be our delight. We're going home. It was over a hundred years ago that Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote, It seems on one beautiful May morning, uh May uh April morning like uh we have here in Maryland. These words that are still appropriate to thee. Still, still with thee when purple morning breaketh. When the bird waketh and the shadows flee, fairer than morning, lovelier than the daylight, dawns the sweet consciousness. I am with thee. Alone with thee amid the mystic shadows, the solemn hush of nature newly born. Alone with thee in breathless adoration, in the calm dew and freshness of the morn When sinks the soul subdued by toil to slumber, its closing eyes look up to thee in prayer, sweet the repose beneath thy wings or shading, but sweeter still to wake and find thee there. So shall it be at last, in that bright morning, when the soul waketh and life's shadows flee. Oh, in that hour, fairer than daylight dawning, shall rise the glorious thought: I am with thee. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how we look forward to that morning. That time when we as sheep who wander and continue to need to be brought back, rescued. Shall see Lord Jesus face to face, and we will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Oh Lord Jesus, hear us now as we bring to you in the quiet of our hearts those needs That we feel you're speaking to us about now, Lord Jesus, that you want to meet in our lives.