It's a few months since Moses has first revealed the meaning of his holy name to Israel as they were struggling in bondage under the Egyptians. Do you remember that God had come to Moses in the burning bush, first of all? And he had revealed to him how he, the holy God, was Yahweh, the I am, the eternal I am, self-sufficient, depending on the on no one or no thing or anything that he is or does. So he was saying, you can count on me. And upon that foundation of his sovereign being, total independence, God constructed three pillars of meaning that we saw in Exodus chapter 6, and you see in that little house there that's been built on your bulletin outline for some weeks now. You see on the left side the first pillar that God built of his meaning, his sovereign what? He's sovereign Redeemer. Let's let's see how many remember that. It's a little participation here. Come on, let's loosen up summertime, you know? He's the sovereign redeemer. Good. I will free you from bondage. Um get you awake by the third one. Sovereign Redeemer, I will free you from bondage. Bondage. So as God had given that picture to Israel, so he speaks to you and to me. That he is the one, Yahweh, who frees you from the guilt, from the slavery of your sin, from the happiness. Of your sin. In Jesus, you are forgiven and you are free because that is the essence of his name. Secondly, he establishes a sovereign relationship. Good. I will be your God and you my people. It's a sovereign relationship. It's not an impersonal redemption. But God has come to say He wants to share your life with you. God wants for you to talk with him and to walk with him day by day. He's interested in what interests you, your joys and your sorrows. And he says, I've called you into a relationship. relationship with myself. I want you to share your life with me. It's a sovereign relationship. And thirdly, he has sovereignly provided what? Heritage, not a third R but an I. an inheritance, a sovereign inheritance. I will give you the land. Oh that's the other way. I will give you the land, God has said. So up above that we see he redeems me, Jesus Who is the fulfillment of Yahweh redeems me from bondage of law and sin. The Father adopts me as his own son, and Jesus has what? Jesus has I don't remember that one, huh? Jesus has given me heaven. Yeah, I can get that top a little better. Jesus has given me heaven. That's the fulfillment of that. The God of water and use And birds and flowers and mountains and seas has created a new heavens and a new earth that it's unfolding and Jesus has said it's it's in construction, it's ready to be revealed. God is going to transform all of reality. To be a world and new heavens and a new earth, in which his full imagination will be displayed. Glory to you and to me in a place that will never decay, will never be spoiled by sin. That's the inheritance that you and I have. Now, you can imagine that when in Exodus 6 God revealed this and he said, I'm Yahweh. I'm going to be a good thing. I'm going to free you, I'm going to redeem you from your bondage. I'm Yahweh, I'm going to call you into relationship with myself. I'm Yahweh. I'm going to give you a land that I'm going to take you to. And Israel, the slaves, had only the vaguest notion of what God. Had in mind. Isn't that amazing to think about what they thought God meant? How dimly they perceived anything of what he was talking about. But then God began to unfold his meaning. So in the months since God had revealed that. He displayed to Israel his power against the Egyptians in order to free his people. And so Israel, since that time, has seen the River Nile turn to blood so that the waters of Egypt were undrinkable. They've seen the Egyptians knee deep in frogs. They've seen the clouds of gnats come upon them till they were driving them crazy. They've seen the festering boys That came upon the Egyptians. They've seen the hail come to destroy their crops. And they've seen the grasshoppers finish off what the hail didn't destroy. And then they've seen a darkness come that was so thick you could feel it. And they've heard the shriek. And the screams of the Egyptians as each household found the firstborn slain, dead in their bed. Israel has said we've begun to understand. Yahweh is a God of power. And he's humbled And brought to its knees the mightiest nation on earth and has freed his people from their slavery. And he's brought them out, and they've watched the sea part before them, so that they walk through on dry ground, according to his power. And they've heard the curses and the The screams of the Egyptian army and Pharaoh's chariots and all his horsemen coming to pursue them, to take them back, and they watched those waters of the sea close in upon that army. To all the shrieks, the curses, and the screams were silent. and they watch the waters ripple as if there was nothing that had ever disturbed them. All they hear is the desert wind again. Pharaoh's army is gone. They say this Yao Pay fulfills what he says. If he says he's gonna bring you out, he's gonna bring you out. And so they watched as he's brought them through the desert. And he's provided water supernaturally, and he's provided food for them, and he's brought them to his mountain, and he's established his covenant and given his law. Which we've just read. Then after that, Moses, back up on the mountain, in order to receive more instruction from God, is there week after week, and after about five weeks the people are getting very impatient. And they say, Well now let's construct for us something that we can see, something that we can feel, and something that will remind us of who God is. And so in their foolishness they create a golden calf. They bow down to that calf and they worship that as their God. Then they have a feast and an orgy. They utterly desecrate the name of God and their sin and their foolishness. Then Moses comes down. Not only have they broken the covenant, but Moses depends. picks that by taking the laws and the Ten Commandments, the stone tablets, and he smashes them to pieces. In order to demonstrate the wrath of God and the brokenness of the covenant. And it's at that place that God comes again to reveal in the second crucial passage the meaning of the name Yahweh. As I said before, it's a few months after the first time. And Israel's now in a wholly different situation. They have been redeemed, but they've now understood what it means to afford. been the God that they're in relationship to. Have you ever been in that situation? We understand we are really a mess of a people, aren't we? And what is God's relationship to Now, after he's redeemed us and after he's shown his power to us, and we have still gone in our stubborn ways, violated his covenant, disobeyed him, mocked his name, done such foolish and innocent. Inexcusable things. What does it mean that he is Yahweh to us now? So in Exodus chapter 33 and 34, you have what I consider the second crucial passage in describing the name Yahweh. And in this Passage, you see, the name Yahweh is prominent. In Exodus 33, 19. Yahweh said, I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you, and I will proclaim my name Yahweh. Chapter 34, 5 and 6. Yahweh. Came and stood in the cloud, and he stood there with him, and he proclaimed his name, Yahweh. And he passed in front of Moses, proclaiming Yahweh, Yahweh. And so this is clearly a passage that we need to look at. have to understand what the meaning of Yahweh is, especially when after all that we have known better, you and I have so utterly failed as his people. First of all, I want you to see that I believe that you see here the same four elements of his name Yahweh that were revealed in Exodus three and six, only now they're revealed with further insight as to their meaning. So take a look at them. First one In this case, is that he establishes a sovereign inheritance. That's the first one in the order of this presentation, in Exodus chapter 33, in the first six verses. See a rather amazing thing. God basically saying here, go ahead. Go up and take the land. Verse 1: Leave this place. You and the people you brought out of Egypt. Go up to the land that I promised you on oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob saying, I will give it to your descendants. Verse 3, go up to the man flowing with milk and honey. God says, go up Take the land. However, one change. I'm not going with you. Look what he says. Verse 3. The end of verse 3. But I will not go with you. Because you're a stiff-necked people. And I'm a holy God. And I might destroy you on the way. Verse 5. Tell the Israelites, you're a stiff-necked people. If I were to go with you even for a moment, I might destroy you. And so God says, Yes, I promised you the land. I'm not going to go back on my promise. But you call yourself by my name. And yet you think you can continue to live like everybody around you. And I'm not that kind of God. I'm not a God who plays with sin. And when you take upon yourself the name of Jesus and call yourself Christian, you can't live like the rest of Howard County. You can't live like your neighbors, you can't live like those about you, and one of the things that I think most upsets the Lord, and I never know quite how to picture how he feels, whether it's just sheer anger or disappointment or what it is. But when I hear people say, oh yes, I've trusted Jesus. And they say it in such a glib way, and they don't go to church and they're not part of a body and their lifestyle is no different from anyone else, but they think they've got a ticket to heaven because they've claimed John 3. 16 sometime. God says, if I've called you into covenant, and even if I have given to you this promise, as you my people, I can't dwell with a people who care nothing for holiness and obedience to me. So God says, I'll give you heaven, but heaven's going to be empty. I'm not going to be there. How do the people respond? Verse 4 tells us: when they heard these distressing words, they began to mourn. No one put on any ornaments. Heaven empty without Jesus? What would heaven be? You say, Well, I'm really looking forward to heaven and I hope it's not just one long hymn saying I you know I love to praise the Lord, but I hope there's more to it. to it than all of that, you know, I hope there's a society and I'm looking forward to what it's going to be as we described that land a week or so ago. But then when we think of heaven without Jesus. Particularly no one here more and many more than Moses. So that moves us into the second point, which is the matter of the sovereign relationship. That sovereign relationship described in chapter 33, verses 7 to 17. For here you have that thing described and Ken read about called that tent of meeting. The tent of meeting was separate from the tabernacle. Don't get too confused. The tent of tabernacle of meeting was some a place that could have been right next to the tabernacle or sometime it was uh outside the camp. And Moses would go there to that tent to meet personally with God. And the pillar of the cloud would come down into the entrance of that tent. And the people knew that God Himself was in that tent meeting with Moses. And that was such an awesome thing that a holy, sovereign, Yahweh, who could split seas and bring a nation to its knees by ten awesome plagues, would come into a tent and meet with a sinful man. So they would all stand at their tents in awe, and they would worship this God who has come in such tenderness to meet with their leader. Can you imagine what that would have been like to have God in a tent with you? You could ask him any question, and he would answer. What was his presence like? What kinds of conversations did Moses have? have with Yahweh on those occasions. It's shrouded in secrecy. But the one thing that we do know in verse 11 of this chapter is that Yahweh would speak to Moses face to face as a man speaks with his friend. That's the degree of intimacy of the relationship that Yahweh wants to have with you. To speak with you, to speak through his word to you, and for you to speak back to him. And so, as I said, no one mourned more than Moses when God said, I'll still give you the land. But I'm going to send an angel, he says in verse 3. I'm going to send an angel to go with you in order to drive out the people of that land. And the angel will be your protection. Now how's Moses going to respond to that? So you take a look at verse 12 to see. Moses said to Yahweh, Now you've been telling me to lead these people, but you've not let me know whom you will send with me. You've said, I know you by name, and you have found favor with me. Now, if you're so pleased with me. Teach me. your ways. So that I may know you. God, I'm confused. I don't feel like I know you. I can never get my hands on just what you're like. You ever feel like that? God's always beyond all that you understand. Well of course that's what you expect, isn't it? If He's God God, you and I are not going to comprehend. But we can pray like Moses. God, teach me your way. Show me what you're like. I want to understand more about you. What are you doing with this? And continue to find favor with you. And remember, Lord, this nation's your people, what my idea is. bring them out here. These are your people that you call me to lead. What's God say? Oh, that's so precious. Look at verse fourteen. Yahweh replied, My presence will go with you. And I will give you rest. What words to hear under pressure? When you're under pressure, you're afraid to go into the next week or to do the next task. Jesus comes, whispers to his word to you by his spirit, I'll go with you. I'm not going to leave you in this situation. My presence will be with you in this, my child. Will give you rest. And that's all you need. But Moses there, even with the comfort of those words, is still mindful of the people. So notice how he changes in verse 15. Moses says to him, If your presence does not go with us. He's saying Lord, it's not just enough that you go with me. These are your people that you're calling. And so Lord, you've got to go with us, all of us. I'm not satisfied that it's well I've got Jesus with me. It's tough for you guys. You know, you're going into land with an angel. I got God. He identifies with the people of God. And so he says, Lord, you've got to go with us as your people. If you don't go with us, then don't send us up. How will anyone know that you're pleased with us and with your people unless you go with us? What else is going to distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? Lord, you've got to go with us. And notice how God responds here. Verse 17. Yahweh says to Moses, I will do the very thing you have asked. He said, Why don't he say that kind of stuff to me? Now here's a man whose heart is really set on God, but you see. See the character of Yahweh here. He doesn't spurn it, he doesn't say I said what I said, I'm not changing. God responds to Moses and he says, you know, he had said back there in in verse five, Take off your ornaments, I'm going to. decide what to do with you. So he hadn't sealed it. And an intercessor had come and pled with God and changed history. God says, I'll do just what you asked. You've come to me and you've won my heart. That's a relationship, isn't it? Do you see yourself in that kind of a relationship with God? That you can plead with him, that you can plead with him on behalf of your family, on behalf of those that you love on behalf of our county and state and nation and God says, I will do the very thing you've asked you on my heart. So he says in verse 17, Because I am pleased with you and I know you by name. I remember one time, a few years ago, When I was praying up at Elkneck State Park, a place I like to go whenever I can, especially if I get a chance to stop on my way to Philadelphia. And I was praying there and there was a sense of dryness and hollowness in my own heart as I was seeking to lead you as a people, and I remember stopping there and pleading this precise verse and chapter, Lord, I've got to know your presence with me. Or else don't continue to call me as the leader of CPC. Lord Jesus, I've got to know not just a vision, not just a plan, I don't need a statement, I don't need more goals and objectives. I need to know that you're with me. If I don't know that you're with me, then Lord, I can't beat this people. I don't have the spiritual authority. I have nothing in me to give them. And I remember coming to the Lord and pouring out my heart to him there and having such a sweet sense. God coming and saying to me through this passage as I was with Moses, so I'm with you. And then he spoke to me something very precious, and he said, I don't just know Moses by name. I call you Alan. Do you ever imagine Jesus speaking your name? Imagine that he knows you and calls you by name. He says that twice here. Look at this. Verse 12: I know you by name. You found favor with me. Verse 17: I am pleased with you and I know you by name. And I pictured at that moment a little dot. There it is in Columbia, Maryland. That's Alan Harris. You know, and the camera sort of pans back, and Columbia's a dot, and it continues back, and all of how County's a dot, and then back further, and all of Maryland's just a dot, and back further, and all of the United States is just a little dot on a tiny globe, and the globe itself becomes a dot within a Milky Way galaxy, and further and further back those the camera until the Milky Way is simply a dot within the universe and back further until the universe itself which is expanding and therefore is not filling all of reality. But that universe itself becomes a dot within the reality of God. Then I realized that within all that scope, this eternal God says, within all of that, there's someone who's precious to me, and I know him by name. That's my son Alan down there. that about you. He says that about every one of his children. You found favor with me and I know you by name. I haven't forgotten you. And when I give to you the warnings and the threatenings there for you to come and Humble yourself before me and plead, come as Moses, for I'll never cast you off. I'll never forsake you. And then Moses, in a rush of boldness. The holy desire says in that next verse 18. Notice how this transition. I know you by name. And Moses simply says, Now show me your glory. Have you ever? been , position, and your intercourse with Jesus, that you've sensed that it's a holy moment, that you've drawn close to him and you've meant business with him and your heart has come before him and you've truly repented, you've seen your sin, you've You've seen him at the cross, you've seen what he has done, and all of a sudden you say, Lord, I feel like in the holiness of this moment I know you like few others have known you. I don't know their relationship with you, but I know right now that my heart is dead to you. And all of a sudden there's that desire, Lord. I want to know you like few other people I've ever known you. Do you ever have some sense of that? If you haven't. Then I'm jealous that sometime God will give that to you. Something sweeter and more transcendental. So that brings us to the third thing, is sovereign power. You see, when Moses asked that, God didn't laugh at him. God didn't say Moses, come on, now get serious. You don't know what you're asking. Show you my glory. Moses says, you have no idea what you're asking when you ask that of me. But God says, verse 19. I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you. I will proclaim my name, Yahweh, in your presence. And I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But he says, You can't see my face, for no one may see my face and live. And so he hides Moses in a cleft of the rock and he gives to him a glimpse of his glory, described by saying he's going to show him his back, and that's just anthropomorphic language, that's human like Which describing God as a spirit to simply say, I'm going to give you a glimpse of something of what I'm like, but I'm going to hide most all of my glory. But I'm going to give you a glimpse of that for which you seek. It was just about a year ago, last July, that Dean and I took a three-day backpack in Dolly Sads, West Virginia. And it was one morning when Dean and I were having our quiet time on Red Creek, each took a separate rock and had our Bibles out and I remember last year reading this passage along Red Creek. And as I read this passage about God's glory and I looked around me, it was a very moving time, and I still recall how the sun was glinting off Red Creek pure stream that just rushes down through the valley there. And all the rocks that were about me and I looked through the Monongahila forest of the Allegheny Mountains and realized this place looks just like it would have in the time of the Indians There's nothing here that's spoiling, and everything is Christine, and you can see the ridges of the mountains in the distance, and you can see everything about just your glory. And I thought, Lord, I can understand this passage. You've shown me your glory. Look at it here. displayed and it it just thrills me to be here. And all of a sudden it dawned on me, no no no. That's not true, is that true? This is simply created glory. We're getting to God. This is is simply a dim reflection of uncreated glory. If this is simply a piece of created glory, what must uncreated glory be like? And so at that moment it occurred to me, as you see in the bulletin there, that all creation is contrast more than comparison to his glory. All creation is more contrast. Because his uncreated glory is so magnificent that God says if I were to display it to you in its fullness, it would consume you. Just like you and I, if we were to draw close to the sun, we would be consumed by the sun before we we could get half the distance. So God says, My uncreated glory. None of you in your present state are able to absorb. Can you imagine what it will be for you and I? To be in a position where we will be able to absorb the uncreated glory of Yahweh in his presence in heaven. We get a glimpse of that as God shows to Moses His uncreated glory. Glory, just a glimpse, hiding him from that power in the cleft of the rock. Then he displays to him the final last point, his sovereign mercy, which is equivalent to his redemption. The last point is sovereign mercy, which is equivalent to his redemption. So now you go back to that little blank. I'm sure a few of you are going to ask him, but I'll tell you now, under number three. Then you will know his name. I put that off because they really go together better at the end of the third and beginning of the fourth point. Because you see what God did in displaying his glory to Moses, and this is important that you understand this, is that that was ideal. Identified with and almost made equivalent to proclaiming his name. Notice how they're identified. Verse 19. Yahweh says, I will cause all my goodness to pass. I'm going to show you my glory. But what does he say then? I will proclaim my My name, Yahweh, in your presence. Then it proclaims that name. Now in verse 5 of chapter 34, the Lord came down in a cloud and he stood there with him and he's showing in his glory. What's he doing? He describes that by proclaiming his name, Yahweh. And he passed in front of Moses. He's showing him his glory. And how's it described? He's proclaiming his name. Yahweh. Yahweh. So you see that when you and I. understand the name of God. When we understand what it means that He's Yahweh, and how that is fulfilled in the person of Jesus who has come to redeem us from the bondage of our sin. And how we understand that Jesus Jesus is the one who has come to establish a relationship with us, as the uncreated God, coming in created form as man, in order to walk with us and talk with us and have you and me share our lives with him. And when we understand what it is that Jesus Has said, Father, I long that there be with that they be with me to behold my glory. I want them in a relationship with me to have that inheritance of glory. When you understand something of that name, by meditating on it in scripture, You've begun to see the glory of God. For his glory is revealed in his fullness in Jesus. And when you understand who Jesus is and what he's done in fullness, Fulfilling the name Yahweh. You've understood something of the glory of God, but it's only experienced that you and I understand the meaning in our lives. Do you notice of all the things that he describes about that? That name. What is most prominent? He talks about his holiness, he talks about his justice, he's not a God who excuses sin, he's not a God who plays with sin. But most prominent in that is his mercy. Look at verse 30. Chapter 33 verse 19. I will cause my goodness to pass in front of you, and I will proclaim my name Yahweh in your presence. Namely, I will have mercy on whom I have. Have mercy, sovereign mercy. And I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. And then in verse 5, chapter 34 , he proclaims. Proclaims his name Yahweh, verse 6 proclaims Yahweh, Yahweh, what is the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, and abounding in love. faithfulness. You notice that verse six, that his name means that he is abounding in love. Give her meditate on that. I had the chance again last July the next morning that Dean and I were there and I went out and I was meditating on this verse and as I was looking at it I couldn't help but be aware of the water. Help be aware of the water, it kept us awake half the night. You ever have a waterfall next to a camp? I think Dean and I decided after that Waterfalls are nice to stroll past and play in, but to camp next to at night, you know, it's a little bit distracting. It's like, you know, seventy decibels of a roar going on all night. You try to tune it out, but it's kinda hard. As I was sitting next to this thing in that morning, I was trying to estimate the water that was going by, and I estimated there were probably about a thousand gallons a minute that were going past me through the rocks and the rapids and then over the falls. And I thought about how that river was abounding in water. It never shut off. I mean it looked like a spigot. You turn it off, and you turn it on, it just never ceased. I mean you spend three days with something like that, and you all of a sudden you realize there's a lot of water going down that thing. It never stops. All of a sudden I realize that's how God's mercy is toward me. He's abounding in love. And whatever I sin, and however I wax close to him or go distant from him or an obedient child. Or a disobedient child, he's saying to me, I'm Yahweh, and I abound in love. Look what he says in verse 7. I maintain my love towards you. My heart was overwhelmed because I realized. Something that Mandy Bayliss said to me. I don't know if Mandy's here this morning, but one time we were talking, and Mandy said, you know, something very precious to me is to realize that God's capacity to forgive always outstrips. Our capacity to sin. Think about that. His name Yahweh means that he is abounding in mercy and love to you, Jesus. Because Jesus has Come as Yahweh and has taken the curse. He has taken all the stripes of his father, all the punishment, the cursing, the wrath that you and I deserved. Jesus was separated from the Father, so you and I would never have to fear that God would say, I'll give you heaven, but I my presence won't go with you. Heaven will never be empty, because Jesus has taken God's wrath. There will never be any wrath Left for you because his name Yahweh means he's abounding in mercy and love. And he maintains his love to you because Jesus has settled that question once and for all. So when Moses Moses understands this, what does he do? Verse 8 tells us Moses bowed to the ground at once. And he worshiped. Because he realized that here is a God who describes In verse 7 and 8, that he doesn't leave guilty unpunished. He punishes their children. He punishes, he punished his own son, but he's a God who is a God of mercy. And he's a holy God. But his love is maintained toward you and toward me. And when you get an understanding of that, there's nothing you can do but hit the ground and prostrate yourself before him. And to worship him. And to say, Lord, here I am. Lord, I'm at your disposal. How can I thank you? I think it's time for you and me to realize once again that our service for Jesus and all that we do are not anything to earn his favor. One continual thank you for the fact that he's Yahweh. What's that mean to you to thank him with your heart this week? Let's come before him in our hearts prostrate now. To pray. Oh Yahweh. The God who abounds in mercy, whose mercy never ceases as a mighty river that rolls down. Streams of sparkling grace. Lord, we've tasted so little. We sip so gingerly at the bank. You bid us to plunge ourselves. And to enjoy the riches of your mercy, to wade in it, and to swim in it, and to understand that you abound in mercy toward us, and whatever has been our capacity to sin this week. in the past months and years of our lives. And because Jesus has taken that sin upon himself, your capacity to forgive abounds and outstrips our capacity to sin. Lord, hear us. As in our hearts we give to you that thank you and that desire to once again present ourselves to you as living sacrifices. Perhaps one of us here has never own that relationship and we want to come now for you to take our sin and to believe the work of Jesus for us to cast ourselves on him and his power for the first time. For others of us to cast ourselves anew. To know again it was for me. You know me, my name. Hear us, Lord. As we give ourselves to you now. In Jesus' name.