We're now studying the seventeenth of the names by which the one true living God has revealed himself to us. Doing this by ideas that we can understand so that we can know what God is like. That name that we began last week and that we conclude this week is the name Yahweh Tigkenu, the Lord our righteousness. We see that name in Jeremiah chapter 23, verses 5 and 6. Hear God's word again. The days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous branch. A king who will reign wisely and do what is just and right in the land. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will live in safety. This is the name by which he will be called. Yahweh Sidkenu, the Lord, our righteousness. And last week you remember we looked at the context Of that promise. We sometimes think that the times that we live in are discouraging in terms of the deterioration of values and government But we have a dream of a situation compared to what Judah was enduring back in 590 B. C. And we saw how back in that time there was a crisis of values and even of stability Good King Josiah had been the last hope of any kind of permanence, of any kind of stability, of anyone who had both wisdom and power and wanted to do the right thing. When Josiah died in battle. And then came the last three kings to reign in Judah. First there was Jehoahaz, a worthless fellow who was simply brushed aside by the Egyptians, deposed and deported, and never heard from again. And he symbolized the lost land. And then after him came Jehoiakim, his brother. And we saw how Jehoiakim Was not simply worthless, he was evil, he was ruthless, cruelly selfish, building his own opulent palaces By forced labor, emptying the scant treasury that was left, simply to please himself. A ruthless, evil ruler. And then after him came the last king, Jehoiakin, his son. Again, a worthless fellow who after three months was simply deported to Babylon with all that he had. No hope of any enduring. If Jeho if Jehoahaz uh indicated the lost land and Jehoiakim the lost sense of any righteousness And Jehoiakim was symbolizing to the land the lost throne. The end of the reign of the dynasty of David. Zedekiah was put in for a number of years after him, but he was hardly worth being called a king, and the records don't even indicate him as a true king under the Babylonians well as the Judean government. And so God says through Jeremiah at the end of chapter 22 that we had looked at last week, is this man Jehoiakim, verse 28? Is this man Jehoiakim, a despised, broken pot, an object nobody wants? There's a record for you come down and say, Well, what will history say about me? I was a despised, broken pot and an object that nobody wanted. A little better off than Jehoiakim, who had the burial of an ass Why will he and his children be hurled out, cast into a land that they do not know? Oh land, land, land. Hear the word of the Lord. This is what the Lord says. Record this man as if he's childless. He's as good as childless. A man will not prosper in his lifetime. For none of his offspring will prosper, none will sit on the throne of David or rule anymore in Judah. And like a gong, like a death knell that was to Judah, as if God was saying, I've nullified my promise to David. Forget it. I promised there would always be one on his throne, but forget it, I've changed my mind. Nobody's going to sit on his throne anymore. But then chapter 23 opens, and after God says that he is going to smite those false shepherds He's going to judge them for their evil ways. He then says he's going to raise up true shepherds. In verse 4, I will place shepherds over them. who will tend them, and they will no longer be afraid or terrified, nor will any be missing, declares the Lord. The days are coming. And now he speaks of that one true, unique king that he's going to raise up. The days are coming sometime in the future, declares the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous branch This shoot, Isaiah says, out of the dry ground, out of what seems like an absolutely hopeless situation, is going to come this righteous branch, a king who will reign wisely. In contrast to all those kings that have gone before, he will do what is just and right in the land. In his days Judah will be saved. He will not simply be good, he will be powerful. Judah will be saved, Israel will live in safety, and this is the name by which he will be called Yahweh Tidkinu, the Lord our righteousness. His will be a perfect administration. In his administration, there will no longer be any liberals or conservatives spying for power. There won't be any back and forth of who's right and who's wrong and corrupt and powerlessness In his administration, there will simply be perfect righteousness and justice and safety. And his administration will last forever. He himself will be a perfection of righteousness, so much that his very name will be the Lord, our righteousness. He will be characterized by righteousness. That was the first point we looked at last week. But I said that it had a twofold significance, this name. In verse 6, the Lord our righteousness, Yahweh Sid Kinu. The name simply, you notice, is not the Lord who is righteous. The name that you see here is the Lord, our righteousness. And that's very significant. Because the second significance of this, as you see in your bulletin outline, is that his righteousness becomes ours. Now, lest you think I'm reading into the text that this is saying that he will become our righteousness, that this didn't exist in the Old Testament. This idea was simply a New Testament idea But that was not foreseen. Turn over to chapter 33 of Jeremiah. In Jeremiah chapter 33, you have a similar kind of picture. In Jeremiah 33, you have a beautiful picture of the restoration of God's people. It picks up on this idea in chapter 23. And in chapter 33, for instance, in verse 7. You read that I will bring Judah and Israel back from captivity, and I will rebuild them as they were before. I will cleanse them from all the sin that they have committed against me, and I will forgive all their sins of rebellion against me. Then verse 10. This is what the Lord says. You say about this place it's desolate waste. That's at Jerusalem, without men or animals in the whole area of Judah after the Babylonians had swept through And yet in the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem that are deserted, inhabited by neither man nor animals, there will be heard once more the sounds of joy and gladness, the voices of bride and bridegroom. The voices of those who bring thank offerings to the house of the Lord, saying, Give thanks to the Lord Almighty, for the Lord is good and his love endures forever. For I will restore the fortunes of the land as they were before, says the Lord. And then in verse 14, you read these words, The days are coming, declares the Lord When I will fulfill the gracious promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah, in those days and at that time I will make a righteous branch shout sprout from David's line. He will do what is just and right in the land. In those days Judah will be saved and Jerusalem will live in safety. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? In the Hebrew it's almost identical to chapter 23, verses 5 and 6. Except for this notable difference. Look what it says then. This is the name by which it will be called. Yahweh, Sidkinu, the Lord, our righteousness Now some of those sharpshooters out there are already whipping through your NIV text and you notice that there's a little footnote and if you have one of those NIV reference Bibles, and you see there's a little S there by the it and it says, you look down, it says or he. He said, no, no, no, no, no, Harris, you're making a big deal out of it. You know, saying well it's just a little pronoun. It could be he, could be the same thing as chapter 23, verses five and six. You know, it could be just saying it's he, and they just use a little different I don't know for the life of me why the NIV says rehe. The Hebrew pronoun there is feminine. It's she. And I consulted J. A. Thompson's definitive commentary, probably the most recognized, widely recognized commentary, scholarly commentary, a contemporary one, taking into all account all the text and scholarship on the book of Jeremiah. And I was going to quote it to you, but who wants to quote from scholarly commentaries? You know, I can sum it up in a little easier for you. After going through all the discussion, he says one thing that's absolutely clear from all the text and all the Hebrew commentaries and everything in this Is that whatever you translate it, that pronoun refers to Jerusalem. It does not refer to the Lord. It refers to Jerusalem Literally, you see, it should be. This is the name by which she will be called the Lord our righteousness. And the she refers to Jerusalem. Now, what is Jerusalem? In the Old Testament, Jerusalem is God's people. And so what Jeremiah is saying here is he says, now I just told you that this one is coming, who is altogether righteous, and he's our hope. He will never disappoint us. Everyone else will let us down. Every government, every father and mother, every parent, husband, wife, everyone will let us down. But Yahweh Tsid Kanu will never let us down. And what's even more amazing is that he who is going to bring us into safety and into this kingdom. He is going to become our righteousness. We will take on his name. Do you realize that's the only time I know of in the Bible where the Bible says you and I will have God's name? That name Yahweh Tsubkinu doesn't simply refer to him, it refers to you and to me. Now, this I would suggest to you is the foundation of all of our joy and all of our blessing. Need a little joy this morning? I can use something that would help me to rejoice in the Lord. Listen. Follow through with me. Let's trace what this means, what Jeremiah is talking about, through five steps to understand how his righteousness becomes our righteousness. This is not something to just look at glibly and say, well, okay, I believe you, and then move on. I mean I wouldn't hear very many amens and hallelujahs out there at that point. But you've got to follow through what it means. Now look what it means here. First of all, first question A is what is righteousness? What is righteousness? We tend to think that righteousness is not necessarily positive, don't we? I mean we think of self-righteousness. Somebody's righteous as somebody that thinks that they're better than somebody else. And so we don't look at righteousness as necessarily something that we say, boy, that's boy, I really wish I could be called righteous. But the word righteous in the Bible is primarily a legal term. The word righteous in the Bible simply means that you have a right standing under the law. Or as you see there in your outline, righteousness is perfect conformity to God's standard, that is his law, that is, it's perfect conformity to the law which is his standard of behavior, which says this is how you and I should live. And since the law is simply the reflection of God's character, righteousness simply means Perfect conformity to God's own character. Righteousness then simply is to be like God. To be righteous is to be like Him. It's to be acquitted under the law because we are like him. Or to put it simply, a simple way that you see in the blanks there, to be righteous is to be right in his sight. To be righteous is simply to be right in his sight. When God looks at your life, he says that life is right. There's nothing wrong with it. Nothing worth of condemnation. That person is exactly like me. That person is living according to the standard that I have revealed to what those creatures who I've made in my image should be like. That person is right in my sight. So now the question is, are any of us righteous? A hands? No. Any of us who have kept that standard, or any of us living in perfect conformity to God's standard, that's part B there. Have any of us, have you, have I, lived good enough a life to be declared righteous by God? Now that word, that phrase that I use to declare righteous is very significant Because in the Bible, that phrase to declare righteous is the word justify. We talk about justification. We talk about being justified. The word justify is simply the word righteous. Put as a verb. Righteousify. You know, if there was such a word as righteousify, that would be it. But we don't say righteousify, we say justify. And to justify someone is to acquit him according to the standard because he's righteous. It is simply an objective legal declaration. Doesn't constitute anything. Doesn't make you anything. Doesn't do anything. It'd simply simply be a legal declaration. This person is righteous. Are any of us living in a way that gains that declaration? Obviously, Dick just led us through from Romans chapter 3, seeing that we have confessed that we are not. When Paul wrote Romans chapter 3, he didn't know you. He never knew you were going to exist But he could say without any fear of contradiction, about your life and my life, there is none righteous, not even one. Didn't know how hard you were going to try. They didn't have to worry about that. He knew you weren't going to make it. And verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, that reflection of God's character. that standard of his righteousness so that every mouth will be silenced. All our excuses. But Lord I try but you don't know my background, but you don't know my parents, but you don't know my genes. All the rest of that. So if we're going to be silenced. And all the excuses will melt in our mouths. The whole world is going to be held accountable to God. Therefore, no one Will be declared righteous, that is, justified in his sight by observing the law. Rather, through the law, we simply become conscious of our sin I'm reminded of a uh cartoon by Calvin and Hobbes just uh about, you know, Calvin and Hobbes uh about a month ago. I'm beginning to think that the greatest wisdom in our culture is being reflected through cartoons anymore. You know, you never look through you look through the Sunday cartoon and I'm amazed how many times that is really well put, you know I mean don't look at TV, don't read the magazine, read cartoons. That's where the wisdom of our age resides. Well, here at Calvin and Hobbes, you know, about a month ago, they're going down, you know, Calvin the little boy and Hobbes the tiger. They're They're tearing down the wagon. Some of their deepest discussions, if you've ever followed them, occur in this wagon, usually as it's hurling down a cliff, you know So there they are, tearing down the wagon, and you know, Hobbes or Calvin, who's you know probably about five years old or six years old, says, uh, we all want meaningful lives Just what a kid would say going down a wagon with a with his pet tiger there, right? We all want meaningful lives. We look for meaning in everything we do. And then they're going past a boulder and miss a couple of trees and you know, the tiger 's just hanging on. He looks back and he says But suppose there is no meaning. Suppose life is fundamentally absurd. Suppose there's no reason or truth or likeness in anything. Then they come tearing off the cliff, they're flying through the air, and he says, what if nothing means anything? What if nothing really matters? And the tiger covers his eyes and he says, Well, I guess there's no harm in a little wishful thinking, you know. And just about there ready to crash, you know. And Calvin says, or suppose everything matters. Which would be worse? And that's a cartoon, man. I mean I read that thing I practically choked on my tee, you know. Hey, that's heavy. I mean, isn't that what people are saying today? They're saying nothing matters, no, you know, it's all absurd, nothing really matters what you do. It's all simply a matter of polls and our opinions, and you have your opinion, I have mine. Nothing matters. You see, if there is no truth and there's no accountability to God, nothing really matters. But then he says, but suppose everything matters. Now you see that last question's the hook. Which would be worse? You see, as a culture, we prefer to say nothing matters, because if everything matters, we are accountable to God. And because we know that we're not righteous, we know that in our guilt we deserve condemnation, we say, I can't stand the thought that everything I do matters. That's overwhelming. That's exactly what the Bible is saying. You know, it's like when you come to an exam. You think, well, you know, I'm I'm going to study, I'm gonna really prepare, and here you are, you know, coming up to September, and maybe some of you are gonna take a course and you're thinking I'm gonna really do good in this course this year. Gonna really study. And then you get to the exam time and what happens? You always wish, I wish I had studied more. Why didn't I put a little more effort into it? I'm not prepared. I wish I'd done a dream that I used to have was recurring through my life. I don't have it so much anymore. I don't know if that's a sign of age or what, but I used to dream that I was taking this math course. And this course that I was taking, for some reason, I never went to class. And you know, it really kind of scared me. I read Dan Alender 's book, I quoted the last week, Cry This Soul, he had the same dream Now mine 's a little different from his. I never went to this class, but in this dream, the exam is coming up this morning. And I've got a dilemma. Do I bother to show up and try to fake it? You see, you know, what can I do cold? I mean I haven't even I haven't done any I don't know why I haven't done anything, but do I just try or do I simply walk in and say, you know, this is hopeless. And I'm exposed as an idiot or negligent, delinquent, or whatever. The shame is just pouring over me. The dream always ends before I find out what I do. I'm just sort of left there But there's that sense, I wish I had done more. Why did I blow it? Or it's the same kind of feeling you get when you go to a dentist, you know? You're sitting there in the chair, and what are you thinking? Your hygienist is starting to clean your teeth, and what are you thinking? I wish I had flossed more. I know it. Gonna come up with three big ones. Big bill, a lot of pain. I wish I had flossed. Wish I had been more faithful, more regular. Or you go to the doctor and you're getting an exam and what happens? What are you thinking as you're sitting there? Wish I'd watch my diet more. Wish I had exercised a little more. I meant to exercise. I said I was going to do that. I wish I had done it. Now what are those? Those are little tastes of judgment. See, those are just the merest taste of what it will be like when we stand before God. And when our life is done, and we stand before Him, and we know that there is a verdict coming, and that verdict will either be righteous, come into heaven. Or it will be you have failed, you have fallen short. Depart into hell Either we will stand and spend eternity with Jesus as the righteous king who rules wisely and rightly and justly, or we will live in safety. where we will never be disappointed again, or we will live in a kingdom where the nature of the administration of that kingdom will make Jehoiakim look like an angel. We will be in hell. Now which will it be? All those intentions. You see, if you're at the dentist or you're at the doctor, or maybe even an exam, you say, but next time I'll do better. Listen, next the time when we stand before God, there will be no next time. It's over. It's done. And so the third thing is now on what basis? On what basis can God justify you who so deserve his condemnation? On what basis? A little while ago I read about a uh it was about ten years ago. The article was more recent, but The uh officials at the Los Angeles uh International Airport went to the unclean baggage and they found in one of the bags there the body of a young girl They investigated and they found out that she was an Iranian wife of an American who had come back to the States. And it sent for her, but she wasn't able to get a visa. And so she thought she would smumble herself into the United States. And she curled herself up and crawled into a bag and shut it, and thought by doing that and flying herself over in the baggage, somehow she would be able to be a citizen of the United States. For any of us who think that there's some other way than the declaration of Almighty God to gain entrance into his kingdom. Are as foolish and will wind up as fatal as that young girl There is no other entrance into heaven, into God's kingdom, except the declaration of righteousness. On what basis can we have that declaration? Certainly it's not on the basis of what we've done. And here we come to the fourth point, the incredible solution that God has provided. The solution that God has provided is that Yahweh Himself becomes flesh. And he lives as a human being under that law. He meets its demands perfectly. He therefore is declared righteous. Jesus is justified. And because there are three persons within the Godhead, The Father makes the declaration about the Son who has become flesh. You are righteous. Therefore, he Inherits heaven. He inherits the kingdom. And the Bible says again and again, that is the nature of his being Messiah. He has inherited the kingdom. because of what he has done. He has lived perfectly under the law. And God said from Deuteronomy on, again and again, if you live according to my law, you will inherit the land. Jesus is the only one who lived according to the law. He's inherited the land. He's inherited the kingdom. He is justified. Then get this. He then offers to trade records. That's the next blank there. He offers to trade records With anyone who humbly comes to him pleading for a new record and a new heart. If you are willing to admit that you are not righteous Not making excuses, not justifying yourself, self-righteousness. If you are willing to admit I am guilty, I deserve condemnation I deserve your anger, but I look to Jesus, who bore God's curse in my place, and I ask him to trade places with me Can you imagine the mercy, the love of someone who says, I have lived perfectly and I have gained this record of righteousness? And you and I who haven't cared most of the time anything about pleasing God and really doing seriously what his standard requires We come at the end at the exam time and we come and we say, Lord Jesus, I've blown it. I haven't done what I ought to done. And many times it was just pure willfulness. I knew what I ought to have done. And I simply dismissed it. Now, Lord Jesus, would you be willing to trade records with me? Would you give me your record and I'll give you my record? And you think that's not even worth asking the question. But the Bible says that Jesus says, yes, yes, I will gladly trade records with you. And so we give him our record of unrighteousness, and he dies in our place. And then he gives us his record of righteousness. And we gain life in his place. And because he had fulfilled that perfectly, the Bible says he rose again and gained again life. As Messiah. And so the Bible says in Romans 3, right after it says No one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law. Rather, through the law, we become conscious of sin, the very next words. But now, a righteousness from God, you see. This is a righteousness apart from the law. It's apart from our keeping the law. Has been made known, revealed, to which the law and the prophets, Jeremiah, testify. That righteousness is a righteousness, verse 22, from God. That comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe, for there is no difference, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified, declared legally righteous, freely by his grace. And that's the last point. How do you and I receive this? All of us receive it on the same basis. Verse 24. Freely by his grace. Now we talk about grace as a gift that we don't deserve. But you notice that word freely. That word freely there has two ideas to it. First of all, it has the idea of no payment. It's free. For instance, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, that word is used in Exodus chapter 21 in verse 2. Where you read, if you buy a Hebrew servant, he is to serve you for six years, but in the seventh year he shall go free without paying anything. That word is the same word. You will go free freely. Same word as Romans 3. 24. He's not going to have to pay anything. You and I don't pay anything. We don't earn in any way. The righteousness which is Christ's. It's a gift. And you either receive it as a gift or you don't receive it But then the other second meaning of that is even more amazing. The word freely there, that Greek word means no cause. No cause. Do you remember in Psalm 69, the psalmist says, My enemies have hated me without cause? That word is the same word in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. My enemies have hated me freely. It means they've hated me without cause. Jesus quoted that verse in John 15, where he says, that that is me. I fulfill that verse, that my enemies hated me without cause. You realize the implications of that of what Paul is saying in Romans chapter 3? He is saying there is just as much cause in you for the declaration of righteousness as there was reason for the enemies of Jesus to hate him. There is no cause. There is nothing that you or I do for this. And yet every morning we get up and we say, Well, I want to try to live worthy of you today, Lord Jesus. I want to try and do my part, you see, so I can feel good about what I have done. And we fail and we stumble and we are distanced from the Lord because we feel we've got to go it on our own. Listen, the final thing to bring this to a conclusion, righteousness is objective. That's what I'm trying to say to you. The Lord our righteousness, he becomes our righteousness as an objective legal declaration upon his life, which when you and I come to Christ means that we receive that record. That legal declaration, it is totally outside of you. It is based on nothing that you do, have done, ever could do. Therefore, when you stand before God and at that day of reckoning, he looks at your life. He sees not your record, but Jesus' record before him. And because of that record and on the basis of that record, you are justified and welcomed into heaven. Amen. But now get this. That's the same way we're to live day by day. Not just waiting for heaven. But every day, to be able to get up , get out of bed and stand, sometimes I'll take a particular spot in the bedroom and I'll say I'm gonna stand Stand here and I'm going to claim, Lord Jesus, today I am standing in your righteousness. You are Yahweh Sid Kinu to me. You are the Lord my righteousness. I have your record. It is totally apart from anything I do today. It's apart from anything I did yesterday. It is a righteousness which is objective, finished, complete, and perfect. Jesus We'll never love you anymore. The Father will never love you anymore in all of eternity, no matter how great you are in heaven. Then he loves you right at this moment. Because throughout all eternity, your standing is on exactly the same basis that you either have or do not have right now, and that is the righteousness of Christ. And so firstly, are you sure that you have his righteousness? Are you sure this morning? Or are you trusting in some vague sense of God and I you know I believe that God is there and I believe that Jesus died for our sins and I don't dispute that and I go along with that or once I said a prayer at some meeting in a youth group or some evangelistic campaign or something like this. I did something and because I did that, I must be in. I hope I'm in. Are you sure? Not based on anything you did It's based on right this moment. Who are you trusting for your righteousness? Trusting yourself? Or are you trusting Yahweh Tzidkinu, the Lord our righteousness? And if you're not sure about that, please put on the gray slip I want to talk about that. I'm going to be gone this week. I've checked with Steve. He's assured me he'd be glad to talk to anybody. This week or when I get back next week, talk to you There is nothing in all the world, no exam, no dentist appointment, no doctor appointment, nothing that compares with being sure that Yahweh Tid Kinu Is my righteousness. Do you walk in that each day? So that your joy is full and not based on how well you've done or how poorly you've done? But the glory in Jesus, who is your righteousness. Finally, focus on Him. We look so much at ourselves, our accomplishments, our failures Wouldn't it be great to look at that thing in your life which is the greatest failure, the thing that you wish, oh, if I could only distance myself from that, if I could only put that And make that another person and live that life over again. If I could only start new, look to Jesus. For he gives you a new record. And you have a clean slate before the Father. Focus on him. So as Galatians chapter 5 says, Circumcision or uncircumcision, religious acts or the lack of them, don't matter. The only thing that matters, Paul says in verse 6, is faith that expresses itself in love The faith that looks to Jesus, Yahweh my righteousness, and rests in him as the one who's complete. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, as we think about what you have done for us, we are overwhelmed, utterly overwhelmed. And Lord, we pray that if there's anyone here this morning right now who's saying, I am not sure, that I have received that righteousness, that I have received Jesus' record. That name is a precious treasure in my heart, Yahweh Sid Tinu, the Lord, my righteousness. And pray, Lord, that you would not allow them to dismiss it, that you would not allow them to be distracted or diverted by shopping. or vacation or anything else that they would do until they settle before you with no more procrastination this very day that you are the Lord, their righteousness. Lord, we pray that you would cause us who know you to revel in, to walk in, to stand in, to rest in the righteousness of Jesus. That you would be our joy, our safety. That we would look forward to your coming, gladly anticipating that day when we shall see you. Because you are our righteousness, and it's objective, and therefore we can't mess it up. We stand upon it, we live it out, we exult in it this morning. In Jesus name. Amen