Well, we're back to Psalm 23 again. In the fifteenth name of God, Yahweh Rui, the Lord my shepherd. Sorry for the interruption last week as a number of us were away at a discipleship training conference, but it was worth it. Of course the ten of us have a lot of work to do here in implementing some of the things that we learned, but we're looking forward to that. and hope to keep you informed on it as we go along. In fact the February newsletter is the beginning of that, so you pick up one of those you'll see uh an art excuse me, yeah, the no the March newsletter will have that article be coming out in a week or so. to let you know a little bit about what's going on with that. You remember that two weeks ago as we were looking at Psalm 23, we we saw how this name, Shepherd, is a very precious name. It's an amazing thing to consider that the infinite, holy God, who created the universe by the power of his naked word, also calls himself a shepherd of his people. And that he is tender as a shepherd. It's a very precious word to consider that the infinite personal God would call himself a shepherd for us. And then we saw how that word is not only precious in what it says about God, but that it's a very personal word. He is my shepherd. He is your shepherd. By faith in Jesus Christ, he is not a shepherd in general or removed. He is your particular shepherd And we saw that you belong to him and he belongs to you because of three things. You belong to him as your shepherd, as him as your shepherd, because he made you by the word of his power. We saw that in Psalm 100, He has made us. We're the sheep of His pastor. We saw secondly that He is your shepherd because He bought you. With the price of his blood. All we like sheep have gone astray. And the Lord's laid on him Jesus, the true shepherd, of the iniquity of us all So that by the purchase of his blood he has bought the flock of sheep, us, to himself, paid the most precious price imaginable in all the universe. You belong to him. He is your shepherd because he's bought you with his blood. And then we saw thirdly that he's your shepherd because he cares for you daily through his power. Sheep are so dumb, so helpless. It's not just a matter that he can gather us and purchase us and bring us all together and then kind of watches benignly over us as we take care of ourselves within the body or in any of our particular needs as Christians. But He cares for us, upholds us tenderly each day. Sheep are so helpless. They're so stupid. I read one time that if you took a flock of sheep and they were all running along and you put a bar across the sheep, across the path, so that the first sheep had to jump over the bar and the second sheep jumped over the bar and the third sheep You know, after a little while the sheep are jumping over the bar. If you remove the bar, the sheep will continue to jump. Let's just keep going. You know why? Because the one before him jumped, so he jumped, so I jumped. No reason except that the sheep before him did it, so he'll do it too Sheep are you know and you know people talk about following like blind sheep. Well, it's very apt, isn't it? We are so like sheep. And David, who wrote this psalm, was a shepherd, and he knew sheep. And he said, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want. Now, when you think of who wrote that, and the fact that he's a shepherd, It's much more meaningful to us to appreciate what this Psalm is saying when we recognize who it is that wrote it, what his life was like. David says, I shall not be in want. That's what he says in verse 1. Now, the rest of this psalm we will unfold under that third point. The first point is it's a precious word. He's a shepherd. It's a personal word. He's my shepherd. The third point is that it is a precious promise, I shall not be in want. word And David describes in the rest of this Psalm seven ways that we will talk about how God meets our particular needs. But in order to appreciate that, think again of who wrote it. David says, I shall not be in want. You say, David, uh, you've never known any needs, you've never known any lacks Your life must have been pretty easy to say, oh, the Lord's my shepherd, I'll never be in one. What's it been like for you, David? And David would say, oh no. It's been anything but easy. I mean, growing up, I never had a real good relationship with my brothers. They were always picking on me. Seemed like I could never do anything to please them. It was always kind of a strained, tense relationship. I was the youngest and I just always felt like I was never accepted by them During the time I was growing up, our country was at war. It was great upheaval. The Philistines were attacking, and I I finally couldn't take any more of the fact that they were blaspheming the name of our God, and I offered myself to serve and God used me to bring down that Philistine Goliath, but that didn't make life any easier. The king became more jealous of the popularity that I gained. I wasn't trying to do anything to get it, but he Seemed like he was more and more in my case, and finally he made life so miserable for me, he drove me away from my home. I had to flee for my life, and for twenty years I lived in caves and out in the wilderness, in fear of my life. Because I couldn't return home to a jealous, insane king who was out to kill me. My marriages hadn't been so great either. I had more than one failed marriage There's been a lot of pain and heartache in my relationship with more than one wife and my kids Well yeah, I had a bunch of great kids, but when I think of them I think simply of the pain One of my sons raped one of my daughters. And then another son, in vengeance, murdered that rapist. Years later, he tried to kill me. I finally had to flee from my life again, a second time, out of my home, this time running from my own son, who wanted to take my throne and everything that I had. Now life hasn't been very easy for me. And so you say, David, how in the world could you write, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be in want? David smiles and he says, Ah, but it's true. The shepherd has been sufficient for every need. I know that I live in a world that is under a curse, a world that is abnormal from God's intention, original plan for it. And in that curse, I realized that believers are not immune. We suffer along in that curse just as others do. And I realized that many of the things that I suffered for in my life were my own doing, foolish choices in my marriages and in my children, things that I didn't do. And so I realize I've suffered from many of my own faults and sins and errors. And as part of the general fallen human condition, but The shepherd has always been sufficient. How is that, David? And then he begins to tell us of seven ways. That the Lord has been sufficient and that he has not suffered want. I want to look at three of them this morning, and then we'll continue the rest in the next two messages. The first thing I want for us to see here this morning is that there is no want of rest. David says, there is no want of rest in my heart. Verse 2. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. What a picture. Think about that. A sheep lying down in a green pasture. What a peaceful image that conjures up to us. How different. From the person who wrote the Psalm 23 antithesis that so often characterizes our own lives, if it sounds familiar, I uh quoted this to you in connection with another psalm a little over a year ago, but you remember that psalm because it is so appropriate here. The clock is my dictator, I shall not rest. It makes me to lie down only when exhausted. It leads me into deep depression. It hounds my soul. It leads me in circles of frenzy for activity's sake. Even though I run frantically from task to task, I will never get it all done, for my ideal is with me. Deadlines and my need for approval, they drive me. They demand performance from me beyond the limits of my schedule. They anoint my head with migraines My inbasket overflows. Surely fatigue and time pressure shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the bonds of frustration forever. How different. From the picture that David gives to us here, he makes me to lie down in green pastures. Philip Keller, the author of that book I mentioned before, a shepherd looks at Psalm twenty-three, was a shepherd in Africa for many years And he says in that book that sheep will only lie down in green pastures when they are free from four things. First of all, when they are free from fears, because they are so timid. Sheep are such timid creatures. They're utterly defenseless. And they will panic at the slightest provocation. In fact, if you take a flock of sheep and put a little puppy In that flock, and the puppy starts yapping, the sheep will panic and run. In fact, if one sheep senses that another sheep is nervous, it'll get nervous and start to panic and run. Sheep are so defenseless and they are so timid. What calms them? Keller said, It's the presence of the shepherd. He said, whenever I would come into my sheep, If I was absent for something and then I came back, the sheep would settle down. Because they sensed that because the shepherd was there, they were safe. The shepherd would take care of them. And they quieted down. The sheep will not lie down in green pastures unless the shepherd's presence is known, and he has confidence that the shepherd will take care of him. Psalm 48 says, I will lie down and I will sleep in peace, for you alone, Yahweh, cause me to dwell in safety. There's some other scriptures there that speak of that same kind of idea. The Lord is my shepherd. I know he's in control. Whatever the circumstances, I know he's in control. And that he will take care of me. Things are not out of control. My shepherd is here. Secondly, he says sheep will not lie down in green pastures unless they are free from friction. Because they're feisty. You know you've heard of pecking orders. Well there's also budding orders. Sheep have a kind of a budding order. There's certain sheep that are always trying to move in on other sheep and they're trying to defend their rights and they're kind of anxious and nervous, always having to protect their rights and and not want to be butted down into a lower position and back and forth until the shepherd comes. And when the shepherd comes into the presence of the sheep, they stop their butting. They don't have to defend their rights. The shepherd will protect them. Are you robbed of peace and rest this morning because you're defending your rights, because there's friction between you and some other person and you feel that you're having to defend yourself, you can't trust the shepherd to take care of you. The Lord is my shepherd. He's the one who causes me to lie down in green pastures because I don't have to defend my rights. My shepherd is there to protect me. Thirdly, he says sheep will not lie down in green pastures unless they're free from pests, because they are vulnerable to all kinds of pests. Sheep are vulnerable to various kinds of flies and ticks, things that can annoy them and even drive them to distraction. Sheep have been known to go mad out of the sheep ticks that will get into their nose and eyes Many things bug you and me. Pests, irritations, like those things that bug the sheep. Maybe it's an irritation in traffic or the way somebody treats us when we're trying to shop for something Or a co-worker at work, or someone who's thoughtless, and they're irritable and they're taking it out on us, and things irritate us. What does the shepherd do? Kellard describes in a very tender way how the shepherd will come to the sheep, and if he senses that one sheep is being irritated with these things, he will remove The pests, the ticks, the flies. Take them out of the wool. Take those things away from them. There's times that you and I can pray. I remember just Recently uh we had lost our calling card with the calling card number on it. And that's not a very good thing to lose. Somebody could run up a pretty good bill pretty quickly with that And we prayed, Kathy and I, about that. And the Lord, within uh just a matter of an hour, uh returned that. We found it, where what had happened to it had been misplaced. And that was a removing of that frustration, simply coming to the Lord to ask for him to take care of us, rather than fretting and just trying on our own and grumbling and getting irritable and fighting about it, to be able to bring it to Him. Other times the shepherd will apply an oil to soothe the sheep. He's not able to remove the disease, but he soothes the sheep in that oil, and the sheep knows that the healing touch of the shepherd's hand with that oil to soothe the irritation. So sometimes the Lord our shepherd doesn't remove the irritation. But we go to him with that irritation, and we sense that he cares, and we know that he's not going to let anything bad happen to us. That simply his presence, the oil of his spirit being rubbed into our souls, enables us to know that it's okay. We can lie down in a green pasture And finally, the last thing that a sheep will need if it's going to lie down in a green pasture is that it must be free from hunger, of course It must be free from hunger. You see, when a sheep lies down in a green pasture, that means that it's full. If it's a green pasture, the sheep's going to feed and feed until it's full. And Keller says that The key to a thriving flock is to have good green pastures that you have cultivated so that the sheep can quickly feed. They're not always having to forage for food and keep using up their energy and wandering around getting it, but they can feed quickly and then lie down and rest. And so our shepherd takes care of all of our needs. And I can recall as a newly married person thinking, remember for a number of years, Kathy and I would never be able to own our own home. That we would be renting in apartments for the rest of our days. And God provided a home for us. I remember thinking we would never have anything for retirement. And uh we would just be going along hand to mouth for the rest of our life, and then God provided some some things for retirement in ways that were not even designed for me, but God provided And at every step we thought our kids would never be able to go to Christian college. And God provided in ways for them to be able to go, the second one going through Christian college now. And on and on and on at certain points thinking, how is God ever going to provide for this? This may be for others, but he'll never be able to do it for us. And I don't know what he'll provide for you. I don't know what he'll provide for me or how he will in the future. But David says, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want. And he will cause me to lie down in peace. in the green pastures of his provision, knowing that he will take care of providing my daily bread and all that I need. The Lord is my shepherd. I'm at rest. Secondly, David says, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. I shall not want any refreshment. There will be no want of refreshment, not simply the rest. Of knowing that I can bring all those things that produce the stress and the anxiety of my life to him, but that he will also bring to me refreshment. See what he says there at the end of verse 2. After he says he makes me to lie down in green pastures, it says he leads me beside quiet waters. And I believe that speaks of the refreshment that God gives to us. Quiet waters are very important in Judea, where David was a shepherd. Water was always a concern, particularly in the dry season. And that's a concern for sheep because not only do sheep need good clean water, but sheep are so timid that they will not get a drink out of swiftly running water. If it's a mountain brook that's dashing over the rocks, sheep won't touch it. They're too timid. And so it's got to be quiet waters. And sometimes that means the shepherd has got to gather aside a a bit of a pool and build a rock wall around the swiftly running waters so that he can lead the sheep down one by one to those quiet waters, that quiet pool, in order to take a drink. Or he provides the um sustenance through dew. Of course the shepherd doesn't provide the dew, but he leads them out in the morning so that they can uh drink uh from the grass and provide some of that. Or other ways to have cool, quiet waters. And of course, this speaks to us of what our shepherd, the Lord Jesus, provides. You remember when he was speaking to that thirsty woman at the well woman who was on her fifth marriage, or at least with her fifth man, and she was relationship starved. She was a very thirsty person spiritually And Jesus said, if you knew the gift of God, who it is that asked you for a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given to you living water. Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water that I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Jesus says, I, the shepherd, am the water. When I lead you to the quiet waters, it's myself that I'm leading you to for eternal life. So the first thing that this means for us is eternal life, the waters of life that are Jesus. Do you remember Jeremiah said in Jeremiah chapter 2, in verse 13? My people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, the spring of living water. They have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. One of the frustrations of a shepherd apparently is as he's trying to lead the sheep to a quiet pool of water, but on the way the sheep get so anxious that they'll drink from polluted, uh bourmin-infested muddy puddles alongside the path. And the shepherd has to be keep diverting them. There's good water on ahead. Come on and keep the flock moving. Because the sheep want to satisfy their thirst with anything that's wet, even though it's going to harm them. Are you seeking to slake your thirst this morning in some muddy, polluted pool? Of something that you think will meet that need in your life, and that need for some satisfaction or sense of security? When Jesus is calling you to the quiet waters of himself, he says, Come and drink of me. Come to me the shepherd who's died for your sin. To take that guilt of that sin and give to you a clear conscience, a new beginning, a clean record with God. For God Himself holds nothing against you. And I've risen again to give you that power that we spoke of in the baptism this morning, the power of the Spirit coming into your life, to enable you to resist temptation, to find that peace, that quietness, that rest in the shepherd. To find that not only that you have eternal life with God, but daily there is the refreshment of His presence. That's also associated here. It's not only the eternal life. But secondly, you see here this idea of daily refreshment. The daily refreshment. It comes not from the polluted pools that are obvious about possessions or sex or big bank accounts or whatever. But the more subtle kinds of pools that we seek to find our refreshment in are friends, as the ultimate means of finding our security. Or perhaps it's our career. Or perhaps it's things on a more subtle level. The things that we can acquire. When things get rough, the tough go shopping. And to find various ways that we will seek to quench that thirst. When the shepherd is saying, as he says in that invitation of John chapter 7 , If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me. Come daily. Come morning by morning. Come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. Jesus says, You come to me and drink, and as you come to me, me, I who am the fountain, the source, the fountain, head of the springs of water, create in you the streams of living water by my Spirit. And so Jesus is calling us day by day, in our family problems, in the stress at work, in the misunderstandings that we're the victim of, to come and say, Lord Jesus. I come to you to drink. Be my quiet pool this morning. I read just this week of a pastor who was undergoing a tremendous pain in his life, and finally Sat down with his session and unburdened his heart to them. And after the meeting, one of the elders came up to him and said, I want you to know that we haven't paid you to tell us your troubles. Where do you go? Well, you get that kind of response when you've opened your heart to someone. You can't imagine that ever happening in our church. Yet it happens in our human relationships. Where do you go? David says, I have a shepherd. And that shepherd gathers me to quiet pools, the pool of himself. to drink and to be refreshed in my deepest need. And then finally, David says here, there will also be no want of restoration. No want of rest, no want of refreshment, no want of restoration. No want of rest. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. No want of refreshment. He leads me beside the quiet waters to drink deeply of himself. And no want of restoration, he restores my soul. Philip Keller in his book thinks that this verse refers to the problem of what's called among shepherds a cast sheep, and I think he has a point in this. The Psalms talk about why are you cast down or downcast, O my soul, in Psalm 42 and other places. The problem of a cast sheep Is that when a sheep wanders into some place and it loses its balance , the sheep apparently has a very delicate center of gravity. And if a sheep gets cast off of its feet, it'll roll over and wind up on its back And they say there is nothing more piteous and helpless looking than a sheep bleeding piteously with its paws flailing in the air, unable to roll over and to get back up on its feet. Now, of course, is it bleeding piteously? It's absolutely vulnerable and helpless to any predators And here it is bleeding to call attention to any wolf or cougar in the area that happens to hear, oh, that sounds like a cast cheek. Here comes lunch. Now, as I told you, sheep aren't very smart. So here it is calling attention to itself in this absolutely vulnerable position, but that's not the worst of its problems, even if nothing comes to eat it. In that position, gases build up within the body and cut off the blood circulation so that within a matter of hours or a day or so, the sheep will die. in that position. Not simply from lack of food or water, but simply from the blood circulation being cut off A cast sheep. Why is it that a sheep gets cast? Well, Keller says there's three basic reasons. One is either because it wanders into off the path where it ought to be and in the wool in the hard ground into soft marshy places where there's no stable footing and it just rolls over. Or maybe it's because it's too heavy with its wool. It needs to be shorn. And so the wool is just tugging and pulling, it's too heavy, and it rolls over. Or maybe it's overfed It hasn't had enough discipline to know when to stop eating and it just keeps eating and eating and eating. And some sheep will do that until it gets so fat it just rolls over. But in any case, the basic problem is this desire for ease and complacency. The sheep needs to be disciplined, cared for, shorn. Now, what is it that the shepherd does in that kind of situation? Well, of course, he leaves the other sheep. He sees one that's missing. He loves the sheep. He may be frustrated at that point, saying, There's that one, third time this week. I know it, you know, that sheep, that's the one. And off he goes, and he restores the sheep. Taking a cast sheep that's laying on its back and picking it up to set it on its feet, Keller says, is restoring the sheep. It's this phrase that the shepherds use, and David's using simply that terminology here, when he says, My soul has been downcast, I've rolled over, I'm in a vulnerable, dry, helpless position. And I'm frustrated, and it seems like there's nothing I can do except to bleep piteously, and there's nobody it seems to hear me. And there I am, absolutely helpless. And the shepherd comes. And he restores my sin. Now it's one thing to say that he does that. But finally, I think we need to notice what his attitude is in doing it. I think our tendency is that when we see ourselves in that kind of a position, frustrated, spiritually dry, empty, not knowing what to do. That our tendency is to always look at our shortcomings, our dryness, our discouragement, and to focus on that, isn't it? What a mess I am And you know, we begin to worry and to fret and to think all about that when all the time the shepherd is saying, stop looking to yourself and look to me. Notice the emphasis in these first two verses: the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be in want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quiet waters. He Restores my soul. In every case, David is trying to direct our attention to the shepherd. He wants us to look away from ourselves, look away from your discouragement and your self-absorption. In all those things that have you lying on your back with your paws filling in the air and look to the shepherd. See the shepherd. Who is here willing, ready, and able to restore your soul. And as you look to him this week to cry out to him, Lord, you be my rest. You're able. You be my refreshment. You're able. Lord, you restore my soul. Only you can do that. And I would suggest that you take these verses and that you memorize those verses, and through this week you tell yourself, morning, noon, and night, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in one. He causes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quiet waters. He restores my soul. Make it a you. You, Lord Jesus, lead me beside the quiet waters. You are the one who causes me to lie down in the green pastures. You restore my soul. Pray it, recite it, speak it to yourself, use it to direct you to look to the shepherd and whatever your need is this morning. Whether it's salvation from your sin, or whether it's the stress, the discouragement, the dryness, what is it for you? What is it this morning that you need to look to the shepherd for? Let's look to him now. Oh Lord, you are our shepherd. And if David could say, in all the frustration, the discouragement, the failure, the pain, the sin of his life, I shall not be in want. Then surely, Lord, we have a credible witness here. And if Paul could sing hymns in prison , And if the apostles and all that they endured could say that Jesus is our joy. Then surely we too can say, Lord, you are a faithful shepherd. Who of us here could say, you have not been faithful to us? Who of us here could say that we have been in want and we have looked to you to meet that need? And you've let us down. And so, Lord, we come to you this morning. We come to you as sheep in need of rest. And ask you, Lord, to lead us and to cause us to lie down in the green pastures We 're Lord in need of refreshment this morning. And we ask you to come and to lead us beside the quiet waters of yourself. We come and drink deeply of you, Lord Jesus, and who you are and what you have done for us. We come in need of restoration. Helpless, frustrated, dry, empty, as sheep laying on our backs. We ask you to come, Lord Jesus, to deliver us from the evil one and to restore our souls. Hear us as we bring before you now these needs.