Uh I think maybe uh I don't know if John didn't get the word there, you know, there's two roses up there and the other one, yeah, it was a late arrival. And it was the Whistler baby. Uh I haven't so a late arrival, I think it was Friday, and it was not named when uh I last heard. Has anybody heard the name of Steve? But it Tyler Scott. Okay? So Tyler Scott and Lindsay born two days apart. May their paths cross in future years. Alright. Well, we continue now in our series on the names of God. And this morning we come to perhaps one of the most misunderstood of all of the names by which God has revealed Himself to us. It's the name Yahweh Rophekah, which means the Lord your healer. Now just so that you can say you learned a little bit of Hebrew today, let's all say it together so we got it down. Yahweh Rebecca. Okay, let's that was my turn. Now you're here comes yours. Antiphonal. Okay, ready? Yahweh Rophekah. Alright. Now somebody tells you that uh you don't know any Hebrew, you can say uh Uh to whatever Jewish friends that you have, hey, you know, we talk about Yahweh Rafekah. And they'll look at you with a blank stare, wonder what you're talking about. Yahweh Rafekah from Exodus chapter 15, the Lord, your healer. Perhaps of all the names of God, there is no name that's been so twisted and distorted in terms of what it means and what we have uh wanted to make it mean, and in the process of that losing the glory of what in fact it does mean and promise as this name Yahweh Rafekah. So we'll be spending four weeks on this name, the next four weeks looking at the meaning of God's name, Yahweh Rafekah, as we seek to know him better. And we will conclude those four weeks by May the 24th will be the last of the four weeks. By having an opportunity for prayer for healing. Now, since this name means the Lord your healer, we want to understand what in fact does God promise for us in terms of healing? There's a lot of things that we as a congregation need healing in. Physically, emotionally, spiritually, psychologically. So We're going to have an opportunity during the middle hour for those who have been to the first hour, and then there will be an opportunity at 12. 30 for those who have those who are at this service, for anyone who wants to come been to to be able to have prayer for healing. And my hope is that by that time we'll know a little bit more about what God wants us to pray for in terms of healing. So this is very practical for us, and I hope that as we look at Exodus chapter fifteen, particularly verses twenty-two to twenty-seven, and then bring in other scriptures from all the rest of the Old and New Testament. You will have a better understanding by that time of what it means to know God as Yahweh Rafekah for us Now, Exodus chapter 15, these verses 22 to 27 follow the well-known song of Moses. The first 21 verses of this 15th chapter of Exodus contain that song of Moses after Israel had just come from the great victory out of Egypt. And God had brought them through the Red Sea. Can you imagine something of that scene? The people are all singing. Notice that there's a particular emphasis on the name In the first couple of verses. I will sing to the Lord. Now remember, uh this name, Yahweh Rafekah, is one of those compound names. It builds on the basic covenant name, Yahweh And that covenant name, basic name of God, means that He is the one who sovereignly redeems us out of bondage into a relationship with Himself to give us a reward of heaven. There's three ideas. He sovereignly redeems us from bondage, first idea to bring us into a relationship with himself, the second idea. idea in order to give to us an a reward of heaven. Third idea. And so freedom Sonship and heaven, the three ideas. And that idea is conveyed every time you read in your Bible, Lord, large L, small capital, O R D. So you see at the beginning of Exodus 15, this emphasis on his name. I will sing, verse 1, to the Lord, to Yahweh. For he is highly exalted. Verse 2. The Lord Yahweh is my strength, and by song he's become my salvation. Verse 3. The Lord Yahweh is a warrior. Yahweh is his name. And that name was defined in this experience. And you remember that just before this, Israel has experienced a dramatic act of God in bringing them out of Egypt. They are standing there and they say, remember as we sing this song, that just before this we saw the whole Red Sea, it was before us in a barrier that we were trapped And we thought that we were done for before Pharaoh's army, and then all of a sudden God mightily opened up a path through that sea, and the walls of water were on either side, and we were permitted to walk through on dry ground. be able to escape from our pursuers, but we looked back and they were right after us. And as we stood at the other side of the water and we looked And all of Pharaoh's army was in there. All of a sudden we began to see these tremendous waves come crashing in over Pharaoh's army We heard the terror and the screams and the curses and the panic as their wheels sank down into the mud, and all of a sudden we saw the waves pass over them, and the screams were silence. And the waves smoothed out, and there was nothing left. And it took us a couple of minutes to Minutes to realize we're free. God has really released us from our enemies Yahweh is a warrior. He has defeated our enemies. He's brought us out of bondage. Yahweh is his name. He's redeemed us from bondage into our relationship with himself in order to bring us to his land. And the people shouted and they sang and they sang the song that you have of Moses, and they sang till their lungs were uh exhausted, singing in their And they weren't Presbyterians or Baptists, so they were doing a lot of dancing. You notice in verse 20 there that Miriam and her sister Or got a tambourine out, you know, and they're singing and they're dancing all around. They can't contain themselves for the joy that they have. You know, uh we maybe I'll take some lessons from Miriam and her sisters, you know. And expressing joy because these people understand freedom. And they say, God is good. God has released us And now he's bringing us into his land. But you know you can only celebrate for so long. I mean we could sit here for another couple hours, we could sing every chorus we know and every song in the hymn book and we could go on and on. But after a while you gotta get out and gotta move on God's got a journey. And so they've got to still get to the land that He's promised. And so you come to that point in verse 22. They've got to start out into the desert. And so look what he says in verse 22. Then Moses led Israel from the Red Sea, and they went into the desert of Shur. And for three days they traveled in the desert without finding water. Now God's presence is still obviously with them. Do you remember it was the cloud that went before them by day and the pillar of fire that went at night? And the first day they're still singing and they're telling jokes and they're having a great time. Get a little thirsty, but boy, it's just great to realize we're free. They come into the second day in this desolate desert of Shur. There's still no water. And nobody's brought along one of those uh McDonald coolers, you know, and they get a little thirsty out there, and there's still no water in sight. But they still remember God is with us, He's provided for us. By the third day, the wonders of God at the Red Sea are rapidly beginning to dim as they become consumed with one idea: water. Thirst. Three days in the desert. And now all they can think about is when are we going to get a drink? Kathy and I and the Sharps yesterday ran a 10K and it was one of those, it was the hilliest thing I had ever run. I think it was 30 degrees. Now going down they were only about ten degrees, you know, but coming back, funny thing, the hill was three times as long, and they had kept it And all we could think of, going back, at least me, as I tried desperately to keep one foot running ahead of the other, was to get back there to that finish line to get a drink and to rest. You think of Israel going through three days and they're crying out to God, God, what are you gonna you know, I was thinking of really helping us to to feel that but I thought if I do too too good a job of it, you're not gonna listen to me because you're all gonna want to go out and get a drink. But you know how it is. When you think about water and you're really thirsty, you can't think about anything else Somebody can think, God is good and he brought us through. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just give me a drink, you know. And all of a sudden they hear up ahead some people shouting There's some green up there and they see that there's some sort of an oasis and there's water up there. And so everybody comes running up there and if you run and you hear all the people yelling, you hear that the people who are in the front are beginning to scream. And they're beginning to yell, and it doesn't sound like they're having a good time up there. In fact, you think you hear some of these same people who were singing praise to God before, now they're cursing. Why is that? Look at verse 23. When they came to Mara, they could not drink its water because it was bitter. That's why the place is called Mara. Imagine what it would have felt like to be in that crowd at that time What a dirty, rotten trick. God, how could you do that? We trusted you'd provide. And here's this water. And what do you give us? Water that mocks us. Water that we can't drink. I mean, it's one thing to not have any water, but then to have water and you can't drink it. What bitterness of soul. But from that circumstance, I believe God has three lessons for us to learn. Look at them there. The first lesson I believe He wants us to learn from this situation. Is that Yahweh tests our faith with bitter disappointments? He tests our faith through this. Speak in there, verse 23. When they came to Mara they could not drink its water because it was bitter. Have you ever been to a dry time in your life? A time when you felt like God was absent from your difficulties, your needs. Then all of a sudden it seemed like God had answered. It seemed like Yahweh Yerah that we looked at last week, the God who provides. That God has heard your prayers and he's answered just in the nick of time. Just when you thought that you were going to be consumed with your thirst, when you thought that God had utterly abandoned you, God has heard and he's dramatically answered. Only to have the answer turn to dust in your hands. Only to have what seemed like his answer Become bitter waters to your soul. Have you ever had that experience? I have. Do you know why a loving Caring Heavenly Father would do that because he's testing us in our love and our trust. I'm not making that up. Take a look at verse twenty-five. The end of verse twenty-five. You see if you have paragraphs, uh Verse 25, the second part of that, there the Lord made a decree and a law for them, and there he tested them. God was testing his people. He was testing them to see whether they were trusting simply in the circumstances. Circumstances, or whether even when the circumstances seemed to mock them, whether they would trust him, whether even through tears of disappointment At Mara they would say, God , we can't drink this water. But we know that you care for it. And so however you want to do it, Lord, you know we need water. We cry out to you, give us water. But what did they do? Look back at verse 24. When they saw the bitterness, the Bible tells us so the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What are we to drink? Isn't that the way so often with us? Instead of coming to say, Lord, this doesn't seem like what I would have thought you would do in this situation situation and I don't understand it. It doesn't make any sense to me. Why you would stick water here dramatically to provide for me and then make it bitter water Seemed to mock me with what was seeming like an answer to prayer taken away. But I trust you. But instead we grumbled. Instead, we take that circumstance and we feel like God can't be trusted. We've got to fend for ourselves. And what do we do? We blame whoever is nearest at hand, don't we? This was the second time that they blamed Moses for their problems. And there's going to be plenty more to come before they get to the land. Poor Moses. That guy got blamed for every time they couldn't get a drink or food or whatever else it was, but that's what we do, isn't it? We blame someone when we're disappointed with what God has done or not done in our lives. Think of parents who would go on a picnic. And a kid saying in the car, Do we have everything for the picnic? Oh yes, it's it's right there in the trunk. Don't worry. And then when they get to the picnic area after an hour-long drive and the kids burst out of the car, they say, Okay, let's get the food. And Dad says, Well, actually we didn't bring anything We figured it was too much trouble to put it all in the car and hey, you're gonna eat tomorrow anyway, so don't worry about it. You know, just have a good time. Can you imagine what the kids would say? Now, there's two possible responses. Now one would be that the kids would immediately begin to kick And scream and say, See that? You never feed us. Whenever we really want a good meal, you never really provide anything good for us. And you're always trying to get us to put things off and never feed us and take care of our need. And what kind of parents are you anyway? Or they could say, oh come on, where's the food? Ha ha ha ha. You know, we know you're better than that. Where's the food? You hoped that it would be the latter rather than the former, and it would be kind of a fun time that would bond you together in their trust, affirming that. Yeah, we know you too well. We know you wouldn't do that. Let's break out the food. I can imagine that the Lord must have felt something like that, hoping that his people will say, Okay, Lord, bitter water But now Lord, where's the water? I mean we really need it, Lord. And that would bond them to him. It would affirm that they trust him. But instead they grumbled and they would Moses is the exception. And here we come to the second lesson that we see from this. The second lesson is that if we call on him He can make our severest disappointments sweet. Verse 25 Then Moses cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a piece of wood. And he threw it into the water, and the water became sweet. You notice that it wasn't after the grumbling It was after prayer. Now I can imagine that Moses' prayer probably wasn't altogether pure and untainted. He probably was going to the Lord saying something like, Lord, these people are really thirsty. They mean business. And not only are they thirsty, Lord, they're angry. And if you don't answer this prayer pretty quick, you better find another leader because I'm history So Lord, please do something quick. But he cried out to the Lord. He didn't grumble. He didn't go back to the people and say, ah, you people are always complaining. You're just complaining a few days ago and why don't you go find your own water, get another leader. He goes to the Lord. And I believe that the Lord in these kinds of times wants us to learn to call on him. It's in those bitterest disappointments that he's wanting most for us to come close to him to say, Lord, you alone are my hope now. And when Moses did that, God did the impossible. He didn't say, hmm, five year five uh miles down the road there's another oasis, and if you just hustle on down there you can get there He takes right what they have there and he turns it into sweetness. He turns it into sweetness by himself and by the wood that he He provides. And I believe that God is calling on some of us to take up our disappointments, the bitterness, the cynicism that's crept into our Christian lives. He wants us to call on him so that he'll take his wood, the wood of the cross of the Lord Jesus. Bring that into our lives in order to make the bitterness. Sweet for us. I believe Jesus wants to do that. For some of us here this morning who become tempted into a kind of cynicism. He wants to show sweetness In our lives, your life, my life. This is what the Lord does to those who call on him urgently and in Consistently, rather than to grumble or complain. You've gone to other people, you've complained about your circumstance. What good did that do you? And maybe they said Sympathized for a little bit. Didn't solve it, did it? You've read every book you could find on your kind of bitter water, and it hasn't really made it any sweeter, has it? There's only one person Can make that sweet. The Lord Jesus Himself, who can transform bitterness into sweetness. And that's what we see in this instrument. Now the third lesson is the one that gets us to his name. The third lesson is that if we obey him, he will heal us. Us. If we obey him, he will heal us. Look at verse 26. Now you've got the scene, you've got the situation. They come to the bitterness, they cry out to God, they complain, Moses cries out to God, God hears Moses, he transforms the bitterness. In his sweetness, and by the way I forgot to mention that not only does he then transform that water, but then he shows them, verse twenty seven, just down the road, they came to Elam, where there were twelve springs and seventy palm trees, and they came Camp there near the water. So God not only transformed that situation from bitterness to sweetness, he then provided relief for them before going on in their journey into the desert. And I believe the Lord wants to do that for some of us too. That in his graciousness and his kindness, he will not only transform our immediate circumstance, but he'll give to us a relief. He'll give to us rest, all the water that we can drink as we come to Christ and find in him our sufficiency. And there will be that relief in whatever our circumstances are, however he designs. To give him before he brings us on in the journey. But now in the midst of that, we see verse 26. In verse 26 After he says in the end of verse 25, The Lord made a decree and a law for them, and there he tested them, he said, If you listen carefully to the voice of the Lord Yahweh your God, your Elohim. And do what is right in his eyes, and if you pay attention to his commands and keep all his decrees, I will not bring on you any of the diseases I brought on the Egyptians. For I am Yahweh Rafekah. Here's the name. Translated in the NIV, the Lord who heals you, but also translated the Lord your healer. Now notice the amazing thing that you see in that verse. What is the bottom line of that verse? Look at that verse. What it all boils down to is a very simple statement. Obey me, you'll be healthy. Is that what it says? I mean, you know, you you can carve it up and divide it any other way, but that's what it comes down to, isn't it? If you obey me, you will be healthy. Somebody wrote a book 20, 30 years ago called None of These Diseases. Which they talked about, biblical principles of health. Follow God, you'll be healthy. Now, it seems to me that's what that verse is saying. Listen to my commands, do what I say. I'm not going to make any of these diseases. That the Egyptians have wrote on them, they won't come upon you. You will be healthy because I am the Lord your healer. And if you think that that's not clear enough there, he reinforces that time and time again. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 7. Deuteronomy chapter 7, in verse 12, God says, if you pay attention to these laws and are careful to follow them, then the Lord your God will keep his covenant of love with you, as he swore to your forefathers. Then verse 15, what's he going to do? If you pay attention, if you obey him. Well the Lord will keep you free from every disease. He will not inflict on you the horrible diseases you knew and eat. Egypt, but he will inflict them on all who hate you. Deuteronomy 28, the converse. If you don't obey me, then I'm going to make you sick. And so you see this again and again in the Old Testament law But now there was a problem. And the problem is that Israel had the same problem that you and I have. Namely, we are unable to keep his law. Therefore, what kind of a promise is this? If you obey me, I will make you healthy. But I'm going to show you. Can't obey me, so you're never going to be healthy. What what kind of a God is this who does this to us? He said in Jeremiah. Look Jeremiah chapter 30. Jeremiah Jeremiah chapter thirty in verse twelve, God says to Israel Your wound is incurable. Your injury is beyond healing. You can't do anything to bring health in yourself. But then his promise in Jeremiah 30 verse 17, But I will restore you to health and heal your wounds, declares Yahweh. Because you are called an outcast, Zion, for whom no one cares. So what's God saying? He's saying, I've given you this law that he states, verse 25, and then he spells it out in verse 26. The law, the principle is this. Follow me, obey me, you will be healthy. Shows Israel, shows you a me. You can't follow me. You can't really obey me because you're not only sick, you're dead. So what's God's solution? Isaiah chapter 53, verse 5. Speaking of Messiah, Isaiah says, he was pure For our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. See that By his wounds were healed. What does Exodus 15, 26 say? Obey me, and I will not bring on you the diseases that I brought on Egypt. That's talking about the plagues. And what God is saying here in Isaiah 53 is, I brought all those plagues that I brought on Egypt, and I rolled them all up, and I cursed my son in that. How do I know that the plagues of Egypt are what were all that came upon Jesus. Because what was the last plague? The last plague was the death of the firstborn. And what God is saying here is that I've taken all the consequences of your disobedience And I've taken my one son, who kept all the covenant, who kept the conditions of verse 26. He did hear my word. He did heed the decrees. He did everything that I said to do. And he stands before me as the covenant keeper. And then I have looked at him and I have brought all the diseases that you and I deserved. And I've heaped them all on Jesus, and I have cursed and slain my firstborn, my only son. So that the record of his obedience would be transferred to you and to me, and that his healing would come Come upon us. And what we're going to talk about in these next three weeks after this is going to be unfolding of that, but you've got to see that principle. You and I have healing. Because Jesus obeyed God. Not because we obey Him. But because Jesus obeyed Him. And that's why the psalmist sings. In Psalm 103: Praise the Lord, O my soul. All my inmost being, praise his holy name. Praise the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. What's he done? He's forgiven all your sins and he heals all your diseases. How many of your diseases? All your diseases. You see that? There's a completeness to the work of Christ. You notice the parallel? Healing our diseases is paralleled with, it's it's put right alongside of in Hebrew poetry, you know, when you take one thing, you say it one way, and then the next line says it, that means that those two things are paralleled. They're saying the same thing different ways. And so Psalm 103 is saying, I have forgiven your sins, and another way of saying that is I have healed your diseases. I think of a person who wrote the book , Lord I Wanna Know You, K. Arthur. Kay Arthur, in her early days, was a person who was an unbeliever. She was married, had two sons, and she left her husband. She took it two sons. Looking back on that incident, she says, I was utterly and entirely selfish. in what I did. Was thinking only of myself, involving myself in an affair and adulterous relationship, taking my two sons with me, didn't care for them, didn't care for my My husband, your need for a father , developed from that into an adulterous lifestyle. The kids were suffering, she didn't care. She was desperate to have a good From time to time she'd say I'd look back on my life and I'd say, I sure wish that I could just wipe the whole slate clean. I wish I could start over. I have screwed up stuff and I have messed it up. I've hurt people. I wish that I could change that. But then she'd go right back into finding another man, finding another diversion, another thrill to keep her going. One time she was at a party. At this party she was talking to a man. I don't know why she was talking to this man, what her intentions were, but she said, as I was talking to this fellow, I was telling him all the things I needed, and he looked me right in the eye and he said When are you going to stop telling God all that you need and acknowledge to Him that what you really need is Jesus Christ? Said, boy, did that tick me off. I told him, look, what I really need is a man and this and this and this, and she said, and I turned on my heel and I walked away. Man! That irritated me, or today we'd say that really frosted me. Went home, said I couldn't forget what he said. In fact, I felt so rotten that the next day I called in sick. Then go to work. I told my youngest, mommy's gotta go and have some time by herself. She said, I went up to my bedroom and I cast myself down on the floor there by my bed. And I cried out to God, God, I don't care what you do to me. I don't care if I never see another man as long as I live. I don't care if you paralyze me from the neck down. I don't care what you do to my two boys, if you'll just give me peace. There she says, beside my bed, I found that there is a balm in Gilead that heals the There is a great physician. His name is Yahweh Rafekah. Although I first came to know him as the Lord Jesus Christ And on that day in my bedroom, he applied the cross to the bitter waters of my life, and I by his stripes was healed. Healed of sin's mortal wounds. The place we begin our healing is when we bring before Jesus Christ all those things That are in our lives that have brought about the bitterness that we're experiencing. We lay them before Him the guilt, the scars, the consequences And we say, Lord, only in the wood of the cross that you can apply to the bitterness of my life Will I find healing? But perhaps for some of us who have walked with the Lord Jesus, if you haven't, my invitation is for you to find Him as your healer this morning. But perhaps even though you've said you've known him and walked with him, a cynicism 's crept into your heart. The bitter waters have remained with you so that you believe that God doesn't really hear your prayer. I want right now for us to bring before him that bitterness. And I want you to see that before you is Jesus Christ. Yahweh prophet, the Lord your healer, who wants to heal you by transforming Forming that bitterness into sweetness with a fellowship of himself right now. Let's come before him and pray. Oh Lord, we confess before you that even this week we've grumbled, we've blamed, we've blamed Sha Shifted because there's a bitterness in us. There's a complaining spirit. Even when we sing the hymns this morning, we realize that that the language of praise is not as natural to us in the other six days of the week. It's alien to us. Our natural language is so often grumbling. Lord, we have bitterness. We want to take that bitterness now. We want to take those waters of Mara in our soul, and we want to offer them up to you. Hear us, Lord, as we present present them to you right now. Lord, we realize that we not only cannot obey you, we can't even believe you in our end. Lord, we pray that you would give to us faith now to believe, that you hear us, that you are able, and that you are willing, as Yahweh Rebekah, to heal. Bitterness in our hearts to transform it into sweetness. Lord, grant to us faith, make us a people full of faith to see Jesus And not just the means, the people, the books, the messages, whatever else, but to come directly and to believe you, Lord Jesus, want to take that. You want to draw us to yourself, to believe you, to trust you, to meet with you tonight at the table, to have that sense that you hear us and that you desire To heal us. Give us victory in this. If we haven't got it now, Lord, make us to keep after it until we gain that victory this afternoon or this evening. For we believe that you do, in fact, want to heal us, to bring glory to yourself, and joy into our hearts and lives. For Jesus' sake