The well-known uh theologian and Christian popular Christian writer R. C. Sprohl. was reflecting one time on his names. He said that his parents gave him the name Robert Charles Sprohl III, which he said was a nasty thing to do with any kid But uh actually, only one person, he said, in his whole life ever called him Robert. And only one person in his life ever called him Charlie. His parents called him R. C. except when his father called him Luke, which was short for Luke McGluke, for some reason. He said that in school his friends called him Sonny. His aunt called him Robbie. When he played baseball, they called him Rabbit. When he played hockey, they called him Whip. His wife called him Robin. So by the time he grew up and was going on in life, he'd answered to just about anything anybody called him. You probably have something like that in your name, like I do. There's nicknames. Certain things were known by to certain people, for good or for ill. If I'm ever called Ali, I know that it's a relative on my mother's side. They're the only people who would ever dare call me that. And we all have things like that. The Bible tells us that God has several names. God has names that he answers to, and there are names that God doesn't answer to. He's a person. And the Bible tells us that he's revealed himself to us by special names, names with great significance. And so a couple of years ago, we decided that we would try to get to know God better by knowing his names, understanding those names, and understanding something of the significance of them. And so you see an extra little insert this morning for those of you who maybe haven't been with us in this whole thing to just give you some background on the names that we have covered From Elohim, God, uh El Elion. And you see that uh the translation refers to generally the way it appears in your English Bible. All the way down to the name that we have been considering this past winter, the covenant name of God, Yahweh. The name that appears in your Bibles with a capital L small caps, O R D, translation of that, I am who I am, but The way it appears is lowered with small capitals. We're still unfolding the meaning of it, and that's why I don't have it there. But if you look in your bulletin outline Still reviewing, you'll see this is what we've been doing. We've been I've been maintaining that the only way you can really understand this particular name of God This name, which is so basic, so significant, that you could argue that this is the name of our God. And all the rest are really titles. But this one name, the name God revealed to his people, uniquely, this God says is the name by which you must know me. If you don't know me by the meaning of this name, then you really don't know me at all. Our God is distinctive and unique in people who Say, as many religions are saying today, that just the sincerity that counts, just call on God by whatever name you know him by. And that's good enough, is not at all possible to square with Scripture. You cannot include Christianity in that kind of a view. Because God Himself said, I am uniquely known by my name by which I reveal myself. And this name is so sacred that we don't even know how to pronounce it. So it's not some superstitious pronunciation of the name that we're talking about. It's the meaning of that name. Now scholars have said that the best shot we can take at that thing is that the name probably was originally pronounced Yahweh. The Jews thought it so sacred that after a while they soon did not pronounce this name at all, and that's why we don't know how exactly they pronounced it. But we'll use that because that's generally coming into acceptance now as the way to pronounce that name. We've been building a house to show the meaning of that name in all its fullness so that we can understand that and understand and love our God more through seeing the meaning of this name. Do you remember we saw back last winter That in Exodus chapter 3, God reveals first the meaning of this name when he tells Moses that that name really is related to the Hebrew which says, I am who I am. That speaks of God's sovereign power. And the point of that name that God makes to Moses is, you can count on me I am the covenant keeping God. Nothing can stop me from following through on my promises. You can always count on me. And from that I've maintained there are three pillars of the meaning of that rich name by which we can know our God. And that name, the three pillars of it, we looked at the first pillar back last winter, and that was, see if anybody remembers, that he is a sovereign. Anyone remember? Long time, huh? Sovereign. Hi a mother better. Uh can I give you a clue? How about it begins with an R, you know? What? Redeemer, you got it. Okay. Somebody remembered that. Thank you. Boy you made my day. Sovereign Redeemer. Remember, he said, I will free you from your bondage. Now in Exodus chapter 6, God most fully reveals this name. And that's where he says what Yahweh really means. So if you don't have it already, take a look at Exodus chapter 6, where God says In his word in Exodus chapter 6, verse 2, God said also, that God there, remember, is Elohim. Elohim also said to Moses, I am Yahweh. See, there it is. The small capital, O-R-D, for Lord. That's the covenant name for God. I am Yahweh. I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty, remember what that one was? El-Shaddai, the God who does impossible things, brings life from death. I appeared to them as God Almighty, else should I, but by my name Yahweh, I did not make myself known to them. I didn't reveal the significance of it to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan where they lived as aliens, and moreover I've heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I've remembered my covenant. So now, here he goes to unfold the meaning of this name. Therefore say to the Israelites, I am Yahweh. What's that mean? It means that I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment And we saw how this idea of God redeeming us of the bondage of our sin, whatever the enslavements of our lives that hold us, God has redeemed us, He has set us free from sin, its guilt, its penalty, and its enslavement. Now, from that we move on. After all this time, you've waited long enough to hear about that second pillar. I mean I know that every week you've come and you've thought When are we going to get that second pillar? Now at least one of you has asked me several times about that second pillar. And I'm going to give it to you now. The second pillar so this house can stand up and not finally fall down there on the s right side. Has to do with what verse 7 tells us. Now let me give you a word of background. I think that many of us as Christians understand that our God is a redeeming God. He's a God who has redeemed me, and by that we mean that he offers salvation, forgiveness, to anyone who receives Jesus. You see, uh, he's made this offer. And anyone who takes him up on that offer, he's bound to hold up his end of the bargain. And so whoever takes them, then God redeems them. It's sort of like an invitation that you might give when you were in eighth grade And you give a party to uh you're gonna throw a party for your birthday and you know you send out invitations to your whole eighth eighth grade class, but Even in doing that, and not wanting to stipulate certain kids, there were certain kids that you hoped would show up more than other kids, weren't there? And so you were really hoping that this one kid that was really neat, that you really liked, was going to come to your party There'd be other kids who would come too because was an open invitation and you'd sort of smile with your teeth, but not with your eyes, as you said, well I'm glad you could come There's certain people that you are just gladder to see than other kids. And don't some of us have this view of God? He's given this invitation that all who receive Jesus, he welcomes into his kingdom. But inside, there's certain people he's gladder that they responded than others. And even though he's going to keep up his end of the bargain and he's going to love me , I'm not very sure that he likes me. I'm not very sure that he really enjoys me, that it really made his day for me to be part of that party, the great feast he's throwing for his son. Somehow I view myself as one of those disciples that's so mediocre and so disappoints him that I really can't believe he wants to have a relationship with me. That, brothers and sisters, is exactly what verse 7 addresses. Because after God says, I am going to redeem you, I am going to free you from your sins. He then goes on to say something immensely and incredibly tender. Look what he says in verse 7. He says, I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God. And then you will know that I am Yahweh, your God. Who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians? And so here we have the second pillar of the meaning of Yahweh. That Yahweh establishes a sovereign relationship. He's not only the sovereign redeemer, but he establishes a sovereign relationship in which he says, I will be your God and you my people. And that is fulfilled in the sovereign Christ. As you see, the peak of this house shows how Jesus fulfills all these things that Yahweh is. Jesus is the fulfillment. Of Yahweh come in the flesh. And so Jesus redeems me from my bondage of the law and the sin. And secondly, then the Father through Jesus adopts me. as his own son. And so I'm not only one of his people, one of his sheep, I am his own child. In fact, I would say it's so important that you and I see that we have not an impersonal redemption, but an intensely personal relationship with God. That God has made this statement, I will be your God and you shall be my people, to be the very essence of the covenant relationship He established in the Old Testament. If you look in the Old Testament and see where God says he's established a covenant with his people, you will see that that phrase is used more times than any other phrase. To describe the covenant God has made with His people. I will be your God, and you shall be my people. Now there's two sides to this relationship, you notice. First of all, He is my God. That's the first part. I will be your God. And so God has established in this that He is my God. He is personal and precious to me. Is personal and precious to me. As a Christian, I don't follow a religion. I don't follow the Bible as some Principle of text. I don't follow Presbyterianism. I don't follow anything which is a systematization of a religion. But rather I follow a person who is revealed in the Bible. And in a day when the Bible is so attacked, and we as Bible-believing Christians have to do so much to uphold the Bible and to protect its proper place as the inerrant word of God. We have to be careful. That we don't overreact, so that we become a people who follow the Bible and think that that's as far as it goes. The Bible is a utilitarian document It simply exists to reveal Jesus to us and God who He is in His fullness and His will for us. What we follow is not the Bible ultimately, but Jesus. And that makes a big difference because I don't please a book, but I do please a person. A person is precious to me A person is someone whom I follow and have a relationship with. Is Jesus personal to you? Do you ever tell him that you love him simply for the fact of cultivating your relationship with him? He is precious and personal. He says, my intention in this covenant is that I will be your God. That you and I will share a relationship. You will share your life with me, your thoughts, your feelings. Because the other side of this relationship is that I realize I am his child. That I am personal and precious to him. That this is a relationship that God has called us to. I will take you as my own people. That's a very precious statement from the one who has made all things. You see, that statement which defines the very essence of the covenant is the one by which God is saying, I have called you to myself to be my very own people. It's a holy, exclusive relationship. Of wondrous mutual possession. In fact, God says that marriage Is but a dim reflection, but a genuine reflection of the relationship that God has established with His people. And he speaks of us as his bride, in order to give something to us of the intensely personal, wondrous, mutually exclusive relationship that he established with us. That incidentally is why adultery and premarital sex are so terrible. Not because of simply the human consequences of it, but because it violates the essence of what it is to depict, The exclusive mutual belonging of God to his people. Now This relationship, as I say, is so important to God that he literally covers the Bible from Genesis to Revelation Emphasizing that the essence of his name Yahweh in covenant is that I will be your God and you will be my people. And of course, we don't have time to go from Genesis to Revelation this morning. But I would like to just point out a few highlights of this to give you a feel, so that you can get some some drift of this To get some sense of the flow of how precious and important this is to understanding who our God is as Yahweh. From the very beginning, when God created man, you remember in Genesis 2. 7, in when he created the other creatures there was the word, but in creating man, we read that the God breathed, he took dust of the ground and he breathed into man's nostrils the breath of life, establishing an intimacy of a relationship there. And you remember, of course, how that relationship was broken by man's sin and disobedience, because God can't be in a relationship with his creatures where those creatures disregard and ignore his word. And so God had to cast man from his presence. But God, in his mercy, the Bible tells us, sought to restore that relationship. And so he makes a covenant with Abraham. And in Genesis chapter 17, God describes that covenant. And do you notice that the essence of that covenant described in Genesis 17, 7, is that God says, so that I will be your God. That's the essence of this covenant. For me to become your God and for us to be re-established in a relationship. And so when Abraham's children, that God said this covenant was to pass on to were held as slaves in Egypt, and they cried out to the God that they had forsaken, God said he heard the groaning of his people. And because he heard that groaning, he was in relationship with them, and he could not forsake him. And so that's the background of Exodus chapter 6, where God says, I've heard the groaning of my people. And so he says that I have remembered their cov my covenant with him, Exodus 6, chapter 5. Therefore, he says he will redeem them. And that's the meaning then of verse seven. He says, I will take you now as my own people, and I will be your God, and then you will know that I am Yahweh, your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. humbles and brings to its knees the mightiest nation on earth, Egypt, through the ten plagues, finally bringing them to that place where he takes their own firstborn son And they're destroyed. And God brings his people out to the desert. And at that desert, he brings them to Mount Sinai. And do you remember in Exodus chapter 19? God says to them that he brought them there so that in Exodus 19. 5 he says, Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations you will be My treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be to me a kingdom of priests. And a holy nation. God says, you are my treasured possession. And so he gives to them his law by which they are to walk with him. Then do you remember after that that God told them how to erect the tabernacle, the tent of meeting? And why is it called the tent of meeting, this tabernacle? Because God says, I am erecting this because it is there that I will meet with you. And so in Exodus chapter 29 God says to them, after having told them how to erect this temple, in Exodus chapter 29, excuse me, he says in verse 44, So I will consecrate the tent of meeting And the altar, and I will consecrate Aaron and his sons to serve me as priests. Then I will dwell among the Israelites, and I will be their God. And they will know that I am Yahweh their God who brought them out of Egypt, so that I might dwell among them. I am Yahweh their God And you see there it is again, God is saying, my whole purpose in bringing you out of sin is not simply so that you could live a good life to yourself, because I know you can't live a life of fullness to yourself. It has to be in relationship to me, and so the whole purpose of this is that there'll be a tent of meeting and that you and I will fellowship together, and that you'll call me your God, and I'll be precious to you. And you will realize that you, as my people, are my treasured possession, and you are precious to me. Then you go through Leviticus and Leviticus, the book of holiness, and God says, Why do you have to be holy? Because you're my people and I walk among you. I'm your God and you're my people. It goes through the whole book of Leviticus, a number of times explicitly stated. Deuteronomy chapter 7 and verse 6, God says to Israel, You are my treasured possession. Once again, in Deuteronomy chapter 32-9, he says, You are my allotted inheritance. That's a very interesting phrase, isn't it? We are God's allotted inheritance. The phrase is picked up again and again in the Psalms. In fact, I have found 27 references. To us or Israel, God's people as his inheritance, without even using a concordance, just by cross-referencing. Now what does that mean It means that God has said that we, of all the things that He has made, uniquely are His treasured inheritance. It's like a king who said to his bride, I give to you my whole kingdom and all of my possessions for you to enjoy. She looks at him and she says, but then what's left for you? He looks back at her and says, you are. You are my treasured possession. It ever occurred to you that if God wanted to, he could make another world. If God wanted to, he could spin off another system of galaxies. God is not confined to mineral resources, to vegetable resources, to anything that he wants to duplicate. But God has said, there will never be another you. And therefore, if he was to have you, he had to purchase you. And God says, You are so precious to me that you can take all the rest of what I have made. That's a very secondary importance to me. I have one thing. That is my inheritance. Isn't that a strange phrase? God has an inheritance. An inheritance is something that you receive, it's something that you get. It's something that you treasure because it's something that you obtain. God says, through the purchase of the blood of my own son, I have obtained you. And you are unique. You are my treasured possession, my allotted inheritance. Now God's purpose in all of this, of course, was that Israel would reciprocate. But Israel like us today was so self-centered that as soon as we hear how special we are, one of the things that drives me most crazy about some contemporary evangelical literature Is that this notion of God's treasuring us as his people becomes twisted into not focusing on how great is his love and the wonder of it? But in thinking we must be pretty lovely. We must be hot stuff that God thinks that we're so special that He'd pay so much to get us. There must be something very special about me that will help me to pump up my self-image. The Bible doesn't present it that way. The Bible says the wonder of it is that when you and I look at ourselves honestly, And see our wretchedness and our sin. And see how helpless we are to do those things which we want to and know that we ought to do. The fact is that out of his great love, God still treasures us as his own possession. And Israel had the same problem. Read the prophets. Israel said, we must be something very special. Because of all the nations on earth, God has chosen us and He's picked us, and so we must be hot stuff. And rather than to reciprocate the relationship, as the covenant was intended, that they would say, you are our God. Your first place in our lives, and there's nothing too much we can do. To show you that we love you by obeying you and pleasing you, Israel centered in on itself. And so the prophets again and again say to Israel, as in Jeremiah for instance, don't have time to look at it now, but Jeremiah chapter 7, verses 21 to 26 is a good example where God says I brought you out of Egypt to call you into a relationship with myself that I would be your God and you would be my people But you have turned your back on this relationship. You've ignored my commands. In your arrogance, you've gone your own way and you've forgotten me, and I've sent my prophets to you again and again to warn you. But you've forsaken me and the relationship of the covenant. And so God comes in Hosea to finally say that those who were my people are have become lo -ami. Not my people. They are cast off, and they have become a people rejected of God. In Hosea chapter 1, verse 9. But God, because He is in this relationship by covenant, says, I will not cast them off forever. And so Hosea chapter 1, verse 10 says, Yet the Israelites will be like the sand of the seashore. Which cannot be measured or counted, in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people. They will be called the sons of the living God. So Jesus comes, the Son of the living God, the one who's eternally been in that relationship of unfathomable intimacy with the Father. And Jesus fulfills all the covenant. And then Jesus becomes the arch covenant breaker, and he is the one who stands in the place of each one of us, you and me. Who have looked to Jesus to bear our place, and Jesus becomes the one who is alienated from the Father and cast off from him and cursed So that by taking our punishment, God would be able to say to you and to me, as he does in 1 Peter 2, verse 9 and 10, you are a chosen people. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Because once you were not a people. But now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy through the blood of Jesus, his son. So John looks in that vision of the future in Revelation chapter 21. And he says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men. And he will live with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning. Or cry or pain. For the old order of things has passed away. He who overcomes will inherit all this, and I will be his God. And he will be my son. All this is what was implied in Exodus 6. 7 when God said, I've redeemed you so that I might take you to be my people. And I would be Yahweh, your God. Have you experienced what Exodus 6. 7 means in your own life? And are you experiencing that this morning? Do you enjoy the sense of belonging to God as his child? Do you rejoice in a joyful intimacy with him? Are there times when you just want to tell him that you love him? For no other reason than because he's precious to you and you want him to know it? Are you confident that you can share your thoughts, your feelings, your days? And know that he wants to hear, that he always listens, that he wants to know what's going on in your life. Can you imagine Jesus coming to meet with you this morning, this afternoon, at the Lord's Supper tonight? As you get ready for bed and saying, How are you feeling now, Bill? Tell me what's going on in your heart. Share with me your cares now, Eric, that I might be able to bear those with you. Tell me about your joys, Emily I might be able to know what's happening in your life. And know that he listens because you're precious to him. If you don't have that sense, let me suggest that you take the scriptures that are on the bulletin outline and that this week you go through those and use cross-references and see again and again. How God describes his relationship with you. That you are precious to him as his child until you come to believe. Repent of your unbelief. He said, I don't feel it. It doesn't seem real. Why would he ever want to do that for me? And turn from your feelings, turn from yourself. And simply look to what his word says. Believe and say, does that word lie? Does God speak truth when he says this? The only way I'll experience it then is to believe it, to enter into it by saying, I'm going to act as if it's true. I'm going to let my feelings be carried along by the truth of this word. Rather than by the way I have felt or been taught to feel. Meditate until you believe. The other side of that. Is he your God this morning? Is he precious to you? Above all else? Is he first place in your heart this morning? Or do you find that you're alienated? Is there nothing more than you want to do than to please Him? Or do you rather find yourself doing the right things out of simply wanting to avoid guilt? Or pleasing other people. That becomes so shallow and so hollow after a while, doesn't it? And I find that in my own life there is a subtle but extremely important difference between doing things to please people and simply because I ought to do them. And doing them to please my Jesus. To do them because I sense that it will give him pleasure. That whatever the cost of that obedience, he's first place to me, my allegiance is to him, and I want nothing more than to please him. As Paul says in Ephesians 5. 10, trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. Does that describe your life? Rather than dutiful obedience to an impersonal law, trying to learn what is pleasing. to your Savior and your Lord, because He's so precious to you. Do you see that that's the essence of the meaning of the name Yahweh? That he be our God and we be his people. And if you don't know him in terms of this relationship, you really don't know the meaning of the name Yahweh. And if you don't know the meaning of the name Yahweh, then you don't know the God of Jesus Christ. And so we turn to him. We come now to sing and to pray and to examine ourselves as his people. Amen.