Fourth week that we've been looking at this name by which our God has revealed Himself to us, Yahweh Rafekah. And my prayer has been for this series that God would build our faith through this, that we as a people of Columbia Presbyterian would believe that God wants to heal. That Jesus in fact wants to heal us sometimes more than we even want to be healed. And that, in fact, as you look at the circumstances of the revelation of this name In Exodus chapter 15, verses 25 and 26 , you see that in the that in the context of Scripture displays how intensely Jesus wants to heal us. Remember that the situation was that uh the people had been wandering for three days in the desert without any water. They were desperately thirsty. They finally came to water that they thought they could drink. The water was bitter. And then you read in verse 25 of Exodus 15 that Moses cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a piece of wood. He threw it into the water, and the water became sweet. And there the Lord Yahweh made a decree and a law for them And there he tested them, and he said, If you listen carefully to the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in his eyes, if you pay attention to his commands and keep all his decrees I will not bring on you any of the diseases I brought on the Egyptians, for I am Yahweh Rafekah, the Lord who heals you. And we have seen in this series how we have a plague in the heart that keeps us from ever keeping the conditions of verse 26. The problem is how can we ever be well when the very sickness that we have keeps us and keeping the condition? The fact is that though the Bible says that we're not only Sick, we were spiritually dead, that Jesus came, the one over whom Satan had no control. And Jesus came and he kept every one of the conditions of verse 26. He kept the commands. He kept the decrees in their fullness. And then he accepted the fact that the Father would then lay upon him all the curses that you and I deserve. the disease of the striking of the firstborn. And Jesus bore that for us so that Isaiah 53 verse 5 says That he was punished for our transgressions, and by his wounds we were healed. So Jesus intensely desires to heal us. And if there's anyone here this morning who 's saying, uh, I don't really know that freedom of a clear conscience I drag around with me all the sin and the guilt of the things that I've done throughout my life, and I'm separated from God, and I know that. I would fear to meet him. I would fear to die and stand before his presence. Know that Jesus Christ has offered to take that sin that he offers to you this morning by my wounds you can be Here and made right with the perfect judge of all the earth. Jesus wants to do that for you if you will but confess the fact that you can't do it for yourself And that you need him to do it for you. But not only does he want to heal you and me spiritually, in that radical separation and brokenness of our relationship, with God, but he also wants to heal us physically. Now we've seen in this series that disease can be connected to sin. Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't Sometimes our afflictions and our suffering are the direct result of God's hand upon us in judgment or discipline. For the Christian, discipline in sin. by affliction. More often than that, it may be the indirect result of our sin, of the guilt of our and the stress of anxiety or chronic worry or guilt or whatever that has psychosomatic effects Some are disobedience that God uses these consequences to get our attention. And Jesus wants you and me to come to Him to confess that, to force And to be renewed and restored and regain our health as well as our clear conscience. Jesus wants to heal us emotionally He wants to heal you from all those things that you brought into your relationship with him from your background, whether from a dysfunctional family or uh scarred memories, traumatic experiences, whatever it is, Jesus wants to heal you and to heal me from that The Bible even tells us he wants to heal our society. He sees a brokenness in Howard County, Columbia, in this area. And Jesus understands that the reason that we have the racial tension, the racism, the racial strife, is that there is a brokenness that is reflected um between each other from the relationship that we have with him. So we talked about that last week that our God would believe perhaps have us as the Church of Jesus Christ. And to be the lead in the healing. The idea reflected in 2 Chronicles 7:14 is my people who are called by my name will hear and they'll confess their sins sin and they will come brokenly before me, then I will hear and I will heal their land. Forgive their sin and heal their land. And I approached Bob Davis, the pastor of the Long Reach Church of God, primarily Black congregation just this week, and we're talking about getting together and trying to see what we can do with congregations for God to put up provide healing in Howard County There's a number of ways that Jesus desires to heal us. And my desire is that we will be able to experience those. And so after the first service this morning, we had in the middle hour a time of a prayer for healing. We allow anyone who wanted, some people did, and came, and they shared together. Pray for me in this area of my life. Physical healing, emotional healing, relational healing. Spiritually healing. Pray for the healing of God's work in my life. And we gathered and we prayed. A number of people led, and then I concluded meeting And we're gonna have the opportunity for you to be able to do that after this service. That can't be here in Smith Theater because we only go till twelve thirty in our contract. So we're gonna go down the hall, and actually that's good because down the hall is better It's kinda hard here doing it in the theater. We have a classroom there set aside for us to be able to go in. And I thought, well, you know, what if God wants to do more than uh we think in that classroom? So we got two classrooms We said, well, remember to lead two. And then we said, Well, what if he really wants to pour out some healing and everybody wants to come? We wouldn't hold. We got three classrooms and we have elders to lead these. So as many of you as want to Uh can come down there, it'll be right down the hall, just past the double doors, the first three classrooms, start with classroom one. I think it's now called A150. They change the names around here Just to keep us moving. But uh we'll be meeting down in that classroom at twelve thirty to pray for any of you who say, I need the healing of God in my life. And I believe that God wants to Let's pray for one another. Then after we've shared together and prayed for our individual healing, we'll have an opportunity to pray for our congregation. Pray for the kinds of things that Alberta shared with us. This morning for us to pray. God's getting our attention. If He's giving to us a vision of what it was it is that He wants us to do in reaching how it accounting and then we don't have the resources, then what can we conclude? God 's getting our attention to pray. He may want to reveal something to us before he pours out his blessing. Maybe there's some brokenness or something God wants to do in us. Maybe He simply wants us to confess our self-sufficiency and come to Him to confess our dependency. I don't know We'll have an opportunity for any who want to to stay and to pray. And so if we pray long enough you may wind us wind up fasting today. I don't know. But you know, be ready to come. Anybody needs to leave at any time, go ahead I don't think it's going to take all that long, but we'll just see what God does. We want to meet with him and just be able to bring before him our needs. Peter, quoting from Isaiah chapter 53, verse 5, applied that verse, by his wounds we are healed, to our lives as Christians. For he says in 1 Peter 2, verse 24, that he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we might die the sins and live for righteousness, for by his wounds we are healed. He said it has to do with our whole life as Christians. So he says, you were for you were like he going astray, but now you have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. And so he said a couple verses Jesus has given us an example that we would follow his steps. And so that healing that Isaiah speaks of, Peter expands for us so that we understand it. Talking about a healing that is physical, emotional, and spiritual. Now, having said that, as we come to God to pray for healing Can we claim from him that whatever we pray for, that if we pray for healing, God will hear and he will answer Well my conclusion to that is just as resounding as the conclusion that I gave when we asked, is sin always connected to disease? And the answer is that depends on what you mean. Now in that case it was sometimes yes, sometimes no. In this case, depends on what you mean with a question. If you mean, do we have a promise that we if we pray and if we have enough faith, then Philip and Cameron Wecker will be healed? And they will be able to return to life without any limitations. And we will be able to claim for anyone who has cancer or some affliction in our congregation If we have enough faith, can we claim that and know that God will heal? Then I would say you need to look at scripture to see what the promise actually is. So I want to do that before we go into this prayer for healing conclusion of this series. I want us to be able to look at that one question. Should we always expect God to heal? And I want to look at three reasons that are alleged by those who say, yes, we should always expect God to physically heal, and be able to look at that and say, what is it that the Bible's actually Saying that we can claim so that we can go with genuine faith. Not rationalizing, you know, well, God, I don't know what you want to do, maybe you'll heal, maybe you won't. But that we can go with faith, believe in God, hears our prayers, and will answer to them. But that we know what it is that He's given us the continents to pray for. So let's take a look at the three reasons I've prayed with people in Colombia as in a pastor's training Meeting not long ago, and the pastor there was specifically alleging, I believe that if God uh if Jesus is who the Bible says, that if there is any physical illness in our congregation If we have the faith to believe, God will always hear and heal. That's his promise. And here are three reasons that I've generally heard why people will say That kind of thing. First reason is that they'll say that sickness and death are the work of Satan. For example, in Acts in verse uh ten ver at capture 10 verse 38, we read that uh Jesus went around doing good and healing all those who were under the power of the devil. And so the idea that they were sick is connected to the fact they were under the power of the devil. Sin , I mean nothing. Sickness is the result of sin and the curse. We know that. Now, if then Jesus came to destroy the works of the devil, according to John 1 John 3 8, which that says Then the conclusion that these people draw is therefore his people should expect freedom from disease. And to live in anything less than that is to deny the fullness of the work of Jesus Christ. How many of you have heard that kind of a an argument put forward for healing Okay? All right, good. Yeah, a number of them. What's the answer to that? The Bible gives us two things I think we need to consider as we look at what God's Word has to say and not just the things That we think. First of all, the Bible is clear that we now only enjoy the first fruits of the new age of the kingdom of God. We are in that period of time where we are simply enjoying the first fruits of the work of Jesus Christ in destroying the works of the devil. For instance, in Matthew chapter 4, verse 23, we read that Jesus went around preaching the good news of the kingdom and healing every disease. And that was in connection with his bringing in the kingdom. But just two chapters later in Matthew 6, verse 10, Jesus teaches his disciples To pray, Father, your kingdom come. Looking to the kingdom is something in the future, still to come Even clearer is Romans chapter 8, where you have in Romans chapter 8 a clear statement of our sonship. The fact that we have been adopted as his children, and that we are free from the bondage, we are delivered from the bondage of uh servitude to fear But all the things that we have is his children. And then verses 18 to 23 go on to talk about the things that we are longing for. Those things that we still seek for when we go to be with the Lord and when He comes to again to bring His kingdom in its fullness. And for instance, look at verse 23 if you have your Bible open to that. Romans chapter 8, verse 23 says, Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits, you see, of the Spirit. First fruits are down payment. It's uh and the first fruits of a harvest, it's the very beginning of that harvest. Uh we've had the first fruits of our radishes and of our lettuce, and now we're enjoying the full crop of the radishes and the lettuce in our garden The first fruits is just the first taste. It's the same thing as the full harvest, but it's just the first taste of it. And Paul says, We have the first fruits of the Spirit. But we who have those first fruits groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. And so there's still that fullness that we're waiting for, that time when Jesus will come and he'll give us the fullness of all that he accomplished in his work of destroying the devil. Just Friday afternoon, Elmer Dorse Fox 's mother died peacefully in his street She is now healed. She has now passed from the first fruits. to entering in to the beginning of the fullness. Even now she with the rest of the saints Who have died and gone on before, await for the redemption of the body, that we will be restored fully in that fully healed state when Jesus comes. But as Elmer said on Friday, she has triumphed. And so you and I are in that period where we're still waiting, still longing for Jesus to come to bring that. Okay? So that means that we can't just simply claim that because Jesus destroyed the works of the devil, it's all done. It's not done at this point. Second thing to notice in that is that the exact same difficulties That are used by Satan to tempt and destroy us. That's the word there in the blank. To tempt us and to destroy us, according to 1 James chapter 3. Verse 13 to 15. God doesn't tempt us, James says. We're tempted by our own lusts that entice us. Satan exploits those. To destroy us. That same difficulty, same circumstance is used by God to test and to develop our Character. James chapter 1, verses 2 to 4 talks about various kinds of trials that bring about testing. God tests us through those to develop character. And that character fully formed produces maturity. The significant thing there is that the word test that James uses In the first place, and the word tempt in the second place are in the Greek the exact same word, which is the clue to the fact that the same circumstances That Satan intends to use to tempt and to destroy, God uses to transform it in order to produce the testing of So we need to realize that part of what Jesus does in destroying the works of the devil is not simply to eradicate them. It's to transform them, to transform the purpose of the circumstance, as he uses it for our good. Just this week of a fellow by the name of Steve Sorensen who had tendinitis, severe tendinitis, in both his wrists to the e the extent that he couldn't even pick up a hammer. And it knew Came at a pretty un uh opportune time for him because he was putting an addition on his house and he needed to stick in a window, and winter was coming on. And And he couldn't do anything more of the work. And that was very frustrating. But some Christians gathered around. They said they'd help him out. And along with the Christians came this fellow that he knew, Willie. Who said he'd help out too. Now it turned out that Willie was a fellow who hung around with the work uh even more faithfully than some of the Christians, and he developed a relationship with this guy Willie. Turned out that Willie had an ear difficulty. He loved music with passion. But because of this ear disability, he was not able to listen. And as they established this bond of suffering , this fellow Steve was able to share his hope in Jesus Christ. Couldn't lift a hammer, couldn't do anything. And as he shared Christ with his fellow Willie, by the time the window was completed and in, Willie had given his life to Jesus Christ. Now there you see Satan would have Wanted to use the tendonitus to tempt Steve to bitterness and alienation from the Father, the Spirit of God used it to Test Steve and by that testing developed character into him and used it for a blessing to bring Willie to himself. It's not always so obvious to us how God works through those things. Same principle is at work. God transforms what Satan wants to use for cursing and destruction, to use it for blessing and for good. Now the second thing second uh argument that's often given for why we should always expect God to physically heal is that the primary ministry of Jesus when he was on earth was physical healing. And the The argument runs that he was the same yesterday, today, and forever. Hebrews 13, 8 tells us that. Therefore, he must be doing the same kind of work. And that we Presbyterians are simply wrong. Wimping out, we uh rationalize this. Uh we don't want to really believe him for his full work, and so we rationalize and we um spiritualize these promises when in fact Jesus was healing physically then, he's the same Jesus, and so he's healing physically now. Same kind of character. All right? How many have heard that kind of argument used for us to be able to claim all Physical healing. That one's not as popular. Okay. We'll move real quick on that one then. Alright. The answer to it though is a very significant answer. It's important for us to understand The response to that is that we need to understand the purpose of Jesus' miracles. You see, Jesus' miracles, miraculous healings, were signed. What's that blank there? They were signs to accompany his new revelation about God. From Genesis to revelation, miracles or signs and wonders always accompany. New revelation about God. Signs and wonders accompanied prophets. Signs and wonders particularly cluster in the Bible around So that for instance in the book of Exodus, when God is revealing himself as Yahweh, the Redeemer, you have all the plagues and the dividing of the Red Sea and then the Provision of water from rock, and as we've read here about water that is turned from bitter to sweet and the manna and all the rest of that. And then when you come to the New Testament You have the cluster of the miracles that associated with Jesus coming as the King of the Kingdom, and then the miracles of the apostles. Now the reason I say that That there is the association, a unique association, which has to do with the foundation of this new age. And that the there's the association of the signs and wonders and miraculous healings with that particular time of history is that Paul says in Second Corinthians chapter twelve, verse twelve He says that signs accompany apostles. And in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 and 20, we're told that That the Church of Jesus Christ is built upon the foundation of the Apostles and the Prophet. Now you don't keep laying foundations. You got the right foundation, you lay it once, then you build on it. The apostles and the prophets are called the foundations and apostles foundation of the church. In fact, one of the criteria for a person to be an apostle was that he was a witness of the resurrected Christ. Now you can't keep having that take down through the 2,000 years. So that's part of the foundation. Therefore, you see what we need to understand Is that these miraculous healings were a part of the establishment of the New Age as Jesus revealed Himself Now, does that mean that we say, oh well, so Jesus doesn't heal anymore? No. Look at B Point B simply says that while Jesus then does still heal today in answer to prayer, very clear, James 5 commands us to go to prayer in terms of physical healing. And James tells us that the prayer of faith Prayer offered in faith will restore the person who's sick. And so we're we are commanded to go, that Jesus does heal. He may heal dramatically. But his primary ministry, to which is healing pointed was the spiritual healing and that whole healing of our of our spirits and our relationship with God and with Now we'll get back to that in a couple minutes, so let me hold on to that. Go on to the third argument. The third argument is that the Bible promises that the John fourteen. Whatever you pray in faith, believing, the Father, He will give it to you. Mark eleven You remember Jesus said, You can say to this mountain, be cast into the sea. , If you pray that, say it without doubting, then God will do it. three twenty two talk about uh receiving anything that we pray in faith. And so if this is the promise of Scripture, the Ark Argument goes, surely this applies to our prayers for healing, which are God's revealed will. Give you a couple of examples uh listed there, but particularly notice James five Because James 5 tells us that the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. What's our response to that? Now, how many have heard that kind of argument used? Prayer of faith is offered. Okay , a few more than that. Well, you guys haven't heard a whole lot of these arguments, huh? I hadn't thought of that before. Thanks for getting the one. Okay, well let's see what the Bible The answer to that is that we need to understand something very basic about Bible teaching. And that is that the Bible will give us principles Principles, not always exhaustively in any one part. The Bible isn't Emmanuel, it is something that is given where the revelation about God and his ways unfolds. And so you'll get a a principle here between But you need to compare that with other principles. And if you do that concerning prayer, you find that there's not one but two basic requirements for answered prayer. And the two basic requirements are number one That it be in faith that you see there. But the second one is that it be prayed, that it's we pray according to God's will. That we pray according to God 's to God's will. will Now here is something very important that you need to understand about praying. Listen very carefully to this, if this is at all a struggle with you, because uh it really Helps us to understand a lot of this teaching about prayer. Prayer is not a matter of our seeking to change Of a relationship through which we get to know His will and by faith claim the power to exercise that on earth Alright? Let me say that again. Very important. Prayer is not a matter of our seeking to change God's mind in order to induce him or persuade him to give us something Better than he otherwise intended. But rather prayer is the expression of a relationship by which we We come to know His will and cooperate with Him by faith to pray that His power will be exercised to accomplish that will in circumstances Here on earth, sometimes very adverse circumstances. Prayer matters, but prayer is not twisting God's arm Prayer is developed in a relationship. And so that knowing of his will involves two things. Number one, it involves fellowship with him. John 15 seven the abiding in him. It involves the um Ephesians five verse ten, the idea of getting to know what 's pleasing to him. The second thing that prayer involves is desiring his will more than anything. Desiring his will more than anything. He recalled the series on Gethsemane, where Jesus, who had no lack of faith, he said, Father, everything is possible with you. Take this cup from, and yet you remember that he desired the Father's will more than anything of his own. Nevertheless, not my my will, but yours be done. And so anytime we come, whether it's with a physical affliction or whatever it is, there has to be that desire as Johnny Erickson has discovered in as a quadriplegic who had prayed long and hard for God to provide healing that there are two things that are more important than simply having physical healing healing. One is that I will by my life However God chooses, glorify him before the watching world. The most important thing is not what happens to my life, it is what happens to my life And the second thing is that I realize that my joy and contentment are not dependent on physical relief. What I really desire is a joyful, content heart that may or may not be associated with relief from the affliction of my circumstances. But really what we want is the joyful heart, isn't it? It's not just that God will take care of the circumstances and leave us miserable. By giving us manna or quail, and yet still giving us the uh the uh famine of our hearts So therefore, when we come to Him, we need to realize that this is not an excuse to wimp out. As we come to pray, we believe that Jesus wants to provide full healing. Sometimes physical, sometimes relief from uh overwhelming circumstances. And we've heard some overwhelming circumstances in our first time prayer for And s but but always he wants to do it spiritually and emotionally. But even as I say emotionally, I think we need to realize as Christians that his emotional healing is wrapped up and intertwined with our sanctification. Some people say, I want for Jesus to heal me emotionally And I want that this week. Now, my sanctification, my applying his lordship to all the areas of what I could wait for thirty, forty years as far as I'm concerned. I'm not in a real big rush for that, but I want the emotional healing now. And what Jesus says is, no, my child. The emotional healing accompanies the work of God. And if you don't want the one, then you don't really want the other the way that I intend to give it to you. So let's remember that as we pray for emotional Emotional healing. That emotional healing is the work of the Spirit as He takes us in understanding what the Lordship of Jesus means in all those areas of our life. But now again I come back to the circumstance. In order for us to know what we can claim as we go to prayer now, we need to understand What did he do? He took bitter water and he made it sweet. He took a thirsty people And he quenched their thirst. Jesus picks up on that idea. Do you remember in John chapter 7? In that day of the Feast of Tabernacles , In what was called the water ceremony in John chapter 7. Jesus comes on the last and greatest day of the feast, John chapter 7, verse 37, and he stood and he said If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, stream Streams of living water will flow from within him. And by this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. So Jesus' intention is that you and I come to Him in our thirst. And that He's promised for you and for me, if you come to me in your thirst. Anyone is thirsty, let him come. My intention for you is that out of your innermost being will flow rivers of sweet refreshing Satisfying rivers of water, the waters of the Spirit that come through us as Jesus Christ brings healing into us Sometimes involving the removal of the affliction, sometimes by transforming us in the affliction. Just over a hundred years ago. In a little Scottish village, a fishing village. There were a group of fishermen gathered at this inn and they were sharing all the stories of the day's catch. And one particular fisherman was discovered Describing about the fish he had caught that day. And you know how fishermen are. As he described it, he said the fish was this big. And just as he did that, a serving girl was coming past the table and his hand smashed into the teapot, broke the pot, and scattered the tea all over the whitewashed wall. And there's this big stain of tea right down the wall. The game keeper came over and he lamented and wrung his hands and said, We're gonna have to paint the whole wall now. The stranger came from a table over in the corner and he said Maybe not. Let me work with that, and if you're satisfied with it, maybe you won't have to paint the wall. So then he went and took a box, and out of that box he took Some pencils, pens, and linseed oil, and some brushes and some bottles. And he began to work with the stain on the wall. He put some lines here and there. in some parts. He took some of the stain and darkened some and lightened others, and he began to move with that with all the tools within his chest. As people said Stood awestruck, they watched that ugly stain transformed into a beautiful, glorious picture of a stag with a magnificent rack of animals And then he signed at the bottom, E. H. Lindsay, paid for his meal and left. The innkeeper said, Do you know who that was? That was Sir Edwin Lindsay, the famous wildlife artist, who had transformed his stain into a thing of beauty. Our God, Jesus, Yahweh Rafekah, wants to take the stains of your life and of my life, and sometimes he'll remove them Sometimes he'll transform that, working with the brush of his spirit in our lives to transform this aspect and that aspect so that that which was the Sustain becomes the very thing of glory that shows our lives that Jesus is the healer. Let's take out that bulletin out And let's pray together the prayer that was written by William Cowper, a man who struggled emotionally for many years. He wrote this little poem, a prayer based on that name, Yahweh Rafekah. He wrote Yahweh Rophi, just another uh another form. And let's read it together as a prayer. Let's read together. Heal us. Amen. Emmanuel, here we are, waiting to feel thy touch. Deep wounded souls to thee repair, and Savior, we are such Our faith is feeble, we confess. We faintly trust thy word, but wilt thou pity us the less? Be that far Far from thee, Lord. Remember him who once applied with trembling for relief? Lord, I believe, with tears he cried, Oh help my unbelief She too who touched thee in the press and healing virtue stole was answered, Daughter, go in peace. Thy faith has Made thee whole, concealed amid the gathering throng, she would have shunned thy view, and if her faith was firm and strong, had strong misgivings too. Like her, with hopes and fears we come, to touch thee if we may. Oh send us not despairing home Send none unhealed away. Hear us our God in our need. You who Want to hear for Jesus' name.