Before I begin my message, let me just say for many of you who have been praying for us, I just want to Express my great appreciation for your prayers for my mom 's. Some of you have heard that this week she was diagnosed with a very aggressive and malignant brain. tumor and has been given only three to six months to live. And it's been a very disorienting time. I'll be able to share a little more tonight, perhaps. the Lord's Supper service, what the Lord's been doing. But I particularly appreciate your prayers for her that she would come to have faith and rest in Jesus before he would paper and that um the Lord would help me and uh my family in the many opportunities that this presents for us to talk about the Lord as Peace People say kind of uh matter of factly what we'll pray for you and be able to respond to that in a way that the Lord can use and honor. She'll be getting only radiation treatment No surgery. Um so we're praying that the Lord would use that. And also she'll need a place to stay for uh the duration of that care, and we don't know at this point that where she'd be able to get that. So I appreciate the prayers for us as a family and uh for our being able to continue and particularly for me because I get very busy oriented uh going through all of this uh time of beginning of grief for my mom and some of you are able to share an emphasize with these kinds of feelings I know Having said that, let me try to switch gears here now and focus on the things that are before us this morning because we do have Today a very special day at Columbia Presbyterian. In fact, um this day Steve and I, Steve Green uh and I have been planning since last April. It's a time uh when we have been thinking a lot about uh what to do with this because uh today is when we want to begin to apply our holy identity, that new identity we've been talking about in Jesus Christ, to be able to begin to dream about how to apply that identity In anticipation of the new facility, the Ministry Center, $1. 7 million facility that we expect that God is going to provide. And be erected this next year. And we'll be doing dreaming about that in the middle hour. And so this morning's message is a basis for those dreams. It's a basis for those for the ministry that uh we're going to be having as a body uh for mobilizing us and helping us to think because I really believe and I want to demonstrate to you from God's Words that Jesus intends for every one of us who belong to him and are part of this body to participate together in a ministry, significant ministry, to the Howard County area of Baltimore, DC. Now um that principle, there is a principle that God has given to us, and it's an exciting principle that I want to open up to you this morning. I'm I'm so glad that this morning's message has been to me when it has really captured my heart for some time because it's not been hard to be able to get into it and to really be able to feel the excitement and the power of what the Lord is giving to us to hear, um to be able to understand and to apply. And it's from Hebrews chapter thirteen. But now before we get into what that principle is, before I read it, let me remind you again, just real briefly, of the context. We're looking at God's names, and that particular name, Yahweh Mekedishkin, the Lord who makes you holy from Exodus. 31 and we're seeing that the Lord has made us holy, that is he has set us apart, so that's what the word means. He set us apart to give us a new identity in Jesus Christ. And that new identity, as we have seen, is first of all as a holy people for his personal private treasure. Secondly, he's given us a new identity as a holy priest, excuse me, a holy place We're a pure dwelling for his presence. And thirdly, he's given to us a new identity as a holy priesthood. That is that we are given to the uh privilege of offering pure spiritual sacrifice. sacrifices for his pleasure. Now, if you think about those three things, you can kind of get a flow to them. It helps you to remember it. So when you think of your new identity, you think I'm a I'm his personal private treasure, a pure dwelling for his presence and I offer sacrifices for his pleasure. You gotta have a rhyme there, you know Personal private treasure, pure dwelling for his presence to offer sacrifices for his pleasure. When you begin to think about it, that puts together an awful lot of biblical truth and a uh an amazing compilation of wonderful things. That you and I celebrate in the grace of Jesus Christ together. To think about each day of who you are. First Peter chapter two, verse five, tells us about this priesthood that we've talked about, that we are like living stones being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices at Christmas. Acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. We're looking at five offerings that you and I have been given to please Him Five offerings to present to him for his pleasure. The first one we looked at a couple weeks ago was to present our bodies as a living sacrifice, a spiritual act of worship. The second offering is that we offer to him our worship, the sacrifice of praise that we looked at last week in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 15. Through Jesus, therefore Let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise, the fruit of lips that confess his name. So that's what we offer to him. Jesus has made the once-for-all sacrifice For sin, we don't offer that anymore. We offer now spiritual uh sacrifices simply for his pleasure. They are not for atonement. They are not to bring us into God's presence. Jesus has brought us into Into God's presence. God. Now we offer praise with our bodies. Then there's a third offering that follows in the very next verse of Hebrews chapter 13. And that next offering that you see listed there in your bulletin outline. Is that we offer our generous service as an expression of thanks to Him. We offer my there, my generous service as an expression of So there's a principle here that's very important for us to see. Um you know if if if if there's some of you who uh you know you're not able to make it every week for whatever reasons, you know, uh that's that's up to you and the Lord. Um You know, and many of them are valid reasons, but the messages are on tape, so that if you want to get the context of this this this series really has a very And so um particularly last week and this week really tied very closely together. And so just for some every once in a while somebody adds I missed uh last week or the week before, is there any way I could get the message? Well yeah, as long as everything works in the system, uh everything is on tape, and so you're able to get that just by contacting the office either to borrow or to buy But last week we saw this principle that we offer our bodies to Jesus as a sacrifice A spiritual act of worship, and that is expressed then by verbalizing praise and worship to him, telling him of his wonders. And as we do that, the principle is that worship inevitably leads to service to other people. That's a principle in scripture. Worship always leads to serving other people people. Do you remember when the uh lawyer asked Jesus, uh, what's the great commandment? What's the biggest one of all? You know, and Jesus said, What? First commandment, the greatest is love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And then what did he say? The second is like unto it. See, the second flows out of it. You can't separate the first and the second. The second one's like unto it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. What do you need Now, just loving your neighbor doesn't worship God, but you can't separate those two commandments. They're bound together inextricably. Worship leads to service of other people. And that's exactly what Hebrews 13 says verses 15 or 16 tell us. Because when you look at this, you see a principle. And there's two points I want to look at again this week. Same kind of point I want to look at the principle and then I want to look at the practice of it. The principle is in the Old Testament thank offering. Now, what you need to see Here is in order to understand Hebrews 13, 15, and 16, you need to understand something about the Old Testament thing offering Now look at what Hebrews 13, 15 says. 15, for a moment. Through Jesus, therefore, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise, the fruit of lips that confess his name. Now you look at that little phrase there, the sacrifice of praise. And that phrase, the sacrifice of praise, is exactly the same phrase in the Greek translation of the Old Testament that's used in Leviticus 7:12. And Leviticus seven twelve translates that same phrase, an expression of thankfulness. So you have the Greek in Hebrews thirteen fifteen translated sacrifice of praise, and in Leviticus seven twelve, same exact words are translated and expressed of those things. Expression of thankfulness. Why? Leviticus seven twelve is talking about the Old Testament thank offering, and it uses this expression of thankfulness. When you offer an expression of thankfulness or a thank offering. That's the phrase in Hebrews 13, 15. So you could translate this. Through Jesus, therefore, let's continually offer to God a thank offering. A verbal bank offering. We're offering to him a bank offering. Now what does that mean? Hebrews 13, 15 Referring to this thank offering can only be understood when you understand something. I give you just a little bit of Old Testament background. here now. I know that you're all read the Old Testament all the time. You're probably very familiar with this, but just in case you're a little rusty, on the Old Testament thank uh Old Testament offerings Let me sum it up for you. Okay? If you never had this, here it is. You can summer up all here of uh Leviticus in these three lines. Uh there are basically three kinds of Old Testament offerings. Have you ever read through Leviticus and all that? You get really confused, sometimes it looks like There's three, four, seven, six, you know, which one's which and how they go together and all this kind. Basically, you can all boil them down to three categories, and within those three categories there's particular kinds of offerings. But there's only three kinds of sacrifices in the Old Testament. The first one, and you see I put it there in a way that helps you to remember it, the first one is the sin offering to cover my sin before God. That's the first thing that had to be done in the Old Testament Now again, some of you that are taking Hebrews with Edge 5 will probably get a lot more of this kind of thing. I hope you'll understand what he'll be doing there in Hebrews. The first thing that you had offered was sin. There had to be reconciliation between us and God for us to approach him. So that was the first basic Old Testament offering, the sin offering From that, then, there flowed the burnt offering. So the second kind of offering was the burnt offering. Now, the burnt offering was to surrender myself to God. The burnt offering was not for the atonement of sin. It was for consecration. It was for the commitment. It was giving myself, offering myself. Romans 12, he sees the New Testament counterpart offering myself as a living sacrifice. And that was expressed in the sacrifice of the dead animal. There I am. I'm on the altar, you see. So if Hebrews 13 is the thank offering, Romans 12 is the bird offering. Now, Jesus fulfills both of those. He has become my sin offering. And because of Jesus, there is no more sin offering that needs to be made. Tonight is the Lord's Supper. That's what we celebrate. No blood to be shed. We remember his blood shed once for all. Jesus was the perfection of the burnt offering. He was the one who was entirely consecrated to God, gave himself fully, so that he be eligible to be our sin offering. So now beyond these two kinds of offering, the one that was the favorite in Israel was the third, and that was called the peace offering. So I was going to say thank offering, right? No, it's the peace offering. That was the third kind of offering. The peace offering was to have peace and fellowship with God. Now that my sin has been taken care of, now that I am wholly consecrated to God, then the Israelite would go to the temple or the tabernacle and he would offer a calf or a lamb as a peace offering that signified that he was having fellowship with God. There were various kinds of peace offerings. The thank offering was simply one kind of peace offering. We're not going to go into all the different kinds of peace offering this one. This is not an Old Testament class, all right? Just going to give you a little background. But the thank offering was a kind of peace offering. Oftentimes the thank offerings are referred to as vows in the Old Testament. You never read that, you know, in the Psalms, I offer my vows to the Lord. That's referring to a thank offering. What it meant was that sometimes you were in trouble and you were really hurting. You looked like things were really going to be coming to an end for you. And you'd say to God, Lord, if you deliver me, I will vow to offer to you a thank offering. And that was shortened to just say offer my vows. What it meant was I would bring a ram or a calf in thanksgiving of your mercy, and with that I would offer a testimony to the congregation of your mercy. That's where we get the idea of giving testimonies in the congregation. It comes from the Old Testament bank offering idea. Alright? Now when you did this, there were three things, there were other things that the bank offering taught about Jesus' work and things like that. For us. But particularly relevant to Hebrews 13, there were three things that the thank offering taught. And those are the three things you need to understand. The three things that it teaches are, first of all, A, that God wants to share his life with us God wants to share his life with us. You see, here's how you offered a thank offering. You'd bring that bull or that calf or that lamb, and you would offer it to the priest. He would take it and he would put it on the altar, and the fat would be burned. And as the fat sizzled, the smoke of that and the aroma of that would waft up through the tabernacle and in the temple. And the Bible says that God would, and he speaks here condescending anthropomorphically, that God the Holy One, remember who is beyond all things. He would say he would smell that aroma. And what he means is basically he would recognize that as something to him and God would consume the aroma of the fat. So the Bible speaks about God consuming that. Then the rest of it was for you to eat. And the idea was that you're having a meal with God. And we'll pick up on this just briefly tonight in the Lord's Supper because it picks up on that idea. God is saying, I the Holy One want to have a meal with you. Come on, let's sit down and let's have a meal together. Now for you and for me, that may not mean a whole lot. You know, we got business lunches and we got, you know, we eat on the run, fast food. But when the Israelite culture to have a meal with someone meant you were their friends. It meant more than just, you know, sharing a few bites On the run. It meant that you sat down together and you were friends. And so God, when He says to you, Offer this thank offering to me, because we are friends. I want to consume part and you get part. And the two of us sit down together, God's saying, I want to be your friend. Isn't that amazing? The Holy One wants to be your friend and my friend. And so Jesus said to his disciples, I no longer call you servants, but I call you friends. Why? He says, Because I have revealed myself to you. God wants to reveal his ways to you. He wants to be your friend. He cares about your needs. And I'll tell you, brothers and sisters, that's meant a lot to me this week. As I've thought about the things with my mom and as I've seen God answer a number of prayers and see God just leading along in particular ways when at certain points I just didn't know where to turn, how to go, I've had a very real sense That the Lord Jesus is my friend, as well as my Savior. And that He's been leading me and He is sharing with me all the struggles as He shares with you the struggles that you're going through. Our God, the Holy One, wants to be our friend. And He signifies that by eating with us Now, the second thing that comes out of this thank offering, the second thing it teaches, is that our grateful praise is expressed in generous sharing. How do you get that? We've got to understand again how Zach offering worked. You're probably all wondering, what in the world does this have to do with Hebrews 13, 15, and 16? Hang on. The way the thank offering worked was that God said, I consume part of it, you consume part of it. I get the aroma of the fat. You get the rest of the whole animal. So we got the major portion of that animal. Leviticus 7. 12, God says there's just one stipulation about this. You've got to eat it all the same day. What? You've got to eat the whole cow, you've got to eat the whole lamb the same day that you've offered it. So what happens? Well you picture it. You go home, you say, wow, look at this. I got a whole lamb to eat. I got a whole cow. You know, so what are we going to do? Well, I can't eat this whole cow myself. So I call in the family and I say, come on guys, help me finish off this cow. So then you all sit down, you know, and you say, Boy, it's too much for us. So what are we gonna do? Well call in our friends, all right? Get all the friends in, too many hamburgers for us. So come on, everybody comes on in, you keep eating away, and you say, you know, we can't finish this thing. So what are we going to do? You finally run out of friends, you've run out of family, you've run out of, and you've still got half a cow left, and you've got to finish it by sundown, or else you've got to throw it out. So what are you going to do? You don't want to throw it out. Your mother always told you, waste not what not, right? So what do you do? You call in all the needy and all the people who are hungry And you say, come on, God's been good to me. I want to share with you what He's given. And so everybody comes and they sit down and they join in the feast with you. And that's how the bank offering work. Now do you see what God has done? Without commanding anything, without saying you've got to be generous, without putting a law, God simply said, I just He gives one little principle, just got to eat the same day. I'll leave it to your imagination what to do with that And so what's it do? It produces, you see. I mean you offered the thing because you're thankful. You offered it because of God's mercy. That's the whole point of it. So what are you going to do? Obviously, then you're going to share that generously with people who have needs and wants. Now, with that background, look at what Hebrews 13, 15, 16 says. 15. Through Jesus, therefore, let us continue to offer to God a sacrifice of praise, a thank offering. The fruit of our lips that confess His name, confess His mercies and thankfulness, you see. And do not forget to do good and to share with others. For with such sacrifices God is pleased. Now you see? You see the connection? God's saying here, now in verse 15, you've offered to me the sacrifice of praise, the thank offering. And then in verse 16 he said, now remember how that thank offering works. Don't forget the part where you share with others. Because that too is a sacrifice. That is an offering to me when your worship has translated into sharing that offering with those who are in need. So do good. And share with others. For with such sacrifices God is pleased. So the third thing that God wants to teach us from this Is it serving others is an offering to Jesus? That's the third spiritual offering that we offer, you see The third thing that we offer as priests to Jesus Christ is our generous sharing with those who are in need around us. That's a spiritual offering. Verse 16, you see, he calls it a sacrifice. Don't forget to do good and to share with others, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. How else can you understand that? You see, how can you see that giving, uh doing good and sharing with others is a sacrifice? Except when you understand it's in the context of the Ninth offering. It's a sacrifice of generous sharing because of your gratitude for what Jesus Christ has done for you. Do you remember that in Isaiah 61, 6 We told you at the very beginning of the series on on priesthood that God had said through Isaiah that when the days of Messiah come All my people will be priests and ministers to God. Now that word minister captures that, you see. Because priests were called ministers. The priest ministered to God, it says. But then we use the word ministry to talk about input into other people's lives, don't we? We talk about having a ministry. And when we talk about having a ministry, we generally think of with another person, don't we? But you see, those two words in the scripture, I mean, that one word has those two ideas: ministering to God and ministering to other people. And both of those are a sacrifice directly to Jesus Christ. A perfect example of this is in Philippians chapter 4. Take a look at that for just a moment. In Philippians chapter 4, Paul is talking about his needs. And he's in prison and he says, I didn't have anything. I trusted God. Remember the series on contentment, verses 11, 12, and so I was content whether I had a lot, whether I don't have anything. Still content, trust God for my needs. Verse 14, he says, yet it was good for you to share in my troubles. Why would you do? Well the next verse is say you sent some gifts you gave me things you shared generously with me to help me out in my need Then look what he says in verse 18. I have received full payment and even more. I am amply supplied now that I have received from Epapyritus the gifts you sent. They are a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. You see, here it is again. Doing good, sharing generously, God says, that's an offering to me. So when you and I, out of the gratitude of our hearts for what Jesus Christ has done for us and given to us, when we share with someone what we have received Then in doing that, we are offering something to Jesus Christ directly. And so when you say, Lord, how can I thank you for all that you've done for me? Jesus says very clearly, be good, do good, and share generously with someone else who has a need. That's how you give me thanks. That's how you express to me an offering with which I am pleased. It's always good to know how you can please the Lord, isn't it? We can think of all sorts of ways that we don't please Him. But this verse, verse 16, says, with such sacrifice, whenever you and I do something Kind and generous to someone else out of thanksgiving to Jesus, God says, I am pleased with that sacrifice. Edith Schaefer, in her book Common Sense Christianity, gives an illustration of this that I think is very appropriate. She told in her chapter there about the lost arts of serving, privacy, discovery, and imagination. That's Edith, you know, you just do all kinds of things. She's talking about the idea of serving. And she talks about how the Christian's life is so utterly different from the world. We lose our lives in order to gain them. And how in order to follow Christ, we deny our own rights. It's not me, me, me, my rights, defend, protect, all this. control, but it's rather to give myself away. And then she talks about how uh in the early 60s, uh when uh Betty Ferdan's uh book The Feminine Mystique came out, a lot of people people were discussing that, women would come and they would see her serving Francis Schaefer, her husband, and they'd say, What are you doing that for? You know, go in there with this tray of tea for him while he's, you know, studying or talking to somebody. Let him get it himself, you know, he's a big boy. And she'd say they lost the sense of why I do that. And then she writes in a book, she says, let me tell you what goes in my mind when I serve Francis his tea. She says, how do I regard my having to run upstairs with the tea or having served breakfast in bed or having continued for years to do this kind of thing? for a diversity of people as well as for husband and children. How do I look at it? Do I feel like a martyr? Let me tell you exactly how I see it. First I say silently to the Lord, perhaps not always, but really almost every time, Lord, I thank you that there is a practical way to serve you tea, or breakfast and bed, or whatever it is I'm doing for some There'd be no other way of bringing you food or doing some special thing for you. Thank you for making it so clear that as we do things that are truly in the realm of giving of ourselves and service to others. We are really doing it for you. And these things can be done so often. And then she goes on to mention some other things. benefits. But you see the principle. This is a way you and I have of pleasing Jesus Christ. To give ourselves what we have received receive to others who have needs. And so you see on the back side of your bulletin there the little diagram that shows this. Worship to God is then leads to, inevitably, close to generous service to other people. How do we do this? Finally, then let's get to the practice The practice of it. And the practice of it is for us, first of all, of course, to do it individually, with our families, with our friends, with our small groups to give ourselves to remember that when we have an opportunity, it's always inconvenient, never comes at a convenient time when someone has a need and you're given the opportunity to share I mean whoever is sitting around saying, gee, you know, I don't have anything to do now, I wish somebody come knocking on my door with a knee. It always comes at the worst possible time. But when we take the opportunity, we are offering that as a sacrifice. To Jesus Christ. And he's pleased with that. He's pleased with it when we set aside our own agenda, our own rights, my own defensiveness about my schedule, control of my life, and I say, I will give myself to this this person because I love Jesus and I want to please him. Because I want to please him, this is the opportunity he's given me to do it. And it's a test But now in particular this morning, what I want us to look at and what we're going to be thinking about is in the second hour is not just how to do that individually and privately in our own spheres, but the idea of mobilizing ourselves as a congregation to serve the corridor where we live, the Baltimore DC I say that because it's not just Howard County, people are from other places, but where we are in our community, how we are able to give what we have received from the Lord to serve people in need around us. As an offering back to the Lord. And what do I mean by that? Well, perhaps you have been in your life, before you were a Christian, in some kind of bondage. Perhaps you're from a severely dysfunctional kind of background. Or you come from a background of substance abuse, drugs or alcohol. Weight or whatever it is, food, you know, other kinds of things. You have something that you felt I was in absolute bondage to this. And Jesus Christ has released me. He has changed my life. He has given to me freedom over something that people all over Howard County and around us are in bondage to. It could be money problems, it could be anything. But I have been freed, I'm still in the struggle. It's not like I don't struggle with it anymore, but I'm freed in principle and I'm working out through Jesus Christ. The power he's given, Romans 6, we talked about that fact that I am now no longer under the control of that sin. And so what do you have to offer in thanks to him? Using that experience is he, perhaps to start a support group for people who are coming who also have that need but don't know Jesus Christ. And so you're able to say, Lord, how can I thank you for how you've delivered me from this? And the Lord says, Well, you know, when we have this ministry center, this base of operation that we have next year, you don't need to wait for that, but you know you can sort of say what Well there's a good opportunity because I'm not gonna have twenty, thirty people just sort of come to my home. What am I going to do? But here you go, you've got a base of operation, and so you're able to start some sort of a support group And link up with a couple other Christians, find out, network. That's what we're going to do this morning. Find out who else has interest in particular areas. We're not going to cover every area, but we're going to cover areas that the Lord has led us to. What are some of the areas he's provided freedom in our congregation that we can provide for people in Howard County by leaving them to Jesus Christ? Or maybe it's been some life experience that you've had going through some kind of particular grief or struggle with parents with Alzheimer's or whatever it is, perhaps it's experience as a parent. uh parents of teenagers, parents who have raised kids. You have something the Lord's brought you through. I don't want to compare having parents with Alzheimer's to having teenagers, but you know you get the idea. There's a little bit of stress in the And you know, so there's this opportunity through the life experience God has given to you to say there's other people who are looking for others in similar situations. And so again, how do I offer thanks to Jesus for what he's doing in the way he's changed our lives in supplying our needs? Why don't we get together a group of others who are interested in those kinds of experiences in learning in life. We have a distinctive. We're not just saying, well, you know, here's how I've struggled and found out. We're all kind of learners together. Well yeah we are. But Jesus Christ is in our lives. That makes all the difference in what we have to offer to people who are in those experiences without Jesus Christ. That's another opportunity you see as an offering to Jesus, the generous sharing of your life. through the opportunities, the ministry center or whatever else. Maybe it's sports for you, maybe it's some kind of recreational activity. It could be all kinds of things. But what we want to do this morning is we want to dream a bit about what it is that God has given to us by his grace that as we offer back to him sacrifices of grace, with that we then move to the generous sharing of our lives and our reading. Resources in Jesus Christ. And the wonderful thing about this is just as Tom had us sing before we uh got into this, that when we are aware that Jesus has provided for us Then we don't have to worry about giving ourselves away and providing for ourselves. Because Jesus Christ is, and I guarantee this, From his word. He is not asking us to give anything away that he has not already given to us to give. So that when we're talking about dreaming together, we're not talking about Oh boy, burnout, here we go. I'm gonna expect it to do stuff that I have no idea what to do, and how am I ever gonna get involved in ministering to people and you don't know what kind of personality I have, my background? Don't worry about that If Jesus Christ gives you a concern in a particular area, he will provide for you everything that you need to be able to minister in that area. All he's asking for is now to do is begin to make ourselves open to him and say, Lord, how do you want to use this? And so we'll be asking these three questions you see there. What are the needs of our community? Just brainstorming on that. We'll be talking about what has God given to us by His grace, and then we'll talk about how we can use those gifts as a thank offering to our community, especially when we have our ministry. You see, this is really simply an experiment in trusting the Spirit of God to say, I see how He wants to use this as a congregation. All we're really doing this morning is saying we want to open ourselves up corporately to see how God might want to use us. We don't know. I mean really the elders of this church have no agenda to say now where we really want you to come out is we're going to We believe that the head of the church, Jesus Christ, will lead us if we're open to All we say is that we want to be open to him. And as open to him, we're saying that we are now giving him the opportunity to work through us to offer ourselves a sacrifice of praise, leading to the thank offering saying, come on, Howard County, come on, Baltimore, D. C. Carter, we have a meal to offer to you. God has been merciful to us. And so we want now by faith As he has given to us not only the life experiences, the resources, but is providing for us a ministry center to operate next year We want to begin to dream about five years from now people coming by the scores and by the hundreds to Jesus Christ because of ministries that are offered through simple people like you and me. Who simply point to Jesus and say, God has been merciful to me. And so I want to offer to him the sacrifice of the generous offering of my life so that you might see what he has to offer to you too. And if we do that, I begin I believe, I really believe, that God can begin to make a difference and change the face of Howard County. Amen? Lord, it's a little scary for us to think about what kind of openness this would mean for us. To think of what does it mean for us to begin to really dream, like parachurch ministries dream, about how to reach our particular section of the culture. Those people that we're particularly concerned for because we've had experiences in those areas and we've struggled and we've sought for answers from Scripture And you've given us some answers, and we're very far from having all the answers. But we've seen the difference that you make And our hearts ache for those who are struggling with those same questions, and they don't have a Savior. They don't know what your word has to offer to them. They don't know you who are life. And so, Lord, now we want to this morning begin to dream about that. We want to offer to you with a sacrifice of praise, with our bodies as living sacrifices, we want specifically Lord, to offer to you now the generous sharing of our lives. Because you say that you are pleased with that sacrifice. And we want to Please you. Hear us, Lord. Lead us. Direct us as a congregation. Network us with others who have similar concerns. We give ourselves to you now, believing that you want to work through us. And what we're doing here by faith to see how you will work through is to honor yourself in Jesus Christ. Amen.