Just this week I received an article from a mainstream evangelical publication. The article was entitled, If You're a Yesterday Person, Cut Loose from the Past. And the article begins: hanging on to your past may deter you from enjoying God's blessings today Well, you know, I don't know about you, but I've seen lots of articles that talk in secular publications, self-help magazines, about the need to uh let loose of the past uh Let go of the baggage, the bitterness, the rest of that, and to um live in today, get moving on with your life. Well, tell you the truth, there wasn't much that I can see that was different about this article from anything I've seen in the secular press Except that it throws in some God words. For instance, when it says to note the things from your past that still bother, influence, or hinder you, they could be people, events, experiences, or erroneous beliefs, the Holy Spirit will help you to recall them. That makes it sort of sound spiritual, you know, now that I know the Holy Spirit's helping me to do this. And then after a little further down it says, Commit yourself to believing that recovery is possible and worth the effort. Counteract the mental voices that say you've already tried everything and nothing works. Or you'll always feel or be this way. Ask Christ to take charge of your life and strengthen you. Everything that he said up until that point, you know, same thing you might read in any other book you find in Crown Bookstore But then, you know, well let Christ take charge of it. Well, okay, now that that makes it seem Christian. A little further on he talks about make a list of things for which you feel you need forgiveness. Then accept God's pardon. But on what basis? Just simply moves on to the next thing that you do. And then he finishes up by focusing properly on the past will help you to view the facts without the blinders of pain as God opens your eyes. you will gain clearer vision to see his picture of the possibilities of your life. Now, you may think I'm being a little hard on this guy and saying, well you you know what he means, you know, he's putting that, you know, that he's taking certain things for granted. Well, but that's the problem so much today simply allows us to read into whatever we want, the notion of who God is, what he's like. Not much different from, for instance, the courses that come out from Howard County General Hospital. Now there's one here that you might be interested in. The psychology of high self-esteem. Discover why low self-esteem causes most of our troubles and how self-love can create wholeness for yourselves, for ourselves, and others. You have forgotten your true self, and that is your only fault. Okay. I know what my problem is. Get on with things here. Then there's another one here, visualize and verbalize. Use visualization and affirmation to improve self-image, create new thoughts and behavior, and stop self-sabotage. Because we can change our thinking, we can change our lives. And this third course, it kind of picks up from that, it's about imaging. the art of meditation, imagery, and energy exchange through music and other means, then ends up with Scripture. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. This is nice. It makes it sound a little spiritual again. Well you see, the the problem is that we all are hearing this this kind of spiritual talk without really thinking about, but who is the God that we're speaking of? Is he a God that I just sort of bring my understanding, my images, my thoughts? my perceptions, what I think God ought to be like, and I've just poured that into these words? Or is there something that comes to me that says, this distinctively, uniquely, is the God of the Bible. This is what he is like He is the one with whom we have to do. And that's why from time to time, for the last six years, since 1989, we've been looking off and on at a series on the names of God, in order to understand who God is as he reveals himself to us, saying to us, this is who I am, this is what I am like. You're not at liberty to define me. You're not the ones to tell me what I am like. Let me tell you what I am like. What he is like is far better than anything we could come up with. But we've been looking at these names, 15 of them so far, in a total, believe it or not, of 58 messages sprinkled through those six years. And I finally came to the conclusion, enough's enough. There are a lot of other things I'd like to say before I die, and I'd like to move on. You probably would like to also, and so I am going to restrict myself to four more names. And if you put think that's pretty funny, I'm worried. I may just move on and write a book on the thing. I don't know But anyway, I'm gonna I'm gonna restrict it to four more names. You add the name Jesus, you got twenty if you want to make it come out nice and even, because I've preached on that one too, but four more names, and then a couple of wrap-up messages on it, and then we're gonna move on to another series. So today I want to look at the 16th name, and this name is generally included in the names, list of the names of God, though actually it is the name of the new Jerusalem. But it reveals something very important about God and his character. And so generally when people talk about the names of God, this one is considered as one of them. It's only found one time in the Bible. And that's the very last verse of the book of Ezekiel, which of course you've all read in the last month, and so we don't need to review it. But let me just tell you what's going on at the end of Ezekiel, the last chapter of Ezekiel, you may recall. is about the new land, this uh the new land of Canaan in the days of Messiah, and talks about this, the tribes of God's people that are living in peace and security. And then he finishes up at verse 30, focusing on the city. He's talking now about Jerusalem, the capital, the center, the heart of the land. And he describes Jerusalem in terms of its gates and the way it orients itself toward the land. Three gates to the north, east, south, and west. each one having the name of one of the tribes. So let's begin at verse 30 of Ezekiel chapter 48. That's the one that's right before Daniel and it's after you know Isaiah and Jeremiah and the rest of them. Ezekiel chapter 48, this is God's word. Verse 30: These will be the exits of the city, beginning on the north side, which is 4500 cubits long. The gates of the city will be named after the tribes of Israel. The three gates on the north side will be the gates of Reuben, the gate of Judah, the gate of Levi. On the east side, which is 4,500 cubits long, will be the three gates, the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, the gate of Dan. On the south side, which measures 4500 cubits, will be three gates, the gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun. On the west side, which is 4500 cubits long, will be the three gates, the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naphthalai. The distance all around will be eighteen thousand cubits, simply the four times forty five hundred. And the name of the city from that time on will be Yahweh Shema, the Lord, is there. The name Yahweh we've looked at many times. It is the one distinctive, unique name of God. The name which means I will redeem you or I have redeemed you into a relationship, out of bondage, into a relationship with myself with a reward, the reward of heaven. an inheritance that he gives us. The word shama is simply the adverb there. Just like in our English, it simply means that something is there. And so this is the climax of the description of the new city which has started in chapter 40 of Ezekiel and continues all the way up to chapter 48. And the very climax of the description, the most important thing that you can say about that city is that its name, remember the name is what describes something. The name is in the Hebrew what gives it its character. And the thing that gives this city its character, its most significant distinctive, is that its name is Yahweh Shema. The Lord is there. 1968, Francis Schaefer wrote a book by the name The God Who Is There. And in that book, he was trying to demonstrate that our generation has shifted from an understanding of truth that is objective. There is truth. Something may be true and something may be false, whether you and I believe it or vote on it. But we have come now to truth that is entirely relative, truth that is true for you, but maybe not for me. It was true last century, but maybe not true this century. The truth is not true in any absolute sense. There is no true truth, but rather only relative truths that change and shift. And that because of this we have lost the notion of an objective God who actually exists independent of our thinking. There is no longer a God who is there. There is only the God of these kinds of articles that I've described. The God who fits my needs, the God who I write about because it makes me feel good to have that idea that there's someone like that out there somewhere in some vague sense. But rather, Schaefer was saying that essential to biblical revelation is the idea that there is a God who is there, who exists independent of your thoughts and my thoughts. His existence is eternal and it is self-dependent. He is not simply an idea, his reality is the most overwhelming reality of all of life. You believe that the incarnate Jesus, God in the flesh, is here Here's one thing to kind of come to God in some vague ideological way. It's something entirely different to believe that you and I are now meeting in the presence. of the living God, who is there. That Jesus is here to meet you. That if we could see him physically, we would see him standing here to meet with us. And he's just as present as if his physical appearance was manifest to us. Now, in order to grasp the significance of what Ezekiel is saying in that last verse, the new Jerusalem is going to have the name Yahweh Shema, the God who is there. then we must look at the problem that Ezekiel is dealing with, because this is very significantly the climactic verse of the entire book. So let's look in your bullet and outline if you haven't pulled it out already. And first of all, the name Yahweh Shema and the problem in Ezekiel. First of all, to understand the problem in Ezekiel, we need to see, firstly, the heart of Yahweh, the heart of the Lord. Yahweh, simply the more accurate rendering of what traditionally has been Jehovah. We need to see the heart of Yahweh, that it is to be with his people. Those are the first two blanks. The heart of Yahweh is to be with his people. And we need to be absolutely clear here that the Lord is self-sufficient. He doesn't need us. From all eternity, he has been entirely content with the fellowship of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit together. He doesn't need us to be with us in some way to fulfill himself. The Godhead is complete without us. He's not lonely without us. Well, you know, it may be hard for you and for me to believe that God could somehow exist without us, but the fact is that's entirely the case But he created us out of his own free will and love in order for us to fellowship with him, to behold his glory, and for him to be with us. After sin, Adam and Eve thought they could hide from God. Foolishly, they thought if they hid behind a bush, maybe God wouldn't see them. But of course, he demonstrated to them that he is everywhere, in fact. But nevertheless, because of their sin, he expelled them from his presence. Now he sought them out And in that initial act, God was demonstrating the fact that if He does not seek us, we will be utterly abandoned, lost, and cursed forever. But in that initial encounter, God says to them, I am going to make a provision so that you will be able to be with me. I want to be with my people. And so you begin to see that unfold in Scripture, and you come to chapter 5, and you read about this fella by the name of Enoch. There are four verses on Enoch's life, a life of 365 years. Four verses sums it up. We don't know what kind of career Enoch had. We don't know if he was successful in his career. We don't know what kind of car he drove. We don't know what kind of house he lived in. We don't know if he was an Apple man or an IBM compatible man. There's only one thing we know about Enoch, and it's stated twice in the four verses. Enoch walked with God. The one thing that can be written over his life, the only thing that's worth remembering is that Enoch walked with God. If somebody were to sum up your life and my life, what would be the most important thing we'd want them to say about us? What we accomplished? Or the fact that we walked with God. We who are parents, when we think about if we had a choice, which is it that we prefer from our kids, a slavish obedience or their companionship? Now some of you say, you know, after this week maybe a little bit of slavish obedience wouldn't have been too bad, you know. But you know, when you back off from the whole thing, it's not simply that I want my son or my daughter To just do what I tell them to do. So I want them to want to be with me. For us to walk together, to enjoy one another. Enoch walked with God. And you come to Abraham, and God calls Abraham out of Ur in order to establish him as a beachhead in the land of Canaan, where God is going to provide his people a kingdom. And what does God say over Abraham's life at the end of it? He was a great missionary to the Canaanites. Well, not so much. He had a lot of flocks and herds, and he was very rich. That was true. But what's the one thing that the Bible writes is the epitaph over Abraham's life? Three times you read it in Scripture. Abraham was called God 's friend. Abraham was called God's friend. It's the most important thing that you can say about him. He walked with God. God was with him. He enjoyed his presence. The heart of the Lord is to be with his people, to enjoy them, to have us walk with him, to know him, to fellowship with him, not simply to do things for him, but to be with him. And so you come to the book of Exodus. And when God calls out from Moses to be his leader, the first thing that he does is to manifest his presence in the burning bush. And to assure Moses, I will be with you as I send you to do this. And what am I sending you to do? To call out my people from Egypt so that they will be with me in the wilderness. I'm calling them to myself. And so God orders them to build a tabernacle. And the purpose of the tabernacle is that he says, I will there dwell with my people. I will be with them. I will be in their midst. The whole purpose of redemption, the purpose of all that I'm doing is that I will be there. They will be with me And so after the golden calf and that incident where just with Moses gone a few days, the people tire and they say, we need a God substitute in order to fulfill us. And God says to Moses in Exodus 33, I'm still going to give you the land. I promised that I would give you that land, but I'm not going to go with you. I'm going to send an angel because if I go with you, I'll probably destroy you in your arrogant, sinful rebellion. And you remember it was on that occasion that Moses pled and he said, Oh Lord, if you don't go with us, don't even bother to take us up. Because if we don't have your presence, nothing else matters. God says you've understood the purpose of the whole thing, Moses, and he renews his covenant with him there. The whole purpose of God is to be with his people The whole essence of all of the blessings that he gives to you and to me is summed up in his presence. Without him, nothing else matters. And if we think we can enjoy his blessings, without him, things become sterile and empty and dry and hollow. God 's purpose for you and for me is to walk with us, to be with us, to be present, and for us to be conscious of his presence in our lives. And so when you come to the book of Ezekiel, you have a problem. And that problem is the second point, which is the holiness of Yahweh. Because God had said in Exodus, and he had said it again and again, I am holy, therefore you must be holy, because I'm dwelling in your midst. And God comes in the book of Ezekiel and he says, I can't dwell with Israel. I can't dwell with you because you are a vile, arrogant, stiff-necked, rebellious people. You've presumed upon my presence. And in the book of Ezekiel, beginning in chapter 8, going through chapter 11, you may want to turn back. I want to reflect Refer to a couple of verses and they make more of an impact if you see them and actually see that this is what God's saying, not simply what Al Harris is saying. Beginning in Exodus, Ezekiel, excuse me, chapter 8, God Takes Ezekiel from his home up to Jerusalem. God says, Let me give you my perception of evangelicalism in your day, Ezekiel. Let me show you what the church is like. Let's look at the essence of it. Let's look at the heart, the spirit of what the worship of evangelicals looks like. And so he takes them to the temple. And there he shows them in verse 3 the idol that provokes jealousy. The idol, that substitute that he says that you've placed there, you centered your hearts around it instead of me. And so then he uh describes that idol, and the idol is probably the statue of Asherah, that goddess of Baal, Baal worship, goddess of sex and success, basically, sum it all up. A goddess that was worshipped for the fulfillment of physical desires and good crops and prosperity So she represents sex and success. You know, you years ago I used to read about the false idols in Scripture, and I used to think it was hard to relate to them because I'd read about them and I'd think, well, yeah, but we don't bow down to idols anymore But with the uh ascendants of neo-paganism, we're more and more giving representations and names and uh personifications of various lusts and cravings and uh ideas, uh whether it is sex or success or these kinds of things. I think we're gonna be moving more and more to a time when the the scriptures and the ideas of these idols will be more obviously relevant to our own culture. And so you have it here and God says to uh Ezekiel that not only have they done this But they've even indulged in animism. They worship creatures that have spirits in them. Must have gone and seen Pocahontas or something. Verse ten he says, I went in and I looked and I saw portrayed all over the walls all kinds of crawling things and detestable animals. And all the idols in the house of Israel. And the effect of all this is described in verse six. He says to me, Son of man, do you see what they're doing? The utterly detestable things that the house of Israel is doing here. Things that will drive me far from my sanctuary. The essence of the sanctuary is that I'm there But Ezekiel says, you can't presume, because I've made that covenant that I will always be there. You're driving me, you're driving my presence far from my sanctuary. And again and again he says, you're going to see more detestable things than these, and more detestable things than these. And so he goes on to describe the Babylonian God of sex and success, and how the Israelite women are mourning. is death, which is a ritual that they go through in their annual worship. And then in verse seventeen, he says, Have you seen this Son of Man, is it a trivial matter for the house of Judah to do the detestable things that they're doing here? Must they also fill the land with violence and continually provoke me to anger? Look at them putting the branch to their nose. Ah, now we're into environmental pantheism. That's what that was nature worship. It was a representation of that Pretty contemporary stuff going on here. So he says in verse 18, Therefore I will deal with them in anger. I will not look on them with pity or spare them, although they shout in my ears, I will not listen to them. And what's the result of all this? In chapter nine, verse three. Now the glory of the God of Israel went up from before the cherubim from above the cherubim, where it had been, and moved to the threshold of the temple. So God now has moved his presence out of the Holy of Holies. And now he's at the threshold. He's at the borders of the temple. And he goes on to describe more and more of their sinful practices. He talks about their child sacrifice, their hypocrisy, their bloodshed, their injustice. how the rich buy justice by getting expensive lawyers, while the poor have to fend for themselves. The result in chapter ten, in verse eighteen, then the glory of the Lord departed from over the threshold of the temple and stopped above the cherubim. And now the glory has moved from the threshold of the temple, and now it's moved out into the city, further away from the temple. It's no longer there at the temple. And then he goes on to describe the false prophet. prophets who preach a gospel of good news without repentance, taking sin out of the message so people feel good And he says the result of this is described in chapter 11 in verse 23. The glory of the Lord went up from within the city and stopped above the mountain east of it. Do you see the point? Yahweh is no longer there. He's abandoned Jerusalem. He says, my presence because of the repulsive hypocritical worship, using God language with empty, pouring into it whatever it is that you want to believe about me to suit your needs. To fit your own desires, I cannot dwell, being who I am, in the midst of such a people, and deceive you to think that that's okay. I have removed my presence out of Jerusalem. And he moves off to the east symbolically, God's saying, I've removed myself, and when God's presence is removed, there's only one thing left, and that's judgment and destruction. And that's what Ezekiel begins to detail. And he talks about this whole captivity and how God is bringing the Babylonians. In order to wake Israel up and see that his patience has come to an end. They had presumed, they had said, but God's heart is to be with us. He's given us a covenant. He'll always be with his people. We are people who have claimed John 3. 16, and we carry Bibles, and we're people who say that we love Jesus, and so he can never leave us. God says, you want to bet? Do you think you can superstitiously use religious language to manipulate me to your ends? And God says, you haven't understood me. And this is something that you kids need to be very clear on because your parents have professed Jesus, but so often Kids say, well, because my parents are Christians and I've been baptized and I've grown up in Sunday school and I know the language, therefore I don't have to worry about my relationship with Jesus. And God says, if I can take my presence and remove it from Jerusalem, there's no guarantee you don't inherit eternal life from your parents. You get it from Jesus Christ directly. So every one of you kids have to pay attention to realize until I give my life to Jesus directly, I can't claim what my parents have rested in. And because we adults claim, because we have an evangelical background, to think that just because we're here and we're singing the hymns, we're okay. That's what they were all doing in Jerusalem at that time. They were still singing the hymns Because what we've been talking about the last couple of weeks. The drift into an apostasy among evangelicals. We're not talking simply about liberals now. We're talking about how we have to examine our own hearts. But yet we're all sinners. And if God is going to remove Himself from sinners, who of us has any hope? But the Lord kept for himself a remnant that believed and trusted. And eventually he sent his son. And so Point two is that Yahweh Shama solved this problem. How can a holy God dwell with a sinful people? He solved that problem at infinite cost to himself. He sent a son Jesus, God in the flesh, that he would be with us. Emmanuel And when Jesus ministered, what was the pattern of his ministry? You remember he gave himself to the crowds. But you read in Mark chapter 3 that after he prayed all night, he went down and he chose twelve that they what would be with him. His purpose is still to have people who are in fellowship with him, that they know him and walk with him. And then when he comes to the crowds, what is it that he says? All you who are laboring and are burdened under the weight of your sin, come to me. Come with me, come to me, and I will give you rest. And what are we saying? You got problems? Don't come to me. I got enough of my own. Go to somebody else. But this Jesus comes and he says, You have problems? Come to me. I welcome problems. I'll take your problems. I want to walk with you. I want to take that burden that you have. That's why I've come. So eventually God brings him to that place of judgment where Jesus cries out, Father, where are you? Father, deliver me from this hour. Father, save me from this cup. And Jesus is utterly abandoned. The presence of God removes from Jesus. God is not there for him. He is forsaken and cries out on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because he's forsaken. That you and I would never be abandoned. He was forsaken in our place. He who had kept the law of God perfectly Who had kept every stipulation of it was now forsaken. God was not there for him. So that he'd be there for all who are united to him by faith when Jesus rose again So what does he say after he's raised from the dead? All authority is given to me from heaven and on earth. Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations And when you go out, you're going to be lonely. You'll be leaving family and you'll be leaving friends. When we were in Japan, there was Uh one couple that was there , the father, uh w the the husband of that couple was in some agony because his father was twelve thousand miles away in a hospital, possibly dying of the effects of his alcoholism. And he felt so separated. He felt that I wish that I could be there and here I am separated from him by an entire ocean. And I feel so lonely. And what is my comfort and what is my hope? And the words came. I will be with you always, even to the end of the age. Jesus is with us And that outweighs all the loneliness. So what does this mean for us, the third point? It speaks about our priorities. It speaks about the fact that you and I have been saved ultimately not to work for Him, but to worship Him. We've been saved to walk with him. It's not so much my accomplishments that Jesus longs for as it is my fellowship. It's my heart that he yearns for. It's your heart that he yearns for. It's not simply that you're busy providing for your family and doing a lot of good things. It's the fact that you're willing to get up 15, 20 minutes or a half hour earlier to meet with him at the beginning of the day. To get into his word, to worship, and to say, Lord Jesus, I want to know your presence now. He saved you to spend time with him, to worship him, to walk with him, not simply to work for him. It also affects our hope. It affects our hope. Do you remember Jesus as he was going to the cross in John chapter 12? Said that except if a seed, unless a seed dies, it cannot bear fruit, it cannot bear life. And he's speaking of himself. He's going to die, and from his death there will be brought forth life. But he uses that as a pattern. He says, that's the way it is for my disciples. It's a general principle of life. Unless you die to your own life, you will not bear fruit in the lives of others. Dying to your own agenda, dying to your own determination that this is what I want and this is what I need And so Jesus is calling his disciples to come to give up their lives, to lay them down, take up their cross, and follow him. And he says, Come on after me. May cost you your life, may cost you your family, maybe your father will die 12,000 miles away. I'm with you. Maybe all these things will happen. Maybe you'll lose your job standing for some principle of righteousness. It's a workplace. There's no guarantee that there will be prosperity and success here temporally. But what is it that he promises in John chapter 12? He says, now, once you've given up all these things, here's my promise to you: Where I am, there will my servant be. Now let's imagine for a moment that I said that to you. I say, okay, congregation, we're going to enter on a campaign and we are going to be dead serious about reaching Howard County for Jesus Christ. We're going to sell our homes, we're going to give up everything that we have We're going to pull our resources. We're going to lay it down radically for living in order to accomplish what we're bringing in of the kingdom of God. Follow me. Here I go. And you say, Well, what are we going to get out of this? I mean if we're giving up everything and all this sacrifice, what do we get? And I say, You're going to be able to be with me. Kind of inspiring, isn't it? So laugh me out of the room. But when Jesus says that, we know that's the very best thing that I could have. Where he is, I will be forever. For there will be no pain or sorrow. He's in control and just to be with Jesus and know that I'll never have to worry again. He'll take care of everything. I'll never feel a longing to be loved. I will never have the deep emptiness in my heart because I'll be with Jesus where I am. There my servant will be. So he says in John 14, I'm going to prepare a place for you, that you will be with me. And what is that place? And that's what Ezekiel's describing. It's the New Jerusalem. And Ezekiel describes it in those eight chapters, and then he sums it up by also by saying at the very end: the most important thing I can say about this place is Its name is Yahweh Shama. The Lord is there. And so in Revelation chapter 21, 21 and 22, you have the description John Tom read part of that. earlier, but in Revelation chapter 21. You read this invitation, then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. Sea is the symbol in Scripture of trouble and trial. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. This bride is coming to meet her husband. When a bride is adorned on the wedding day, what is it she's looking for? We're going to have a party in the wedding? Well, yeah, that's nice. You're going to have a lot of presents to open? Well, that's nice too. But any bride that's worth the name of a bride is not looking for those things ultimately. What she's looking for is I'm going to be with my husband. We're going to live together now. And so John goes on to describe in verse 3, and I heard a loud voice. She's dressed for her husband. I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people and God himself will be with them and be their God. And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will be no death, or mourning, or crying, or pain. Why? For the old order of things has passed away And we have been restored to the presence of God. That's your comfort this morning, believer. If you belong to Jesus Christ. Yahweh Shema, the Lord Jesus is not only here, he is with you in every circumstance To meet every need by the presence and the power of himself. Amen.