We've been studying the names of God for some time now, to know our God better, because uh each of the more than a couple dozen of names and titles of God Reveal something of his character to us. And the more we know his character, the more we love him, the more we're able to trust him. As Psalm 910 says, those who know your name trust in you. And so we're looking now at the fourteenth of those names, Yahweh Sabayat , which we say the Lord of hosts. The Lord of hosts, and we see this name uh many times in the Old Testament, but uh two times that we're looking at are the refrain from Psalm 46 to get an idea of this, so if you haven't turned to that, please turn. To Psalm 46 in your Bibles. And we see that name in the refrain of Psalm 46, which appears in verses 7 and 11. Let's read then God's word Psalm 46, a psalm of great comfort when you're in trouble. God is our refuge and strength. And ever -present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way, and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea. Though its waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with their surging, there is a river whose streams make glad the city of God. The holy place where the Most High dwells. God is within her. She will not fall. God will help her at break of day. Nations are in uproar, kingdoms fall, he lifts his voice, the earth melts. The Lord Almighty, the Lord of hosts, Yahweh Sabayat, is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come and see the works of the Lord, the desolations He's brought on the earth. He makes wars to cease to the ends of the earth He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the shields with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord Almighty, the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. We're looking at two questions that we're asking of this name, the Lord of hosts, as it appears in this psalm. The first name, the obvious one, is who are the hosts? It's not obvious who they are because it's never explicitly spelled out, but the primary reference seems evident, not exclusive reference, but the primary reference is to the hosts of heaven, the angels It's the angels that the Lord is the host of primarily. And we live in a time of a resurgence of angels A time when everybody is interested in angels. In fact, I began to wonder how many conversations about the gospel you could get into just by beginning to talk about angels. Do you know how many people believe in the reality of angels in this country. A year ago, Time magazine did a cover story at Christmas on the new age of angels. And for that story, they ran a poll and they asked Americans how many believe in the reality of angels. How many of you think? Sixty-nine percent of Americans believe in the reality of angels. That's more people than believe in absolute truth in this country. They believe in the reality of angels. But the reality of the angels that people believe in today is about as far removed as what angels are really like As the idea of the devil is compared to the little man running around in the red jumpsuit with a pitchfork. There is no comparison between the popular conception of angels and what angels are really like They are real. We as Christians affirm that. But they are not at all like the popular myth about angels today. We see angels in books. You go to a bookstore and you'll find just one one bookstore that was just a whole shelf of books on angels and angel encounters. Angel trinkets. There's even a 1995 angel calendar each month. You can have a picture of a special angel on it. Things are going wild. But You know, just last week I was talking about how Jacob saw the angels from Jacob's ladder and uh the reality of angels who are warriors, who are majestic in power and terrifying to behold. And I go home and there's the Washington Post. And they're here in here in the uh section of all the coupons, you know, you know, where you cut out all your stuff to get cheap Cheerios and everything else. There's a special edition A favorite Old Testament stories plate collection. Now, you know, I mean there's dolls and plates and plaques and cars and everything you see in these things. And the plate of the of the week or the month or whatever it was was Jacob's dream. And here you have Jacob, you know, this little guy, just looks like Jacob's about seven years old here. And he's sitting by this little statue, and here's all the angels, these little cherubs, uh, going up here into heaven. And the thing that that immediately captures me as I look at this Is that they have reduced the entire story to the realm of myth and fairy tale. There is nothing terrorizing about these angels. And that that's the point, isn't it? We want to believe in something that makes the universe not impersonal. And yet isn't threatening to us. These kinds of angels don't require any change in my lifestyle. But the biblical angels typify, they exemplify to me the fact that these are beings of majesty and power that are a hundred percent obedient to the will of Yahweh Sabayot. the Lord of hosts. They are entirely subject to every women command of his will. And they speak to me of the fact that this one in glory speaks and the angels immediately obey. How can I be so arrogant as to think that I can decide whether to obey or not? But not these kind of angels. You see, these are the kind of angels that our culture wants. And the danger is that we as Christians begin to think of angels in some sort of cute way. And something that is sort of warm and fuzzy to us. without understanding what the Bible says, which is a far coarse superior picture of what angels are like than what we see in popular culture. Now, having identified what the hosts are, the second question is: what is their function? We began to look at that last week. The Psalm hints that there are two functions to angels that we see today. The first is the care and protection of God's people. The first stanza speaks of this before the first refrain. That God is our refuge, He's our strength, He's our ever-present help in trouble. And even though our world's coming unglued, as we saw that this is hyperbolic language. It's speaking about uh things that have never actually happened to where there was an earthquake to the extent that that mountains were falling into the heart of the sea. Uh you know, this is just talking about the whole the whole world sort of splitting. And it seems like that sometimes to us. Its waters are roaring and foaming. The mountains are quaking with their surging. Nevertheless, there's this river, a quiet place, whose streams make us glad. You see the contrast between the threat of the sea and angry sea, if you've ever seen an angry sea in a storm, and I have Uh it's it's a terrorizing thing to behold. And then to see a quiet stream. And it's the same water. It could have been the same water that was in the sea, you know, ten years ago. It just went up into the clouds, rain pain came back down, now it's part of a little brook or stream. There's nothing threatening about it. It's tranquil. It's peace-inducing. And you see that and you're reminded that God is in his dwelling place. He's able to take care of us. He's within her. He'll help us. Even though nations are in an uproar, God can lift his voice and quiet the whole thing, just like Jesus in the storm. Why? And then the refrain. It's because he's the Lord of hosts. He's the one who commands thousands and thousands upon tens and scores of thousands of angels. Because he's the one who is in absolute control. He can protect us. With his angels or without them. He is able to protect us. Now Jesus, of course, takes this idea, where you see there the parallel thought, the God of Jacob is our fortress. We saw last week that the God of Jacob speaks of that vision of Jacob where he saw the angels ascending and descending up a ladder and Jesus says I'm that ladder in John 1. The angels come to you not for judgment but as friends because I am the one. who mediated between man and God and took your sin. That sin which deserved the judgment, so the angels would come in wrath to destroy, the angel of death that came in the Passover to destroy the firstborn of the Egyptians. And now you are saved from that. And the angels come to lead you out, out of that bondage into safety. The angels come as your friends. Have you ever thought of angels as your friends? Yet the Bible says that because of Jesus, the angels are your personal friends. Not personal. Just think about that this week. Does the Bible teach that we each have our own angel? Ever thought about that? You know, an angel assigned just to my case? You know, we all think mine 's gotta work over time, you know. I mean, is there an angel that is just in charge of keeping you out of trouble and protecting you and kind of guarding you and fighting your battles spiritually and helping you? The Bible isn't absolutely clear on that, yet it's interesting what the Bible does say. For instance, in Hebrews 1, in verse 14 We do read that , are not all angels ministering spirits sent to serve those who will inherit salvation? Just briefly alluded to that last week, but there is the indication that angels, all angels you notice, not just as you know, there's warrior angels and then there's terror angels. No, all angels have that dual function As warriors, they also pre care and protect us. And they're all ministering spirits sent to serve us. If you inherit salvation through Jesus Christ this morning, the angels are sent to minister to you. To care for your needs as emissaries of the Lord of hosts. Jacob, interestingly enough, the fellow who saw the angels ascending and descending at the end of his life reflects on that. Now notice what he says in Genesis 48. In verse 15, Jacob says about God's protection. He blessed Joseph, his son. He's giving the blessings now, and he says, May the God before whom my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, walk, the God who has been my shepherd all my life to this day, you remember God said, I will not leave you or forsake you till I've done all that I've promised. And then he says, the angel who has delivered me from all harm, may he bless these boys, and may they be called by his name. He goes on. So Jacob says, there was an angel that protected and delivered me. He particularly had concern for me. And then you look at Matthew 18, probably the most significant of all. Because of these are the words of the Lord Jesus. Another reference, by the way, is Acts 12, where you have Peter, you know, I told you about his being in the prison, and the angel came in and delivered him. And when he comes to the Christians that are praying and and they uh he knocks on the door and they don't believe it's Peter. Remember what they said? They said, well, it must be his angel Now that's not definitive, of course. We don't know if they're right or wrong, but they thought that Peter had an angel. And they had the belief that there were angels that had a particular identification with people. But more significant and most intriguing is the reference in Matthew 18, where Jesus is speaking about the value of children. And notice how he makes the point. In Matthew 18, verse 10, Jesus says, see that you do not look down on one of these little ones. For I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven. You notice? Their angels in heaven. So here's all these little kids. They're all running around, you know, and scraping knees and doing all this. And Jesus says, No, you know, don't look down on these kids. You know, what have they got to contribute here? And he's saying, their angels Are in the very presence of God. And so, you know, watch the next time you trip over a kid walking out of here, you know. Their angels are before the presence of God. Kids are very significant and precious to the Lord Jesus and to us. But the particular point is that He refers to their angels. Now, I don't know, I can't say from scripture that we all have an angel assigned to us, but clearly there is a personal identification. of angels with each person who is inheriting salvation in Jesus Christ. What's more significant to me Is that there's perhaps a number of us who feel like, gee, if I could believe that an angel really had my case in in at heart, uh then it would really matter to me. You know, I I would really uh feel better About my security and my safety. But the fact is that the whole point of Psalm 46 is not that take heart, because angels are looking out for you. What's the point of Psalm 46? God is our very present help. He is the one. What's going on with this thing? God is I've only preached nineteen seconds. I'm on a roll here. That's pretty good. Boy oh boy at this rate. Yeah. What how long have I been going? I don't know. Who knows? Let's see, what is it? About nine? Uh about five of nine, right? Okay. Well this thing just keeps beeping here. I know. I uh whether he's protecting me or you know, y you, I don't know. Now I'm bound back to three seconds. It's going back and forget it, I don't know, I'll just find out what time it is. Whatever I run out of time, you know, somebody yell. Anyway What is important to me and for me to communicate in this for all of us to see is that there is a tendency to believe that if I have an angel that is protecting me and watching out for me Man, that really makes me feel a lot more important and secure. But the point of Psalm 46 is that the Lord of hosts, God Himself, your heavenly Father, is your refuge and your strength. He is your ever-present help in trouble. He personally will help you at the break of day, verse 5 He personally, you see, verse 7, the refrain is not that the hosts are with us. It's that the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. I think that's important for us because I think Frank Peretti did a tremendous service for the church in his novels where he made this idea of service. Spiritual warfare among angels and demons to be something that many Christians said, you know, I didn't realize that kind of thing was happening. It awakened me to the uh reality of angels and demons. How many have read any of Peretti's books here? A lot of VM, more than most any other Christian writings, I think, today. So you've you've acquainted yourself with that. But there is one concern among some others, but there's one particular concern I have about the impression that Peretti leaves in his books. The angels are so prominent that God recedes into the background. I don't know if you've noticed that in the book, but you know, it's not as if you have a clear sense that God Himself is active in each case. But it's that the angels who are active. And God's kind of back there, almost removed. It's it's a kind of a a deism. It's a kind of a view that, you know, because the angels are so powerful and God is infinitely more powerful He must be therefore further removed from us. And that's exactly what Psalm 46 is combating. He is the Lord of hosts, but he himself personally is with you. Now, this was brought home to me in Japan when we were there and talked to this one fellow who was a Buddhist and he said the problem I have with Christianity is that you only have one God Now we Buddhists have eight million gods or more. Nobody's kept quite count, but he says we've got more than eight million gods, so therefore whenever I have a need, I can pick a God that I can identify with and I can pray to that God for that need. He says it must be awfully hard for you to relate to one God who is over everything. It's just kind of impersonal. And you see, that's the way our human minds think, isn't it? If he is so powerful, he must be removed. And that's exactly what Psalm 46 is saying. The amazing thing is that even though he is the Lord of hosts, he is intimately related with your life at every point. Now that is a powerful statement for you and for me to believe in our trouble. But not only is their function to care and to protect us, But they are also warriors. Their second function is to overcome Satan and his hosts. The world is not just in upheaval, it's in warfare. And you see this in the second stanza and then the second refrain that uh that Climax is that. Come see the works of the Lord. The desolations he's brought on the earth. He makes war cease to the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the shields with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. This one who is going to be exalted. This one who is going to bring all wars to cease. This one who is going to vanquish his enemies. He is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Now, get what the psalmist is trying to picture to you there. He's saying that there is not only angels who are our friends, but there are demons who are our enemies. It's interesting you see that when time did its pull, they said, How many people believe in angels? They didn't ask how many people believe in demons You see, if you're going to believe in angels, then you must also understand that there are angels not only that are obedient to God, but angels who are in rebellion to God, whose whole purpose is to destroy your life if you belong to Jesus Christ. Who want to destroy your marriage, destroy your home, who want to bring temptation into your life and discouragement So that you give up trusting and following Jesus. And perhaps you've followed him and you've been bold in some case and you've gotten hurt. or people have let you down, or you've uh had prayers that haven't been answered, and the job of the demons is to discourage you so that you say, I'm not gonna step out anymore. I'm just gonna live low profile. I'm not going to pray boldly because I'm not sure that it's going to work. So there is that muting of our effect, of our confidence that God is an ever-present help in trouble. And the angels are out to destroy the evil angels, the demons, are out to destroy you. They will stop at nothing in order to destroy your life. Do you take that seriously? Do you really believe that this life is so full of conflict? Of spiritual warfare that you need to cleave to the Lord Jesus day by day for his protection and for his strength. This has been true ever since the fall in the Garden of Eden. Genesis 3:15. We read the Declaration of War, where God said, I will put enmity between the seed of the woman. That's us. Human beings and the seed of the serpent. Those are his hosts. The evil hosts And you see that picture of spiritual conflict illustrated physically in the Old Testament in the number of cases. Just uh time for two, whatever time I have or don't have. But real quick, one case in uh 2 Kings. In chapter six, you have that uh instance where uh the king of Aram is after Elisha, because Elisha has been Spreading the word wherever the king of Aram is attacking, Elisha warns. He gets a revelation from God and he warns God's people and they're able to defend themselves. He says, I've had enough of this guy. We're gonna go wipe him out. So he sends a whole army just after one man, Elisha And as he sends this person to 2 Kings chapter 6, in verse 15 you read that when the servant of the man of God, this was Elisha's servant to help him, got up and went out early the next morning, an army with horses and chariots, this is those of King of Aram, had surrounded the city. Oh my lord, what shall we do? the servant asked. We are doomed. Don't be afraid, the prophet answered Those that are with us are more than those that are with them. Oh yeah? All I see is you and me, Elisha. And Elisha prayed, Oh Lord, open his eyes so that he may see. And then the Lord opened the servant's eyes, and he looked, and he saw the hills full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Elisha was able to see with the eyes of faith what the servant couldn't see. That God's hosts, the hosts of all the angels, are about us to protect us and to go to war for us. Of course, the result of it is that they send blindness to all the armies of the king of Aram. And then Elisha leads them, as they're blind, right into the heart of Samaria, the enemy capital, the capital of Israel. And um these guys surrender, of course, and they don't bring any more raids. Didn't have to even raise a sword. Because in the majestic sovereignty of the Lord of hosts, with his host of angels, he was able to vanquish the foe. Well, you remember the time of Hezekiah when all of the Assyrians marched up against Jerusalem. And they're all arrayed around Jerusalem, and Sennacherib comes and says that I'm going to wipe you guys out. Just as I've wiped all the other nations that have stood before me off the face of the earth, so I am coming against you. And Hezekiah comes and he prays that prayer in Isaiah chapter 37. And you read that prayer, begins in verse 16: O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim. What are cherubim? Angels upon the ark. The Lord of hosts who is enthroned between the angels, you alone, O God, over all the kingdoms of the earth. You've made heaven and earth. Give ear, O Lord. Open your eyes and see and listen to the words that Sennacherib has sent to insult the living God. It's not us that's at stake. It's your reputation, God. He wipes us off the face of the earth. Hey, that's one more tribe of people gone. But your name is identified with us. And so God says, I will protect you. And what does he do? He sends one angel. This time just one angel. You read in verse 36 that the angel of the Lord Went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the Assyrian camp. By the power of the Lord of hosts, it only takes one angel to accomplish all that he desires. So whether it's a host of angels, or whether it's one angel, or whether it is God directly without the aid of an angel, he's able to take care. Of you in whatever spiritual conflict you're involved in, whatever Satan wants to do to discourage or to destroy you, God is your help So you come into the New Testament and you see in the book of Revelation, the revelation means to reveal to us what we can't see with our natural eye, and it says that there is a battle going on. It's a cosmic spiritual battle between Babylon and Jerusalem. And we of Jerusalem, those that belong to Jesus Christ, are arrayed against Satan and his hosts. And then the Bible speaks to you and to me of that comfort. For instance, in Hebrews In chapter twelve, it says in verse twenty-two that you have come to Mount Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem To the city of the living God, and you have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly The angels are here this morning, brothers and sisters. They're worshiping God with us. That's what the Bible says. And these angels and joyful assembly are here at our disposal, along with all of those who serve the Lord Jesus. That as we go from here in spiritual battle, we go in the strength of the Lord of hosts. The angels are with us to defeat them. John says that you fight against the spirit of Antichrist, but you've already overcome him. For greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. So you and I have that confidence. If you've been flagging in your faith and feeling like, I don't really know, I'm beginning to think that Some of these things about Christianity I don't understand, but I gotta just take care of myself. Come back to Psalm 46 and see that the Lord of hosts is with you. The God of Jacob is your fortress. He will be exalted in the earth. And if you if your cause is a cause identified with Jesus Christ, it will be vindicated. And God will take care of you in all of his ways. Amen. Amen. That's a tremendous, tremendous truth Now, whatever time I do or don't have left, let me just wrap up things with three points of application of this. First of all, this encourages me because I believe that if we see the spiritual battle the way Psalm 46 and the rest of Scripture portrays it. that there is genuine hope for renewal and revival in our day. We see the forces of evil and the forces of good that are being militantly Escalating in the battle of values in this nation, and the battle of the gospel against the battle of false ideologies. And if anything this past week of elections has taught us, it is that the world is full of surprises, isn't it? I mean we think that we have things projected and we know where things are going and then all of a sudden there's this dash of cold water in the face and say, hey didn't you thought you had it all lined up, didn't you? You know, I'm I'm at work and doing things that you and I can't understand. And so whatever what happened this week means for the kingdom of God, I'm not about to project that But the fact is that God is able to turn the course of events of history. And we're seeing, for instance, Bill Bright wrote in a letter that we received in the church as this last week. The things have gotten so bad in public schools that some schools are now beginning to ask for campus crusade to do the same kinds of things they were doing in Russia, to teach values and character. And that even the California school system may be open to a limited extent of receiving biblical instruction in public schools. We see James Dobson writing in his October letter that Americans do not line up with what Al Gore says, that everybody here agrees. that the right to take or not take a life in a woman's womb is up simply to the woman. And in a poll that they ran they found that only six percent of Americans were willing to agree with that statement. And they see that there is a movement, there is a shift, a tremendous tension of ideas in this culture. But we see with that more and more Christians gathering together to pray, who believe Zechariah 4:6. Not by might nor by power, but by my Spirit, says who? The Lord of hosts, Zechariah 4. 6. And so we realize that our progress is only upon our knees. And there's a great encouragement that God is in fact, who is the Lord of hosts, will be exalted, and as he's doing mighty things in other parts of the nation of the world, so he may do it even here. And that means that you and I in Columbia Presbytery need to place a greater emphasis on prayer. I'm going to be talking about that a little in the middle hour because we see this all over the world in missions. And yet we are far behind what our brothers and sisters are doing in terms of extraordinary prayer here in America. And so do we need more opportunities to gather together to pray? I don't believe that we'll see God do extraordinary things until we begin to mean business in extraordinary prayer to seek his face. What does that mean for us? Let me say something else too in terms of application here. I just want very briefly to address this question of territorial spirits and spiritual mapping. Now for how many of you are those terms familiar? Territorial spirits, spiritual mapping, strategic level praying, warfare, any of this The couple, all right? Not many of you. Alright, let me just real quickly tell you what this means because you're probably going to hear more about this in the next couple of years. There is a movement that is growing very rapidly within the Church of Jesus Christ that says that you and I are going to only be able to turn the corner in this culture when we begin to discern who the demons are who are in charge of certain territories. There is a demon of Columbia or Howard County. There is a demon who is in charge within the hierarchy of Satan's hosts. There are certain demons in charge of certain territories. Those territories gave themselves to satanic influence either by false worship, occultic practices, certain kinds of sins, whatever in the history. And you need to study the history of Baltimore and Howard County and the rest of this to find out in what ways did this region give itself to Satan. Now, there are many examples given where churches and pastors have done this, they have discerned this, God has revealed supernaturally the name of the demon. That name of the demon is invoked, you pray against him in the name of Jesus. And then all of a sudden the strongholds, that's a key word in it, the strongholds are broken, and all of a sudden the gospel has freedom, and people turn to Christ in droves. Now the examples are fairly dramatic when you hear them. I've heard some amazing stories about what happens when you engage in strategic level warfare prey. And there is an organization, a worldwide organization, doing research on this. There are conferences all over the United States now that are beginning to pull Christians into this. There was one just in October uh in northern Virginia for the East Coast. And I've been to some of these, I've been to the seminars, I've heard the people, I've read the things that they've said. And I was drawn to this to say, maybe there's something here that I've missed and we need to lay hold of. But brothers and sisters, the more I've looked at it, the more concerned I'm becoming about this movement. First of all, there is no biblical basis for the idea of needing to name a demon whose name is not given in Scripture through some mystical revelation. in order to have the key to overcoming Satan in that area. There is nothing in Scripture, not one verse that indicates that you and I are to Learn the name of a demon in order to uh prevail in prayer. Um if this was key To the advance of the gospel, surely Paul, in Ephesians 6 or some other place where he talked about spiritual warfare, would have mentioned this. But he doesn't. When we are called to pray against Satan in general terms, but not to have to go to seek the names of certain various demons. who are in charge of Columbia or your street or block or the state or the whatever geographical territory that we're concerned about. My concern is further in this that it becomes superstitious. And that's always the danger when we deal with angels and demons. In 1 Samuel chapter 4, Israel had lost the battle against the Philistines. And you read in 1 Samuel 4. 4 , That they had this idea that the reason we lost the battle was because we hadn't taken the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of Hosts Jehovah Sabbat. We hadn't taken the ark. Now if we just took the ark, then we'd win. Then we would be able to defeat Satan and his hosts. And so they come marching into the next battle with the ark, saying, Now we're going to win because the Lord of hosts is with us. And what happens? That time they not only are utterly crushed in the battle, but just the icing on the cake is that the Philistines capture the ark. They lose the ark in the process And so for a number of months the Philistines have the ark in their possession. For God to teach his people the danger of superstition. It's the Lord of hosts that we look to. Not some superstitious manipulation of demons or of angels or any of the rest of this. Psalm forty-six is absolutely clear. The Lord of hosts is our ever-present help in trouble. And so therefore do not fear. Do not fear, because he will be exalted among the nations. He will be exalted in the earth. He will be exalted in your life. So brothers and sisters, be still and know that He is God. Let's pray Lord, we are a feeble people and often we are timid and we are easily intimidated by the evil one. We step out on faith and things don't go the way we think. Immediately we back off, and we forget that we are in a warfare, and that we should expect attacks, insidious assaults upon us To tempt us and to discourage us. But that you have given to us your word that you, the Lord of hosts, are with us. You, the God of Jacob, even somebody like Jacob with whom we can identify, are our fortress. So, Lord Jesus, you who have died for our sins, so that the angels are our friends and not agents of judgment for us. Build our faith. That we would trust in you, not in angels, not in any superstitious practice. But only in you, Lord Jesus, to protect us and to deliver us, whatever our need. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.