Last week we are seeking in this whole series on the names of God to get to know our God better by understanding Him through the names by which He's revealed Himself to us And in particular, we are looking now for these four weeks at this name, Yahweh Rafekah. Now I asked the first group what Yahweh Rafekah meant, and I, you know, some mumbling and some hemming and hawing. I hope that uh this group can do a little better on that, uh, even if you have to look at your bulletin outline to get a little help. But the name Yahweh Rafekah means what? That is much better. I have to go back to those guys and tell them to shape up their egg. Yahweh Rafekah, the Lord, your healer. That's the name, and that's what we're looking at for four weeks. We uh began last week, uh it will finish four weeks from now in which on May 24th We will then conclude with opportunities to gather together for prayer for healing, both after the middle hour for those after the first service and then at 1230 for those of you at this service to be able to gather together for anyone who would want to have prayer for healing. And what we're trying to do now is understand a bit about what kind of healing does the Bible talk about that God gives What is it that we can believe him for? What are the issues that are raised by this? You remember that last week we looked, uh began by looking at the circumstances of the healing. It's interesting to me that God revealed this name not in the context of a healing service It was not in the context of any health problem particularly. He was in the context, you remember, of Israel coming out of Egypt, having just been rescued, and as they're coming through the desert, for three days they get no water. And you remember that after the first day, they probably were just filled with the memories of God's goodness in rescuing them from the Egyptians. The second day they're getting a bit thirsty, and by the third day, all these memories of God's faithfulness have pretty well disappeared in the consuming desire for a drink. And then up ahead they see some green, and then there's this water, but you remember as they hear the groans and the curses and the cries, they understand that God has taken what seemed like a tremendous answer to prayer and provision. And it's become a thing which is bitter. We talked about the problem of Christian cynicism, the problem of our Experiencing in our own lives where God seems like He is answering something that we've prayed for for a long time. And when we come to that answer, it turns out to be bitter waters, and we have bitterness of soul. rather than the belief that God really cares. Because he seemed like he mocked us in turning what we thought was going to be a a tremendous, dramatic answer to prayer into something that was in fact undrinkable. It was something that mocked us. We saw how Moses cried out to God. The rest grumbled, but Moses cried out to God and God in his kindness brought up the wood. Showed Moses that when he put it in the water, and the water which was bitter was made sweet. And how it's in that context that God reveals himself as Yahweh Profekah, the Lord your healer. Not only does he do that, but he says something else in verse 26 of Exodus 15, where he reveals this. Let's take a look at that one verse again. 15, verse 26, God's word. The end of verse 25. There the Lord made a decree and a law for them. So we're having something here that's a law, it's a principle that God's going to state. And there he tested them concerning their attitude. We talked about that last week. He said, if you listen carefully to the voice of the Lord your God , And do what is right in his eyes. If you pay attention to his commands and keep all his decrees, I will not bring on you any of the diseases that I brought on the Egyptians. For I am Yahweh Rafekah, the Lord that heals you, who heals you, or we could translate it, the Lord your healer. Now there's two things that I see that come out of that. The first is that God is telling us here: there's a basic law, if you obey me, I will heal you. I won't judge you like the Egyptians. And we saw how that, like Israel, the problem is we're unable to obey Him. Our sickness is so great that spiritually we are dead. We can't obey God. We can't keep the conditions of that promise. In fact, Jeremiah says, your illness is incurable. But then Jeremiah goes on to say, God says, I will heal you. And then we see how Isaiah describes how that's to be. That his Messiah will come, and he will be the one who will uniquely keep the conditions of that promise of Exodus 15, 25. 26. He uniquely will heed the commands, and he will be the one who will keep all the law. He will be the healthy one, the only healthy man who ever lived. Then God will bring on him the curse that he describes in verse 26. All the plagues of Egypt wrapped up and summarized in that last plague of the death of the firstborn son. And so God slays his own firstborn, so that his obedience is given for our healing. And because Jesus kept the conditions of that promise, and Jesus endured the curses and the sickness that you and I bring to him, through Jesus we have health. And Psalm 103 states that. The Lord has forgiven all your sins and healed all your diseases. And so we see that there is wrapped up in the scriptures a close association between sin and disease. Between health and salvation. Close connection. So that raises the question for us: what does this say to us today? We've got to look at this question head on this week What does this mean for us today in verse 26 about the connection between sin and disease? Is there some sort of a connection? And if it is, what is it? Because it seems to me that one of the things that verse 26 is saying is that the Lord our healer is not only the healer But he's also the wounder. See there in verse 26. The alternatives are that he will not bring on you the sicknesses, the diseases for Egypt, but that he will be your healer. And so the first blanks there is that Yahweh, uh the Lord, is both wounder and healer. And we need to deal with this question. In our own walk as Christians, our own temptation to be cynical and to believe that God does God really hear our prayers, uh particularly then when we encounter suffering and particularly physical affliction, to ask this question, is this somehow related to sin? Because there seems to be a connection in that verse, doesn't there? I mean if you were going through the some kind of an affliction now and you read this verse, don't you ask yourself, what is it possibly that I've done that God is bringing on me affliction rather than healing? So we want to look at that question, and as I've done that and I've looked at the scriptures, I've been persuaded that in fact there are two conclusions that we can draw from this. And those are the two conclusions I want to present for my study for for you with all the scripture uh that's wrapped up in that. And I'll tell you right now, you're not gonna have time to look at that. It's not gonna be a Bible drill this morning. morning. So don't bother to try and check through and find all the verses, but rather just note them there and then after you've all wished your mothers a happy Mother's Day and if your mother's living to be able to Then you sit down with your Bible and check out some of these verses if you want to be able to find out more about what God says about healing and the connection between sin and disease. Two conclusions. The first is that there is that some disease is the direct result of sin. Some disease, I believe, is the direct result of sin. I believe the Bible teaches that very clearly. Now there's two kinds of diseases. We have to notice before we even get into this. There's first of all kind of the general plagues of society. And then there are the maladies of the individual. When I talk about the general plagues of society that is the result of sin, what I'm saying is But if in fact you find that a third to a half of your office place or the place where you work or people that you associate with A third and a half of them are all sick with a flu or the virus, and you come down with a flu and a virus, it's probably not all that profitable for you to introspect greatly about what was your sin to cause that flu and the virus. That's just being part of a sick society. That's being part of a world where people get sick and suffer. Cold doesn't kill you, it just makes you wish you were dead, makes you long for heaven. Right? So that when you get that kind of thing and you got the nausea and the aches and all the rest of that, I think the main benefit of that is to just say, Lord, it's going to be great in heaven when I don't have this stuff. Amen? Yeah, if I said that in January I'd get a lot louder, Amen. Getting out of that season now. But that's the kind of thing that we see in that. But I believe even more seriously That there are plagues that God brings. You see some examples in Scripture. For instance, verse 26, he talks about the plagues on Egypt. Clearly, these boils and the rest of the things that the Egyptians suffered were directly the intervention of God. In First Chronicles chapter 21 You have the situation, you remember, where David, out of his own pride, desires to conduct a census of Israel. He'd like to get he's into the numbers game, you know, and he wants to get uh an impressive array of the size of his army and all that he's got in his forces. And so he conducts a census and God says your motives were very sinful in that. You weren't trusting me. And what's the result of it? God brings a plague on all of Israel. And within a couple of days, 70,000 people die of some disease that we don't know. They're struck down. Seventy thousand people. Clearly, direct intervention of God, a sickness because of sin. Or you take in the example of the illustration of the golden calf, an example. Exodus 32. Moses is up on Mount Sinai getting the law, and the people of Israel decide that they want to have a tangible representation of God. And so they form this calf, and they all bow down and they worship and they have this big calf. Party, which is really an orgy, and Moses comes down, he smashes the Ten Commandments, and God brings about a plague as a result. Illness, a plague on the society, because of that. As a result, thousands of people are struck down and die. There are other examples in Scripture of this where God directly judges a society because of its sin. And I believe that it's utter naivety and it's intimidation that causes Christians to take a kind of a deistic stance toward a plague like AIDS. And for us to back off and to say that somehow God doesn't have anything to do with that, because God's too nice a guy to do something like cause people to die from that. If you look in scripture, sin is a very serious thing, and death is its consequence. And as our prophet Bill McDill has so well written in The Flyer, age is primarily the product of promiscuity. You know, take even away the homosexual a uh aspect of it, and it's primarily, of course, promiscuity within the homosexual community, but it's clearly the result of sinful behavior in most cases. Now it may be that in the In years to come we'll see more and more innocent victims who follow from this. But that's true in Scripture also. The innocent suffer along with those who are guilty in the plagues that are struck strike down God's people and other people. But the fact is that I think that we as a society have been so intimidated To want to be so unlike and remove ourselves from Job's friends, who wrongly accused Job of saying, because you're suffering, therefore you must have done something wrong. And none of us want to be guilty of laying a heavy on one another, laying a guilt trip on one another. So whenever as a Christian who is suffering in a situation The last thing we want to do is raise the possibility that maybe God is trying to get your attention through this. And by doing that, I think we waste a lot of affliction. I think there are some times God is trying to get our attention. Sometimes as a society, and we as Christians, I think, need with compassion in our ministry, which I'm sure we'll be getting into more of a ministry in the years ahead, with gay with people who are in the gay community, but particularly those who have AIDS, whether gay or not, we will be affected by this. We will have to take a position on our own understanding of God's judgment as a uh on a society in a plague like that, but nevertheless as Christians to be part of the healing. rather than heaping on more judgment, interpret God's works to our society, but then be part of the healing process, particularly to those who are innocent victims and those who repent who are guilty to acknowledge the forgiveness of God Of Jesus Christ that's come to all of us as guilty sinners, that we'll need to be able to think that through and to understand that there will be those kinds of plagues that are the result of God's work directly. And that's true of us as individuals too. In maladies of individuals, I believe the Bible teaches that God can be working in that in two ways. Can be the result, directly and indirectly. And I think it's important for us to distinguish between those two. So notice the distinction here. I think sometimes Sickness or affliction, physical suffering, is the direct result of God's work in a person's life. What are some examples of that? some listed there. Numbers 12. Do you remember Miriam was arrogant and said, I suppose it's got to be the big deal. You know, a little sibling rivalry between brother and sister. There. And God says, I've appointed Moses. Miriam, it's none of your business. And what's he do? He strikes Miriam with leprosy. Just like that. I mean it's nothing about you know why did she get it you know I mean it's very clear why she got it. It was in judgment, it was a disciplinary act for her sin. Or you take the example of John 5. Very interesting. Remember, Jesus comes to the man at the pool of Bethesda. And he heals that man who had been sick for 38 years. Do you remember what Jesus said to that man after he healed him? Just in case you don't, I'll remind you. Remember Jesus after he healed him he said, Now go and sin no more, lest a worse thing befall you. Now, to me a very clear implication there, first of all, that the man's sickness was a result of something he had done. It's interesting to me the man doesn't say, What are you talking about? What did I what he knows right away what Jesus is talking about. That's indicative. That's very significant. I don't think the Holy Spirit wants us to introspect and to question when we have sinned as a result of something we have done, it will be clear In fact, I suggest, I tried this out, and we were talking about this some yesterday, try what I call the 10-second rule for this. If you are in a physical affliction and you are wondering, is this perhaps because of something I have done? Ask yourself, if it were because of something that I have done in direct disobedience to God, what would it be? If you can come up with an answer in less than ten seconds, you may be on the side. The reason I say that is because if there's something you can think of so quickly and so clearly Then there's something that is kind of in the forefront of your mind and it's just waiting for your willingness to acknowledge it. Even then I wouldn't suggest it necessarily that you're Your affliction is related to that. In fact, that might be the case. Don't waste the affliction. It may be that God is trying to get your attention like the man at the pool of Bethesda. Or 1 Corinthians eleven. Paul says, You guys are taking the Lord's Supper as if it's a party. He says this is something solemn, it has to do with the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus, and because you're doing that, some of Of you are sick, and some of you have even had the mortal illness. Clearly, again, God's disciplining of his body through the direct effects of sickness. Because of sin. I think that's implied also in James chapter 5, where we're told that if you are have some debilitating illness, if you're sick and you're not recovering, call the elders so that they can come and anoint you and pray with you. And there's an implication, I believe, of counsel there because he then says, If you have sinned, you know the prayer faith will raise him up, and if he has sinned his sins will be forgiven. Confess your faults one to another, pray for one another, if you may So I think that on that whole context of what James is saying there is there's the possibility, doesn't assert it, but the possibility that that illness was related to sin. And that that needs to be explored in the process of the anointing. Now that's the direct, but there's also the indirect consequences. And this is something that I think we're beginning to discover more about in our generation, but it's something We need to do even more thinking about. That is the fact that there are direct, that there are indirect physiological consequences of spiritual maladies. For instance, in Psalm 32, in Psalm 32, David is rejoicing in forgiveness and its benefits. And do you notice what he says was the case when he refused to admit and to acknowledge his sin? Verse 3. He says, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. Bones are kind of a symbol in the Bible of the innermost part of our being. So it doesn't mean that mean have bone aches. It just means the innermost part of his being was just wasting a lot of through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was sapped as in the heat of summer. Then I acknowledged my sin to you and I did not cover up my iniquity. I said I will confess my transgression to the Lord. Lord, you forgave the guilt of forgiven the guilt of my sin, and he speaks of wholeness and sweetness. The sweetness of Yahweh Rafael. He turns bitterness of his agony, the guilt, the stress of it, into a wholeness. Even more explicitly, perhaps, is Psalm 38. Which talks about the physiological consequences of a guilty conscience. In Psalm 38 , David says, Because of your wrath, verse 3, because of your wrath, there's no health in my body. Direct connection because I'm out of uh fellowship with you, because I've done things that are wrong and your hand is on me. There's no health in my body. My bones have no soundness because of my sins My guilt has overwhelmed me like a burden too heavy to bear. My wounds fester and are loathsome because of my sinful folly. I'm bowed down and I'm brought very low. All day long I go about in mourning. My back is filled with searing pain, and there is no health in my body. I am feeble and utterly crushed. I groan in anguish of heart. Now, I want you to be very clear here. I am not saying that any of you who has a searing backache needs to repent of sin. But I am saying that if you find you have chronic stress-related difficulties, whether it is muscle tension or backache or whatever it is , That it's worth considering the fact that God may be trying to get your attention about something in the realm of anxiety, chronic anxiety, or chronic guilt. Because it seems to me the scripture is clear that that is a possibility for us. In fact, if you look at Proverbs three and four, there is a direct connection. Do you remember Proverbs three where it says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not your own? understanding and all your ways acknowledge him and he'll make your path straight. He then goes on to say, it will be health to your body. So that there is a connection between physical and spiritual health, a connection between a clear conscience and a healthy body. Proverbs 4 Now the writer is going on saying to hear my words for wisdom and follow these words because if you do it will be health to your body as well as wellness, wholeness to your soul. soul. And we're discovering more and more, aren't we, about the physiological connection, the connection between the spiritual and the physical, physiological consequences. You know, it's interesting that the body has all kinds of mechanisms to cope with stress. But the one kind of stress that our bodies can't cope with, two kinds really, anxiety and guilt. Anxiety and guilt consume us. There is no mechanism in our bodies to cope in a healthy way with that. Other kinds of stress can produce adrenaline, all kinds of things. They'll help you to cope in a situation where you need that. Very positive, but not anxiety and not guilt. And I think we need to really ask ourselves if God is Yahweh Rafekah And we're finding a chronic affliction or something that's nagging at us, could God be saying something to us about our relationship with Him through that? Possibility, I think we need to realize. James 5 again indicates that, whether directly or indirectly, that our afflictions can be the result of sin. Having said that, I think the other side we also need to see, and that is the second conclusion, some disease is not related to personal sin. That's a great conclusion, isn't it? The conclusion of all these studies that I've done on this is that some sins relate some disease is related to sin, some disease isn't related to sin. Say that's a lot. You know, and I really learned a lot from that message. Well, I hope you will see that there are some principles here First of all, that we will not just automatically conclude that God never brings anything unpleasant on us, that somehow that comes in an impersonal way from something else. Those are just natural processes of diseases and But God doesn't concern himself with God only brings healing. No, God is wounder and healer. But we cannot assert That where there is affliction, physical affliction, that that is related to sin. Why? Look at some examples here. Again, on the societal level The example I just gave in 1 Chronicles chapter 21. 70,000 people die of a plague. Did 70,000 people sin? No. One person sinned. David. As far as we know, the rest were innocent. They died as a result of his sin. You don't only get fairness in this life, do you? There's affliction, there are consequences. We suffer from other people's sins, and that will be true in AIDS. There are many people in drug abuse, in AIDS, and other of the sins of our society that innocent victims suffer from. Babies born with these things, and others. And so we see that. You know, I think um it was Donna Wecker I was talking to you this week. And she made what I thought was a rather profound observation as she has spent so many hours sitting in the hospital with both Philip and Cameron, watching them in their suffering week after week, month after month, particularly for Philip. Cameron also now. Concerns. But in going through this she said, You know, as I saw that, she said, Somebody said to me, because they're in the the children's ward and so they're seeing all these children that are suffering And she said, somebody came to me one day and they said, you know, I can understand adults getting sick. You know, they kind of deserve it. But kids, that's what's so hard to understand. Why little kids seem to have And she said, you know, when you think about it, isn't it really that that shows us that something really is radically wrong with this world. I mean there's something radically wrong with this world if in fact there is a creator who has made it. And we see that kind of suffering of infinity. Infants and children one, two years old. There's something radically wrong with this world. And sometimes the innocent suffering because of things they Either don't understand or the sins of others shows us there is something radically wrong. We need a healer to make things right. And that's not only true in terms of society, it's also true True in terms of individuals. And what I've done here is I've taken a look at some of these individuals, situations, and I give you a kind of a chart there. You see on the left side there's the references. Middle column has the question of healing. Were they healed? And the right column is the question of purpose. Does God state the purpose why these people suffered this physical affliction? I want you to see the combinations of these. In every one of these cases, there was no sin directly related to the person's physical affliction. For instance, John chapter 9, verses 1 to 3. Remember the man that was born blind. Jesus and his disciples come past the disciples, put the question right out on the table. Here's this guy, he's been blind from birth and the disciples say, Jesus, we got a theological question for you. Who sinned here? Somebody got to sin. This kid this guy's blind. Who sinned? Was it him? kind of intrigues me to think of what they thought that that guy he's either sinned in the womb. Now how you sinned in the womb I'm not quite sure, but he sinned in the womb somehow. Or there was a grandfather clause that said when he sinned later on, he kind of was retroactively effective Making him blind from birth. Now, I don't know what they were thinking about, but somehow they make that connection. Or was it his parents who sinned? And that's why he's blind. And Jesus is crystal clear in his answer, isn't he? Contrary to the man who at the Pulitha says, he says, you go and sin no more, or something worse is going to happen. He says concerning this man, neither he nor his parents sinned to cause this. Sin had nothing to do with this. But what? So that the works of God would be manifested in his life. So in the first case, you have a delayed healing. He's blind for years, but then God heals him. You have a statement of purpose as to why the affliction So that God would be glorified in it. Isn't that interesting? It's kind of hard for us to take, isn't it? This guy is blind for years and years and years. Just so God can impress people with his power? What kind of a God is this? Until you balance it in the scales of eternity. And then you begin to see what is the payment of a few years Of blindness, compared to eternity of wholeness with his Savior, and even the rest of his life, be able to know that God had glorified Himself in a unique way through His Savior. Life. For some of you and me, that may be a question that we'll have to face. At some point, God may choose to manifest his power through your life. You won't choose. how it's done. We never have to choose. We don't have the power, and we're very glad that we don't, aren't we? That after a message like this, I pass around a clipboard, we got a sign-up sheet here How many want to remain well? Bring a little less glory to God. How many want to have an affliction? We put some categories there, you know. Degrees of suffering, you say, now the more you suffer, the more God's glory will be seen in you. Now just check on a scale here, you know, from one to ten. What are you willing to tolerate? Aren't you glad you don't have to make that decision? Jesus makes that decision for you. He gives to you what he wants to glorify himself through you by. And it may be by the healing, or it may be, as in the second case, 1 Corinthians 12, 2 Corinthians 12. Well, through the case of something that is not healed. Paul's affliction, the thorn in the flesh, remember? As far as we know, he never got healing from that God says his purpose was so that his grace would be made sufficient in Paul's weakness, and his strength would be seen in Paul's weakness. Paul had received so much honor and glory that there was always that possibility that Paul would begin to think of himself as a pretty special character. And God says, just because you need to be kept humble, I've given this affliction to you. And it will not be healed. So that my grace will be made perfect in your enduring that. And so When you seek at some point to trust in your own strength, you will be cast back on me by this weakness, this affliction, to know that it's only my strength that is sufficient For you to go on. And some of you, maybe me at some point, we don't know, will have that kind of a thing brought to us. Some already have. I wonder sometimes if that really isn't uh the summation of a life like Johnny Erickson, the quadriplegic, who back in nineteen sixty seven, and the five years ago. I believe, uh dove into the Chesapeake Bay, broke her neck, and since that time has not been able to move anything from her neck down. affected in her weakness, her joy, and her ability to honor Jesus through her life in that weakness. We take a case like Timothy, 1 Timothy chapter 5. Paul says, Timothy, take some wine for your often infirmities. Timothy is supposed to take some medicinal wine. Of course. He's supposed to take some wine because he often gets sick, not a very robust guy, apparently, kind of a sickly character. And uh Timothy, uh, we don't have any indication of he was ever healed of this Yeah, it's kind of interesting, isn't it? I mean, Paul's healed all these other people. Have all this healing going on. One of Paul's best friends, Timothy, he says you're often infirmities. All I can prescribe for you is a little uh help to alleviate it. The other thing that's interesting about Timothy is he was never healed, and there was no purpose given his him. At least Paul had a purpose. God told him why he did it. As far as we know, Timothy was never told, not healed, no purpose stated. He simply had to receive from the Lord and trust him. For some of us, we will never have a purpose stated As far as we can tell, it's not related to any particular sin in our life. As far as we know, we'll never be healed physically. And as far as we know, we'll never understand the purpose in this life. But what we know is that Yahweh Rafekah is the God of healing, and that one day when Jesus comes, we will be healed. And we trust Job is of course the classic illustration of this. Job in his suffering and his utter healing, the boils he scrapes with a pot shirt, you know. I mean, it's really Gross description to get into what's going on there. Real agony. And Job doesn't have the insight that we do as to why it's going on. But God finally heals him as a picture of the fact that he will heal his people at the end of their suffering. And so when we had that suffering, I just want to wrap it up by suggesting to you He said, first of all, when you suffer, you do go to a doctor. I'm not saying avoid and just start asking spiritual questions. I better put that in there. I encourage you, check out your doctor, your local physician, get the best help you can get medically. But in that also, raise at least some questions. Am I suffering as part of God's judgment on our society? Something is part of a general picture. Raise that. And uh, you know, if it is, then long for heaven, long for release. But probably not something that interests me Secondly, if it's just me, is it possibly discipline for some blatant disobedience? Something that immediately comes to mind that I realize I'm consciously trying to suppress and I need help. to lay that matter before the Lord. And God's getting my attention in it. Maybe directly, maybe indirectly, through the stress of guilt, the stress of anxieties, the stress of a lack of clear conscience. And then maybe I need to call on the elders. If it's something seriously debilitating or life threatening, call the elders in it. Particularly contact your elder. That you might get some spiritual counsel on that, someone that you trust. May involve the whole session for anointing. For prayer in order for us to see God work. And then consider fifthly: is it something that God's simply using to humble you in order to show his strength in your weakness? And then finally, sixthly, are you willing to trust him and glorify him, even if you're never healed, or know why you had to put up with this? Whether or not we can has to do not with how serious the affliction is, but where our focus is, whether it is in fact on our affliction primarily Let's pray