For personal and congregational renewal, we are looking at ourselves to see that we are the holy people of a holy God. We're seeing that the true and living God, whose name is holy, which we have seen means set apart And he's the one who is set apart from us as creatures, for he's the creator. He is set apart from us as sinners, for he is the undefiled one. That he is the one who calls himself in Exodus 31, 13, by the name Yahweh Mekedishkin, that name which means the Lord who makes you holy. Do you remember that God said there in Exodus chapter 31, verse 13, say to the Israelites, You must observe my Sabbaths. This will be a sign between me and you for the generations to come, so that you may know that I am Yahweh Nikodishkim That I am the Lord who makes you holy. God says, set apart one week, one week, a day every week, in order to just simply reflect on the fact that that you are a set apart people. And we have been seeing that we are set apart to God through Jesus Christ in at least three ways that 1 Peter chapter 2 tells us about. Three identities of our holiness, we call them, and that's what we're exploring this fall. And so we've seen a couple of weeks ago the first identity that God has set us apart as a holy people. That we're a holy people, which means that we are his personal, private treasure. Now somebody told me after the first service that they had been uh bringing A kid that they were babysitting here and that that kid said to them on the way home, if that guy says one more time that we're God's personal private treasure, I'm I'm gonna get up. I don't know what he was gonna do, but at least repetition got the idea across. And I hope it's doing that to you too. That somehow God's spirit's beginning to break through to you, that if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith this morning, you can get up in the morning and you can say, I am God 's person. Personal private treasure that he sent his own son Jesus out of all the nations of the earth That one speck within that galaxy, of all his universe, among whatever other realities there are that we don't know about, God has said above This one speck I have taken from those five billion people and there is a group of people that for reasons known only to him he has set us apart and he has loved us and he has chosen us to be a set apart people. in Jesus Christ. And that's basic to your identity. You're not like other people. You're set apart as God's personal private treasure. We saw the second thing last week, our second identity of holiness, is that we are a holy place, not only a holy people, but a holy place. The essence of that is to say that we're a pure dwelling for his presence. And I hope those two ideas will continue to go through your mind in the week's. to come and that will form your self-image. I'm God's personal private treasure. I'm a pure dwelling for his presence. That's who I am. That's who he's made me to be We saw last week that you are the temple of the living God. Many references, just two there for your review to remind you, particularly if you weren't here before for those. That in Jesus Christ, God has made you his dwelling place. You are the temple of the living God. And Jesus Christ has taken up residence in your body, not in In some vague way in your life or in your heart or something. But he is in your body. And that body is a set-apart body. It's not like other people's bodies. You can't do with that body what other people do with their bodies. Because that body's been set apart to the living God to be a clean and purified dwelling place for his holy presence. And that's part of your identity. But now God hasn't given you that identity for you and me to sit around, fold our hands, and hum hymn tunes for the rest of our life. He's given to us a holy calling and a holy purpose. And that brings us to our third holy identity. In the third place, you and I are a holy priesthood. We're a holy priesthood. And that means that we are a people, and there's the next couple blanks, to offer Spiritual sacrifices for his pleasure. We've been set apart as a priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices For God 's pleasure. 1 Peter chapter 2, we've looked at to see this. Once again, I remind you, verses 4 and 5. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God, this is to Jesus and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house. That's what we look at. that last week. You're being built into that temple. Individually your temples. Corporately, you are part of the temple of the living God. You're living stones within that spiritual house for his presence. Then he goes on to say, to be a holy priesthood offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And so you are a priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices to God. Now let's skip around just a little bit on that bullet. So take a look before we finish that verse. side to the top of the back side of your bulletin outline for just a moment. But I want to call attention to the fact that first of all you see that Peter is mixing his metaphors here. Uh he is saying you're a building and a priesthood. You say, Well, how can we be both, Peter? You know, you're you know either we're the building or we're the priest in the building. Peter says, No, no, you're both. In Jesus Christ you are the building and you are the priesthood. And that's a dual identity that you have. You're the people of the nation, you're the priesthood, you're the place where the nation worships, and you are the priesthood in that holy place. Now God set apart a special class of people called priests in Exodus chapter 38. Now that's the first time, excuse me, in verse uh Exodus 28, that's the first time That God institutes the priesthood. And so he says to uh Adam into Aaron. Here a couple chapters before. In Exodus chapter twenty-eight, God says, Have Aaron, your brother, brought to you from among the Israelites Along with his sons Nadab and Abihu, Elai Azar, Ithamar, so that they may serve me as priests. Alright? He's instituting the priesthood. Then he says, Make sacred garments for your brother Aaron and give them to give him dignity and honor. The word there sacred is that same word holy that we've been looking at. You know, holy nation, God's a holy God, the holy one, Kadash, Kodesh. You know, it's that same Hebrew word that here is translated sacred. So you could say make holy garments, because it's the same word. Make them holy, set apart garments. Tell all the skilled men, verse 3, to whom I have given wisdom in such matters, they're to make garments for Aaron and for his consecration. So he may serve me as priests. That word consecration is also that same word for holy. And so the Hebrew word holy is sometimes translated holy, sometimes sacred, sometimes consecrated. Consecration. It's all the same word. God says, make his clothes look different so people can tell he's set apart. Now that certainly was true. You know, the Israelites certainly wore different kind of clothes from we, but the priest wore different kind of clothes from them. The priest had twelve jewels Four rows of three that were to represent the people of God on his breast, on his chest. He had his harness, kind of a a shoulder piece on him. different kind of hat. And beyond that, if that wasn't enough, you see the jewels glittering in the sunlight when the guy walks down the street. You can hear 'em two blocks away because around the base of the hem of his garment are all these bells that's reflected in that hymn here with not as golden bells, that's the high priest coming. He's got all these bells tinkling. Every time he walks you hear him. And so this guy was uh you know he had different kind of clothes because he was set apart. You looked at him and you said that That's the priest. You can tell it's a priest, he looks different. Chapter twenty-nine says not only are his clothes to look different, chapter twenty-eight goes in through All the details of that, but he says he himself is to be different. He doesn't live by the standards of other people. He has different standards. Leviticus In chapter 20 and 21, God talks about the people of God are holy, chapter 20. Then he talks about the priests of God have even different standards of living in Leviticus chapter 21. And so the priest was set apart. He was a different person. He looked different. He acted different. He lived by different standards. Now in Exodus chapter 19, we saw a couple of weeks ago that God said that the whole nation of Israel were to be priests. He says, I've set you apart to be a holy nation, a royal priesthood. Now when was that to be? Isaiah chapter 61 is very clear about that. In Isaiah chapter 61, verse 6, Isaiah says, in the days of Messiah , All of God's people will be priests and ministers to the Lord God. Now you see what that means now And so somebody comes up to you and they say, I hear you go to Columbia Presbyterian Church. Who's the minister there? You say, well, we got about 400 ministers. Wow! How big's the church? Well, you know, that's the whole church. They're all ministers? Yeah, we're all ministers. You want me to ordain you or something? You're all ministers. Set apart to the work of Jesus Christ. Well, no, no, no, I'm not turning. Who's the priest there? People call me priest all the time, you know. outside, so you know you know to Father Harris and all this stuff. Who's the priest of Columbia Presbyte? Oh well we got about four hundred priests. Four hundred priests? What kind of an organization do you have there? See, that's who you are. You need to think of yourself that way. Do you think of yourself as a minister and as a priest of Columbia Presbyterian Church and of the Lord Jesus Christ? Christ. Isaiah 61, 6 says, You are. When Messiah comes, he is going to constitute you, all of you, to be priests and ministers to the Lord God. Now you see, what does that make mean? Well the elders and me are then simply equipping pastors Now what are we to equip you to be or to do? We are to equip you to be priests and ministers. That's our job. So the way the church is constituted by the Lord Jesus is that you are the priests and you are the ministers, the elders are the equipping pastors. To be able to equip you to know what it is that you are to do as priests and to enable you to do that as the people of God because you understand the gospel and you understand his calling. That's our job. That's how we're to work together. See how the Lord has constituted this? It's in his infinite wisdom he's arranged it like this. Now, let me tell you, a couple weeks from now, October 31st, is Reformation Day. Now the Reformation was established, most people would consider, on if you talk about, you know, you can talk about one or two basic principles. But if you talk about four basic principles, the Reformation was established on four basic tenets, four basic issues of that time. Number one was sola scriptura. Scripture alone. Number two, grace alone. Number three, faith alone. And number four, the priesthood of all believers And yet, how many of us understand what it means, all these 400 years after the Reformation? What does it mean for us to be the priests of the living God? How many of you, for instance, have ever heard a series of sermons on the priesthood of all believers? How many have ever heard a series of sermons on? One, two. How many have ever heard any sermon on the priesthood of all believers? A couple more. How many of you have ever read a book or some lengthy discourse on what it means to be priests? The priesthood of all believers. Any? One. Okay. I found a couple more. Yeah. I found a couple in the first service too. I said, tell me afterwards what the books are. I've never seen And so when I began to look at this, I began to think, you know, this is something, we have this job, which God has constituted us as priests, but most of us don't know what our job description is. Most of us don't understand what it means to function as priest under the new covenant. And so I began to look at that and I began to discover and find out what this meant. And as I looked at it, I saw that God does tell us very clearly what it is that we're to be and to do as priests. And so now come back to the first side of your bulletin again. I want to come back: what is then the basic function of a priest? And after studying this and looking at it extensively and thinking about this, and I've changed my mind and refined it a number of times I've come down to say that if you boil it all down, the basic function of a priest, the answer there, is to stand as mediator between God and man to bring man to God. Boil it all down. That's our function as priests. To be mediators between God and man, and to bring man to God. The priest, you see, In any society, whether secular priest, you know, we have our secular priests who are counselors and psychologists and kind and psychologists And we have our religious priests, whether they're superstitious or heathen uh religions or superstitious religions, whatever it is. Every society has its priests And the priests are people who have special access to God. And they're the people who can bring you to that God to gain his favor and to gain his pleasure. And so what is at the very heart of being a priest is that we have access to God, and that we are able by that access To his presence to bring ourselves and others into his presence. Now, that's done because of our union with Jesus. You see, the Bible is very clear that Jesus is the great high priest. He's the fulfillment of all that the Old Testament meant by the priesthood. And Hebrews chapter 3 to 10 describes Jesus as the great high priest, once for all, for all the ages. He's the one who has the access through whom we come. And so I said to the last group and I'll say to you that if you are in Ed Spiva 's Hebrews class, then these this series will mean more to you because you will be getting all that background about what it means for Jesus to be the priest. Now that's not to disparage those of you who are in other laugh groups and I don't want to take you away and have everybody mad at me that I was was doing some advertisement for Ed's alone, but I just want to tell you that if you're not in one and you want to get some more help for the series, it would be helpful during that middle hour to go to Ed Spiber's class on Hebrews because it'll give you some more background to all of what we're talking about talking about because we're going to spend five weeks on this. I want us to really get this. I want this to transform our thinking about who we are and what God has called us to be And so we are priests, because of our union with Jesus, that when he is the great high priest who had kept the law, died on the cross In his death on the cross, the Bible tells us that at that time, at the moment of his death, the veil was ripped from the top to the bottom, as we saw last week. to gain access into the very Holy of Holies. Because Jesus had gone into the Holy of Holies Hebrews. says, we who are united with Jesus by faith not in ourselves, but only in what Jesus has done in order to be a substitute for us for the curse due to us for our sin. And to give us the record of his righteousness so that we are acceptable to God because we are clothed in that righteousness, you and I can walk into that holy of holies that the high priest could only do once a year after special ceremonial cleansing. We can walk right in through Jesus and we have access into his very presence. We are the priest joined to the priest. And because of that Hebrews 10, which is the climax of all those chapters of that, go on to say then, come then, let us enter boldly into his presence, having our bodies washed with pure water. Having our conscience sprinkled clean because of what Jesus has done. You have access to the very presence of God through Jesus Christ. Now, because of that Peter says in 1 Peter 2, verse 5, that you, like living stones, being built into a spiritual house, to be a holy priest, do something. And what is it that you and I do? We offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. No more bulls, no more lambs, no more goats. We offer spiritual sacrifices. Every Sunday that we celebrate the Lord's Supper, the first Sunday of every month, it is to remember that there is no more physical sacrifice. That's been done We now offer spiritual sacrifices. But what are the spiritual sacrifices we offer? In my study of this, as I've looked through it, I have found five sacrifices That the Bible tells us that you and I are to offer as new covenant priests. Now I'm not saying that those are the definitive five. But I am saying that there are five. The Bible specifically tells us that as priests we offer these sacrifices to God. I'm not going to tell you what the five are and make you come back, you know, hold you in little suspense. Today we're only going to talk about the first one. And we'll do that briefly. But today and in the next four weeks we will talk about the five sacrifices that we are to offer, and if you grasp those Then it will open up a new vista, I believe, for you in your Christian life. Because what Jesus called the Old Testament priest to offer, he provided The priest didn't go scrounging around looking for a bull to offer. God provided the bull there through his people for him to offer. And when Jesus says, Here are five sacrifices that I have for you to offer, That means that he is promising to give you those five things to offer to him. And that means we can claim that. Here are five things that Jesus has promised that I can offer and I'm so aware of all the things I do that don't give him pleasure. Here are five things that I can do that will bring to him pleasure. And what are they? The very first one we look at this morning is my body as a holy living sacrifice. That's on the first side of Bulom again. The first is my body as a holy living sacrifice Now this is obviously in close connection with what we looked at last week, and the key passage for it is Romans chapter 12. So would you please turn to Romans chapter 12 and look at that with me for a couple minutes In Romans chapter 12, Paul begins Romans 12 by this statement: Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices. May you notice he says this whole thing is in response to God's mercy, and that mercy he had described in the first 11 chapters. At Mercy, where he described how the Holy One defiled his son and cursed him so that you could receive the record of his righteousness. So that you would not be condemned for your own sin, but that Jesus Christ would bear that sin in your place, on your behalf. And because of that mercy that God has given to you, who believe and trust in Jesus Christ alone, for your standing before God. God says, because of that mercy, in view of that mercy, here's how you can thank him. Here's what you are to do as his priest. constituted in the rending of the veil, brought into the access to the Holy of Holies. This is what you're to do there. The very first thing that you're to do there is to offer your body as a living sacrifice. Now you see that is basic because that is just presenting who we are, that temple to offer ourselves as the living sacrifice. How do you do that? Well, verse 2 goes on to tell you: do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God's will is, His good, pleasing, and perfect will. You see, verse 1 said you were to offer your bodies as living sacrifices. holy and pleasing to God, this is your spiritual act of worship. And so you say, well wait a minute. I thought you said said these are spiritual sacrifices. Now you tell me to offer my body, that seems pretty physical to me. But you see, offering your body, offering your whole life to God. God is a spiritual act of worship. You're not offering your body to be burned, to be sacrificed in some way physically. You are offering your body for the Spirit of God to come in and to transform it. So that that body becomes the dwelling place of his spirit to look like Jesus. And we need, I believe, consciously to be able to do that. I think that That frequently we need to remind ourselves, I am a living sacrifice to Jesus Christ. Not long ago, in one of my days of prayer and fasting, I went out, it was the beginning of a season. And I remember seeing uh at this park where I was, there was a bench there. And so I thought that I needed the visual aid for myself, and I remember I went over and I laid down on that bench. And I pictured that bench as an altar. And I laid down on it and I said, Lord, here I am, take me as a living sacrifice, here's my body for this next season. I'm not going to worry about the rest of my life But for just this season now, Lord, for these next couple of months, Lord, take me, all that I am, everything, as consciously as I can give it to you now. And take that for your use to transform by your spirit. It belongs to you. And I remember it as I was laying there recalling a bit of graffiti that I had graffiti that I had read at a um Urbana Conference back in the late sixties that then after became quite popular, there was a little saying, the trouble with a living sacrifice is that it keeps crawling off the altar. And that is the trouble, isn't it? You know, you offer a dead sacrifice, and there it is, it's consumed. But with living sacrifices, we're always trying to crawl back off the altar. And so we need to frequently remind ourselves as we get up, as we meet with the Lord in the morning, I am a living sacrifice, I can decide to be on this altar for you, Lord Jesus, or I can crawl But because of your mercy to me, I want to be on the altar for you this day. Just this week I was reading about a beautiful Swedish girl, this was not my wife who's beautiful Swedish girl, but this was another one. And in a particular conference that she was at, a pastor called the congregation to offer themselves as living sacrifices to God. And he said, just as consciously as you can, give your whole body to Jesus Christ, do with it with whatever he wants. And this girl said she remembered as as fully as she could by the power of the Spirit. Saying, Lord, I want to give myself to you, and dedicating her body to the Lord. A couple of years after that, she was struck by a bus. And as a result, she lost one of her legs. And somebody was asking her about that and her attitude toward the Lord and the tragedy of that. And the writer of what I was reading said, she smiled and she said, You can't really lose what you've already given away. There's something about that attitude, you see, that you and I need to capture. Some of us may be bitter about something that God has done in our We may be angry that we've given ourselves to Jesus Christ and He hasn't done with our bodies or our circumstances or our lives what we think he ought to do with them. And you're angry. And you're not serving Jesus Christ as fully as you could, and you're not gladly serving as a priest, laying yourself on the altar because you're saying, I did that once. And I got screwed. I'm not sure I like what Jesus does with his sacrifices. I'm here to remind you this morning from God's word that it's in the light of his sacrifice. His mercy, he promises to do the very best with his sacrifices. He consumes us for his glory, for his pleasure, but it's also all Always for our good. And so for you, I wonder this morning, is there some area of your life Where you've taken that step, you've given yourself to Jesus Christ. There's something He's done with your body. Perhaps something He's done in your body. You have a very difficult time accepting that. This morning you need to come back and you need to remember I'm his sacrifice. Sacrifice. That body is his. I've offered it to him as a living sacrifice, holy, set apart, pleasing to him to do whatever he wants with it. And that's his choice, and I'll leave it with him. But for many of us, the problem is not just what he does with our bodies or to our bodies. our bodies, but it's also what we do with our bodies. It's the fact that we haven't really given them to him as instruments to serve him, but we're We're still feeling that we are under the bondage and the power of sin. You see, Romans 12 follows Romans 6. And Romans 6, if you turn back to that for just a moment. Reminds us that you and I, because we are priests, because we are his living sacrifices, are no longer under the power of sin. We are no longer under its bondage, we are no longer under its condemnation. We are no longer under its control. For in Romans chapter 6, Paul said in verse 4, We were therefore buried with him, Jesus, through baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead, Through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life. We're united with him, see, both in his death and his resurrection. Notice. If then, verse 5, we have been united with him like this in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin, because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. When Jesus Christ died on the cross, he died for your sin. But not only that, when Jesus died on the cross, he died to sin. And if you died with him on that cross, you too have died to sin. It's power, its condemnation, its control. And so he goes on to say in verse 10. The death that he died, he died to sin, once for all. But the life that he lives, he lives to God. You see, when Jesus died under the curse of the law, the law could no longer condemn him and control him. When you are executed By the law, the law can never execute you again, can it? It can't dig up the corpse and condemn you and execute you again. Once you have died to the law and under the law, it can no longer control you. You are now in a different realm. You are dead. And because you are dead, you can't live under the power of that old realm. Because the old realm has lost its power over you. You're dead to it. And that's why Paul says in verse 11 of chapter 6: In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin. but alive to God in Christ Jesus. I've told some of you before about a person who had been in part of our congregation some years ago, was living with our intern at that time. He was an alcoholic, had lost his job, had lost his family, lost his home, had lost everything out on the street. And he was living with his family in our congregation. And he came one year one Sunday morning and I happened to be preaching on Romans 6, and I was declaring how you and I are dead alive people. We have died to the law. We have died to sin in its control and power. You don't have to sin anymore. Now that's not saying you're not going to sin anymore. Alright? So if you sin this week, don't be disappointed. You will sin, but don't accept it. At every point when sin comes to us, we are able to renounce its power by the cross of Jesus Christ and His Spirit. Whatever that sin is. Some people say, you know, I I I uh I just gossip and I can't help myself I hear a good story and there's no way I can keep from telling it. Can't wait to get out of here to do it. That's just the way I am. Paul says it's not the way you are. You're constituted as a new person in Jesus Christ. Body is a living sacrifice, and sin doesn't have that power over you can resist gossip. You say, but there's a there's this habit in my life, substance abuse, of something that's happened, and I'm in bondage to that. That was the case with this guy who came that Sunday morning, and I preached the new power that is available in Jesus Christ. That you and I walk by faith. Just as we are justified by faith, we are sanctified by faith That is living sacrifice, I believe that Jesus Christ is able to deliver me. Because I am dead to that sin and I'm alive in the power of Jesus Christ. Now I wish I could say this happened uh all the time, but it doesn't. But you know that person walked out of that meeting and everyone took another drink. That's been over ten years ago. Last contact I had with him. Still had not taken one more drink. He walked out of there. He said, Jesus Christ can do that in my life. I believe That doesn't happen in every case. Sometimes long, hard struggle. I don't know why, in the sovereign purpose of God and his mercy, he delivered this person On that spot. He went back, was reunited to his family, his wife got a job, and he's one of the few people in the history of our church who began then to contribute back to the Deacon's Fund for the help that he had received. In thanksgiving to God. Whatever it is in your life this morning, demanding this, control, whatever it is, that sin does not have control over you. You in Jesus Christ. If you have given yourself to Him as a living sacrifice, Jesus Christ promises that He's able to deliver you. Do you want the deliverance? Let's go to him in prayer. You have told us that in the light of your mercies, we are a people who are called to offer our bodies to you now as living sacrifice. Some of us, Lord, have thought we did that, but we haven't been very happy with what you have done with our lives. We maybe thought we could choose better. We want to confess now that we've been disobedient sacrifices. We've been crawling off the altar and we have been resisting your Lord, we want to right now lay ourselves mentally back on that altar to belong to you, to let you do with us whatever you want.