I can't believe that it was less than just three months ago that we were slaves in Egypt. Back there. We were just things in Pharaoh's building projects and nothing of any value to him. Working from dawn to dusk day after dreary day. The God that we had heard about was our God seemed to be nowhere to us. We cried to him and received no answer. Our children died without In fact, one time back in my grandfather's day, uh Pharaoh sent his troops to kill all the firstborn baby boys, every single one. that he could get his hands on. And then just recently, out of the blue, there came this fella, Moses, with his brother Aaron And they told us that our God's name was Yahweh and that he had heard our prayers and that he was going to deliver us, to rescue us from this bondage. And for the first time in our lives, it was The possibility of hope. He said he was on his way to speak to Pharaoh right then to let us go. And the result was that in the next week Our burden grew heavier rather than lighter. Now we had to get our own straw and keep the same quota. And it seemed like a cruel joke that this God had played on us, and we were bitter and angry. But then strange things began to happen. The rivers of the Nile turned to blood. And then one day there were frogs everywhere leaping all over the place. And then it was lice. Then it was hail. One time it was dark everywhere, but it was light where we were. And then we were told by Moses that an angel had said that we should spread the blood of a lamb on the doorposts of our homes, and that God would protect us. We did that, and the next morning you heard the terrible screams all over the Egyptian houses. As in each home they found that the firstborn had been killed during the night. That very day they told us to get out of here. And we weren't simply freed, we were expelled. And so we didn't wait for them to change their minds. We took off. But we were blocked by the sea of reason. And then at the word of the Lord, the seas parted, and we were able to walk through on dry ground. But even as we got to the other side we saw that Pharaoh had changed his mind and all of his troops came after us. And just as they got into the very center of that sea Before our very eyes, we watched the waters of that sea close in on them. And we heard their screams and their curses and their cries as the waves covered them And then in a few minutes, nothing again but the desert silence and the howling wind. I'll never forget the sight. We were free. And so we sang a song to the Holy One, who 's holy in his majesty and who does wonderful works, and it freed us as his people, and it shown that we really were a people that were set apart for And on we went, and this God led us a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. And so he led us on into that wilderness, into a land that he And then he provided manna day after day, and we learned to defend the episode. One time we were attacked viciously by the Amalekites, and he revealed himself to us. And the victory of that battle is Yahweh missing. And now we have finally come. This desolate Mount Sinai. I never saw such a desolate place. Kind of awesome and gloomy. Moses has gone up into that mountain to meet with this God Yahweh. And he's called a meeting. I'm one of the elders in Israel. And he came back and he said that God had a message for us And that message was this. The Lord said, Now if you fully obey me and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations, you will be my treasure. Possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation These were the words that were to pass on to the people. A few weeks later, God re-emphasized this message. And he drove it a home again in the context of declaring what the meaning of the Sabbath was. And in Exodus chapter 31 We read that in verse 12 the Lord said to Moses, Say to the Israelites, you must observe my Sabbaths. This will be a sign between me and you to the generations to come, so that you may know that I am the Lord. who makes you holy. And that name there, brothers and sisters in Christ, in Exodus 31, verse Verse 13, that name where you see, you may know that I am the Lord who makes you holy. That's that strange name that we tried together a couple of weeks ago. Yahweh Mekedishkim. Yahweh Mekedish Kim, the Lord who makes you holy. You notice that God says here that this is a unique sign between him and his people. No other nation on earth at that time practiced a weekly Sabbath. This was unique among the Israelites And God says that I want one day out of every seven for you to stop and to remember as you rest that your whole life, all of your time, is my Why? Because I've set you aside to be a holy people, a people separate from me. Remember Remember, we've looked in these last couple of weeks as we've gone through this part of our series on the names of God, as we've been looking this fall at the whole notion of holiness and what it means. We've seen that the word holy means separate, set apart. And God has said here in Exodus 19 that I read first, that we are a set apart Nations, set apart people. In Exodus chapter 31, verse 13, he says, You are set apart for me. I am the Lord who sets you apart. And so Yahweh Mekedishkim, his very name means that he is the one who sets us apart to himself. Now I want to show to you that There are three ways that God has set us apart. That is, that there are three identities that come from the Old Testament. Three pictures. And I really believe that if you and I learn to To think of ourselves in terms of these three identities that I'm going to propose to you from Scripture. If we think of ourselves not by the power of positive thinking, Not by trying to psych ourselves up, but remembering as John reminded us from what we've looked at, that you and I are very insignificant in the scheme of the universe, but That rather that God, who is the high and lofty one, who dwells also with those who are contrite and lowly of heart, has said that I have set you apart to myself. In terms of these three identities, and you see them there on your bulletin outline to fill in. The first one is that we are a holy people. We are a holy people. The second that we that we will look at next week is that we are a holy place. And the third then one that we will look at for a number of weeks is that we are a holy priesthood, or that we are holy priests. Now the first one is pictured in Israel in the Old Testament as a holy nation, and that's a picture of us as a holy people. In the second case, you have the picture of the tabernacle and the temple as the holy place, and the New Testament tells us that we are the temple. as a holy place for God's dwelling. And then in the third place you see the picture of the sons of Aaron set aside, set apart. For particular service as priests, and you and I, the New Testament tells us, are priests to offer spiritual sacrifices to our God. And I really believe that if you and I begin to think of ourselves as the Bible instructs us to, that you and I are a holy people, we are a holy place for God's dwelling, and that we are a holy priesthood. That will transform not only the way we think, but the way that we act. And I believe that that transformation can be a profound one in the way that you and I live. And I want God to set us free in these next weeks to begin to think of ourselves in terms of His holy people, of His holy place, and His holy priest. I want to look at each one in turn and want to begin this morning with this notion of the fact that we are a holy people. That's number one there. We are a holy people. The main point of this that I want us to see is that we are his precious possession. I believe that the notion of being his holy people is summed up primarily, foundationally, in this idea that we are his precious people. possession. You see again in Exodus thirty-one, thirteen, God says, This is the sign. One day in every seven I want you to sit down and I want you to rest and I want you to rest I want you to think about the fact that I am Yahweh Mekidishkin, the Lord who set you apart for myself, unto myself. There's two things I want us to see about this. First is That it is a holy relationship. The first is that it's a holy relationship that He has established Look again at Exodus chapter 19 that I read before, verses 5 and 6. What the Lord says there. He says in verse 4, You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt. And how I carried you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you and I are to understand. Now, you see, it's amazing enough that God says to us there that we are to be His holy nation. A set apart But what's even more staggering to me is what he says there before. Do you see it there in verse 5? Out of all the nations you'll be my what? My treasured possession. You see that? That notion of a treasured possession is translated in the Old King James, a peculiar treasure. Now for years I'm afraid that Christians have thought that that phrase meant that Christians are supposed to be peculiar. And a lot of us have worked pretty hard at it. Uh there was a fellow back many years ago, Simon Styleides they called him, he sat on top of a pole for thirty some years, just having a long quiet time. And he thought that that was a way that God had called him to be peculiar to himself as a kind of peculiar Well, a lot of us as Christians kind of work at being peculiar, don't we? And yet uh for many people that's what turns Christianity off. Well that's not exactly what this means. The meaning is different from being some peculiar treasure. What the King James had in mind is that we are a special personal private treasure. The notion there of the Hebrew that translates that is that we are God's personal, private treasure. And that really captures the notion. So if you You are the kind of person that writes in the margin of your Bible and where it says there that you are my treasured possession, you might jot that we are a personal private treasure. That's what that word means. Personal private treasure. You see, the wonderful thing about you and me, if we belong to Jesus Christ, if you belong to Jesus Christ, Christ this morning by faith in his shed blood, in his resurrection, on your behalf, for your sin, not trusting in yourself, but only in What he's done. You can wake up every morning and you can say, This is not the power of positive thinking, this is not new age possibility imaging, it's none of that. It is stating on the basic facts of reality. I am the Holy One's personal private treasure. Now, if you begin to understand what we've talked about the last couple of weeks, of who the Holy one is. And then say it is that one who rules the universe, who lives in the high and lofty place of a totally different dimension from our created reality. And that one has said that I am his personal private treasure. Then you know, brother and sister, you didn't deserve that. The one who is separate from us as creatures, separate from us as the undefiled one from sinners, has said, You are my personal private. Treasure in my Son Jesus. Now you see, think about what a treasure is. A treasure has no intrinsic value, does it I mean, how can you place a price on a Rembrandt painting? What's it worth to one person as opposed to another person? You see, a treasure only has value Value in terms of what someone places on that treasure. For example, to show how relative value is to a treasure, I understand that At the time of the sinking of the Titanic, diamonds were worthless in comparison to oranges. Because when people knew that ship was going down and they thought they might be on the open sea for days or they didn't know how long, enough people knew that oranges will present prevent scurvy and might save your life. Diamonds were worthless. You see, value is very relative. There is no such thing, really, as intrinsic value, is there? Value is only determined by what a person places on it And so treasure to you could be worthless to me. In fact, that's a problem in our home. My treasures are constantly being thrown out by my wife who thinks they're worthless. I can never understand it. That's my favorite shirt, you know. I don't care if it's twenty years old, I like that shirt. You know, and there's certain things that to you I wouldn't give you a dollar for. But they're uh worth a million dollars to you because they're They're your personal private treasure. And each of us has things that we treasure. Because a treasure is only what gives you personal delight. That's the essence of treasure, isn't it? Treasure is whatever gives you personal pleasure. And so God says here in Exodus chapter 19. Look again at that verse. He says, now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, out of all the nations you will be my treasured possession. You see, God has determined for reasons known only to himself, in his inscrutable wisdom, he's determined to place infinite value on us as his personal treasure. There's no intrinsic value to us. It's only the value He has determined to place on us. And he goes on to say, although the whole earth is mine, you see Now you see, you and I said, whole earth, wow. But remember, the earth is a speck within his creation. But he says, now I understand that's all you guys know about. So okay, although the whole earth is mine. And it's you know it's almost like you know an understatement to God. You know, the whole earth is my nevertheless, yes, you are going to be for me Kingdom of Priests, a set apart people, my treasured possession. If you Understand anything about the nature of God. You'll read those verses, and you'll have to fall to your knees in wonder and adoration that God has called you and me. His treasured possession. Now, because God knows that we can't fathom that and understand it, he gives us pictures in order for us to try to grasp what that means. John mentioned the pictures that uh want to look at for just a couple of minutes this morning. And by the way, a ver verse that uh that really sums this up that I just love too. And you might take This and jot it down and uh and uh look at that this week. Deuteronomy chapter seven, verse six. God says, For you are a people holy, set apart to the Lord your God. God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people, his treasured possession. That's Deuteronomy seven six. This verse to memorize, along with Exodus 19, 5 and 6. You see, I have chosen you to be my personal private treasure. Three images that the Bible uses to try to communicate that thought to us is that, first of all, he says that we're a treasure like a lamb is to a shepherd. A shepherd is known to have tender regard for his lambs. He loves them, knows them by name. Psalm 23 says, The Lord is my shepherd. He leads me, he leads you into green pastures and beside quiet waters to refresh and to restore your soul. You're like a lamb. to him. You're a precious little lamb. And David, on at least one and more occasions, risked his life to save his lambs. The New Testament tells us in John 10 that there's a shepherd Jesus who didn't risk his life for us as his lambs. He laid down his life. For us as his lambs. That he purposefully and willfully went against the beast who would take you and me from him and ravish us. And Jesus lay down his life for the sheep So that you and I would not be lost to him. Because we were precious to him. We were his personal, private. treasure. The Bible pictures this also in terms of a son to a father. Now if there's anything that illustrates the idea of personal private treasure, I think it's key. kids, right? I mean who else would want your kids, right? No. We see our kids and we say there are things precious in our kids. We see the things of their character character, we see their value. And sometimes we yell and scream and say, I'd take a dollar for you now if somebody would offer it, you know, and let me out of here why But boy, think about losing them for real sometimes. And you and I couldn't bear the thought of having our children taken from us It's a very hurtful, very painful thing to contemplate. Some of us endure that. We realize how personal and private a treasure They are to us. Nothing can replace our children. They're unique , much as they may bug us. They're precious. They're unique. God says, You're like a child to me. You are my own children. And as children, we are his person. Private treasure. He bids us to call him daddy. He calls us into that relationship as his children within his own family. family. The other picture that God gives us of the main ones in Scripture is the picture of a the preciousness of a bride to a bridegroom. As precious as a bridegroom is to a bride. God says, that's the preciousness that you have to me. It's my personal Private treasure, my own treasured possession. Think of, if you're married, of your wedding day You guys think of that time when you saw your wife walking down the aisle. I can still remember it with Kathy. You think of the time that you spent trying to win the heart of that woman Now she's coming down that aisle to declare that she's going to be yours. She's given her heart to you for the rest of your life. And so she comes to take that vow and to declare that she's going to be She's yours, and you look at her, and your eyes are full of love, and you realize that this is your personal private treasure. I have a friend who lives in Maine. Now this guy is a very typical laconic down easterner. You know, he's the kind of guy that you hear about in the old stories, you know. And said to his wife after all those years, Martha, if I sometimes when I think how much I love you, it's all I can do from telling you. This guy had loved his wife many years, and some years ago She died of cancer. He lamented uh the lack of his expression toward her and deeply missed her. Through the years God had given him a desire to get married, and he didn't have anyone else And then a couple years ago there was this woman he began to love and he set his heart on her. I talked to him last year about it and he said, But she doesn't really love me. He says she's never been married and she's a wonderful person. But he says, you know what, Al? Between you and me, I'm gonna set my heart to win her. And so we prayed about that, and he went after that woman. I just saw him this past week. We were at a board meeting. He came running up to me during one of the breaks. He said, Al, I want to tell you. He says, we're getting married. Now I want to tell you, if there's anything that illustrates this picture to me, it's a picture of my friend Paul, a guy who is just such a subdued gentle person to watch that guy practically jump up and click his heels and say, I'm getting married next July and she is a wonderful woman. And we celebrated and rejoiced and embraced and you know how much main people But he we were just shouting and you know the rest of the board meeting, they don't know what's going on, you know. But to him she was a personal, private treasure. And that's what That's what God says that you and I are to him. You're my personal, private treasure. My son died for the bride to make her spotless Glorious. Without wrinkle. Now you see, when you and I begin to understand that, then my question to you is: then, do you see? And the blank there is your name. Do you see Alan Harris? Your name. Put it in there, Bill Ullman, you know? Bill Haynes or whatever. Put your name. Do you see Yourself as God's personal private treasure. It's easy, isn't it, to look and to say that's kind of generally true of us. But do you see that as true of you? Of Jesus and His grace. God has for His purposes chosen you and set His love upon you If you do, then the second thing that I say here is that this will make all the difference in how you live. Because this kind of an understanding, this kind of a biblically determined self-image, demands a holy response. That's the second point. You see, holiness is so often presented to us in terms of restrictions and in terms of negatives. But the Bible presents it as the response of the bride to the groom, as the response of the son to the father, of the lamb to the shepherd. The fact that you and I begin to understand that what is so close to the Holy One must necessarily take on the character of the Holy One. We can't be close to him. We can't be his personal private treasure and not be set apart to him in terms of character. You can't be a follower of Jesus Christ this morning and not say, I want to be like Jesus, my Lord. You see, it just can't follow. You can't be his personal private treasure and then say, I'll live my life for myself in the way that I please to live it. You can't be his personal private treasure and say, How much sin can I get away with and still call myself a Christian? But rather, what the Christian says is, how much can I get away from the world and still be in it? You see, if for the Christian, you need to see that my life, as you see the blanks there, my life is set apart. Holy to him. That's just my identity, you see. That's not something I do. More basically, it's simply who I am. I am set apart to Jesus. That's the essence of holiness. Remember? Separateness, set apartness. And so if you are set apart from others, from the world, unto Jesus Christ Then you work that out, the indicatives and imperatives we've talked about. If you are set apart, then you set yourself apart from sin. And whatever violates the character of the Holy One. You see, that's why after you read Exodus chapter 19, verses 5 and 6, where God says, You are my treasured possession, you are my holy set apart. People. What follows after that? Well, chapter 20. And what's chapter 20? The Ten Commandments. Why? Because you see, the Ten Commandments are simply the statement of the life of a set-apart people. It's the rules of the set apart covenant community. And so God has given to us that in the context of the fact that I have set you apart. I have called you to myself on eagle's wings. I have set you apart as the God who has redeemed you. Chapter 20 begins. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt. See, set you apart to myself, out of the land of slavery and bondage. Therefore, you see, no other gods before you, no other gods before me in your life. If you're set apart, you need to be set apart. Give ever realize that God could have taken Israel from Egypt right up to the promised land in a matter of a couple of weeks. But in instead, if you look at the route, he took them all the way down the Sinai Peninsula and he had them travel around with him for a year before they went up to Kadesh Barnea, where they failed in going into Now why did God spend a year with them before He took them to the place that He had promised? One simple fact, because he wanted to communicate to them one lesson. I am a holy God, and you are a set-apart people. And God knew that that wouldn't get through to them in a matter of a week or so. That it need he needed to transform their sense of identity, who they were, to understand what it meant to be his personal private treasure. to learn to be fed by him, by the manna, to learn to trust in him against their enemies, to learn to trust in him for water, for leading, guiding, direction, for everything. He said, you're a set-apart people. And I want you to learn that And that's what Jesus Christ is doing to you. He may be leading you in some kind of a wilderness right now. There may be some route that he's taking that so seems so circuitous to where you think he wants you to go. And the purpose is that he was to teach you: I am a holy God, and you are my set apart one. And I want you to learn what it means to live a life that is set apart to me in trust and obedience. And so every Sabbath, every Lord's Day in our time since Jesus, every Lord's Day, one day in seven, he says, This is a unique sign between me and to you. I am Yahweh Mekedishkin. I am the one who makes you holy. Stop in the cycle of your week and think of who you are. You're a set of You're one who's been set apart as holy unto Jesus, and you can't live like the rest of the world. You can't rationalize sin like the rest of the world. of the world because Jesus is in you. You're his personal private treasure. And because of that, that transforms how you live. Again and again in the book of Leviticus we read this. Be holy because I am holy. Be set apart because I'm the holy one. And you see that same kind of notion travel on through the New Testament. Again and again, John 17, Jesus prays, Lord, these are the people that you have given to me, Father. They're set apart. Sanctify them through your truth. Your word is truth. Set them apart unto holiness In Ephesians chapter 5, as I said before, when he describes the notion, the relationship between the bridegroom and the bride, the point of it is that Jesus gave himself for us to make us a holy church. without spot or wrinkle or any blemish. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, in Hebrews chapter 10, you see before that. The idea is that God has written his laws on our hearts. Exodus 19, followed by the law given to Israel, but God has now given that law in our hearts through Jesus. And then that transformation of our identity, which could never be accomplished by the external law, God is accomplished by His Spirit, writing His law and His word of holiness in our lives Making us want to do those things that have that reflect the character of Jesus. First Thessalonians chapter 4. Paul says to the Thessalonians, this is God's purpose for you. You want to know God's will for you? He says, before you try anything else about circumstances, This is the basic of God's will for you, that you be holy. And then he says, particularly in your physical relationships, in your sexual relationships, Be holy, be pure, because you are holy, and because God has given to you his Holy Spirit in order to set you apart to himself as his set apart people. And so his name is Yahweh Mikedishim. He makes you holy. You can't make yourself holy You and I come out of this this morning and say, Well that's it. I gotta start dealing with that sin seriously. I'm gonna get a handle on it, and I'm gonna be holy. You will fail before you get home. His name is Yahweh Mekedishkin. I, the Lord, make you holy. And so when you and I realize how unholy we are, we come before him and we confess that And we hate that sin. And we come helpless before our Jesus. We say, Jesus, you are Yahweh Mekedushkin. You make me holy. I want to be like you. Have you begun listening to the New Testament on tape yet? If you're not, you're four days behind, I'll tell you. Now I know if you got those uh less expensive tapes, they're supposed to come in tomorrow. So I am sorry that you've been held up. You've got a lot of listening to do this week. week. Did the best we could. Call the office if you want to find out when they're in. But if you've got the other one, start now listen, here's the point, not to remind you of the tapes, but as you listen to the New Testament, God's going to bring things to your attention and tomorrow He's already brought some stuff to my attention in listening to him. I need to increase in faith. And as he brings things to your attention, put that in the context of remembering, I am And his treasured possession. What does he want to do in my life now? In order that I might reflect that more to his pleasure and the praise of God. You really willing for God to have his control of your life as his own personal private treasure? You and I can give him pleasure by the very being, who we are, and how we obey him, how we trust Trust him by his grace. Do you really want that this week? Then let's pray about it now. Lord, as we think about this, what your word says to us, we are overawed to think that the Holy One has come to save us. I have called you and set you apart to be my personal private treasure Lord, why would you ever call us your treasure? Why would you ever place such value on us that you would send your own son to die for it? Because we were so treasured to you. Lord, we can't understand that. And our hearts are so cold that Lord sometimes we even hear it and we still don't respond. And only your spirit can warm our hearts. And so we pray that you'll do that now. Warm our hearts, Lord, to transform us to understand that we are a spirit. set apart people. We're not like the other people in Columbia and Howard County. We can't do the things that they do. Not because we're restricted By a God who doesn't want us to have fun. But because we have a heavenly Father who knows our deepest good and will not let us play with trash. When you have treasures for us. And so, Lord, we pray. Work in the heart of each of us here, and that heart of response in basic trust in Jesus. Jesus, in love to you, and in a desire to let your power by your spirit work in us this week That those areas that we've been fighting you in, we would yield to you. That we would be a holy people. Hear us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.