Thursday I found myself feeling very discouraged. The number of efforts that I had been making in prayer and working with people seemed to be producing more problems than any answers or progress. In fact, it seemed like most of what I was doing was rather worthless. You ever have one of those weeks? I felt by Thursday kind of overwhelmed with discouragement, even depression. And then I had the experience that I guess a lot of preachers do, I remembered my own sermon. And uh the fact that I had uh talked just a couple weeks before about our being in a spiritual battle And so I tried consciously to gird on the belt of truth against Satan's deceptions. I tried to hold up the shield of faith against discouraging flaming arrows. That were against me. And as I was seeking to do that, I then also remembered the message for this morning. And I remembered how this message is one that as we're back to the series on the names of God. And this summer is going to be a whole lot of different things. So this gonna be the last of the names of God we're going to consider for a little bit. But as I thought about this name for this Sunday, I realized that of all the names of God, there are two That specifically deal with spiritual warfare. One of them is Yahweh, the Lord of hosts. Speaking of all the heavenly hosts of the armies. And the other one is the name that we're going to consider this morning, this name, Yahweh Nissi. The Lord, my banner. As I began to think about that name, I realized that that name was to me and can be to you a tremendous comfort. In those times when we feel like we are in the spiritual battle and we're not sure we're going to win. This name Yahweh Nissi, the Lord my banner, comes from Exodus chapter seventeen, verse fifteen. And so if you have a Bible and you haven't turned to it yet, please turn to Exodus chapter 17, verse 15. And there we read that Moses built an altar, and he called it The Lord is my banner. The Hebrew there is Yahweh Misi. The is is simply inserted by the translators. It's not in the Hebrew. It's simply the Lord, my banner. That word missi, there for banner, is an interesting word. It comes from the root Hebrew, which means to be conspicuous. It's something that was conspicuous, usually something that shined in the sun that could be used as a token. It's used several times in Isaiah and Jeremiah concerning a war flag. And the idea of the war flag was that it rallied the troops to where the battle was. And so the NISI was the rallying flag. It said, here's where the battle is. Come on. And the meaning of this name then is very easy for us to understand. Unlike some of the others we've had to unpack for a few weeks. This one's very simple, very easy. Yahweh Nissi simply means That the Lord calls us, his name calls us, to where the real battle is. And it's in the heavenlies in prayer. Now that becomes very obvious as we look at the circumstances of this, but even look at the verse right after verse 15. And see what uh the Lord says there. Verse 15, Moses built an altar and he called it, The Lord is my banner, Yahweh Nisi. He said, For hands were lifted up to the throne of the Lord. And so it's related, directly related, to the fact that there was prayer going on before the throne of God. in this circumstance. Now, what's the circumstance? In order for us to understand the meaning of the name, we have to look at the historical situation here. What was going on? Well, if you can recall back to the last name that we looked at, Yahweh Rapheca, that was back in chapter 15. You remember the problem there was that Israel had no food, uh, had no water. And they came to the oasis, Mara, and there was bitter water, and God changed the bitter water to sweet. And then he brought them to an oasis, and so they had all the water that they could drink. In chapter 16, you have a food crisis. It's one thing to have uh water, but out in the desert there's uh no crops to pick, uh no game, and so there's no food. And in that case, God provides mana for them. Then back to chapter 17, you're back to a water crisis again. No water. And again, they grumble and complain. You leave it out here to die and all this. And God then causes Moses to go to a rock and strikes the rock with his rod and out comes water. And so you'd think that after these past few weeks of these uh experiences, uh, Israel now is feeling pretty good about God's provision. And we can trust God. He will take care of us. He turned the bitter water to sweet. He didn't disappoint us. He brought us to an oasis just when we needed it and gave us rest. He provided manna, and we pick it up every morning, and there it is, all that we need to eat. And he provided water again when our situation seemed hopeless. So they're probably feeling pretty good at this point about the fact that they can trust God and He will take care of them. And then you read in Exodus chapter 17, verse 8. The Amaleks came, the Amalekites came, and they attacked the Israelites at Rephedim. Suddenly, without any warning, a raiding band of Amalekites come and they descend on the rear of these couple million people. And they begin to hear screams and cries, and they see all these raiding parties coming down from the hills, and they hear their own people dying. And then the raiding party takes off. Now they got a couple million people in the desert. Then they're stretched out over a long place uh long space along this uh caravan trail. And nobody can do anything. They are down, they swoop down, they kill a few, they take a bunch of stuff, and they're gone before anybody can do anything. Deuteronomy chapter 25, verses 17 to 19 tell us something about this raid. It tells us that the Amalekites specifically descended on those who were lagging behind. And who were weary and who were tired. Pretty cowardly vicious thing to do, isn't it? It took the old people who were barely being able to keep up, who were defenseless, and those are the people that they attacked and killed and took whatever they could get. And as I thought about that, it makes me realize that as Amalek represents our enemy in the spiritual battle, which is very clear, you'll see here. That there are two things I learn about my enemy in my daily warfare, and that's true of you as well as me. The first is that our enemy attacks without warning. His key strategy is to catch us off guard when we're lagging behind, isn't it? Now he may get us unprepared, like Israel was, feeling pretty good about some spiritual victory. Just last weekend, I had experienced a couple of real spiritual victories. In a conference Kathy and I were speaking at, we saw God work in a very encouraging way. And Sunday's picnic for us as a congregation. Wasn't that a tremendously uplifting and encouraging family experience? Amen? Break out of applause. It was great. And it's just that those kinds of times when you feel almost invulnerable, that the Lord is true and He is gracious, and what can happen, that all of a sudden you're attacked from the rear. And you're overwhelmed with lust or a sense of criticalness or temper or discouragement that you maybe can't even explain. Just this week, I was talking to somebody who said that they've experienced just recently some of the most intense sense of spiritual warfare, and they were overwhelmed with a sense of lust and and uh Thoughts that they just couldn't get from their mind. And they said, I felt like I was all my responses to everything that were going on were just entirely non-Christian. Like there was nothing distinctive about my being a Christian And I felt like Satan had won in my life. Totally unprepared for it. The second thing that we see about his attacks is that there are no rules to them. He is utterly unscrupulous and vicious. Amalek didn't come down and they say, Now, we're going to attack you and we're going to have a battle here. Now they didn't announce anything. They didn't send an emissary to declare war. They didn't do anything. They swooped down out of the valley of Ruphedim and they simply attacked those who were weak and defenseless. And I think again and again we as Christians underestimate the viciousness of our enemy. The fact that he will stop at nothing to destroy you, your marriage, your friendships, your witness for Jesus Christ. Anything to make you ineffective for the kingdom of God, vicious and without warning. That's what describes the raid that was going on here. You look at this from the Amalekite's point of view. Can you imagine what they must have thought? You see, this caravan, now these guys were used to preying on caravans that moved up from Egypt to Petra and to other areas in Palestine And so uh this is the you know, this is their daily job. They just scan down from the heights and see what caravans are going along and how good the pickings are. Can you imagine? These guys stand there and they see two million or more people beginning to come through. And it's not an army. They have no weapons, or maybe very few. But here's these people coming through and they see it's just a cloud of dust and they see it coming and coming and coming. They say, I can't believe this. I mean, boy, talk about easy pickings. And they watch them all go through and then they wait. Until they see the people that are bringing up the rear, because they know that going through the desert's going to be the ones that are the having a hard time going to bring up the rear. They're going to be the weakest. And so they've undoubtedly heard from the news that would travel through the Sinai Peninsula that these are the Jews that have come out of Egypt. These are ex-pricklayers, slaves. What do they know about defending themselves? And so no doubt they thought this is the easiest thing we have come upon in memory. We're gonna get booty here like you wouldn't believe. And we'll just go down and we'll pick them off and then go back up to our hiding places and then back down and keep doing this raiding uh strategy that they've practiced for generations And so what happens? It doesn't take Moses very long to figure out what he needs to do. You look at verse 9. After they attacked the Israelites and went back to Rephedim, Rephedim probably the most beautiful valley in the whole Sinai Peninsula. They go back to this place where they live. Moses said to Joshua, Choose some of our men and go out and fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with a staff of God in my hands. And so Moses takes some of these ex-bricklayers. They're not soldiers. There's nothing organized about them. And he says, guys, we've got to stand, we've got to fight, because if we don't, they're just going to keep coming down day after day and picking us off. And so there is nothing we can do but to stand and to fight. One of the best things a Christian can finally do when they're getting picked off by Satan is to say we're going to stand and fight and recognize that this is a battle. This is war. Now we were utterly inadequate. We don't have anything really to fight against this enemy, but we're going to do it because we don't have any other choice. And so Moses appoints this young fellow Joshua. This is the first mention of Joshua that we have in the Bible. At least he had an appropriate name, because his name means Yahweh is salvation or our deliverer. Maybe that's why he picked him. Guy with a name like that, we're gonna need something like that in this battle. But there's something about Joshua that attracted him, and he picked Joshua and he said, Joshua, take some men and you go down, and you're gonna tomorrow morning you're gonna fight the battle. And I'm going to go up on top of that hill that you see over there. And I'm going to take the rod of God and I'm going to go up there. Now can you imagine if you're Joshua, you're thinking, Moses, wait, you're the leader. I'm going down to fight the battle with whatever I can pull together, and you're going up on top of the hill with this rod. Now would you please tell me what good that's going to do for us fighting down here? But of course, Moses knew, and Joshua knew, that as he held up this shepherd's staff, it wasn't just any old staff. This was the very same shepherd's staff that Moses had used in Midian It was that staff that Moses had carried along while he was a shepherd in Midian, out in the backside of the wilderness, when he saw that burning bush one day. And God spoke to him out of that burning bush, Moses, I'm calling you to go back and to deliver my people. And Moses said, wait a minute. I think you got the wrong guy for the job. You're looking for somebody else around here. I don't know who it is, but it's not me. I quit Israel. I have no leadership skills. It's not me, Lord. Remember what the Lord said? Hey Moses, what's that in your hand? My shepherd's stand. Just throw it to the ground. Alright, Moses throws it to the ground, and what's happened? It became a snake. You remember? Now, probably what it became was actually a cobra. I believe that's true because if you ever see the pictures of Pharaoh The sign, the symbol in Egypt of Pharaoh's sovereignty was a cobra wrapped around his crown. And so the cobra was the sign of the sovereignty and the power of Egypt And so, likely, there's this cobra down there on the ground, and Moses, of course, says fled out of fear. Pretty reasonable thing to do. And then God says, now Moses Pick it up by the tail! You talk about faith. So Moses goes over and he grabs the cobra by the tail and it becomes a staff again. And so the next thing you see, here's Moses going back to Egypt with his family. And it says he took the staff, but it's no longer called the staff of Moses. It's called the rod of God. You notice in verse 9 what it's called? Moses says to Joshua, choose some of our men, go out and fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with a staff. My staff? No. The staff of God. See, with that staff of God that Moses had taken back to Egypt, and he had said to Pharaoh, let God's people go. And Pharaoh said, No way. And so with a staff he struck the Nile and turned the water to blood. It was with that staff that Moses caused his staff again to become a snake. And the magicians of Egypt produced snakes too. Only his snake ate up the other snakes. Again, I think cobra against cobra is showing God's sovereignty against Egypt's sovereignty It was that same staff that Moses used when he struck the ground and it produced frogs. The plague of frogs. And then again it was the staff that caused the plague of gnats. It was that staff they lifted to the sky. That caused the plague of hail, it was that staff that caused the plague of locust. It was that staff that Moses used to stretch out over the sea and divided the Red Sea so that the people of God could walk through It was that staff that he had just used to strike the rock to provide the water. This is God 's rod. Moses is utterly inadequate, but God's power is symbolized in that rod. You and I are utterly inadequate for this battle. But we have the rod of God. I'll show you what that means in a minute. We have his rod, but the thing to realize is that Moses has to understand his going up on top of the hill is not his strength, it's the rod of God. It symbolizes where the power is going to come from. Just this week I was out praying on Tuesday, and I was feeling utterly inadequate. I was feeling inadequate as a husband, as a father, as a pastor. In every area of my life, I looked and I could see inadequate, inadequate, inadequate. You know, I mean you you think I'm down on my biorhythms or something. I think I'm in touch with what's going on. I just, you know, I was looking at things and I was realizing But you know, this you know, you probably say, you might think this has got a good meal or something. No, I think uh that I was really seeing what was going on in my life And I was feeling overwhelmed with my inadequacy, and I was moaning to the Lord about how inadequate I was feeling, and all that. And I and I sense all of a sudden at a moment that God was saying, that's great, hold on to that thought. You know, because I'm thinking that this sense of inadequacy is debilitating. Jesus reminded me at that moment, do you remember what I say in Philippians 3:3, have no confidence in the flesh? Do you remember what I said to you in 2 Corinthians 12,9? I will gladly boast in my weakness that the power of Christ might rest on me. It's when you and I realize our inadequacies that we're simply in touch with reality. It's the other times that we think that we're adequate, that we're really not in touch with reality. But if God brings you and me to a point, and us as a church, as a congregation to the point of feeling overwhelmed with our inadequacy, that's when the Holy Spirit can begin to work. Amen? And so it's with that sense of inadequacy that Moses must have grown up Because he understands that he has no power in himself and that Israel has no power in themselves. That Joshua can't win this battle. So Joshua goes down and Moses goes up. And at that point, Moses begins to lift the rod, and we read in verse 10, so Joshua fought. Against the Amalekites, as Moses had ordered. And Moses and Aaron and Her went to the top of the hill. As long as Moses held up his hands, and he's got the rod in them, as long as he held up his hand for the rod of God, the Israelites will win. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. And you see, what God is showing us here is simply that there were two battles going on. There was a battle that was going on in the valley. That battle was a very real battle. There were real arrows, there were real swords, there were real whatever Israel could use, uh, you know Potato pearers, whatever they could get a hold of, you know. I mean they were using what they could scrounge up, and they were using anything, and there were weapons that were clashing And there were screams and cries and blood and death. And if you looked at that scene, you'd say, it's obvious to me that there is a battle going on there. The interesting thing is you turn your eyes and you look at the top of the hill and use this old man with his hands lifted up. It wouldn't be very obvious that there was any battle going on there, would there? All you see is this old man with his hands up. Somebody say, Well, where's the battle? You say, There's the battle. Then what's that guy doing? I don't know. He's practicing some pious devotional activity or something. I don't know what he's doing, but there's the battle. Well, what's the Bible tell us? The Bible says there was the battle. As long as Moses was able to lift up his hands. And hold that rod in conscious confession of the fact that, Lord, we are inadequate in this. And we depend on you to give the victory. Then Israel, like verse 11 says, prevail. The Israelites prevailed. But as long, but as soon as Moses began to think, and you know, the only way you can get a feel of this, and I suggest this. Right now for some of you may want to try it. I give your permission. Hold out your hands so that they're not touching something. Just hold them out and pray, you know. You know, lift them up and be like, just hold out, don't touch anything, and get the feel of what it means to just keep your hands out and not letting them touch something. It's work. And I got I think God wants us to read this passage. And if you don't do it now, I encourage you, invite you to do it now. But if you don't do it now, at least do it this afternoon and do it somewhere else where you feel comfortable, because the only way you can really feel this passage Is to see how long you can hold your hands out without touching something. And realize that this battle was going on for hours. And then all of a sudden you get a feel that you maybe didn't have before. Prayer is work. Prayer is exhausting. And what you're tempted to do is at some point you're tempted to say, as you see the battle going on down there, you say, Moses will say, Why, this is r this is so hard, and you let your hands down because why? You say, We've won. From now on it's just a mop-up operation. The Lord I don't have to keep my hands up anymore, they can take care of it. And as soon as he did, what happened? The tide of the battle begins to turn Amalek recovers and they rally together and all of a sudden the Israelites are swept back in what seemed impossible to lose. And so all of a sudden Moses realizes I can't take anything for granted. Not until this battle is over can I put my hands down. And so it was so difficult that finally, verse 12 says, when Moses' hands grew tired at And every time he let him down, he'd see that there was more death, there was loss. People's lives were at stake. And so he'd put his hands back up again. But they couldn't, he just couldn't hold them anymore. And so what happens? His hands retired, and so they, there's uh Aaron and Her took a stone and they put it under him, and he sat on it. And then Aaron and her held his hands up, one on one side, one on the other, so did his hands remain steady till sunset. Now, you know, if you read this with unbelieving eyes, you look at that and you say, That's pure superstition. It's Moses and he's sitting on this rock, and they say, Well, now just keep his hands up and we'll win. And you say that's just superstition, it has nothing to do with what's going on down there. You don't see some cause and effect connection. But Exodus chapter 9, verse 23 and 29, you can look it up again a little later. Exodus 9, 23 and 29, if you compare those two verses, it's very clear. That Moses holding up the rod to God was lifting out his hands in prayer to God for his power. And so it's simply a matter of not of superstition, but do you believe that God hears and answers prayer? That was for you and for me a graphic depiction of prayer and the battle in the heavenlies where Yahweh Nissi calls us to the real battle. So that we could see the effect of that in the real world. I don't know of any other passage in Scripture that shows us the direct correspondence between the two battles, the heavenly battle fought at the throne of God in prayer And the earthly battle that is fought for the lives of men and women. Nothing else that I see so graphic. And the result of this Is that finally Israel prevails. So he holds up his hands steady till sunset Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with a sword. You have in your bulletin an insert of this thing. Which is the um an organization here now, uh the Committee Against Radical Abortion Laws. And uh there is a uh rally that is being held on June 23rd What kind of rally? Strategy rally? Planning rally? Mobilization? No. It's a prayer meeting. Why? Well, you see, there there are Christians in Maryland who understand that concerning this referendum to give Maryland some of the most liberal abortion laws in the entire United States this November That if we simply strategize and organize and have everything all set, that we will in fact probably lose the battle. That well that has to happen. Joshua had to go down and fight. Moses didn't say, Well, let's let the Amalekites come and I'll go up on the hill and you know we'll watch God zap them with lightning or something No, both things had to happen. Joshua, get down there, do the best you can fight in that battle. But where was the decisive battle being fought? Very clear, isn't it? The decisive battle was up on the hill. That's what determined the success of the battle in the valley. And it's this kind of a meeting that determines the success of everything we do. It's the people that show up to this. That show up to the bi-monthly concerts of prayer in Howard County, our Thursday morning concerts of prayer, who pray in private devotions, in family times, praying with your best friend, with your spouse Whoever, because you believe there is the battle determined. Now what does that mean for you and for me? I believe that we're given two clues concerning what this means for us. You notice that as a result of this, we'll look at the uh we'll look at verses uh 14 uh and following a little more next week. and some of the implications of that on our situation. But notice again verse 15 that after the battle was won, Moses built an altar and he called it Yahweh Nissi Why? Because he's saying this altar on the hill is a reminder to us forever that God calls us by his war flag, his standard, to where the real battle is. And the real battle is where? Verse 16. He said, For hands were lifted up to the throne of the Lord. The real battle was fought at the throne of the Lord. Now, what does that mean for you and for me? Two clues I say that we have to that. One's in the Old Testament and one's in the New Testament. The first one in the Old Testament is in Isaiah chapter 11. Take a look at that. Isaiah chapter 11. And we see reference to this same name. In Isaiah chapter 11, after Isaiah talks to us about the messianic age, he then says this, verse 10 in that day concerning the times of Messiah, The root of Jesse, which is a messianic designation, that's referring to Messiah. In that day, Messiah, the root of Jesse, Jesse was David's father, and so this is the one, the king who's the descendant of David. Messiah, in that day the root of Jesse will stand as a what? What's it say? A banner, a missi. It's the same word. Messiah will be the Nissi. Jesus is our banner. See, that's what that's saying. Messiah will stand as a banner for the peoples. And what's this? The nations will rally to him, and his place of rest will be glorious. In that day the Lord will reach out his hand a second time to reclaim the remnant that's left of his people, from Assyria, from Lower Egypt, from Upper Egypt, from Cush, from Elam, from Babylonia, from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea. And he will raise a missy, a banner for the nations, and gather all the exiles of Israel. He'll assemble the scattered people of Judah and from the four quarters of the earth. And what are they going to say? They're going to come in verse 12, first two verses, and that day you, all that you will come to Jesus, the banner. What are you going to say? You'll come in that day and you'll say, I will praise you, O Lord. Although you were angry with me, your anger has turned away, and you have comforted me. Surely God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. The Lord, the Lord is my strength and my song. He's become my salvation. And with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. Do you see Jesus has been doing exactly that? For the last 2,000 years since Pentecost, Jesus has been drawing the nations to himself as the banner. So that we can come and by his death and resurrection say, You are my salvation. You were angry at me for my sin, but you, Lord Jesus, have taken that sin. You've paid the penalty by your blood, and now I draw water from the wells of salvation, and I have a new life in Christ. And we are seeing that as the battle is going on on the hill, the nations are being drawn to Jesus. Now we're seeing dramatic examples of this. A number of us heard from George Otis, who travels around the world just example after example a couple weeks ago of how God is doing this. And it's going so uh relatively slowly in the United States compared to other parts of the world that we miss what's happening in this battle We hear a lot about Russia, but that's just one example. Take Albania. I told you before Albania was the only self-proclaimed, the first and only real self-proclaimed atheistic nation where it was capital offense to believe in God. Up till about three years ago, then things began to change. I I've personally prayed for Albania for years. I've had Albania because it just seemed like such an arrogant, irrational thing for a state to outlaw God. And so for many years I have prayed on a regular basis for Albania. What's happened? Do you know that right now, at this current time, Albania has one university in its country, it's in its capital They have a Christian organization writing their curriculum for their high schools and the one university in the country, revising all their thought and basing it now on the Bible. That's Albania. Cambodia, where the bloodshed of hundreds and thousands of people by the communists, the communist headquarters are now used for evangelistic rallies to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. Indonesia, probably one of the most consistently Muslim nations in the world. There are more Muslims in Indonesia than any other nation in the world. The latest estimates of the effect of the gospel and mission efforts in Indonesia and the prayer on the hill for the battle in Indonesia. Is they currently, and I've heard George Otis said he had heard from government officials, not published But a reluctant acknowledgement that at this point twenty to twenty-five percent of Indonesia is professing Christian How do you explain these things? There's no way to explain it except the fact that there's a battle that's going on at the throne of God. And as Christians take that battle seriously and we believe God. That he can do something even here in Howard County. The other clue is in the New Testament to this, and it's the one from Hebrews chapter 4. Take a look in Hebrews chapter 4. We see in verses 14 to 16. I remember that Exodus chapter 17, after Moses built this altar, he said specifically. That hands were lifted to the throne of the Lord. And in Hebrews chapter 4, we read that since we have now a great high priest. Not simply Moses, one better than Moses, who has gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold firmly to the faith we profess. But we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. Those times we feel overwhelmed. But we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, and yet without sin, he's conquered. Let us then approach the throne of grace, the exact same throne that Moses was talking about. Approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. So Hebrews is telling us that you and I have a rod, and that rod is Jesus. And by that Lord, you and I approach his throne in order that we might be able to see his power in our lives. Individually, as families. Small groups, a congregation? He may test us concerning whether we're going to keep our hands lifted up But we know from what Isaiah says and from what Hebrews 4 says that he hears and he will answer. One of the stories that was told was one that happened in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, just recently. There were a group of Christians out there, and a new age group had moved in, and they had uh taken out a good bit of publicity. In the local newspapers, and a group of Christians decided that they would simply pray against this New Age group. They would band together and they would concentrate prayer. And so they did. And as they prayed, they simply prayed that God would remove that threat to their community. You know what happened? They didn't do anything against them directly. They're simply on the hill holding up the rod of God. The New Age group had taken out lots of advertising space, and they had some unexpected financial reversals. Funny thing about that. They couldn't pay their bills. So they told the newspapers, well, we're going to have to defer payment. Well, you can imagine how happy that made the newspapers. So they sent an investigative reporter to take a look at this new age group and some of its practices. They discovered all kinds of corruption and they wrote about it in the newspaper. The effect of it was the New Age group simply closed up and they completely dissolved their organization and left town. Do we believe God hears and answers prayer in Howard County? Do we believe in a county that is just uh nominated and appointed a lesbian to the Human Rights Commission this week? And the things we see happening in our schools that God is able to hear and to answer our prayers. I pray that when I preach these kinds of things, that God will add at least ten people in the congregation who will take prayer seriously and join. The ranks of those on the hill. You gonna be one of those? May God speak to our hearts. Amen.