In our study of the names of God we've been going through, we have been looking at this name, the Lord our Healer And that name, the Lord our healer in the Hebrew is what? Okay. Better in the first group. Always more awake in this group at least. That's one thing. Really notice that difference. Let's do it together to show you our awake, that you know what it is, that you've got to look at your bulletin. There it is. But the name of God we're looking at that means the Lord our healer is Good. You're all a bunch of rabbis. Said it great. Yahweh Rebecca. Thank you, Tom. And it means the Lord our healer, we're looking at what the Bible has to say about healing, at least as much as we can cover in four messages on that. This is the third. Next week we'll finish and we'll end up with an opportunity having gained some insights about what the Bible means by healing, what kind of healing we can expect God to provide and the rest of that. by having two opportunities next week for prayer for healing. We will be having an opportunity at 9. 40, the middle hour, right here in Smith Theater. And then after this service at 1230 we'll be meeting down, I think it's called A150, but it's the first uh classroom on the right, just when you pass uh the double doors going out of the lobby area We'll be having an opportunity then for anyone who wants to to come and for us to share. I'd like prayer for healing in this area of my life, physical, spiritual, emotional, whatever it is We have opportunity for people to share a little bit about how God's answered in the past from other services like this that we've had. And then we simply go to pray for each individual. After each of these times We'll be having an opportunity to pray as a congregation. Because as a congregation we're hurting in some ways. You read the insert about uh what's happening in our desire for a facility and the uh giving and we you know we're kind of confused what God is saying in that And so is the Holy Spirit trying to reveal something to us? We want to pray about that. So it'll be an opportunity to pray and put before the Lord our vision, our plans, our desires, corporately as well as individually. Now in order to do that best we want to be able to understand what the Bible says about healing. Remember last week I observed that from Exodus 1526, where it the one place where God reveals Himself as Yahweh Refection. Of the Lord your healer, he gives what seems to be a kind of a principle, sort of a law there. Now let's hear God's word and see again what this verse says, what this law or principle is here. Exodus fifteen twenty-six. He said, If you listen carefully to the voice of the Lord your God And do what is right in his eyes. If you pay attention to his commands and keep all his decrees, I will not bring on you any of the diseases I brought on the Egyptians. For I am Yahweh Rebecca, the Lord who heals you. As we looked at that, we realized that ultimately that condition for healing That you obey my word, obey my law, was something that you and I could never keep. And we saw how Jesus in the first week kept that condition fully. He's the one who kept the law perfectly. And so Isaiah says it's by his stripes that we're healed. It's by the punishment that God inflicted on him as the substitute for our sin that God has been able to heal us. But we've looked at that to find out a little further. What is that principle and what does it mean for us? God says there that health and obedience are related. Now, having acknowledged that you and I need the obedience of Jesus on our behalf in order to have spiritual uh wholeness, spiritual health. Is there a principle here? Is there any connection between sin and disease? And you remember the resounding conclusion we came to last week was something Sometimes. Sometimes there is, and sometimes there isn't. The Bible makes clear that there are times when directly God will bring about plague or sickness, plague on society, sickness on an individual, as a result of sin. More often, there's an indirect connection between the stress of guilt, the stress of chronic anxiety The stress that our bodies cannot cope with of sin described in Psalm 32 and Psalm 38 that speak of the fact that when we hide our sin, we can get Backaches and muscle problems and tension and all these kinds of things that produce physical disability. And you probably know of people and maybe yourself Has suffered from time to time with that kind of thing. And that can be an indirect result of sin that God wants to bring to our attention. As David says, when I held this in, then I was miserable. When I confessed my sin, when I repented of that, I opened it up to the Lord, He brought healing into my life. Proverbs three, remember says that we should trust the Lord with all our heart, lean not to our own understanding. In all our ways acknowledge him. He'll direct our paths, make them straight, fear the Lord, shun evil, and it will be health to your body Life to your soul. It will be health, and Proverbs 4 says the same thing. Follow the principles of wisdom. It will be health to your body. And so we've observed there's a close connection between the spiritual and the physical. On the other hand, we observe that sometimes there is no connection between our sin and our disease and suffering. We looked at the case of the man born blind in John 9 and how Jesus affirmed. And the disciples said, Who sinned? Him or his parents? And Jesus said, Neither. But this was simply done so that the work of God would be manifest in him. Not a matter of sin. God wants to do something special in his life. And it requires this humbling, this affliction, in order for him to glorify himself. We looked at Paul's thorn in the flesh, again not related to sin on Paul's part. Timothy apparently was kind of a sickly character No relationship to his own sin. And of course the classic case of Job, where Job was afflicted, having lost his family, physically afflicted, was really crazy. In some cases purpose is given, in other cases no purpose is given. But we simply need to trust Yahweh Rafekah who heals. Now, if that's the case, then we need to look at the question, what kind of healing is it that God brings? And that's what we want to look at this morning. What kind of healing does Jesus, who is Yahweh Rebekah, what kind of healing does He want to provide in your life and in my life? As we look at this, we see that there are four levels. Now the clue, I believe, to what kind of healing he wants to provide is given in the illustration, this incident, the circumstances in which God revealed himself as Yahweh Rapekah. And so let's back up to verse 22 of Exodus 15. And take a look and see what in fact it is that God says about Himself as healer. What's the incident? Well We read Exodus 15, 22, then Moses led Israel from the Red Sea. They went into the desert of Shur, and for three days they traveled in the desert without finding water. When they came to Mara, they could not drink its water because it was bitter. That's why the place is called Marah, meaning bitter. And so the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What are we to drink? And then Moses cried out to the Lord, to Yahweh, and the Lord showed him a piece of wood, and he threw it into the water, and the water became sweet. And there the Lord made a decree and a law for them to reveal himself as Yahweh Rafekah. Now I would suggest that the clue to what kind of healing Jesus wants to provide is found right in that incident. In which God shows he does not provide a healing service there, remember. Rather interesting. He reveals himself as the Lord your healer in the context of making bitter water sweet. And I believe that gets to the heart of what kind of healing it is that God provides. He makes bitterness sweet, He makes brokenness whole. The idea of wholeness and sweetness is central to the idea of healing that you have in the Bible. It's central to the idea of what kind of healing God intends to provide Now, today the idea of holistic health is a very big notion. You hear and read a lot about holistic health. And when you read about holistic health spelled H-O-L -I-S-T-I-C Holistic without a W for the whole. Holistic. That generally triggers the suspicion and usually accurate that that kind of holistic health Which takes into account the fact that we are not only physical beings, but we are also mental and spiritual beings. But the roots of holistic health are in New Age philosophy. The idea of holistic health, which we applaud because it's a larger, more complete notion of health than simply dealing with germs and microbes and all that kind of thing, but that idea of holistic health generally has the notion Of aligning our innate energies in tune with the cosmic energy of the universe And it's by aligning our energies with that cosmic energy that we're brought into a kind of a uniformity, we're brought into wholeness, and that energy released in us produces health. That can be done through meditation, visualization, acupuncture, acupressure, all kinds of other ways. But ultimately it's a pantheistic philosophy It says that the goal is for you and for me to be absorbed into the one, that cosmic unity, in which we lose our identity as our energies all kind of flow together, you know. picture here. Our energies are all sort of flowing together in this cosmic unity that releases in a positive flow the energy that uh are being blocked so that uh we have all these kinds of problems Well again, as I said, the fact that uh there is a larger view of wholeness here is good. We applaud anything that recognizes the spiritual dimension to people But basic to that kind of holistic health is a depersonalization of the universe. There is no personal Yahweh Rafekah, no personal God who brings healing, whatever the religious language that's used to mask it. It's that man himself is being deified. We become God in holistic health. And as becoming God and being absorbed into this oneness. We deify ourselves, we affirm ourselves, and so man is at the very center of the universe. Man is worshiping himself in this kind of a philosophy. And so we as Christians have to utterly repudiate that for the kind of whole health, or sometimes, as Christians write, holistic health, W -H-O-L-I-S -T-I-C. holistic with a W in front of it, that kind of whole health, that is in fact a biblical notion. And so, what kind of health is it that the Bible sees as holistic? What kind of health does Jesus intend to bring to us? Four levels, I would suggest. The first is the physical. First is the physical. Clearly the Bible talks about physical health and physical healing that the Lord intends to bring. So that first blank in your bulletin outline is physical. wants to deliver us from physical disease and disability. Verse 26 of Exodus 15, very clear. If you follow my word, I will He says, deliver you, I will bring none of these diseases. I will not bring on any of the diseases I brought on the Egyptians. And if you look in Deuteronomy , and other places, it seems clear that God's not simply referring to the plagues that he brought on Egypt there. Uh of the ten plagues, there are only two that had to do with physical disability or disease. Uh the one that's the boils, maybe something like Job, you know, again, all that that nasty itchy stuff. But in Deuteronomy there is a particularly interesting reference, not to do with the plagues But it but God says, I will deliver you from those diseases that you so dreaded in Egypt. Apparently this was something characteristic of Egypt. In fact, if you read Deuteronomy, it doesn't sound like Egypt was a very healthy place to live Now I don't know how much that had to do with the climate and how much it had to do with the fact that because of their sin, God was simply bringing sickness on Egypt. But there's one graphic passage there that describes this dreaded illness that kind of caused you to itch, and there was nothing you could do to cure it, and you sort of were driven to madness by scratching all the time, and you couldn't get any relief Now God says that's a very physical thing, but he says I will deliver you from that as you follow me as you as your God Hezekiah, you remember, uh, was delivered from physical illness when he cried out to God, and God said, I will heal you, I will add fifteen years to your life. And you remember, as Jesus came, physical healing was central to his ministry. For instance, in Matthew chapter 4. You read that Jesus went throughout Galilee teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news, teaching, preaching. of the kingdom, and with that what's he doing? And healing every disease and sickness among the people. So Jesus combined his teaching and his preaching of the kingdom with healing. Why? Because Jesus was claiming to be the king of a new kingdom It was going to restore from the brokenness that you and I experienced, of which sick sickness, illness, madness, demon possession, the rest of these things, were the results of sin. And Jesus was doing the healing not simply as his goal to make everybody in Palestine physically well. He didn't do that. He only healed a minority of the people. But these healings were signs and wonders, attesting to the fact that Jesus was in fact the Messiah, that he had the power to heal. But the healing was appointed to Jesus as the healer. And the essential thing that he was trying to do in that was not simply to physically heal, but to show that the deeper issue was spiritual healing. Do you remember in Mark II, the friends of the paralytic, remember they were so desperate, couldn't get to Jesus through the crowds, so they break a few tiles in the roof, they let the paralytic right down in the midst, put them before Jesus, and say, Here's our friend, would you please heal him? That got Jesus' attention, you know? That comes right down through the roof. Jesus looks at him. The first thing he does is what? Doesn't heal him? What's he do? He says, your sins are forgiven. And they say, well, that's very nice. We appreciate this spiritual counsel, but what we really like is some physical healing. And they see him get up and walk. But Jesus is there pointing attention to the fact that the physical is secondary, not unimportant, secondary. The real issue is the spiritual brokenness. And so then he says, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins, I say to you, rise up and walk. Which is easier, he says, to say your sins are forgiven, or to say rise up and walk to a paralytic. But the the emphasis is on the spiritual healing. The physical is important But it's always to point to the fact that Yahweh Rafekah has a bigger plan in mind, a larger healing, a healing that deals more with the root of our problem. Physical healing is something God still does. Jesus is still healing people today. And one verse that I think would dispel any controversy about that is in James 5. Where we are called upon, if we are in a situation life-threatening or disability or whatever, and there's no medical treatment that's proving effective, that we call on the elders To come and anoint with oil and to pray for God's healing. And again, there's a close connection. If you sin, sins will be forgiven. Connection between physical and spiritual. But the physical is important to God. Let's not fragment the gospel. God wants for us to be whole people, and physicalness, the physical well-being, is something of great concern to Him. But the root issue is to heal our spiritual brokenness, and that's the second point. Jesus' intention is to heal the spiritual brokenness. We are spiritually broken people. In fact, the Bible says in Romans chapter 1 to 3 , That not only are we in a broken relationship with God, Isaiah 59 points that out, that our sins have separated us from Him. Romans 1-3 spells it out in terms of our brokenness. Ephesians 2. 1 says we're not only sick and broken, we are dead in sin. You and I, I believe, need to realize that. We need to come back whether you have ever come into a personal relationship with Jesus, or whether you say, I have known Jesus in a personal way for many years. We need to come to realize as people who are constantly being bombarded with the secular and the psychological, that say that only that which you can see and analyze is really of any great importance to realize it is our spiritual brokenness, it is our spiritual disability that is at the root of our problems. I think of a person by the name of Barb Galbraith, who was a person who could never be content She had a family that she gradually grew disenchanted with, never finding what would give her contentment, satisfaction. Finally, last July. After 25 years of marriage, she left her husband, left her two children, moved 3,000 miles away to find herself. To find that gnawing, uh something to fill that gnawing void in her life, that brokenness. Uh read uh every self-help book and listened to every motivational tape that she could, got into tarot cards. And psychic healing, and all the rest of this kind of thing. Nothing provided the healing that she was looking for. She was very lonely and a Christian woman befriended her, got to know her, and She would share with her Jesus from time to time, and Barbara said that she would hear that, and she uh wasn't particularly convinced that Jesus was something she needed in her life or a person she needed in her life, but Because this woman was a friend and she needed a friend, she would listen. Gradually she came became more interested, and one night uh the woman said, There's gonna be a Billy Graham special on TV. Would you come on over and watch it with me And so because she was her friend, she decided she would do that. And she says that as she looked at the that television billigram portraying Jesus, who was the one wounded for our transgressions, as by his stripes we are healed. that she began to realize that it was Jesus that she needed. He was the solution to her brokenness, to her spiritual death and disability. And so she could say, as the psalmist, that she gave her life to Jesus, He's the one who has forgiven all my sin and healed all my diseases. God began to mend the brokenness of her life and her relationship. And you and I, I think, from time to time need to remind ourselves we are broken people. Now we're not people who were once broken and now kind of we've sort of gotten it together. We are a people who, without Jesus, are dead in our sins. We are people who are helpless to be able to do anything that's whole or sweet. That Jesus alone can mend our brokenness. And sometimes God humbles us to a place where He'll show us and remind us again. I am the one who heals you. I'm the one who has mended your relationship with the Father. I'm the one who can give you true, deep spiritual healing. And if there's anyone here who's never experienced that from Jesus, I would plead with you that you don't put off examining and being able to look at Jesus as the one who can provide for you the healing that He alone can give. Because that is why he came to take your sin upon himself, so that God would judge that on the cross and in his resurrection He rose to new life so that you and I would have that relationship with God that provides new life, clear conscience, and healing. And that healing works out through all of our lives. So the third level of the healing that he provides is that by which he heals all our personal brokenness. Jesus heals all personal brokenness. Psalm 147 is one of my favorite , has one of those couple of my favorite verses in it. Psalm 147, verse 2 says, The Lord builds up Jerusalem. He gathers the exiles of Israel. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. Now you notice there that God is not talking primarily about our Bringing us to life out of spiritual death. He's not talking about physical healing. He's talking about healing what? Our broken hearts. You see that? Psalm 147 verse 3. God says he heals the brokenhearted. Perhaps you look at that and you feel sort of like Israel we talked about a couple weeks ago. Say, I've been walking through the desert, not for three days, three years, but for a long time, Lord. And I'm very thirsty, and every time it seems like I have come to a place where you'd provide that sweetness, it's been bitterness And I really wonder if you're able to heal my broken heart. I've brought so much baggage into my Christian life, for my family, my background, sinful patterns. Sinful ways of relating. I feel like it's so much a part of my identity I can't even conceive of myself separated from those problems, from those sinful ways of relating. I can't imagine that you could heal me and change me to become a whole person in this life. I believe that when I get to heaven and Jesus comes and takes me there, that I'll be whole then But somehow that seems theoretical and unconvincing for your joy and contentment now, isn't it? And yet what does he say? I'm Yahweh Rafekah. I heal the brokenhearted. Now it's interesting to me that what God does then is look what he does if you happen to turn to that. If you didn't just listen, look what he does right after he says that. Very amazing. I heal the broken heart. Okay, now how do you heal the broken heart? What do you got to totally change of subject? What's he saying? Next verse Get the connection. I'll read the two. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars. And calls them each by name. Great is our Lord and mighty in power. His understanding has no limit. It's as if God anticipates your and my unbelief. It's as if he says, I heal the brokenhearted. Oh, I hear what you're saying. Yeah, maybe somebody else who's basically together, but not me. Well, let me tell you something. He says, I not only know the number of the stars. Anybody here know the number of the stars? Hey, you know, Doug McElroy and the others in the astronomy department here don't even know how many galaxies there are in the universe. There's upwards, I understand, of maybe a hundred billion galaxies. Now each of those galaxies may have upwards to a hundred billion stars in them. Nobody really knows exactly. I mean give or take a few billion, you know. But God says, I know exactly how many there are. I know the ones that are coming into being, the ones that are vanishing. I know every Supernovae, black hole, I know all this. I know it all. In fact, he says, I have pet names for them all. You get that in the very he calls them each by name. God says, My power is so great, my understanding is so infinite. That when I look at the stars in the vast array of the heavenlies, I say, Oh yes, you know, there is this little star. I don't know what he calls them, but you know There's this star and that star, and he knows them. He knows everything about them. Then you and I come and we say, But I'm not really sure you can handle the brokenness of my life. How the Lord must smile and say, if you only knew me, if you only knew my power, and if you only knew my desire. Demonstrated in Jesus when he was here on earth, if you only knew how willing, how I long to bring my healing power into your life, how much more you would run to me and trust me. The Bible's clear. God intends to. He desires to bring wholeness out of our brokenness. He heals the brokenhearted. I long for us as a church to believe more. The willingness and the ability of Jesus. And let's pray that God will build us as a people of faith next week. Who come and say, maybe never before have I experienced full healing. But Lord, I still want to trust you. You know, I think of a fellow who was writing an article on churches. Writing about uh various churches throughout the country and what made them effective. He was traveling around with his wife. One of the churches that they visited for this article he was writing was a church in California, part of the Vineyard Fellowship of Churches. And part of their practices as churches is to have a standing invitation for prayer for healing after the service. And so, because his wife had been experiencing great deal of pain in relational disruptions and difficulties for many, many years, they decided that they would stay and that they would go. And he said we went up and uh we met with this, and these were his words, an unassuming middle-aged counselor Now, I don't know what middle aged meant in that. Uh undoubtedly it was somebody older than me, but see why are you laughing at that? Yeah, okay. Anyway, this person who was undoubtedly older than me was met with them and he said that they described the problem and this person listened and he said Do you have a good solid spiritual support group back home? And he said, Yeah, I believe we do. He said that's going to be very important. Listen to the problem. And then he says he just simply laid hands on his wife and prayed. Prayed earnestly, specifically, for God's healing. His wife began to weep and to quiver uncontrollably After a few minutes, she was able to recover. They thanked the person for that ministry and they went on. But he said the following days and weeks, something absolutely remarkable happened. His wife had been in four years of intensive counseling to seek to deal with these problems. And she was still in this bondage. And it seemed like God just took all of that counseling and all the things that had been done, and he wrapped it all up. And in answer to that prayer, he began to, in a period of just a few weeks Bring a full catharsis and wholeness and sweetness in her relationships, in her past, as all this came out, and she was free, marvelously free, from all the things that had been holding her in bondage And he says, I can only look back at that and say that was a powerful, supernatural work of God, who is in fact Yahweh Rafek. Do we believe that God can do that in our congregation? Physically, emotionally, spiritually, that we would bring to him our brokenness. And God could show his power, lift up Jesus by saying, Here is a group of people, these people are sick, and these people are needy. But I am a great God to show my healing. You know God's been doing that in my life in the last couple of years. Bringing out areas I was unaware of and bringing healing into my life. I don't know. It's evidence to anybody, but I've been feeling, my family's been seeing, that there are ways that God is healing me on deeper levels, and He longs to do that. For a number of you, I believe, here in our congregation. The final and last thing I want to say, the last level of the healing that God wants to bring, Jesus, Yahweh Rafekah, is in the level of societal brokenness. Societal brokenness. Jeremiah and Hosea describe Israel as a society that was broken because of their sin. They had ignored God and his ways. In fact, after describing how broken that uh the um Israelites were, Hosea Chapter 6, verse 1 says, Now this is the corporate society speaking. They say, Come, let us return to the Lord. He has torn us to pieces, but he will heal us. He has injured us, but he will bind up our wounds. And that's talking about society. And of course You're familiar with the verse that has so often been used as a call to renewal and to revival in our day. From 2 Chronicles 7, verse 14, again to the people of Israel. If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Now that is a promise to Israel, and so it comes to us as the Church of Jesus Christ, but we are a church in society. And I believe that God holds out to us also that same promise, that same hope, that as we as the Church of Jesus Christ, if we humble ourselves, And we call upon him to make himself known the manifest presence of our God in our day, and that that is the key to the healing of our land. And who can but doubt? that we are a sick and broken land after the results of the Rod the Rodney King verdict of the last couple of weeks. As we've seen the black community believe that as white policemen beat a black person, that whether it is the policemen or whether it is the jurors or whether it is society at large Their cry is that when a black person is beaten, you see that person subhuman. You don't really feel like the black person feels the same kind of hurt that you do. And then a few days later, we see a number of white people being beaten by black people, and all of a sudden the pain of that becomes more tangible for those of us who are white. And we realize that there is a radical hurt within the society. There is a radical disruption, a radical tension that is always just below the surface. in black-white relations racial relationships. That's not just out in LA. That's here in Howard County. Clergy for Social Justice was called a meeting for May the 20th because of racial incidents within the public school system in Howard County. I talked to a fellow from Oakland Mills High School recently. And he said, I was standing over at McDonald's and he said, just me and a couple of my friends, and he said, in this case it happened to be a white fella, and he said, I saw some black guys coming over, didn't even know who they were. They grabbed me, threw me to the ground. By the time they finished beating up on him, he went to the hospital. There were 20 stitches in his head. The next day Some white guys came over. Didn't even warn his friends. Wasn't revenge for him. It was for another incident. They went over and they got those black guys and they beat them all up Police don't even press charges. Went to the police and said, I can identify these guys. They don't even bother. This is in Howard County. Do we believe that we have problems here? Do we believe that God is saying this broken society can be healed by the power of Jesus Christ? Let me tell you, as we pray for renewal and revival in Howard County, I wonder from time to time if the key to what God's going to do may not be in the area of race relationships May not be in the fact that for once the Church of Jesus Christ could take the lead in a societal healing. Now on the coalition, Howard County Coalition, of the fourteen current members on that steering committee, actually there's fifteen of the fifteen members There is one black pastor, Bob Davis from the Long Reach Church of God. We're committed, working with Bob, to be somehow the salt and light in this county. to provide racial reconciliation. You know just Friday, uh John Perkins, one of the most respected of the black Christian leaders in the United States was right here in D. C. for a meeting on reconciliation, racial reconciliation between blacks and whites that had been set up long before anything of the Rodney King verdict. Because they recognize that that is so important. We are in desperate trouble. There is a powder cake ready to explode And if we as Christians aren't taking the lead in this for reconciliation through Yahweh Rafekah, who says, I can heal your land, then why are we wasting our time to pray for renewal and revival? But whatever level it is, we need to believe that Jesus, Yahweh Rebekah, can and wants to heal you and me. Of all of our brokenness, physically, emotionally, spiritually, even societally. Let's not fragment the gospel. That's on the backside. Don't fragment the gospel So that we see that Jesus saves us spiritually. But somehow we've just got to cope with all the brokenness of our lives until heaven. Let's not be afraid to believe that Jesus wants to heal the whole person. He wants to heal us of our brokenness and sourness and all the rest. Make us a people of joy, contentment. Where does that challenge you? I know where it's challenged me, and I know I need to grow in my faith and expectation. Let's pray for a moment. Lord, we pray that you who alone are able to heal our radical brokenness are in fact not only able but willing. Lord, if If there's any of us here who have never come to Jesus for that forgiveness and that wholeness that you can give, we pray that you would show us how desperately needy we are and that you are the one and only Was able to take our sin, provide forgiveness and new life. Lord, that you'd show all of us how very needy we are, but how very sufficient and capable you are. To heal us of our brokenness. And Lord, even to heal this county of its brokenness. Lord, if you want to lead us into racial reconciliation, we pray that you would make us willing to follow you. Because we believe that you are a great and powerful God who wants to honor yourself through our lives, coming into wholeness and sweetness through Jesus. Do that we pray. In Jesus name. Amen