Be able to leave. In the first of John White's four books on the fantasies and the kingdom of anthropos, he gives a graphic description of the climactic battle between good and evil. And in that, Dahl, who is the Lord of all worlds and son of the High Emperor, says to Wesley 's, one of the four human children brought into this adventure. That although the battle is going to be fought on the heights of winter, then in fact the outcome of that battle is not going to be determined there, but in the city of Bama. And there Wesley is to go and to ignore all soldiers, and he's to seek out and find the Queen, Lady Shimmerus, and to kill her. In order to do this, he has to put on a massone, which causes him to be invisible and also enables him to see things as they really are. Wesley has no great desire to have to go kill someone with a sword, but he says that when he puts on the stone, he sees that in fact she is not a human queen But in fact, a seven-headed serpent, whose fangs shoot out deadly arrows that deceive the soldiers fighting in the battle. And when he kills that serpent, he finds that as he burns the city of Bona, that the soldiers who were fighting against him and the good. Turn against their former queen, and they begin to fight on the side of the good against the evil Now in a lot of ways that's a vivid depiction of what we've been looking at this last week at Exodus chapter 17. Exodus chapter 17, you remember we've been looking at this picture of the two battles. And we have seen in the two battles there that Joshua is fighting In the valley against the Amalekites. He's fighting a real physical battle in which people are being killed, wounded, arrows are being sent. And whatever the Israelites can pick up to fight with they're using. On the other hand, remember we pictured, we saw that Moses was on the top of the hill. And on the top of the hill there, Moses is lifting up the rod to God. And in lifting that, Moses is fighting the decisive battle of these two battles. And we see this reveals to us this name in the series of the names of God we've been looking at, the name Yahweh Nissi, the Lord my banner. Because you remember we saw last week that this word Yisi means a war flag. It's the war flag that was used to call the soldiers to where the front of the battle was. So that they'd know where to fight. And we saw in Exodus chapter 17 that Yahweh calls us to his throne In order to fight the battle in prayer that's going on in your life and in my life. So let's follow again. Exodus chapter 17. Let me read the story all at once now. And follow along to see this picture of the two battles that have such relevance for your life and my life as we fight the battles of last week and of this week to come. Hear God's word. The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephedim. Moses said to Joshua, Two some of our mornings be out to fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with a staff of God in my hand. And so Joshua fought the Amalekites as Moses had ordered. And Moses, Aaron, and Hara went to the top of the hill. As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it. And Aaron and Her held his hands up One on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady until sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword And then the Lord said to Moses, Write this on a scroll as something to be remembered, and make sure that Joshua hears it. Because I will completely blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. Moses built an altar. And he called it, The Lord is my banner, Yahweh Missy. He said, The hands were lifted up to the throne of the Lord Yahweh. The Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation. So we see this picture of the two battles in which you and I are called as we fight the battles that you fight last week, this week, the weeks to come. to in prayer enforce the victory that Jesus has already won at the cross and at the tomb. And that you and I are called to lift up our hands, and I don't know how many of you tried that this week, uh just lifting up your hands uh in order to feel that. In fact I I must admit I forgot. I I meant to tell you before I read that scripture that I wanted you all to lift your hands while I read that. Just to see, you know, lifting your hands just for a minute or two. It's hard work And when you hold your hands up, you begin to realize that there's got to be a tremendous amount of concentration. There's got to be a tremendous motivation to keep doing that. You've got to believe it's going to matter to something Whether you're doing it on a bet or what you're whatever the reason is, you've got to be motivated to keep your hands up. And it's a picture to us about prayer. But prayers work. And when you and I engage in prayer and we don't see a causal connection, Moses couldn't see that what he was doing directly affected the battle. And yet God has given to us, as I said last week, one of the most graphic depictions of the effect of prayer by the fact that whenever his hands began to drop and they got tired, that the battle was reversed. And as soon as he lifted them up again, there was God's power. And so as Moses was able to do this, he saw the power of prayer, and as you and I Come to believe and to expect God to work, we begin to see that God works in answers to prayer. Now one thing I want to observe a couple more things about this and then particularly focus on application of it this morning. Notice there in verse 14 That after we read that Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword, verse 14 tells us, then the Lord said to Moses, Write this on a scroll as something to be remembered. And make sure that Joshua hears it, because I will completely blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. Two things that we should notice about that verse. It's instructive to us, I believe. First of all, notice that he says, write this down and make sure that Joshua hears it. Do you know this is the first time in the Bible that God tells any human being to ever write something down? There's no record of anything before that. As far as we know, this this could have been the first original piece of scripture, at least as something that was recorded, written. Now why would God make such an emphasis on that? Well, it's very simple when you think about it because all tradition is unreliable in the shift and the emphasis that it places on battle and who gets the credit. And you can imagine that when the battle would be described first, there would be this vivid depiction of Moses lifting his hands and how that was decisive in how God won the battle. But in the retelling and the retelling and the retelling, you could imagine that one of two things would happen Either you would have Moses lifting his hands as becoming some sort of superstitious magical thing, and the battle down in the valley didn't really matter at all. And that would only tell one side of the story. You and I have to remember that there are both sides. There needs to be that battle fought, organized, with the best efforts that can be placed in it. We don't become super spiritual people who simply say if we pray, then God's going to build his kingdom, and we can just sit around and pray about it. There has to be the battle that is fought. But what was more likely to happen in the retelling of that story is that they would describe it in a way that gradually Joshua would become more and more the hero. And the exploits of the Israelites in what they did in the valley would become more and more prominent. And because God's got his hand on Joshua to choose him, to pick him to be a leader of his people, he has to be careful that Joshua isn't going to begin to believe his own press releases. And after a while, Joshua begins to think that, you know, that was a pretty clever strategy we had down there. I was a pretty effective commander. And you know they told me how well I did that. And by hearing that I begin to believe. And when people tell me about the I preached and God really used that in their life and I begin to think, well, you know, yeah, I did do a pretty good job. Or we begin to believe that what we have done after we had prayed about it and going into it, we were very aware, weren't we, Lori , you've got to do this. But then it works out. And what do we do? We feel afterwards. I did it pretty well. You know, I had a professor in college said, I have never had a student ever say that they got an F Or I gave them an A. He said, every time there's an A or an F, the student says, He gave me an F. And what did he get? I got an A. And so, whatever the feeling before the event, after the event, we like to take the credit for those things that succeeded and blame someone else for the things that failed. And so God knows that for you and for me to continue to be usable, there needs to be the right balance, and there needs to be an accurate description of this battle in Israel's mind. to understand the importance of the two battles that went on there, and that God Himself gave the decisive victory for that. The second thing to notice from this, and let me just say again that that that's absolutely vital for us as a church, I believe, for us to keep that balance in mind. And for us to really believe that when God uses us, praise God that He did, let's not pretend that we didn't do anything, but let's remember where the decisive victory was and who gets the credit. The other thing to notice in that verse is you notice that he says, because I will completely blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. You stop to think about that for a minute. Amalek was a nation of some power at that time. What do you know of Amalek? Today we know nothing about Amalek except that it was a tribal people that attacked God's people in a sort of cowardly way, remember, picking them off from the rear, those who were tired and the stragglers. that they were a despicable people who didn't fear God and who preyed on the wheat. That's about all we know about Amalek. God has blotted out that civilization from under heaven. This is about the only record what we have in Scripture of the existence of Amalek. But when did he do that? It's interesting how it happened. God says, I will do it. He didn't do it then. This was a battle, but there were many Amalekites that escaped from that battle. Sometime later, Balaam, you remember that prophet that talked to donkeys? He also confirmed that prophecy that God is going to wipe out Amalek. Now, just a few months after this event, Israel went up to Kadesh Barnea. And Kadesh Barnea was the entrance, the southern entrance, to the land of Canaan. Do you remember how they sent in the spies, and the spies came back with a report, twelve of them, ten of them said that the giants in this land are overwhelming. We are never going to be able to take this land. It doesn't matter how powerful God is. We won't be able to do this one. He's pulled off battles before, but this one is beyond us. You ever had that feeling? God has answered before, but now you're up against something that is too much. And do you remember how the people believed that and they said, yes. We can't go up against this people. What if we had died in Egypt? Moses, why did you bring us out here to die in the desert? On and on and on. They want to stone Moses and all the rest. And then God says, because of your unbelief You're gonna die here in the desert. I'm gonna raise up a new generation. But you're not going to enter into the land And then just like a bunch of kids, you remember what they did? They said, All right, all right, we'll go, we'll go, you know, it's like after you say, All right, now because you were disobedient, I'm gonna punish you. Okay, I'll go out and cut the lawn, I'll go out and do it, I'll do the dishes, I'll do whatever. And so they said, we're going to go up, we're going to take the land. And you know, a rough paraphrase of what Moses says after that is this I can't believe you guys are so stupid. I just told you God was going to go with you to take the land. You didn't believe it. I just told you God is not going to go with you. You're going to die here in the desert. Now you want to go up and take the land. And so they go up presumptuously. God is not with them in power. Who is it that they fought at Kadesh Barnea? The Amalekites and the Canaanites. And at that point, the Amalekites drive them back in a slaughter all the way to Horma. They have no power against Amalek when God's not with them. And so Amalek continues to plague them. And Amalek continues to harass them in the generations after that. And then you remember A couple hundred years later, God tells King Saul, after this land has been settled, he tells Saul, go and destroy Amalek for what they did to my people at Rephedim. And so Saul goes out in a battle, mighty battle, against the Amalekites, and he is commanded to destroy everything, every man, woman, child, and animal belonging to the Amalekites. Do you remember how he went out and he got a great victory, killed many of the Amalekites, but there were certain things he couldn't quite resist. I mean, who can really bring themselves to torch that Lexus SC400 coup? I mean, yeah What what harm is it gonna be to just bring that thing back into the camp? You know, I mean it didn't do anything to us So there's certain things that Moses says, I can't destroy, I mean that Saul said, I can't destroy this. And he let some of the things go. He also let the king of the Amalekites, King Agag, survive. So that Saul himself had to, after he rebuked Saul, after Samuel rebuked Saul for his disobedience, Samuel then executed King Agag. But several again of the Amalekites escaped because Saul was not thorough in his carrying out of God's judgment. And so the Amalekites continue to plague Israel. God has intended to blot them out because they're going to be a thorn in the side of Israel. But they don't do it. And so they continue. And so then it's not down until the days of Hezekiah did you actually read of the eradication of the Amalekites. But even in the days of Hezekiah, apparently, it wasn't absolutely done to every last Amalekite. Very interesting. You read the book of Esther, hundreds of years after that. And after the exile, during the Persian Empire, and during the reign of the Persian king, you remember how there was one Haman who hated the Jews. And Haman plotted genocide to get the king of Persia to obliterate the Jewish race. Esther chapter 3, verse 1 tells us something of the lineage of Haman. You know where Haman came from? The Bible tells us that he was an Agagite. A descendant, apparently, of King Agad of the Amalekites. And so that that lack of thoroughness, that compromise with sin Almost cost the Jewish people their existence apart from God's grace. And it reminds me of sin in my life and sin in your life. When we think we have sin under control. And it's just a little pet sin. It looks so harmless, doesn't it? It reminds me of morning glories in my tomato garden. I don't know how, some years ago, morning glories ever got into my tomato garden. But they did And then love my tomato garden. I mean they think that that is morning glory heaven. And every year there will be a whole bunch of morning glories that will come up. And I remember last year, after I had killed off about two hundred of those things, that I had noticed there were a couple that they were just sort of twining up the tomato cages and I thought, you know, they're kind of pretty because in the morning, you know, they're blue and they're very pretty. Morning glory is an attractive flower. It won't do any harm to just allow two or three of them. I mean, what can a couple of morning glories do? Look nice, look on the canade cages. Well, I want to tell you, by August you couldn't see the tomatoes The cages were covered, it was like kudzu , the tomato cages were covered with morning glories, choking the life out of the tomato vines. What had looked back in May and June like something so helpless, why would you want to pull up that poor little morning glory? By August had become a threat to the life of the tomatoes. Isn't that the way it is with sin in your life, in my life? Just a little bit of temper, just a little bit of gossip, just a little bit of something that we say, I don't really need to take that seriously. And like Amalek, it threatens our life when it's left unchecked. And so God says, I am going to destroy Amalek. Because Amalek and Israel cannot coexist. And finally, God does that. And after doing that, he shows us That in fact he is the God who fulfills his promises. He is Yahweh Messi, the God before whom the battle is fought in the throne of heaven. Do you remember we saw that Isaiah 11 tells us that Jesus is our banner? Now, Isaiah 11 takes that same name and applies it to Jesus, who is the banner, calling the nations to himself. As the people of God pray for the fulfillment of the Great Commission, Jesus extends his rule and his authority over the nations. And since Pentecost, Jesus has been bringing the nations to himself. And in our day, he's doing it in unprecedented ways. I heard a report from a missionary who is a missionary strategist whose job is to simply help missionaries to think strategically, to plan, and to uh to kind of keep a record of what's going on. And he said that if you look at the advance of the kingdom of God since 1900, you take the 2,000 years compared to the time since 1900, just the last 92 years. Seventy percent of the missions advanced throughout the world has occurred in the last ninety-two years out of the previous 2000. 70% Now, if you take a look at the year 1900 to 1992, 70% of that advance has been since World War II. If you take the time between World War II and 1992, 70% of that advance has been in the last three years alone. I don't know if you're able to follow all that. But if you don't get all the statistics, at least get the point. God is expanding his kingdom at an accelerating, breathtaking rate in our day. Jesus in Isaiah 11 is saying that he is the banner calling the nations to himself. Redeeming them and changing them to bow before him and find new life in him. Hebrews chapter 4 takes the same theme. Where Exodus chapter 17 says that Moses built the altar and he said, The Lord is my banner. He said, For hands were lifted up to the throne of the Lord, Hebrews chapter 4 tells us. That is the throne of grace, where you and I can go to find help in time of our need. Yahweh, in this, he calls us to his throne to say, this is where the battle's being fought. Come and lift your hands to me in that conscious confession of your dependence upon me and my power in your life. And so what I've done is I have listed some ways that I think you and I need to do that. I believe that you and I need to be absolutely convinced of two things. Number one, there you see, that the battles in our lives are decided by spiritual forces. I think that's something very easy for us to miss. The battle, while it was crucial to be fought in the valley with Joshua was not decided by who had the greatest skill with the sword or the bow. In fact, the weapons weren't even comparable that they were using Ultimately, the course of history, the events in your life and my life, our feeling of contentment Joy, success in what we do are not decided by physical factors, but by spiritual factors. And when you and I become convinced of that Then we become people who begin to function in life on a new plane. The second thing that we need to see Is that you and I we need to be absolutely convinced that we have the same access to God's power through Jesus our banner, as Moses did in that day of the battle against Amalek, by holding up the rod of God. That rod that had turned back the Red Sea, that had produced the plagues, that had smitten the rock to produce water for God's people, that rod of power. by which Moses had access to God is a picture of the power that you and I have in our access to the throne of grace by the blood of Jesus And so as we come through the person and the work of Jesus, we have the same access to the same power. And when you and I become convinced of that, it transforms our prayer life It's at that point that you and I then, you see on the back side of your bulletin, begin to learn to pray with authority in the various battle fronts of your life. Therefore, you and I then learn to pray with authority in the various battlefronts of our lives. You see, they're listed a few examples. For instance, the habits and the patterns that enslave you. Do you remember what James said in James chapter 5, verse 16? Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. Now, some of us think that's unthinkable. To confess my sins, the things that hold me in bondage, the things I don't want anyone else to know about, to mention that to one other person and say, Would you pray for me? I want to tell you, no person in this room is really serious about that sin that's plaguing you and has been holding you in bondage for years until you are willing. to confess it to another brother or sister in Christ and see that person pray with you for God's power. I say that dogmatically. None of us are really serious about seeing God's power. In freeing us from the bondage of a particular life-dominating enslaving habit or sin until we are willing to confess it to one at least one other brother or sister in Christ and pray for one another that God may heal us. That's what scripture says to do. And so if there's something in your life and you say, I've been praying about this for years, and I'm too ashamed to talk to anybody about it, and I really don't believe that it'd make any difference, it would just embarrass me. then I'm c I'm charging you find that person that you are comfortable with that you could begin to say, I will I will broach the subject. And if they're not open, then maybe I'll find someone else. But that you will see that as the two of you lift hands on the top of the hill to God, God will give victory in your life over that area. In order to be able to mention some other things, I'm just going to refer you to this poem that's in the bulletin. And it's another one by William Cowper, who'd written a number on the names of God. And so let me suggest that this afternoon, devotionally, meditatively, you read this about the power of God, your banner, in your own life as the one who will free you from sin. Another area is in your family. As parents, we need to not just seek to train our kids right. But to claim the covenant promises of God of our God to be a God not only to us but to our kids, and to pray that God would fulfill that, to persevere and to not give up. Moses' hands became very weary, and he wanted to drop them several times, but to continue to pray and to sustain each other in prayer, to pray in small groups. In our small group, we pray regularly about this, let me tell you we do. And we need to be joined together, praying That God will preserve our families and protect our families, and as he did in Job's family, to put a hedge of protection about it In order for us to be able to see the members of our family come to faith in Jesus and our kids to grow up in faith to Jesus We need to be on the top of the hill for our families. Thirdly, we need to be praying on the top of that hill for our unbelieving friends. Not just feeling guilty about the ways that we are timid and lack confidence and boldness and creativity in presenting Christ to them, but to be praying that God Will give to these people that we're talking to a sense of need in their own lives. That he will show them that Jesus is the one that they're looking for, even though they may not realize it. And that they will have that openness and that we'll be given the opportunities to talk to them in the area of our congregation. I can say a lot of things about this, but I've been particularly concerned concerning the prayer base for the ministries of our congregation and particularly for us as leaders. Some of you have commented on the fact that I seem to have had a couple of rough weeks the last couple of weeks. And let me share with you, this week was a lot better. And so I I don't know, maybe that was enough that some of you began to say, We better pray for this guy. You know, I think he's going down for the third time. And uh, you know, I thank you for that. But you know what? He's really shown me the need I have for people regularly to be praying for me. And I'm and I know Steve talked about this, Steve Green, who works with me. We were the you know the remaining two after Elmer goes off staff here uh with Marjorie. But um we need people. To be praying for us specifically. And the elders need people to be praying for us as elders of this congregation specifically. In fact, I would really like to suggest that there are three ways that I would like to see us grow in our praying for our congregation Number one, that there would be a specific core of people who would say, we will pray for you as leaders. And I would like a group of people I could relate to and they'd say, Alan, I'm going to pray for you and for your family. That God will protect you and that he will make you effective and he'll make you humble or do whatever he needs to do. but that he will do a work in you that will make you more effective for Jesus Christ. I need you to be praying. And since everybody's praying for all kinds of things, I need a group of people who say, I'm going to focus on that. I believe God's called me to do that. It's a ministry. I believe God's called me to do that for Steve Green. I believe God's called me to do that for the elders. That's one area: prayer for the leadership. A second group of praying warriors. On top of the hill, that I would like to see developed in our congregation would be a group of people that would attend one worship service, whether it's the first or the second one. And then they come to the other worship service, backstage. Why backstage? Not much going on back there. Well, my vision is of a group of people to be back there so they could hear what's going on out here, but they wouldn't see anything, and they would just pray constantly through that service for the Word of God to be powerful and effective. To see people come to our services that don't know Christ, to see people come to Christ by faith in the preaching of the word during the service, to see God bring renewal and revival in our congregation. By what's happening, in part on Sunday mornings. Charles Hatton Spurgeon, one of the great preachers of the 19th century. Who God used to build up was a small congregation in London. And through the years of his ministry, that congregation grew to over 5,000 thousands of people. Trace their spiritual birth to the ministry of that Metropolitan Tabernacle. Every Sunday morning. I don't recall the number right now, and I wasn't able to find it, but Something I know of over a hundred, I think it was probably around two hundred, but I'm not sure. People, every service that he had were praying downstairs while he was preaching upstairs. For what God was going to do. And God powerfully used that. Do you see? It's just what we're talking about here. They were lifting up the rod of God. They were approaching the throne of grace. Yahweh Nisi, for God to do in that service and in the ministries of that congregation, what was planned, what was strategized, everything was you know was going okay, but we needed the touch of God upon it And I believe that's what we need as a congregation. We need to take seriously that we're doing a lot of the right stuff. But we haven't seen the power of the Spirit the way we'd expect, have we? Let's be honest. And I believe that if we have a core of people focusing on various elements of our ministries, we could see a lot more happen than we're seeing happen. The third area would be just the general ministries of the church Now we focus on this in our concerts of prayer Thursday morning. But I've heard of churches that have had extended times of prayer. I know one church that has a 24-hour prayer watch. They have a room set aside in their facility, and someone is there day and night praying for the ministries of that church. You sign up on a six-month basis to do it various rotations. And there's a phone in that room, so somebody can call that room anytime for an urgent prayer need. And then it can go out on a chain if it's something that really needs to be passed on. Now we're not at the point where I'd suggest that yet. But I wonder if we couldn't have sometimes set aside, where at the potter's house there could be people that would say, I'm just going to pray, I'm just going to come for an hour, give me some things that I can pray for. Or that we could pray at home. However we set it up. So what I'm going to suggest is that after uh this morning when we finish here, if any of you are saying, I'd like to be involved in this. I don't have a a card to sign or anything yet, but we'll do something. We'll form this thing. We'll organize it. To me, it's going to mean time. It's going to mean vulnerability. But I think it's worth it. I think God's calling us to deepen as a congregation, not just to talk about prayer. But for us to begin to assemble on the top of the hill in order to see God's power as the battle is being fought here in Howard County in the visible ways that the battle would be decided on top of the hill. Amen? Okay, you're all signed up. We have a voice graph back here and they've got a voice print and all those that said amen were going to come after you with commitment cards. Now, think about it. Pray about it. And then if in a week from now you're still believing that, tell me this morning during the time we have in between, because we'll all be out in the lobby there together. If you want to mention to me, yeah, let me know about that. Sign me up, put my name down. I'd like to be part of that core For some particular one of those three things, praying for the leaders, praying for the services, or praying for the ministries. Then the last thing Is that you see that this flows out, praying for our missionaries, uh praying for renewal and revival in our area, praying for renewal and revival in our nation. You know that David Barrett has said that the reason that we are seeing such breakthroughs in missions today is that he is documented, he's a missionary researcher, one of the two or three most renowned in the whole world. He says that there are at this point 170 million known intercessors for world evangelization who pray on a daily basis, or pray regularly, at least weekly. for world evangelization. Focused, specific prayer. He's documented that there are at least 10 million weekly prayer meetings going on for missions in our day We wonder why God is doing unprecedented things? God is calling forth unprecedented prayer. I was just talking to Matthew Pembamoto this week. How many of us are aware that we have a group of people who basically are refugees from Zaire that worship with us every Sunday? Generally at the Second Service, they're not here now. But in Zaire, if you've read the church around the world last week, there is tremendous persecution of Christians going on. Why don't we praise a congregation that God will overthrow Mobutu 's regime? It's like Idi Amin. And that God in Fat Idiomins got refuge with him. That's where he is now. That God will overthrow that godless regime and restore and protect The people of Zaire, the Church of Zaire, that's under such great persecution now. We can have direct feedback weekly from these people. In fact Uh Kaluba, who used to be worshiping with us, is there and he's coming back in a couple of weeks from Zaire because he's an American citizen, he can get out. Pray. Focus. We have an ask and receive group that prays for Japan weekly. And then, you know, I just one final illustration I gotta quit. You know, a a picture of this whole thing is that in New York City. I mean what can be worse than New York City, huh? What's more hopeless than New York City is a spiritual wasteland. Some years ago, Christians took seriously this idea, and from Here's Life campaign, they rented a room on a regular basis 24 hours a day in the Empire State Building And they set up a twenty four hour prayer watch in the Empire State Building for the City of New York. That happened several years ago And we wonder why last year when Billy Graham came to New York City, 2,000 pastors gathered together in a concert of pastoral prayer Thousands of Christians were linked up by radio and TV to pray together for that crusade, and a quarter of a million people showed up to hear Billy Graham in Central Park. Thousands of decisions were registered that they're still following up a year later. New York City is so spiritually active now. There are things going on in New York City I couldn't begin to describe to you. But David Bryant has moved his headquarters there because he sees that that is a model for the re renewal and revival of America to come in what's happening there. What's going to happen here in Howard County? Should we set up a prayer watch in one of the Rouse office buildings? I mean, God can move if we take this seriously. But let's just begin where we are. Pray about what God would have us to do in this. I gotta quit. Let's pray Lord, we pray, speak to us as a people that we might take seriously what is available to us as we call upon you to hear and to answer. Call out those people from our congregation, Lord, for focused, committed prayer over a period of time. That we will see you move and act in response to our prayers in ways that we have never seen or even guessed at before. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.