Well we're spending the fall learning that We are the people who belong to the Holy One. We need, don't we, in the chaos of this election season, all the stressing the pressures of our lives, to remember who we are. To remember that our God revealed in the Lord Jesus Christ is Yahweh Mikodishtim, the Lord who makes you holy. And case you haven't gotten adrift so far in this service Uh the idea is holiness. That's how we're looking at our God, the one who makes us holy, who sets us apart to himself. He does that in at least three ways that we're looking at during these weeks. What I call the three identities of holiness. We're looking at him uh uh we're looking at our ourselves first of all as a holy people after the pattern of Israel. We're trying to grasp the universes there may be, at least within this universe, he sees this one galaxy as just a spec. And within that galaxy, which if we said put on the scale of the entire North and Central American continent, our whole solar system would just be less than two feet in diameter. Our whole our sun would just be a tiny pin point dot and we'd be a dot first of all you couldn't even see us without an electron microscope the whole earth and we on that earth spectrum That God has said that for some reason known only to Himself, He has chosen some of the creatures on this planet Some of those tiny, frail, dependent creatures that you and I are who have arrogantly selfishly, launched his law, said we will live the way we want to live, that we will simply run our lives as if we are the center of the universe That God has through Jesus Christ, his own son, said, I will select some of these people and I will make them my what? My personal Private treasures. Remember that? That's the point of our being his holy people. So that's this is the first slide. We are his First of all , the findings, treasure. He says in Exodus chapter 19, verse 5, if you obey me fully and keep me My covenant that out of all the nations you will be my personal, private treasure, my treasure to the although the whole earth, that little speck down Although that whole earth is mine, you will be for me the kingdom of priests and a holy nation, a holy people. And then remember In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 6, he said, You are a people holy, set apart to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people. his treasured possessions, his personal, private treasure, that which gives him pleasure and is precious to him. That's the wonder of what Jesus Christ has done for you. Isn't that amazing? That He has called us to be his personal private treasure. And therefore we are command Live that way. See, that's our identity. That's what I'm trying to get across to. We need to be thinking about that. Every morning when we wake wake up, we need to be able to say to ourselves I am the Holy One, personal, private slavery. And therefore this day I set my life apart to live unto him. He has set me apart. Now we may He is setting me apart. He set me apart once and for all in Jesus Christ. He's now experientially setting my life apart for himself to live as one who is set apart uniquely to him as his personal private place. Now that idea of our setting our lives apart and our living unto him is even more obvious in the second identity That we look at this morning. And that second identity is that we are a holy place, which is pictured in the Old Testament temple. We are the temple of God. We are the holy place. And the point of that, as we'll see this morning, is that we are a pure dwelling for his presence. You and I are a pure dwelling for his presence. The very presence of the Holy One. He gives Another scripture that should astonish Now, First Peter chapter two gives us all three of these identities And so I just had to pick these out of the air, this idea of being a holy people, a holy place, and a holy priesthood. Because when Peter looks at the old covenant and takes it into the new covenant context That's exactly what First Peter chapter two says that we are. He says we are those three things. We are a holy people. Verse nine and ten talks about that, that we're a holy people Done apart for him. And then verses four and five go through this idea of our being a holy place and a holy priesthood. You see there in verse four, as you come Unto him, Jesus, the living stone rejected by men, but chosen by God in precious to him. You also, see He is the living stone, the cornerstone. You and I are living stones being built into a spiritual house. Now to understand what this house is, which you are, you see, this is your identity. You are a living house. You are a dwelling place. You have to understand something about this team, this basic theme that writes about church and of the presence of God. What I want to do for this the next few minutes for you so just real rapidly for us to trace this idea. What does God mean about his presence with his people? The basic theme in the Old Testament and the New New Testament. Testament. In fact, if you look in the Bible, that basic theme has two ideas associated. With the presence of God, there is always associated the ideas of life and bless Blessings. Life and blessing go with the presence of God and can never be separated. To be in God's presence is to have life and to have blessings In contrast to that, separation from God's presence always is associated with death and torment. And so you have The presence of God is life and blessings, absence from God, separation from God is death and torment. You see this right from the very beginning It runs right through from Genesis to Revelation. It's basic, first of all, to what made Eden paradise. It wasn't just that everything was washed there. It wasn't just that Just that there wasn't any pollution and everything was great, it was the fact that God was there. It was God who breathed into man the very breath is by his nostrils, and in that intimate association with his presence, established fellowship with man. And there was a pattern of God walking in the pool of the garden, speaking to man, to man and to woman, as they walked in terror And so the essence of when man disobeys, uh the essence of the curse was that we were cast away from his presence. That we were removed Removed from God's presence, we were cast out of Eden and we were separated from God, and that's what death and torment involved the separation from God The gates of Eden were barred. We were no longer able to walk immediately in God's presence. And so the rest of the Bible speaks about the restoration of his presence on God's part to initiate that. Now what does he do? To show us what an immense task this is, God does it in stages to help us to appreciate what's going on. And so the second stage of that, or the first stage of restoration, is that you see after man is cast out of Eden, that God's presence is open Only revealed in very rare occasions by dreams and visions that we call theophanies. Now theophanies just a big term to talk about God making himself present. God manifests in himself. And so you have an Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Every once in a while, just these few people get a dream or a vision separated by Years of silence and no sense that God is immediately present. You have an example of that in what uh Dick read about this morning. Moses coming before the burning bush, God appears to Moses through that that's a theophanies see the burning of the bush to indicate God's presence. But you notice in what this read, there was the idea of Separation, even though God's present, he says, Come no closer. You're standing on holy ground. And so Moses stands in fear of the presence of God. And you you have to appreciate that to then understand that when God brings his people out in the third stage and brings them society , makes a covenant with him, that he says, I'm going to do a new thing now and this is an amazing thing. I am going to Dwell in your midst. Now that dwelling in your midst was by means of what he called a sanctuary. What is a sanctuary? Literally. It's a holy place. The Hebrew is the same word for holy. It's a noun for. It is a holy place. Exodus chapter 25 where God first announces this. And in Exodus chapter 25, God says to his people, have them make a sanctuary for me. That is, have them make a holy place for me. And I will dwell among them. This is talking about Israel. Make this tabernacle and all its furnishings exactly like the pattern I will show you. Now because God is not one to be toyed with, and we don't come to him any old way we please, because he's the holy one, he takes about nine chapters after this to describe Exactly in minute detail what is to constitute this holy place, exactly what it's to be made of, what it's to look like, what its furniture is to be, exactly where it's Each piece of furniture is. And in the very heart of that tabernacle, God sets a place that He calls the Holy of Holies. This is the most holy place on all of earth. Why? Because That's where God's presence is manifest. Now you see when you talk about God dwelling in the tabernacle and the temple, what do we mean by that? Solomon says Obviously God who made the universe can't dwell in this tabernacle. So why do we speak of God dwelling this? The idea of dwelling in the Bible has the idea associated with it of intensely manifesting his presence. When God says he dwells somewhere, that means I am intensely revealing who I am. In that particular place. I am concentrating my revelation of myself in that place so you understand who I am. That's a particularly holy place. And within the holy place Place of the holy city, of the holy temple and tabernacle, there is a most holy place, and that place is most holy, Exodus chapter 4. Because there is where the ark of the covenant rests. And the ark of the covenant is the most intense revelation of who God is and what God is Why is that? Well if you look at the arc, that box, you know, that is just you know a couple feet long and you've seen it, you know, if you ever tell radio That's not a bad description uh of what somewhat to be understand that it looked like. And you look at that ark and inside the ark there were a number of things that look Most significantly, there were the Ten Commandments, the table of the law. Because God says, I want you to understand my character. You look at those commandments, that's what I I'm like. I am the one who reigns supreme before whom there can be no other God. And he goes on to describe. That's what I'm like. Then on top of the ark In the ark you see the table of the law. On the ark there is what is called the mercy seat. Now the mercy seat is simply the cover of the ark. So what the cover of the ark is look like? Well, the cover of the ark simply had two cherubim angels that were carved on either end of it, and they were bowing With their wings spread forth. And they were pointing toward the center of that arch. Why? Because all the other heathen nations, when they took something like that, it was their place For their idol in the very center where everything pointed, that's where their God was. And there was an idol in image of their God Now you look at the two cherubim who are bowing prostrate with their wings stretched out and they're pointing toward the center of the ark and what's in the very center of the ark of the ark. That is the very heart of the manifestation of God. What's there? Nothing. You see, it's just faith because our God is spirit. Our God Can't be contained in any revelation like that. And so the the car of them are constantly looking toward the center and God says, it is at that place that I show you my mercy. And so you see it in Hebrews when it talks about coming to the mercy seat, that's talking about the cover of the arts. That's where Where God says, I show you the mercy through the provision that I will make that will cover the law you that you can never meet. And it's at that point That I will show you my provision by blood that is sprinkled in all the sacrifices to show you that I will meet you at that place by my mercy And I will set you apart to be my home, my precious treasure, my personal private treasure. And so when Israel understood that God himself would manifest to himself That tabernacle and temple, they understood that was a very holy place. It was so holy. No Israelites could ever go into the holy place except one person That one person was the high priest. So out of all the millions of Israelites, only one person could ever go into that place. The high priest. And he couldn't go in any time he wanted. He could only go in one time a year into that holy place. In order to be in the very presence of God. Once a year. And he couldn't even go just in once a year on the day that was designated for that, the Day of Atonement, which by the way is coming up right this year He couldn't even go in then because this week was a little classic, didn't he? For last week. That wouldn't even think about it. Yeah, Lancet. That was the day he would go in to the ark running Right before that very present, and as he would go in there, he could not just go in directly. He had to go through an involved ceremonial cleansing in order In order to be qualified, that he would go in there without being struck to dead for his sin. His sin had to be atoned for, it had to be covered by blood. Then he could go into the presence of God once a year on a particularly designated day, in particularly designated ways, of all the people of Israel. And that was the only person who ever went in to the very presence. So holy that we read before, remember the men of Bethsemus, when the ark was carried out and taken by the Philistines and returned to Men of Bethsemus, when curiously to look at that ark God struck them dead. Others touched the ark. And he was not allowed to touch the ark, just to study it. Didn't have anything uh in mind to desecrate it struck dead because it was the holy of holies. And so when Solomon dedicated a disemple, and you remember on that day when he prayed about this holy place being dedicated to God. And the Bible tells us in 1 Kings chapter 8 that when the priest went to minister, the glory cloud so filled that temple, and that glory cloud was a dark cloud. You could not see You couldn't penetrate it. It was the hiddenness of God in his glory. That cloud was so dense and so overwhelming the priest couldn't even go in for the glory. of God's manifest presence with that place. I believe that's probable to be the same glory cloud that Isaiah saw. Do you remember when he said, I saw the Lord as you Skip reminded us this morning in his temple high and lifted up. And remember he said the whole temple was filled with smoke. I believe that smoke is the dark glory cloud of God that he's talking about. And that dense, intense manifestation of the glory of God, hiding his very presence because his glory is so overwhelming that you and I couldn't not dare to see the sight of his glory in the present state that we're in. That's the glory of God at that time. And you see when you talk in Then about the presence of God dwelling with His people. There is with that idea of presence much more the idea of separation. Yes, God is present with. But If God is so holy, he can't come near to this thing. And then Jeremiah says a better day is coming, a day that's going to be so great. And God's dispensation. that you're not even going to remember the ark. The ark's going to be taken away and there's going to be something even better to manifest the very presence of God. The plane comes to the next scene And that in that stage you had the presence of Jesus. And in Jesus, God does something new and un your people weren't even prepared for what he did Because in this stage God dwells in the flesh with his people. You remember in John chapter one, we read about how in the beginning was the word, and the word was wisdom. God. And the word was God. And He was with God in the beginning, and how through Him all things were made. This is the Holy One. And then you come down to Verse 14, and you read this: the word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Very interesting. If you look at the Greek The word made his dwelling is literally the word tabernacle And so you could put in the margin of your Bible there. Some translations I think even have that. Did I have a translation that says Tabernacle? Um some translations Translations have that in the footnote. But if you uh don't have it, you want to watch at it, it'll remind you that what John is saying is that we now have the very presence of the Holy One in a tabernacle of flesh. The tabernacle is now Jesus. He's the true tabernacle. And so then when you go over to chapter 2, you read about how Jesus went into the temple, and the temple was being desecrated by the money changes. And in chapter 2, you read about how Jesus drove them all out, overturned their tables, verse 15, and Uh, said, Get out of here, how dare you turn my father's house, the temple, into a market? And so um the people come, the Jews, and they say, Hey, wait a minute, what miraculous sign can you show us to prove that you have authority to do this? This. Who gives you the authority over the temple to come and drive us out here? And Jesus said in verse nineteen, destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days. Forty six years to build this thing. It's still being built. What do you mean you're gonna make it in three days? But Jesus, verse twenty-one, the temple he had spoken of was His body. Now can anything be clearer? Jesus is the true temple, his body is the temple of the very presence of God. You understand that? All that which was embodied in the ark in the Holy of Holies is now in present form in Jesus. So when you see Jesus, you're seeing the intense revelation of God in his presence. And so when Jesus says to the Samaritan woman, she says, Where do we worship? He says, Hey, the day's coming and when you'll worship neither here in Jerusalem, but in Spirit and in truth. You now worship at the feet of Jesus. He's the one who is the presence of God. He is Emmanuel, God with us. And so then when you come to the very next stage, you're beginning to be prepared, but in ye, brothers and sisters, you really need to be astounded and overwhelmed by this. You know, I can't tell anybody see I mean you can't be sleeping through the next stage which says that in Jesus, when he died, the veil of the temple was rent. From top to bottom. The veil what veil? The veil that separated the holy place from the holy of holies. The place that you and I could never go into, that the priest could never go into, that only the high priest could go into And only once a year, and only then after ritual, ceremonial cleansing, he would go in there, and now the veil is red, so all of his people can go into the holy of And that's what Hebrews 10 says. Now you and I are invited into God's presence. Then Acts 2 goes even further. says he's poured out his spirit on all his people. So that now you and I are made the very temple of God. That's what 1 Corinthians chapter 2 three says. First Corinthians chapter three. Paul's talking about uh building the temple. He's talking about constructing it. He says there's good materials, you know wood There's the wood, hay, stumble, bad materials. There's the gold, silver, precious stone. Then he goes on, he says in verse sixteen, Don't you know that you yourselves are God's temple? And that God's Spirit lives in you. That was the significance of Pentecost. If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is sacred, and you are that temple. And he doesn't that they kill somebody. You are the holy of holies. God's presence is manifest in you and in me. Not only are we his personal person , but I mean, do you understand how Yahweh McKadish can make you holy? I mean, we're not just talking here about He has made you the dwelling place of his presence. Chapter six goes right on, First Corinthians, chapter six. He says there in verse 18, therefore flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a man commits are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against his own body. You see the relationship now here, the body. Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit? Who is in you? Whom you have received from God. You are not your own. You're bought with a price. Therefore, honor God with what? body. See you can do anything you want as long as it's not with your body. That's up to you. What whatever you do in your body, and that includes your mind You see, that's part of your body, the whole being of you. Whatever you do in your body, you need to honor God with that. And anything you do without your body, I don't want to be around to see you do But whatever you do in your body or with your body, God says you need to honor God with that because that body is a holy place. It is the residence of the holy God who has made you. And so 2 Corinthians chapter 6. He goes on and develops this idea. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul says in verse 14, don't be yoked together with unbelievers. What's righteousness and wickedness? What do they have in common? Verse 16. What agreement is there between the temple of God and idol? For we are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will live with them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. He is living in you and in me, and so he says in chapter seven, verse one of Since then we have these promises, dear friends. Let us purify ourselves from everything that contaminates body and spirit. affecting holiness out of reverence for God. I begin to get the point for you and I it's the whole The last of every one of these passages of being his temple is that you and I are set apart to reflect the very character of God and to be an appropriate dwelling place For the holy God to manifest who He is to the world. And so when Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 2, that we read before That you and I are living stones being built into a spiritual house. What God is saying here is that I am constructed Constructing a temple. And you are the living stones being constructed into that temple. You are a manifestation of the temple, and you are a part of that temple. Now come back And finally, let me finish off the climax of this progress of the presence of God. You say nothing could be better than that. Nothing could be more overwhelming than that. That's a guess there is something even more overwhelming in it. When Jesus comes, and you or and I are brought to be with Him, Revelation says that the final stage is that you and I, we will dwell with God, face to face. Forever. Revelation chapter twenty one and verse twenty two. We read uh there that when John was in the uh heaven, in the vision of heaven, he says, I didn't see a temple in the city. Because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. Now how's their presence related to us? Well you go back to the beginning of the chapter, and John says in the beginning of verse Chapter twenty one, Revelation twenty-one he says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. See his heaven And I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, his personal private treasure. God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain for the old order of things has passed away. Let's face it There's one thing you and I still long for about the presence of God, isn't there? And that's to see. It's awful hard sometimes, isn't it, to get up and to pray to someone If you don't see. To bring all your troubles, to confess, to talk to someone who you can't hear audibly talk back. But what does this tell us? It tells us the presence of God will be so immediate to you that he personally will wipe away your tears. He personally will speak to you. You will hear him. You will see him. You will Won't even need to live by faith. Faith will be outmoded. There will be no need for faith, for everything will be by sight at that time when your dwelling is With God in the holy city, or you will see him forever and forever. Now, the Bible's very clear, it says that's a hope. that you and I have. And that hope forms our identity. That hope is what motivates us in this time between the times to say things may not be like we want them to be. Everything in this world may not be the way we would wish, and there may be a lot of pain and disappointment. But My identity beyond whatever pain and disappointment I'm aware of is that I am the dwelling place of the living God. And that in that day when he comes and I will be with him all that pain going to be removed. But right now, my identity gives me something that I need to be focusing on. And that is that I am two things you see there. First of all, it says that you and I need to be clean. You see, the fact that God lives in your body The fact that by his Spirit Jesus Christ is resident in you means that whatever you do with your body reflects on him. It means that God says, you must therefore be perfecting holiness. First Corinthians six, seven. Corinthians chapter 3, 2 Corinthians chapter 6. It says in every case, the whole point of it is that you and I set ourselves apart to be And so what you do is to not contaminate that body. What do you look at? Is what you look at on TV , on videos, or magazines, or in books, does that have the effect of purifying that body? We're contaminated. Jesus Christ is in you when you're doing that. The very presence is in you because you're his temple What about where you go? Are you aware that Jesus Christ is dwelling in you and every place that you go, you're bringing his presence into that place? Is that a place where Jesus Christ would want to be and is comfortable. He was comfortable with sinners. We're not saying being a holy ghetto of Christians. He was even comfortable being with prostitutes in his holiness, manifesting himself without Compromise. But what about where you and I go? Do we go to the holy presence of our God without compromise? Or do we say, Lord, I'm going to set you aside And I wish that you'd stay home because I'm going somewhere right now that I'd rather you not be. What about what you do? Are there areas of your life the Spirit of God is Speaking to you right now, and he's saying, You are my temple, and you are to be clean from my presence. And that cleanness had remember in Chapter 6 of 1 Corinthians, a particular reference to sexual activity. And so he's saying, I want you to be clean for my presence. Is that your desire? The other thing before we finish and pray is that there's a strong indication here that the corporate Of the body is very much part of what this idea of temple has to be. You see, in most of the cases where the New Testament refers to us as being the temple , It is that idea that there is one corporate temple, and you and I are part of that. Remember, Peter, we are living stones within the corporate temple. Back in Ephesians, as Dick read earlier in the service. In Ephesians chapter two , Paul says that uh we are fellow citizens with God's people. We are built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus is the chief corner same idea, 1 Peter 2. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the the Lord. In him you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. You are part, you see And so he says in chapter four, each part working together, speaking the truth of love, practicing the gifts of the Spirit, perfects the holiness of the temple. That's the idea of Chapter 4 verses 15 and 16. And so to me it's an amazing thing when I hear Christians in our culture who speak as if they can be lone wolf Christians. Is if they can be Christians without being part of the body of Christ. Is if they can be Christians and just walk along just with them and God and not part of a small group fellowship or not part of a Learning and fellowship community. group fellow You're not part of the people of God who take the Lord's Supper together. Not part of the people of God depending on how God works through his body to help me to be accountable and to perfect holiness in my life. Right now, none of you are serious about your walk with Jesus Christ if you're walking with Him alone and are not in significant relationship with other members of the You cannot do it. The New Testament doesn't even allow for that identity. It says you are part of a living temple. And as God is growing that temple, He is forming you. as part of that body. And so maybe part of what you need to do is in being at that temple this morning is to confess your independence. And to want to be part of the body that he's calling you to be part of in a significant relationship, depending on it, drawing sustenance from that living temple that's growing up in the And yet finally as we pray, one word of encouragement. If God took thousands of years to form the stones by which he formed his First temple. Don't be surprised if you, the living stone, haven't been perfected overnight. God is still working, molding and chipping. And forming the stones we fit for his perfect holy purpose, the dwelling of his presence. Listen. Lord our God, we want this morning to give to you our hearts and our lives, and areas that we realize that we have put you out We have contaminated your temple. We confess that. We seek your forgiveness. And we are thankful that you are Yahweh Mekadishkin. You are the one who makes us holy. We can't do it. So we ask you by Jesus Christ to give us that desire for holiness and to take us away from those sins. And that you would form us together as a people. If there's any of us here, Lord, who live independently from the body. And pray that you would break our hearts and our pride. We will be part of that body. We might be able to grow into that living temple. You're people together. Hear us, Lord. Lord and work your workings, we pray for Jesus' sake. Amen