Turn to Revelation chapter one, please. Revelation chapter one Steve just uh called our attention in uh a couple of songs ago to the fact that uh he is beautiful beyond description, too marvelous for words, and if you Look in Revelation chapter one, Jesus is described there as one who is the faithful witness who ever was He is described as having a voice like mighty rushing waters. He is described as the one whose face is brilliant as the shining sun. And regarding him, our Lord Jesus, John says in Revelation chapter 1, verses 5 and 6, to him who loves us And has freed us from our sins by his blood. And has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God and Father. To him be glory and power forever and ever. And all the people said, Amen. That's what the verse says. Joined in. Thank you. You see that beginning of that there, uh that statement, to him who loves us and has freed us from our sins. So we've been looking at this fact that this holy God is Yahweh Mekedishkin, who loves us and has set us apart. As a holy people, his precious personal treasure, personal private treasure. He's the we are set apart to him as his pure dwelling place for his presence, a holy place. And thirdly, that were set apart unto him as priests, priests who are mediators between man and God to offer spiritual sacrifices for his people. You see verse six. He has made us to be a kingdom and priest to serve his God and Father. And how is it that we serve him? Well, we've been looking at the fact that we offer to him five spiritual Offerings, not offerings for sin. Jesus made that offering once for all. He has freed us from our sins by his blood, verse 5 says. But we offer to him five sacrifices for his pleasure. And those five sacrifices we've been looking at in the past four weeks. Now, if you turn over to Revelation chapter five, you'll see that uh there is a kind of a summary of these five offerings. That leaves there. There is a kind of a overview of them. Because in Revelation chapter five, you have a statement of the new song that we sing. as these priests to this God. In Revelation chapter 5, we read in verse 8 concerning this scroll now That when he had taken it, when that is the Lamb had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. And then verse 9, they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and open it sealed. The scroll is the scroll which is the authority to control history. And so you've taken that scroll of history, you've opened its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them to be a kingdom and priest. And so we see here a picture of the fact that we offer to him that first spiritual sacrifice of our bodies. Verse 8, they bow, they prostrate themselves as a sign of obeisance and of giving themselves to Him. Prostrate before Him, before the throne of the Lamb. And then you see that offering, the second one we've looked at Looked at the offering of worship and praise. Verse 9 and 10 is a statement of praise. You are worthy to take the scroll. You were slain. With your blood, you purchased men from God, from every tribe and language, people, and nation. And so this is the statement, confessing Jesus with the fruit of lips. And that leads, you see, to the third spiritual offering of ministry. When we offer ourselves to God, we worship Him by giving the thank offering. We must consume it, we must share it, we must also love our neighbors as ourselves. And so you see there verse ten. We 've made to be the kingdom and priests to serve our God and reign on earth. And we serve God and we serve Him by serving other people. And then you see also that that leads to our evangelism, verse 9. You purchased men from every tribe and language, people and nation. He's using us to be able to spread that word, to be able to give that to the nations. and call the nations to be an offering unto Jesus Christ. And that's our fourth offering. And then finally you come to the last offering. And the last offering that we're going to consider this morning is Is the spiritual offering of intercessory prayer. Intercession or prayer, but particularly prayer as intercession, prayer on behalf of others, mediating on behalf of others. Intercession. You see that in verse 8 there of Revelation 5. When he, the Lamb, had taken that scroll, the four living creatures, and And the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each one had a harp, and they were holding golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. Now then what are these golden bowls of incense? And what do they have to do with prayer? I believe that if we understand them, if we understand what Revelation is saying here, and is it divided It'll give us a new insight concerning prayer and intercession and what it means for us to pray. We can always learn more about prayer, can't we? We always want to learn more about how does prayer work? Build my faith. Help me to believe that when I pray, God hears me. I hope to do that this morning. We'll be encouraged to see what a privilege we have to intercede as priests on behalf of our families, our friends, our church, and Howard County, the nation, we are called as priests to mediate on behalf of a lost generation. Now what does this mean? In order to understand something about this incense, you need to understand, first of all, that only a priest could offer incense No one else. Very special formula, and in the Old Testament, only the priest could offer incense at the altar of incense. And the altar of incense in the tabernacle or in the temple was that piece of furniture that was the very closest to the very heart of God. It was the closest piece of furniture before the veil that separated the holy place from the holy of holies, where the Ark of God's presence dwelt. And so this is an indication to us that this altar of incense is the closest thing to God's heart, whereby we may come for Him to hear us. As we pray. That altar of incense was a representation of prayer. In Psalm 141, in verse 1 We see this connection made between prayer and the altar of incense. Psalm 141 Get it here a moment in verse 1, verse 1 and 2. The psalmist says, O Lord, I call to you, come quickly to me. Hear my voice when I call to you. May my prayer be set before you like incense. May the lifting up of my hands be like the evening sacrifice. And so for us to understand something of what you and I as priests of the New Covenant do, what it is our privilege to do Looking at Jesus as the intercessor, and then looking at what the book of Revelation says about you and me as intercessors. First of all, and then notice what the Bible says about the Old Testament priest as an intercessor. That the Old Testament priest was to intercede for God's people is very clear from two things. First of all, just by looking at the guy, he looked at his garments And his garments indicated that he was to intercede. In Exodus chapter 28, there's a picture of the priest's garments. And on his shoulders and on his breast piece, in each case, were engraved the names of each of the twelve tribes of Israel. So that when the priest stood before God , God, mediating on behalf of these people, he quite literally bore them before the Lord. He quite literally bore God's people before God. They were on his heart. They were on his shoulders. And he represented them before God. Two examples of this that are given to us In the Old Testament, are of Moses and Samuel. For instance, in Numbers chapter 21 And do you remember when Israel was ungrateful concerning the circumstances God had placed them in? And they were grumbling and they were complaining about their life. You know, you and I probably can't identify with that very much, but these people were ungrateful. And these people, in their ingratitude, grumbling against God, found out that God does not take ingratitude lightly. I mean we may think, you know, well I I don't sin in gross ways like P And uh you know, I keep myself fairly honest and pure and try to help people. I'm not gross like these other people. But when we grumble and complain, God says that is no small thing, to be unthankful to it. And so in this case, because of their grumbling and complaining, God sent poisonous serpents, and their nightmares came true. Nightmare of snakes all crawling around and you're not able to get away from 'em and you look down and there behind the cushion there's a snake, you know, and it's chasing you, can't get away This was a nightmare come true. They would go into their tents and there'd be a poisonous snake there under the sleeping bag, you know, and they would walk out and Uh they would turn a corner and there'd be another one and they were biting the people and the people were dying of these poisonous snakes uh bites. And so they cried out to Moses, and they said in Numbers chapter 21, in verse 7, The people came to Moses and they said, We sinned, we spoke against the Lord and against you. Pray that the Lord will take the snakes away from us. And so Moses prayed for the people. He interceded on their behalf. He prayed for Now you see, you and I are so concerned to just learn how to pray for ourselves, we don't think a whole lot about how we need to pray for other people, do we? But that is a duty and a privilege Of a priest. And Moses prayed for the people. God deliver this people. Have mercy on this people. And the Bible says that the Lord heard him, and the Lord The Lord answered. He said, Moses, make a bronze snake, put it on a pole, and when the people look to that snake as my provision for their sin, then I will heal them. And God delivered the people, and they were healed because Moses interceded on their behalf. And God showed his power. For them. We remember in the case of Samuel. Samuel, the Bible tells us in the first Samuel chapter 7, was a time of spiritual depression. That the Ark of God was in Kiriath Diarum. The people were alienated from God, they were estranged from him, they were worshipping idols. And Samuel was discouraged. He wondered what in the world is ever going to turn to The whole nation seemed to be in a spiritual depression. And Samuel began to pray. He was the last prophet who was also a priest, called both offices. And so as priest of the people, Samuel began to intercede for them and and to pray for to God on their behalf that God would do a new work in the land. lives of these people. You know how long he prayed? Five years, nothing happened. Seven years? Nothing happened. Ten years he still prayed. Praying and nothing's happening. Things are going from bad to worse. Twelve years, fifteen years, twenty years, Samuel prays. And then finally he says, Now it's time to act. And he has from the Lord that sense of direction and leading, and he calls the people together at Mizpah in order that he might pray for them in person. And so he gathers all Israel to Mizpah, and he prays that God would turn their hearts back to him. And you know what happened? God did it. And the people repented there on that day, and they began to turn from their sin, and they hated their sin, and they asked God to forgive them, and they said to Moses in 1 Samuel chapter 7, Verse 8. The people said to Moses, they said to Samuel, excuse me, to Samuel, they said to Samuel, do not stop crying. Pray to the Lord for us. Verse excuse me, verse eight is coming up in a moment. But before that, just a few verses before they drew they uh drew together and they asked Samuel to pray for him and he prayed. And as they as he prayed, uh and the people were all turning back to God, they had news. The Philistines had found out that all Israel was gathered at Mizpah. And so they assumed that when all the Israelites gathered together, it must be for battle, not for repentance. They didn't think a revival meeting's going on. They're just thinking they're all gathered together to attack us. So we'll beat them to the punch So all the Philistines gathered together and they vastly outnumber the Israelites, and the Israelites are very poorly armed. Everything was in depression at that time, economic and everything And the Philistines had a vastly superior army, vastly superior numbers. And so when the Israelites hear that all the Philistines have gathered together in order that they might attack, they panic. And that's where they say in 1 Samuel 7, verse 8, they they panic, and they said to Samuel, Do not stop crying out to the Lord our God for us that he may rescue us from the hand of the Philistines. So on the one hand, Samuel's praying for them that God will turn their hearts to him. God does that, and then immediately there's a crisis. We think we turn our hearts to the Lord, everything's supposed to go well, don't we? But it's often at exactly that time that God brings a crisis into our lives that he might show his power And so Samuel cries out to the Lord. It's interesting that Hebrew, do not stop crying out to the Lord. It's just a continual. Keep crying, Samuel. Don't give up. And so Samuel cries out to the Lord, and what does the Lord do? Things look absolutely hopeless. The Philistines are coming on, and the attack is on, and the and the Israelites are standing and they're ready to be slaughtered. They try to rally the best they can, but they know it is an absolutely hopeless situation. And then all of a sudden, God sends a tremendous thunder from heaven. Now you know we're born with only two innate fears. One's a fear of falling, and the other is a fear of loud noises. Everything else is learned. And so the fear of a loud noise is an innate, very primal fear. And you know what it's like when you stand in the summer and all of a sudden a bolt of lightning strikes. Right next to you, and you hear that thunder practically blast your eardrums out, and it shakes you, doesn't it? Now can you imagine when God intends to drive a people into panic, what that thunder must have been like That must have been a thunder, like rarely thunder was ever heard. God sent a thunder upon the Philistines that those warriors absolutely panicked, dropped their weapons, and they fled. And the Israelites, seeing God's hand and all that, pursued them, and they slaughtered the Philistines all the way down the valley. God brought a great victory to Israel that day because Samuel had prayed on their behalf. Because Samuel had interceded as a priest for God's power in the lives of his people. God heard and God answered. Some years later, at the end of Samuel's life, things are downhill again. The people have backslidden, and they have forgotten about how God was good and powerful and trustworthy. And so this time Samuel continues to pray for them, and he once again gathers them together. And this time he gathers them together at yield. Gilgal. Now Gilgal is a place between Jericho and the Jordan River. It was the place where Israel had first come into the promised land, where they had renewed the covenant with God, and they had seen God begin to show his power in the world. And in reminding of that, Samuel brings them all together and he reminds them of their sin. And what is their sin? At this point, they're simply asking for God to give them a king like the other nations. They don't want Samuel's sons to rule over them. They want a king to look like the other nations to go fight their battles. Battles. They want to trust in something they can see rather than the God that they can't see. And Samuel says, You're a faithless people. And he rebukes their sin and he charges their sin and he describes it to them. And then after he describes that sin to them, then God pre then Samuel prays that God will show them his power. You know what God does? You guessed it. He sends thunder. Only this time it's not to strike the Philistines into panic, it's to make the Israelites panic. And that same thunder that years ago had sent the Philistines into panic, now sends the Israelites into panic. Only they don't flee because they don't have anywhere to go. They prostrate themselves before God. And as they prostrate themselves before God, they ask Samuel to pray. 1 Samuel 12, verse 19. The people all said to Samuel, Pray to the Lord your God for your servant, so that we will not die. For we have added to all our other sins the evil of asking for a king. And so Samuel prays to God, and the thunder stopped And they're on knees that are shaking and they can barely get up and they're holding their ears and everything else and they say, God deliver us. We're a sinful people. Samuel, please continue to pray for us. Sometimes when we're so scared, we're so frightened, we can't even pray for ourselves, can we? We need someone else to intercede as a priest on our behalf. And the people say, Samuel, pray for us. We don't even know how to come to this holy, awesome God. And it's on that occasion that Samuel prays and he says, God forbid that I should sin in ceasing to pray for you. And so Samuel prays for the people. Because a prayerless priest is a contradiction. And if you and I are called to be priests, we are called to intercede on behalf of God's people. That is part of the essential nature and duty of a priest of the living God. And then comes Jesus. And the Bible tells us that Jesus is our great high priest, that he sacrifices himself as a lamb for your sin, for my sins. So that you won't have to stand before God with that sin upon your conscience and in your life. And now Jesus, the Bible tells us, makes intercession for you and for me in heaven as your representative there. The Bible tells us that because Jesus is not mortal, his sacrifice of intercession is an eternal activity. And so Hebrews chapter 7. Verses 23 tells us now there have been many of these priests since death prevented them from continuing office. But because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood. Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him because he always lives to intercede for them. That Jesus as your high priest and my high priest is interceding for us. He is praying for us before the Father. Now, since He has sovereign and can do all things, holds the scroll of history, why does he have to pray to the Father Father. I don't understand that. But there is a joining together of the Father and the Son in the economy of working in your life and on your behalf and in mind that we don't understand But I'm sure glad that my great High Priest Jesus is praying perfect prayers before the Father on behalf of my needs and your needs. And as a great high priest, he's praying for us constantly. Now Romans gives us a glimpse about that prayer. In Romans chapter 8, verse 34. Paul tells us, who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus who died More than that who was raised to life is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. And so Paul's telling us there that when your conscience condemns you, then there is something greater that condemns you than your conscience. It's God Himself. Don't worry about what your conscience tells you about your past sins. It's what God says about your past sins that counts. And the Bible tells you right here that your condemnation of yourself is nothing compared to his, but Jesus satisfied that condemnation. And therefore, because he satisfied that condemnation, he ever lives to intercede so that your conscience will be clear and that you will have the joy and the peace of the Spirit in your life. So when you get dragged down by past sins and you feel like you can't come before God with a clear conscience Remember that Jesus has forgiven you. Who are you to condemn yourself? And he lives to continually intercede that that joy and peace he purchased for you will be made a reality Now Jesus calls us as those who are made priests by being joined to Him To join with him in that ministry of intercession. And that's what's described to us in the book of Revelation. Peter says, as we've seen in 12 Peter 2:5 that you and I are priests to offer spiritual sacrifices. And one of those sacrifices is the sacrifice of incense. And the incense is the picture of the prayers of the saints. That's what we just saw in Revelation chapter 5. We offer incense, which is Revelation 5. 18. it says, the prayers of the saints. Now that idea is then developed further in Revelation chapter eight. So take a look for a moment at Revelation chapter eight Because in Revelation chapter 8, you have pictured in two dramatic ways what our prayers, your prayer and my prayer. Prayers that you may not feel like they're accomplishing anything, but Revelation chapter 8 says that if you offer prayer in the name of Jesus, not depending on what you feel like, but the fact that The fact that you are simply coming by faith through Jesus to the Father, those prayers accomplish two things, whether or not you ever feel it, and you can count on it that these two things will be accomplished. Now, in order to understand that, you have to first of all understand a little bit about the picture of what's going on in Revelation chapter 8. In Revelation 6 to 8, John's describing the seven seals of God's judgment upon sin. And when he comes to chapter eight, he comes to the seventh seal. Now there's often this idea of the first six and then the seventh opens up A whole new area. And so the seventh is always a very important number. Seventh is a very important number in the book of Revelation. But you come here now in chapter 8 of Revelation. To the seventh seal, verse 8, chapter 8, verse 1, he opened the seventh seal. You notice what happens when he opens that seventh seal. There is silence in heaven for about a half an hour. Can you imagine? Everything in heaven before the throne of God, all worship, all activity of the angels and of everything that's going on stops for a half an hour, a dramatic pause. To show you that what's going to happen next is extremely important. And so for a half hour there's utter silence. And then after that half hour You have a picture of seven angels with seven trumpets. And then comes another angel with a golden censer who stands before the altar. This angel is given much incense to offer. Notice verse 3. Another angel Who had a golden censer came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints. And so again, this censor of incense offered at the altar in incense is a picture of your prayers and my prayers ascending to God. And this angel comes before God with our prayers. And notice now, revelation, remember, revelation means to reveal to us what is hidden. Okay, so now you're going to get a glimpse in these next two verses of what prayer does that you and I can't see. God's going to say, I want to tell you When you get up and you're cold and you're tired and you think nothing's happening and you don't feel like anything's going on beyond the ceiling, I want to show you, I want to reveal to you what's really happening at that moment. These are two very, very important verses about prayer. But look what happens. These prayers, these self-centered, struggling, half-doubting saints like Like you and me come before God, and the first thing that they do is that they give him pleasure. That's the first blank you see there. They give him pleasure. Look at verse 4 The smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of the saints, went up before God from the angel's hand. They say I don't say anything about pleasure in that, just as they went Went up. Let me remind you that sixteen times in the book of Leviticus and eighteen times in the book of Numbers, God says that when offerings are made before the throne in the temple. And the smoke arises from those offerings that are made uh in with sincere hearts in the way God has uh dictated that they should be He says a pleasing aroma arises that gives him delight. He describes that always as a pleasant aroma to him. See, that's what's so significant about the fact that when Isaiah says in Isaiah 1:13, your offering stink in my nostrils. Why that's such a shocking statement. Because God says, when my people offer their sacrifice, Sacrifice it to me, it's a pleasing aroma. And so what John's doing here is he's picking up on that Old Testament picture that the prayers of the saints went up before God as a pleasing aroma. That's the incense, you see. The pleasant smelling incense that comes up before God and produces in his sight a pleasure. Do you remember when Ed Spiva spoke this? You remember how he said the bridegroom loves to hear your He loves to hear your voice when you tell him that you love him, that you're trusting him. And that's the picture that you have here. God has his saints and they're all coming and this incense is wafting up to heaven. And God says, Whatever it accomplishes in your life, the people that you're praying for, or anything else, I just want you to know I love to hear my children come to me I love to hear your voice when you come to declare that you're dependent on me, that you're looking to me for your needs. And I've had a very real sense of that in these last few weeks as my mom's been laying in the hospital diagnosed with brain cancer and given only a few months to live, and I've gone from day to day, sometimes not knowing what I was going to do and Kathy and I wonder about decisions and there's still a lot of major roadblocks and we don't know what's going to happen trying to bring her down here and there's all kinds of hassles and problems. But in every case I've seen God just often at the last moment after it seems like fifty or sixty phone calls and not knowing where to go, God opens something up. And He's been teaching me in a very real personal pressure Help me tomorrow. Open up this door. Provide for this need. Lord, do this. I don't know where to go. And God opens up and he He provides the person, he provides the answer, he provides the need that there is. And there's been a very, very sweet sense that God is with me. I really testify that to you. And if you've been in those kind of situations, don't you know that? Your back's to the wall, you don't know where to turn, you call upon the Father, and there's that sense that that's what he's been wanting He's been wanting you to lean on him, to trust him, to turn to him. And as you do that, there's a very sweet sense of his presence. presence in your life. That He will take care of you. That He will protect you. That He will guard you. He will provide for you. It may be day by day and you won't know what tomorrow will bring. But your prayers have come like Like incense, pleasing to the Father. And he'll never let his children go. But there's another thing that these prayers accomplish That effect is the effect in heaven. The effect in heaven is that they are pleasing to the Father. But Revelation tells us also that there's an effect on earth. Prayer doesn't just change people. You know that old thing? Prayer changes the prayer doesn't change things, changes people, changes your attitude. That's baloney. It changes you. But that's just kind of kind of psychological stuff, saying, you know, well you pray it just gives you a different Frame of mind, you know, power positive thinking is something. The Bible tells us very clearly that prayer changes the course of events on earth when you and I intercede on behalf of others. Look what he says there in verse 5. You see now this same censor, the pictures, the prayers of the saints at the altar, now comes back from the altar filled with fire. Look what happens. Then the angel took the censor. This is the same censor you have in verse 4, the censer with the with the prayers, you know, that much incense that's offered with the prayers. He takes that censor. Filled it with fire from the altar and hurled it onto the earth. And there came peals of what? Thunder. Here it is again, we say. Peals of thunder, rumblings, flash of lightning, and an earthquake. Sound familiar? Here's God once again, saying, in response to the intercession of my priests, I'm sending my thunder of power. And what did the thunder do? It did two things, do you remember? It defeated the enemies, in the case of Philistines, and it purified the people in the case of Israel. And that's exactly what God's prayers, the prayers of God's people coming to that altar, accomplish in your day, in this day, right here and now. It defeats God's enemies and it purifies God's people. The rumblings and the thunders come, and that's what issues forth the seventh seal. And so the rest of the book describes how God is judging sin and protecting and purifying his people through this process. In case you think this is just my own interpretation of this, let me read to you what Leon Morris and Thomas Terence say about this picture in the book of Revelation. Quote, the fire comes from the very altar on which the prayers of the saints have been offered. This surely means that the prayers of God's people play a necessary part in ushering in the judgments of God. What are the real master powers behind the world? What are the deeper secrets of our destiny? Here is the astonishing answer: the prayer of the saints and the fire of God. That means that more potent, more powerful than all the dark and mighty powers let loose in the world. More powerful than anything else is the power of prayer set ablaze by the fire of God and cast upon the earth. Have you had that kind of picture of your praying? That when you pray, that lets loose fire and thunder upon the earth to protect and to purify God's people and to defeat the enemies of God. And to extend his kingdom. Is that the kind of view you have of prayer? See, if you if you and I had that kind of a view that we may not see it, we may not see it this month, we may not see it for years, but as We pray, interceding, not just praying for our soul. Priestly intercession is on the behalf of other people. Then God is pleased, and power is released on earth. And so it brings pleasure to God and power to the people of God. Remember that when you're tempted to give up on someone in your family. Remember that too, when you're tempted to give up for someone that you've been praying for for months or for years, and you wonder if your prayers make any difference. You know, just this week I was trampling back. From Philadelphia, and I went past a little park that I traveled back on Route 1. And I remembered that ten years ago I had stopped at that park and it was one of those times, you know, you ever prayed for something that you've begun you've prayed for it a hundred times and then all of a sudden you begin to uh be aware of what you're praying and you think, you know, do I really believe this? And so you begin to really wrestle with God about that. Do I really believe that God can do this? And I haven't seen anything. And it was back around 10, 11 years ago that I was meditating on John 14, 13, and 14, where Jesus said Says, if you ask anything in my name, I will do it. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. Ask anything in my name, and I will do it. I was praying for my mother. Come to know Jesus as your personal Savior and Lord. And I wondered if God would ever do that. And I was emboldened at that time to believe that God could do that. That was certainly something in his name, I didn't understand how he didn't know he wasn't obligated to save my mother, and certainly he wasn't obligated to save any unbeliever. But that God would somehow show his power and his glory from the Son to the Father by working in her life. And I was really exercised with confidence that God would somehow do that. Here I am 10-11 years later. My mom's still not indicating any more interest. God has in a powerful way brought my mom to great change. To be told that you have only a few months to live with brain cancer gets your attention. But it's a means that God gives that isn't just Taking her where she would have no chance to deal with that. And yet on the other hand, it's nothing that can be ignored and say, well, maybe it'll get better and I don't have to really worry about it My cousin who saw my mom just uh this past week said to me, Your mom's a different person. She's changing. And I went back to that park and I thought, after all these years, who could have guessed how God would begin to answer in that prayer? I think of George Mueller. One time George Mueller made a list of five people that he deeply cared for. And he prayed and determined to pray for these five people until God would answer. Listen to an account of this. In 1844, he says, I prayed every day for them. Without one single intermission, whether sick or well, on land or sea, whatever the pressure of my engagements might be, for eighteen months I prayed, before the first of the five was converted. And I thank God and I prayed on for the others. Five years elapsed and then the second one was converted. I thank God for the second and I prayed on for the other three. Six more months passed before the third was converted. I thanked God for three and went on praying for the other two. These two remain unconverted after nearly 36 years. But I hope in God, and I pray on, and I look yet for the answer. The biography of Mueller records that the fourth person received Jesus as Savior just before Mueller 's death in 1898. He started praying in 1844. The last of the five accepted the Lord a few years after his death. There's no indication that Mueller used vocal persuasion or hard-souled letters to these five people. Prayer and prayer alone produced extraordinary results. Mueller 's daily prayer ratio was one hour of prayer for every four hours of work. Who have seen their lives used like George Mueller? Power of intercessor we prayer. Let's pray. Let's join together.