As we hear God's word, the recording of the Christmas story. This is not a quaint tale, not a fairy story, it's history. It actually happened Let's hear from Matthew's account of the Christmas story now, from Matthew chapter one, beginning with verse eighteen. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man, and did not want to expose her to public disgrace. He had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son And they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded. Him and he took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. What does Christmas mean? You hear a lot about that at this time of year. What is the true meaning of Christmas? Generally, our immediate emotional response is in terms of our traditions, which are dear to us. The colorful lights that we enjoy, the greens that decorate our homes, especially the Christmas tree, whether it's real or artificial. The Christmas music that is our favorite. The Christmas food that we all overindulge in. For me, Christmas food is chocolate chip cookies Restrict them to the Christmas season, you see, so I can uh focus them all. I can probably eat a year's supply within the Christmas season, but uh that's a meaningful thing To me about Christmas. Well, there's the exchanging of presents. Now, I don't think you can probably guess what present I received early for Christmas this morning But if anybody asks me afterwards, I'll play it for you. He plays a little tune. That's a real thrill of Christmas, you know, getting things that we uh don't expect and are able to give things that somebody else isn't gonna expect either Spending time with our family. Sometimes that can be a real delight. Sometimes that can be something that is difficult. Spending time with friends. All kinds of traditions and meaningful things to us that we enjoy at Christmas time. As Christians, of course, though, we go beyond this when we think of the meaning of Christmas. Because to us Christmas means Jesus. Did you ever notice how many times the two Christmas narratives focus on the name of Jesus? Jesus, the Lord of glory, come to be born in a stable for us. What does Jesus mean? Notice the number of times attention is drawn to that name. In Luke chapter 1, in verse 31, when the angel came to Mary He said, You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. And then in Matthew's gospel In verse 21, what I just read, that the angel said to Joseph, that she will give birth to a son, and you now to Joseph are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. And then verse 25, he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. Three times in the two accounts. Attention is drawn to the fact that his name is to be Jesus. And so think of the stable that night that he was first called by that name that was to become the name above all names. After the excitement of the delivery, perhaps Joseph bent over and picked up the baby Jesus in his arms, looked into his eyes, and said, You shall be called. Jesus. Perhaps it was the next day or a day after that that Joseph stood in a census line. As the Roman officials were conducting the census at Bethlehem, the Roman official would have seen a long line of people before him Perhaps barely noticed the poor carpenter as he came to the front of the line. And the Roman official would have asked, name? Joseph bar Jesus. Joseph bar Jacob. Mary? Yes. Wife's name? Mary. Any children? Yes. One born just last night. Name? Jesus. And for the first time, the name that was to be above all names would have been written in the Roman census taker's lists. And how he would have laughed if you and I could have told him, you realize that's the reason you had to take this census because of that little one? You know, they had to get here to Bethlehem, so you guys had to arrange this whole thing to do that And you realize that this one is going to be the end of your empire. What laughter would have rung out, and yet it would have been true For Jesus would mean all that. What does Jesus mean? I'd like to focus this Christmas Eve morning. When the meaning of that name, as we see it here in Matthew 121, the name Jesus Consider that name. Do you realize that Jesus is our Savior's one and only personal name? All the other titles that we call names are really just that. They're titles. Jesus is his one name. And who gave it? Matthew 1. 20 tells us that the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in the dream, and he told him to give him the name Jesus. Jesus was not the idea of Mary or Joseph. Jesus was the name that was given by his heavenly father. Who knew him from all eternity, and he who knew all about him, to whom names are so especially descriptive and profoundly revelatory. He, the Father, chose this one name above all names to reveal him in his human nature. He didn't choose to give him a name that would describe him as king, for he had always been king, although he would become king in a new way through his work on earth He didn't give him a name that would describe him as the Holy One, for he had always been the Holy One. There was nothing new about that Or scores of other names that we could think of that would describe various attributes and parts of his character. But the one name that the Father chooses to give him is the name that perfectly describes what he would be and do in his human nature, that which he had never been before. And would uniquely become through his birth and life and death the name Jesus. Because Jesus means Savior. And so I want you to notice these three things about that. First of all, that Jesus perfectly reveals the essence of his person and work. Jesus perfectly reveals the essence of his person and work. You see, the name Jesus is a Greek translation of the Hebrew name Joshua. And Joshua is derived from God's most personal name, Yahweh or Jehovah, the name that He revealed to Israel at the Exodus when He redeemed them, when He brought them out. And so that name means in God's own character, Savior or salvation. For instance, in Isaiah 62, in verse 11, Isaiah says, The Lord has made proclamation to the ends of the earth. Say to the daughter of Zion, see your Savior comes, or it could also be translated, see, salvation comes. See, his reward is with him, and his recompense accompanies him. The word there, Savior or Salvation in Isaiah 62. 11, is the Hebrew name Yeshua. See, your Yeshua is coming. And that Yeshua Is from is the root of the name Joshua, which becomes in the New Testament Jesus. And so you could translate Isaiah 62, 11, say to the daughter of Zion, see Your Jesus comes. His reward is with him. And his recompense accompanies him. Or you take Luke chapter 2. After the birth of Jesus, you remember eight days later they bring him into the temple. And there, old Simeon, who's been looking for the Messiah all his life. Simeon takes the little baby into his arms. And he says in Luke 2, 29 and 30, Sovereign Lord, as you have promised now, dismiss your servant in peace, for my eyes have seen your salvation. That word salvation there, as Simeon would have uttered it, would have been my eyes have seen your Yeshua, Joshua, your Jesus. And so Jesus means Savior, because Jesus is salvation. That's the very heart of his person and work. You may think that you know Jesus as your helper, your friend, your comforter, or whatever else. But I tell you, on the authority of the Word of God, if you do not know this morning Jesus as your Savior, you do not know him at all. For that is the essence of who he is and why he came. Jesus is salvation. And only those who can say, My Jesus, my Savior. Are those who know him? And those who know him as Jesus know him in the way that he fulfills the type of Joshua in the Old Testament. Without knowing Jesus as Savior, you can't know the four things that he fulfills that Joshua is just a picture of. You see those listed there in your bulletin outline. That what Joshua, do you remember the leader who after Moses brought Israel out of the wilderness and into Canaan, the land of milk and honey, the paradise on earth? What Joshua did on earthly and temporal level, Jesus came to do on a heavenly and eternal level. Notice the four things that are listed there. Joshua defeated the enemies who blocked the way to the earthly paradise in Canaan. This was what God had promised his people. But there were those who stood in the way to prevent it. And so Joshua led his people in many bloody battles, but he was victorious and defeated the enemy to get into the kingdom. Jesus took on a body in order to have blood. And then Jesus is the captain who shed his own blood. In order to defeat the enemy, Satan, who blocked the entrance into God's perfect kingdom for you and for me. And so Jesus defeated the enemy And he was totally victorious by his own blood. Joshua led his people into an earthly inheritance of prosperity and of peace. Jesus leads us into a heavenly inheritance that perfectly matches every good need and desire you have ever had. That's far more significant than any earthly inheritance. For anything earthly is going to pass away so quickly. And the toys will be so soon broken, and all the presents of this year will be so soon forgotten. For the inheritance that Jesus gives us Is one that lasts forever. Joshua was a faithful leader. A faithful leader to his own generation. And yet the very next generation went away and departed from God and suffered misery on account of it. But Jesus is a faithful leader who leads us forever. And he will never fail us, and we will never fall away from him. But we are guaranteed to be joined to him and to follow him perfectly in his kingdom forever. Joshua led his people into a temporary rest. But Jesus gives to us an eternal rest of endless delight. What Joshua just gave us a glimpse of The Joshua, the true Joshua, Jesus, comes to fulfill in an infinitely greater capacity to last forever. Praise his name. That name, secondly, Jesus reveals the fullness of his grace. That's the second point there. Jesus reveals the fullness of his grace. Matthew 1. 21 says, She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. A good technique of meditation on a verse is to Emphasize every particular word in succession. And you can do that with great profit on particularly that last part of that verse. Give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. But the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. He's Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. He's Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. So you see his grace and his majestic sovereignty in that verse. Because it tells us that he does not simply make salvation possible to an undetermined number of people who decide to choose it. But that he actually saves those that he has called to be his, whom he has known and loved from eternity, his own people. We have in this verse a declaration of the mystery of his irresistible grace, that he has done all that is necessary. For your salvation and for mine, not simply to make it possible, but everything to turn hateful sinners Who are dead in our sins to himself and to life. I remember this past year. Ten plants telling me about an example that his small group had studied in a book that they were reading that I think so well illustrates this. There was a man who owned a dog that he loved very much One day the dog fell into a cesspool. Now can you imagine He stood over the pit looking at this dog that he loved. And he could barely stand to be at the edge of the pit and look down at this thing, whimpering and crying down there. in all that you understand and don't have to draw it out for your own imagination. There he stood. What's he gonna do? Is he gonna abandon the dog? He loves the dog. What can he do? He can't call the dog out. Dog can't come. In fact, he's going lower and lower, sinking. And so he took a ladder and he stuck the ladder down into the cesspool. And he called him, Come up, come on up the ladder. The dog couldn't come up the ladder. He was stuck. And so, with reluctance, but with immeasurable love. He climbed down the ladder and realized that the only way he was going to get that dog out was to go down into the pool himself and lift the dog out and carry him up the ladder. That's the meaning of the name Jesus. Let the Lord of glory climb down into the cesspool of our sin in our world. And he lifted you and me out of the mire of our sin. He did all that was necessary to save, not to make possible salvation, but to come down into the pit and to save his people. From their sins. Secondly, we see that this grace is a grace for real sinners. Verse 21 says he will save his people from their sins. And only you who sit here this morning who are willing to admit I am a sinner without excuse. Are those who can rejoice this morning because Jesus is your Savior. You see, your relationship with Jesus is not based on your goodness But it's based on your sin. It's based on your evil. It's not based on your merit. It's based on your misery. It's not based on your standing. It's based on your fall It's not based on those things that you feel good about yourself. It's based on those things about which you feel most ashamed. It's not based on the fact that he showed you how to love. It's based on the fact that he lived a life of perfect love on your behalf because you couldn't do it. The relationship with Jesus is not a reward for your virtues. It's the gift of forgiveness for your sins. Jesus came for real sinners who feel the guilt of their sin and their hopelessness, their brokenness before God. So that they're able to see him, realizing they're broken for God for your sins. That's the other blank there. And is meeting you at the point of your deepest need as Savior. Not that you and I are successful, the successful people of Howard County or the Baltimore, Washington area, or for wherever you're from. Who basically have it together but need a few things to help us out. But rather that we're hopeless sinners. That we continue as we walk with Jesus to realize increasingly how helpless we are in our sin And so when you plead the name of Jesus to the Father, you're simply giving him back the name that he gave to you in the Son that He gave in the manger. The Savior who will take away your sin, who has taken it away, and will take it away. Finally, we see that the name Jesus is the name that was fully justified in his life and his work. Consider the testimony of his life I once read of a fellow by the name of Methuselah Coney, who died at the age of six months. Now, if you know the name Methuselah from the Old Testament, he's the fellow who lived nearly a thousand years, the oldest living man on recorded history. But Methuselah Coney, who died at the age of six months, utterly contradicted the name that his parents so hopefully gave to him. Jesus was given the name by the angel Jesus before he had done anything. And yet Jesus perfectly fulfilled the meaning of that name. You know, the name Jesus was a very popular name back in those days. Because it meant deliverer, Savior, it was a name that Jews hopefully gave to their children, hoping that God would raise up a deliverer Josephus, for instance, mentions over twenty Jesuses in the record of his history. But of all the Jesuses that there are And of all those who claim today, through self-help books or political aspirations, or anything else, to be able to give you the hope that you need, there's only one Who fulfilled the meaning of his name. But there was only one who grew up and perfectly kept the law, never breaking it at one single point. But fulfilling it perfectly so that he was eligible to be executed for your sin and mine. And so being executed as a sacrifice, the perfect Lamb of God. Cursed by the Father, Jesus became executed, by which your sin placed on him became cursed in his death. And Jesus became the one uniquely exalted, lifted up into the heavens, so that the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. For Jesus is the one who conquered death and has brought life in victory perfectly Jesus accomplished everything that he set out to do to fulfill his name. Through the ages, millions have testified to the fact that Jesus is faithful to his promise. Alcoholics, drug addicts, drug abusers, pornography addicts Spouse abusers, child abusers, people like you and me, in every walk of life, in every culture, in every kind of sin and degradation, public sins and private sins. The sins that if you and I were to have our sins put onto that overhead behind me would cause us to want to dig a hole into the ground, to hide our head with shame. in utter abhorrence to be exposed for what we're really like. And through the ages, millions of us have come and said that Jesus Really does take away sin. You know, there was a number of people that had been working at the potter's house over these last weeks And just this last week, our office staff, who I'm so grateful to God, have not a heart just to do bulletins and get things accomplished in the office, but have a tremendous heart for people. I 've been praying for the those who were working there and took opportunity to share Christ, some of the guys who had been working over there. The one man in particular had been working there for a number of weeks on and off. And as uh they were talking to him about Christ this particular occasion, Allison was able to share Christ with him One of the things that he said really struck us. He said, I see a hole in my life and a void. But he said, I see of all the people that have come in here from your church. The people have come in to do business and the people that have visited, he says, I see something different in the lives of these people. Clearly they have something that I don't have. And I hope that encourages you. You think, gee, but I went to Potter's house in the last few weeks, and maybe you noticed there was something in my life, you know. But I hope more so. That when you and I look and we say, well, does Jesus really make a difference? I'm so aware of my sin. But maybe I don't see that Jesus really has saved me from that sin. That Jesus really has been faithful to his word, and that there really is something different about his people. There is a hope, a peace, and a contentment that you and I can take for granted, but that can by a man like that who is honest and searching see so evidently as a difference. Jesus saves his people from their sins. And finally, he saves them not only from its guilt and from its power But the testimony of our hope it is coming again is that Jesus is one day even going to save us from the very presence of our sin. And all of our sin will be gone. Its guilt will be gone. Its power will be gone. And his very presence in our lives will be utterly eradicated. For Jesus will fulfill that for which he was born in the stable to accomplish. That he will save his people from their sins. Amen. Amen. And so the question to you and to me this Christmas Eve morning is how well do you know the babe in the manger as Jesus? Let's pray. Lord our God, we can become so easily deceived When we see all the Christmas cards, and we see the tinsel of this world utterly masking the meaning of Christmas And even the meaning of Jesus becomes in subtle ways hidden to us. And Lord, there may be some people here this morning who think that because they're not against you That means that somehow they will not be under your wrath and curse. Lord, wake us to see what our sin is really like Show us not only our sin in its guilt and its ugliness, in its cesspool stench. But show us, Lord, that there is only one Jesus in this world. That there is only one who can take away the guilt and the power and the presence of that sin. And that is the one who is born to die. Born to die to take away that sin. For his name would be called Jesus. Lord, we pray that among those in this room on that great day when you will come again Every knee of ours would bow humbly and gladly in adoration. And that there would be none here, Lord, in this room who would bow in terror. Because they realized that for too long they had put off that trusting of you as Savior Lord, for those of us who have settled that with you, we pray, Lord, that you would this Christmas time remind us again of the meaning of his name. That we would rejoice in our sins forgiven. That we would be glad, whatever the circumstances of these next couple days, that we know Jesus. And that he really does take away sin. Fill us with the wonder of that. For we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.