Our gracious God gives to us a number of motives for serving, following Jesus Christ and obeying his word. The most basic motive that he gives to us is, of course, to see his lordship. God didn't give us the ten suggestions, you know. And so we need to understand that he speaks with final authority. And old-fashioned fear of God is the most basic motive for our following him and obeying him. The highest motive for obeying God is our gratitude for His grace, that He is Savior. And that he, out of his free grace and love for us, has forgiven us all of our sin. That he has taken all of that away and he has adopted us into his family. And so, because of that, I love him and I want to please him. That's the highest motive for obedience to Jesus. But there's a third motive also, a motive which I call godly self-interest. That is to say, I understand that God's principles work. That what God says and what He commands, if I follow it, it's in my best interest to do so. The Bible gives us many, many examples of blessings for those who have followed Him, have trusted Him, and obeyed Him. There's examples of Noah, of Joseph, Abraham, Moses, Samuel, Job, David, and on and on they go. The Bible also gives us many examples of trouble, cursing, suffering, bitterness for those who have ignored his warnings and gone their own way. The examples of Cain, Esau. The examples of Miriam, Achan, Absalom, Jeroboam, and many others And all of these simply illustrate the basic biblical principle that you reap what you sow. Now that principle is a principle that I myself am forcefully reminded of every Thanksgiving time. I'm reminded of it, first of all, because Thanksgiving time is harvest time. And that's a harvest principle. You reap what you sow. In harvest. But I'm also reminded of it particularly forcefully because I find myself every Thanksgiving time Contrasting the pilgrim colony at Plymouth, Massachusetts, from which we get, of course, the custom of the Feast of Thanksgiving. were the rest of the colonizers in the New World, particularly the Jamestown colony, Jamestown, Virginia And the contrast of those two colonies forcefully illustrates the principle that you reap what you sow. And so I would like this morning to look at the scripture that states that principle, and then the history that illustrates it Galatians chapter 6. If you haven't already turned to it, Galatians chapter 6, verses 7 to 10. This is God's word. Let's hear him with respect. Do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. The one who sows to please his sinful nature from that nature will reap destruction. The one who sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. Let us not become weary in doing good. For at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Therefore, as we have opportunity, Let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the household of believers. You notice there that Paul introduces the principle that he is teaching us by an alert. At the beginning of verse 7. He says, Do not be deceived. Why does he say that? Because I think it is so easy for us to be deceived in this Precise principle, particularly in our day of a craving for immediate self-gratification. We can believe that we can sow things that we will not reap from, can't we? We believe that we can do things that will not necessarily have consequences because we did not follow God's ways. Somehow we can be the exception. And that's why Paul goes on to say, do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. You are not an exception to the universe God says this is a basic universal principle of life. A man reaps what he sows. You, nor I, nor anyone else, is an exception to this. For if you were, if in fact you did not reap what you sowed, God would be mocked, because he would be saying that what he has established As a basic universal principle did not hold true in your case. None of us are exceptions And Paul wants us to see that, and then from that, he leads us into this basic, all-important principle. Now, what is that law? What is that principle? He states it in two ways. First of all, he states it as what I call a harvest principle And that's the first line. You see, uh Dan and Carol, I don't know if you're going to have the bulletin outline to fill in the blanks when you see this, but you know you how know how those go. Well, the first blank is the harvest principle You see that in verse 7. A man reaps what he sows. That's pretty obvious. Why do I have you fill in those two blanks? Reaps and sows. Because This can be so familiar to us that we can miss it, and I want you to write that down so it is impressed in your mind. A man reaps what he sows. A woman reaps what she sows. Young people reap what they sow. We older, you know, I don't know where mine, the younger or the older, but you know, somewhere all of us along the spectrum are reaping what we sow. We are sowing things we will reap It's so simple, isn't it? It's so obvious. You sow tomatoes, you reap tomatoes, not cucumbers or squash Every year I sow tomato seeds and I expect to get tomatoes and I'm never disappointed. The quality may vary, but they're always tomatoes I once saw a field of what must have been at least a hundred thousand red tulips. They didn't bury an iota in their shade They were all pretty uniform, but they were, you know, at least a hundred thousand, almost as far as the eye could see, red tulips. And right smack dab in the middle of them was one yellow tulip. Now, I couldn't help but look at that thing and think, you know, now there was a bulb that said, I am not going to be red like the rest of you guys. But I guarantee you that was not the case Somebody sowed a yellow tulip bulb. And that's why there was a yellow tulip. Because it is true you reap just what you sow. In our front yard, every spring, you will see a group of daffodils. We have different daffodils that grow, and I planted those bulbs ten years ago You get them out of a bin, you know, and uh you pick them out and then you plant them in the ground and see what comes up. Now, this one section, uh one among my favorite of the narcissist or sysisism, are the white, pure white ones with a little red centers, you know? And so we have a whole group of those there. But there's one cluster of cream ones with yellow centers Now, is that because I sewed the bulb that's supposed to produce the white ones with the red centers, and in fact they changed their mind? No! Somebody sneaked a cream and orange bulb into that white and red bulb bin. And that's why I got cream and orange tulips. Or I mean tulips. Narcissuses or daffodils, whatever you want to call them. You reap just what you sow. Paul says that's a very basic harvest principle. And then secondly, He applies that to human life. And so, secondly, you have this applied as a human principle. Not only a harvest principle, but a human principle And Paul says this states this principle two ways, negatively and positively. Negatively, the principle is stated that if I sow to please myself I will reap a harvest of destruction. See what he says in verse 8 there. The one who sows to please his sinful nature, that is himself. From that nature will reap destruction, a harvest of destruction. He's simply summing up here, you see, what he has said in chapter 5, verses 19 to 21 where he told us that the acts of the sinful nature are obvious. And he says here, if you are sowing, you see, sexual immorality, Impurity, debauchery, idolatry, if you sow witchcraft and hatred, if you sow discord, jealousy fits of rage, if you sow selfish ambition, dissensions, factions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and the like, then I warn you as I did before, that those who live like this Will not inherit the kingdom of God. In other words, you will sow this kind of life and you will reap destruction, death. There's not one person in this room, in this city, in the state, in the country, or in the world who is an exception to that. We sort of think that we're an exception to life's rules sometimes. Paul says there are no exceptions. If you sow to yourself rather than to Jesus Christ, you will reap death. No exceptions. The positive side of that, he goes on to say, is that if I sow to please the Spirit Then I will reap by grace the harvest of eternal life. If I sow to please the Spirit, I will reap by grace with a harvest of eternal life. The last part of verse 8. The one who sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. That is to say, if my life is governed and controlled by the Spirit, if I in fact yield the fruits of the Spirit, that you see following verses 21, uh, you know, chapter 5, 19 to 21, the verses right after that, verse 22 and 23. Those fruits of the Spirit, now I could be nasty here and ask Bob Björkes' class to recite those two verses because those are their memory verses for this Sunday But I won't put you guys on the spot right now, I'll let you do that next hour. But they would all, of course, leap to their feet and give us Galatians five, twenty two and twenty-three about the fruit of the Spirit being love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. See, I did it, you can do it too, guys. If we are in fact showing those things in our lives, then that's simply the evidence that the grace of Jesus Christ has come to reside in us And that we in fact have been given by him eternal life. Because we deserve it? If you in fact sow to the Spirit, then you will gain, you will earn eternal life? Because I do it perfectly? No, not at all. Rather, as Paul said back in chapter 3 of this book, is because Jesus Christ himself lived in a way so that he lived totally in his life sowing to please the Spirit and his Father. And as a result of that, he reaped eternal life. He kept the covenant fully, and therefore he gained for himself eternal life. But he also then gave himself to bear the curses of what you and I had sowed. And so he was cursed, cursed by the Father, cursed to the extreme. And in that cursing, Jesus Christ paid the debt in full So that you and I could reap what he sowed, so that we could get the eternal life as a free gift that Jesus Christ had gained. Do you have that gift? Do you know that you have that gift? You don't have much to thank God for because you don't know God. in any personal way this Thanksgiving, if you don't know that you have the free gift of eternal life But you see, Paul's saying that this is a principle that permeates all of life. It's a call to us to live responsibly. Do as Christians realize that even though I have received the free gift of eternal life in Jesus Christ, what I do, how I live, has consequences. I am not the victim of all those experiences and genes and everything in me that has made me what I am now and I'm sort of locked into that. Paul says no You will in fact reap what you sow. You have choices, daily choices to make. And those choices determine the rest of your life. You kids in high school And just out of high school, before high school, you particularly are making choices now in sowing certain things in your life. You've heard the old adage, you know, sow a thought, reap an act. Sow an act, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character, sow a character, and reap a destiny. We reap what we sow And even if you know Jesus Christ, you go out and you get drunk and smash up your car and your face is all smashed up, grace doesn't take away the scars until glory. But there are consequences for how we live in this life. The scars are still there. We reap what we sow. Psalm 1 is simply an illustration of that. The blessed man makes certain choices day by day, that Psalm says to walk in the way of God, to choose to walk in his wisdom, and not in the wisdom of the scorners and the scoffers. And as a result of that, he becomes like a tree that's planted and rooted and firm in his life Not unstable like the chaff which the wind drives away. You reap what you sow. You and I are making choices. You made choices this past week that will determine things in the future We'll make choices this next week. Those little choices will bring us closer to the Lord Jesus. And to as we're saying in Proverbs, understanding his leading and directing us into a straight and pleasant path, or we will move from that. You reap what you sow. That's the principle stated. But now let's take a look at how that principle is illustrated. I'm reminded each Thanksgiving about what I see as a very dramatic illustration of this principle in what we celebrate at this time. For I think each Thanksgiving of the contrast between the pilgrim colony at Plymouth, Massachusetts, and the English colony in Jamestown, Virginia Now I could easily spend a full hour lecturing on this, and I have had to severely restrain and restrict myself. Limiting myself to simply three points about what each sowed and what each reaped. I will try not to get too carried away on this because Really, from each of the things I will say, I can multiply that three or four times with specific examples to more forcefully make the point. But this is a sermon, it's not a lecture And uh maybe we should have canceled laugh groups and I could have really had a ball. Uh, you know, I know there's a lot of you that really like history and uh see that. It's fascinating to see how God shows his principles are true in history, isn't it? We see it in our own lives and we see it in history. We certainly see it in the times that we think about Thanksgiving. So let me look at three things they each sowed and three things they each reaped. First of all, you see them on your bulletin outline to follow more easily. First of all, let's contrast their motives for colonizing. The motives of those who colonized Jamestown, Virginia, which became called the first permanent settlement in the New World, permanent even though it was abandoned on a couple of occasions. out of despair, that the motives for colonizing it were very simple. They were greed for gold. It was nothing more than that, even though the colonization of Jamestown was couched in hypocritical language of evangelism. Uh that hypocrisy, of course, was demonstrated by the fact that though they sent about 150 people over to do that, uh in a day when there was no evangelism expression. explosion training and so uh there was uh great dependence on the ordained clergy to do the evangelism. They sent one ordained minister. All they did when they arrived was spend the first month digging up gold. Well, of course they didn't find any gold, but they were sure digging for it. When that turned out to be a fable, and there was nothing to that, eventually they led to raising uh uh establishing tobacco plantations and that became the only source of their income. But all they were after was profit That's uh very vividly illustrated in a bit of correspondence, and this is from um Marshall and Manuel's excellent book, The Light and the Glory, which is one of the best accounts of the uh settlement of the North American continent back in the early days from a Christian perspective. The contrast between the worldly and the spiritual is never more candidly spelled out than in an exchange between James Blair, who was president-elect of the soon-to-be-founded College of William and Mary and England's Attorney General Edward Seymour, to whom he, that is, Blair, had to apply for the drawing up of the charter granted by their majesties Seymour in England thought the college was a waste of time and money, and he said so in no uncertain terms, whereupon Blair pointed out that the colonists in Virginia had souls that needed to be saved. Seymour's response, Souls, damn your souls, make tobacco. And that summed up the prevailing attitude of many toward Virginia. Very clear their motives for colonizing. Contrast that with the pilgrims. The pilgrims were a group of evangelical Christians who were hounded by the Church of England for certain of their Christian convictions. And because of that, they fled to Holland in order to find peace there. But in fact they found a number of problems there and decided that the only course was in order was to go to the New World. And establish a settlement there for one basic purpose, in order to practice biblical Christianity in peace. That was their one basic motive for coming to the New World. The classic account of this, the book by the name, by the Title Saints and Strangers is not always flattering to the pilgrims, does not seem particularly to be written from a Christian perspective. But even in that book The author acknowledges that the pilgrims were unique of the colonists in having no greedy grabbing or pursuits of personal aggrandizement in their desires for settlement. There was no pursuit of private profit, they say, the author says, in the settlement of the colony at Plymouth. It was simply in order to establish a place to peacefully worship God. What about the attitude towards service? Self-centered ease or a servant heart of sacrificial service? In Jamestown, it was quite clear which they sowed. In Jamestown, from the very beginning, the colony was characterized by self-centered ease. When they arrived, the site that they chose was the easiest site to settle in. Unfortunately, the easiest site was the marshlands by the river. And that proved to be their undoing and the death of many. These men were gentlemen adventurers. Physical work was abhorrent to them. That they would never lower themselves to manual labor. That would be a shock to their dignity. And so no one was interested in planting. At one point they were on the verge of starvation, and the only thing that saved them was the Indians giving them corn. But did they plant it? No. They let it rot. rather than reduce themselves to getting out in the field and planting that corn manually. The only physical work that they engaged in that anybody knows of for the first year was digging for gold for themselves. Now contrast that attitude with the attitude of the pilgrims. In Plymouth, all worked. Everyone was involved in the same level of building, planting, and settling. A proof of this is the fact that the governor of the colony, Governor Carver died in the spring of 1621, hoeing his field along with the rest of the laborers of the colony. Everyone in Plymouth worked and there is no record of complaining about having to serve one another. When things got really rough The records show that the mothers and the fathers sacrificed their lives so that their children would be able to live. A spirit of service and servanthood was what they sowed. Thirdly, consider the treatment of their neighbors, the Indians. What did these two colonies sow in those two terms? Well, in Jamestown, there was never a respect for the Indians. The Indians were treated as savages beneath their dignity to relate to. They were used and they were abused. Captain Smith of historic fame, the hero Captain John Smith, who did a number of uh worthy things, nevertheless When it came to his treatment of the Indians, he was an arrogant murderer. You, of course, know him probably best by the story of Pocahontas. The reason Pocahontas comes into the picture is because Smith, in his murdering, had brought himself under the uh sentence of execution by the Indians. And when his head was laid on the block, the story goes that Pocahontas, who was probably about ten or eleven years old at that point, uh did intervene, at least according to Smith, to save his life before her father Poe Hayton. Of course Poe Hayton uh later regretted that he had saved Smith's life And because he turned right back to murdering the Indians. Time and again, the Indians saved the lives of the colonists by their generosity, giving to them corn helping them. In the winter of 1608, for instance, the entire community burned and there was nothing left. They were utterly on the mercy of the Indians. The Indians gave to them of their own supplies generously so that the Jamestown colonists could live. The two, the colonists and the Indians, swore an eternal pact of friendship. Less than one week later The colonists massacred an Indian village, killing men, women, and children to get their food. Smith said the rest of them should have been enslaved. The colonists vilified, murdered the Indians, left and right, in spite of the fact that these were probably the friendliest Indians on the whole East Coast at that time. Contrast that with the pilgrim colony at Plymouth. The pilgrims settled, it so happened, into an area of one of the most warlike. of all the tribes on the east coast. Providentially, just a couple of years before they got there, a plague wiped out that entire tribe, leaving only one survivor who happened to be away at the time learning English. The pilgrims established good relationships with the neighboring tribes of Indians, who had somewhat of a warlike reputation, but there was always mutual respect that characterized the relationships of the two groups. You see this, of course, by the fact that uh Thanksgiving, the very first feast was a feast in which the pilgrims invited ninety braves from their area to join them in that feast of thanksgiving to God for his mercy and his provision. And so the pilgrims always treated the Indians as equals, as those creatures created in God's image, whom they respected. And the treaties were never broken. During the entire existence of the Plymouth colony. Now consider as a result of all this what they reaped. Consider what Jamestown reaped and what Plymouth reaped. Consider this again in three areas. Consider the mortality rates. In Jamestown Now the colonists arrived in May of 1607. I told you they settled in the marshes because that was the easiest. The result of that was that it didn't take the winter to kill them all. Fifty of them died that summer out of the mosquitoes and the plagues from the marshes. Less than two years after they had arrived, there were only thirty-eight left out of the hundred and forty-four who had stayed. More cape kept coming over on more ships. England kept sending them because they kept saying what a great place it was, because they were desperate to get more people. And by the second year, nine out of ten would die The Indians finally had it with all of their duplicity and their uh unworthy uh betrayals And so the Indians finally attacked and they wiped out a third of the survivors. And then after that came what was called the starving and freezing time. Things were so bad at Jamestown, there was so little food, it's recorded that one man ate his wife. People dug up the corpses of people who had died and ate the corpses. People were absolutely desperate. Out of 480 people who had been there the fall before, Only sixty starving people remained the following spring when the ship of provisions came for them. Finally, they abandoned the colony. Contrast that with Plymouth. We're all familiar with the fact that of the 102 that came over on the Mayflower, 47, nearly half of them, died that first winter. They arrived in December and they didn't simply have time to settle in. And it was a very rough first winter. The second winter was also bad. But they hung together, they served one another, they stuck together, they supported one another, and after that second winter, things were up from there. I've shared with you the story of how they called a day of fasting and prayer after weeks of drought during that second season. And how God heard and answered, giving them in immediate response to that prayer, three weeks of gentle rain that saved that harvest. And how they continued to find more and more prosperity. And that leads us to the second principle, the matter of success. What was the success of the two communities? Well, in Jamestown, of course, there was terrible existence Uh there was tremendous suffering there. Uh Jamestown really has the uh honor of being the first American slum. Things were so bad at Jamestown that the food even rotted, the little food that they had, because they didn't take care of it or even store it properly. Now the place was just one slum in the marsh Finally, as I said, they abandoned it. But then they came back in 169. They abandoned it in the spring and they came back in the fall to give it one more try. And that was when they entered into their starving time. And so they abandoned it again. And they kept coming and going, and eventually there were scattered plantations in the area, and that's why it's called the first permanent settlement, but not after much suffering. And in fact, the site itself was finally burned to the ground and was never rebuilt. A total failure as a community. What about Plymouth? Well, as I said to you before, after the first couple of years, uh they knew great success. The the uh plantation grew and prospered. This, interestingly enough, in spite of the fact That those who had loaned them the money, that is, uh had had uh put up their passage, they were called adventurers, and you sort of uh you owed them your passage to get over to the new world, again and again and again cheated them. But the pilgrims always said it is better to be cheated than to dishonor God by all the wrangling and the hassling that other colonies get into. Let's suffer the indignity, let's suffer being cheated, and trust God. And God honored that. I'm not saying you always suffer being cheated. But in this case, though they were cheated again and again by those who had financed their expedition, the the uh colony grew and prospered in an unprecedented way. And in fact, they grew and prospered so much that their main problem was by the second generation the children had become so self-sufficient that they forgot that it was God who had provided for them. And that's why you have in history today the looking back at early New England as such a prosperous, self-sufficient community. Finally, consider their influence on American history. In Jamestown, there was one lasting contribution that Jamestown made to American culture and history. In 1619, it was Jamestown who introduced the practice of Negro slavery in order to make a profit from their plantations. That was their one contribution to American history. Contrast that with Plymouth. Plymouth, of course, began with the Mayflower Compact, what has been called the very first document of a free people to govern themselves. That led to other of their establishing of how they governed themselves, which laid the foundation for basic democratic principles that profoundly influenced American government and culture. Far beyond their numbers. They influenced the course of this history. Most people look at the pilgrim colony in Plymouth as being some vast colony that swept through New England. In fact, that's not at all the case It was a very small colony. It remains small. And finally, in fact, it scattered and and really uh kind of uh disappeared in being absorbed in some of the other uh endeavors of that time. But its influence On American history and culture is hard to overestimate in what they produced in Christian principles. That influenced the original governing policies and the founders of our country. What you saw is what you read. And you see that in history, you see it in your life, and you see it as I see it in my life. And so Paul draws the application, and he says, Because that's true, brothers and sisters, let us not become weary in doing good. For at the proper time, we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Do not give up. Whatever it is that you're doing, and you're saying, oh, I wonder, is it really worth following Jesus? It seems so hard, and it seems like uh I wonder sometimes if it isn't easier To just live for myself. Paul says, Don't give up. You will reap that harvest. And therefore, as we have opportunity, let us Do good to all people, especially to those that belong to the family of believers. Seek the opportunities, brothers and sisters. Give thanks. That Jesus Christ vindicates his principles this Thanksgiving as we remember the history of Thanksgiving and how it teaches us that what we reap is what we said. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us are wondering if that's really true. We say, I seem to have counter evidence to that. Teach us, Lord, how very true it is that what we sow is what we will reap. Lord, we pray for anyone here who is reaping to themselves, that you would deliver them from that harvest of destruction by turning them to Jesus Christ, that they might reap what He has gained for them. Lord, for the rest, as we look at the discouragements of our lives, help us to see how you really can be trusted. And how we should not give up. Teach us and encourage us, you who show yourself faithful, in Jesus' name. Amen