This is the second of Columbia Presbyterian's uh observance this fall of Suffering Church Sunday. In recognition of the millions of our brothers and sisters, estimated 200 million of our brothers and sisters who are undergoing persecution for their faith in Jesus Christ. Last year, an estimated 160,000 Christians were killed simply because of their faith in Jesus Christ, especially in Islamic and communist countries The stories that come out from these that I see from time to time are absolutely heartbreaking. And these incidents are increasing. In fact, you may have heard just recently that Russia passed a law, new law, severely restricting all foreign religious influence that equates to any missionary activity that they want to exclude. This also pressure against Christians is increasing in the United States. Focus on the family just recently had aired. I didn't hear it, read about it. uh what they called their second most important series of all time. It was on the loss of religious freedom within the United States, Chuck Colson and others Particularly in the wake of the Supreme Court striking down the Religious Freedom Restoration Act this past June. a liberal activist court, Supreme Court, that is hostile not only to Christianity but to Judeo-Christian values sees itself accountable to no one and sees the Constitution as a living document, therefore to do social engineering according to what they believe are the priorities. And this is creating quite a furor. So you see that in last week with Promise Keeper's Stand in the Gap, there is a tremendous uh symbolism to this within the nation. There's a furor, a backlash, because people are afraid that this is the muscling of the radical right now, trying to initiate a new holy war And so uh there is tension, there is a furor, there's criticism, there's fear. And my point is that to act in terms of victimization in response to this is not only counterproductive, not only does it alienate those who are outside of Christ, not only does it put them in an adversarial position, as those who are persecuting us victims, but I am holding forth that it is an entirely unbiblical response. We need to start not with programs or protests, with laws or with lobbying, but rather with prayer. And if you come to believe that, there is the opportunity every Thursday morning for you to join us. over at the Potter's House, and one of the things that we pray for on a regular basis is for the persecuted church around the world as well as in our own local situation. Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 5 in verse 8: be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy, the devil, this is the ultimate enemy. The devil prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Now that same phrase, be self-control. It was what Peter had used in the previous chapter, four, in verse seven. The end of all things is near. Therefore be clear-minded and self-controlled. Why? So that you can pray. And so the place we need to begin is with prayer. Join us if you can. If you can't make it Thursdays, you can't make it 6. 30 in the morning. You can't make it to the potter's house. That's okay. But if you want to meet with other Christians, let us know. And we'll try to coordinate and organize, trust God for leadership for others that will pray for this. This is where God is calling us to begin. But then Peter goes on in the end of verse 8 of chapter 5 , like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Then verse 9, resist him. Standing firm in the faith because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings. It's the same war, different fronts, different tactics, some more obviously hostile, but it's the same kind of war. Watch for action items that come from our world, uh, the Persecuted Church Task Force. Cal Dexter spoke to that last week. Look for items in the bulletin. Some will be for information to pray. Others will be calling us to other kinds of action. such as writing on important legislation. There has been progress on the Wolf Spector Bill called the Freedom of Religious Persecution Act of nineteen ninety-seven. The subcommittee has approved that. It has to go to committee and then it's got to come to the floor. So there's a lot more to be done. Look next week for a notice that we'll put in the bulletin board about what you can do in helping to promote this and to encourage it. There are things to do. However, last week I spoke to the fact that I'm concerned About this victimization kind of attitude the Christians can develop in such situations. It is so Encouraged by our current culture. We're a nation of victims, of people who hold grievances. And so when I read uh in the news an article like this Jews encourage Christians to stand up to persecution. I must admit that if you read the Jewish speakers that were interviewed for this, none of them put it quite that way. Stand up for yourselves. I think we have a great debt to our Jewish friends who have called attention to this and have led And awaken the a lot of the concern for world persecution of Christians. I don't minimize that for a moment My concern is that if we begin to adopt the world's posture of standing up for our rights, Standing up for ourselves in a combative kind of mood, we will have lost the distinctive Christian response to persecution. Instead of the fellowship of the cross, we will develop the brotherhood of the victimized ones. And those are entirely different. It's so easy. Self-pity and victimization are so appealing, aren't they? You see, victimization takes away my need for responsibility. If I'm a victim, I'm not responsible to do something. Because I'm a helpless victim. But if I see myself as a soldier within a cosmic spiritual war, then that's a very different kind of attitude. And so I'm saying that victimization is not only unproductive, unhelpful, in fact, paralyzing to the one who adopts it, but it is utterly contrary to the biblical faith. And so we see in 1 Peter 5, the verse just after what I've read, about being self-controlled, seeing, identifying the true enemy. We are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings as our brothers and sisters, who are far more intensely undergoing this, sometimes at the cost of their lives around the world. He then says in verse 10, and the God of all grace. Who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a little while will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. To him be the power forever and ever. Amen. Now last week I began to look at verse 10, made three points. Our hope is what? See, come on, Aggie. Whenever you haven't seen me have a two-part series, always know the second week. I'm probably gonna ask what the week ones points were alright so the first one even got a little letter there to help you my hope is in Eternal glory. I heard enough of it there, so that's good. I can move on. Thank you. That's encouraging. Keeps me moving. Eternal glory that is in Jesus Christ. Not uh Not simply counting down the days to a wedding day, it's infinitely better. Not simply a billion-dollar inheritance, infinitely better. It's eternal glory. The daily new discoveries of the riches of the grace of Jesus Christ from now on through eternity. Eternal glory is yours and mine. We live in hope as Christians, not simply in what we have in the present. The God of all grace. who called you to his eternal glory. You missed the point. You can always read the text. Maybe that'll give you a hint, you know. There it is. But that eternal glory is never to be seen as something that I deserve or have a right to. The eternal glory is mine Not because I deserve it. One of the things about victimization is that it always says I'm getting worse than I deserve. Once you and I realize that we deserve absolutely nothing of the grace of God. That whatever we get in life is better than we deserve for our innate rebellion, resistance to, and rejection. Of God's authority and rule over our lives, that then we see that it is only because, as verse 10 says, He is the God of all grace. And therefore, the basis of that hope is, I'll tell you, sovereign grace. He's the God of all grace. Who's called you sovereignly into that eternal glory, in Christ Not because of what I have done, but as we said, simply by virtue of my union with Jesus, like this paper placed in this book. goes where the book goes, not because of the paper. It is because of its union with the book. You can't destroy that paper without destroying the book And so it is with you and me in Jesus Christ. He has gained eternal glory by virtue of his keeping the covenant with God. You and I are joined with him by faith. If you do not have faith in Jesus Christ this morning, you have no hope of eternal glory. You are shut out from that. And anything that you think you are suffering in this life has nothing to be compared with the righteous wrath of a holy God who will judge you perfectly, righteously, justly for all of your deeds and your thoughts. When you and I realize that we get not what we deserve, but if we have trusted Jesus Christ, we get infinitely better. We get eternal glory. We live by that hope. And we live recognizing that it is all by grace, and therefore it is guaranteed. As Peter said in chapter 1, that that inheritance which we have which will never perish, spoiler fate, is kept in heaven for you, who through the faith through faith are shielded by God's power, he says in chapter 1 verse 5, until the coming of this salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time Then he says in verse 6, In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you've had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. So the third point I made last week from verse 10 of chapter 5 is my interim experience is suffering. The God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered A little while suffering. Not just the Christians who live in Islamic or communist countries But every one of you and me, the 2 Timothy 3, verse 12 says, all, all who live godly in Christ Jesus. Shall suffer persecution. Verse 9 said that the brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings as you and I, nor intense And perhaps severely more intense, far more than you and I can even begin to comprehend in some cases. But it's the same kind of satanic hostility It's simply the reflection of the fact that you and I are not part of this world. If you belong to Jesus Christ, you don't fit. In your school, at your workplace, in your neighborhood, you don't fit quite right within this world. And so it's amazing, but it's still true that you and I, as Christians, when we suffer persecution, are still surprised by it, aren't we? We still say. Why is this happening to me? Don't you like me, Lord? You know, why why am I undergoing this? I thought I was trying to serve you and now There's this resistance, there's this hostility, there's whatever I'm going. It may not even be another person, but there's some affliction, there's some suffering that I'm undergoing, and I'm surprised. And we need to review, again, this verse in its context. Peter makes absolutely clear that you and I should never be surprised. That we're suffering. In fact, if you are not undergoing suffering, that's more the surprise Now it's not to destroy your day. You say, oh, it was going pretty good. I wasn't feeling like I was undergoing suffering. Now I'm kind of waiting, you know, for the lightning bolt to come out of the sky. I'm not saying that. Suffering comes in different ways, in different times, in different seasons. But the fact is, it comes to us all. Peter says in chapter 2. In verse eleven. You just look through this book. In fact, a helpful exercise is to go through this with a red pencil or something, and just every time you see suffering or words like that, underline them. And you'll see the theme just kind of flowing all through 1 Peter in chapter 2 and verse 11. He reminds us that we're aliens and strangers in this world. And so verse 12, which again he says, war against your soul. So you're not victims, you're within this war. Live such good lives, verse 12, chapter 2. Among the pagans, the unbelievers, that though they accuse you of doing wrong, you see, they see your good deeds and glorify God, you're not doing wrong, but you are accused, you're misunderstood That's inevitable, he says. Verse um 15 talks about doing good so that we silence the in ignorant talk of those who are accusing us. Verse 19 He talks about the pain of unjust suffering. In verse 20, he talks about suffering for doing good. Verse 21: To this you were called because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you follow in his steps, in your attitude towards suffering, in the fellowship of his suffering, when he was insulted. When he suffered, verse 23, verse 24, and on it goes, chapter 3, and verse 14. Peter says, even if you suffer for doing what's right, you're blessed. And then he goes on to talk about how in verse 16, keep a clear conscience, so those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ Don't be surprised. Peter said 2,000 years ago that's going to happen. You will be misunderstood. People will speak maliciously of you. It's better, he says still, to suffer for doing good, verse 17, in following Christ, the fellowship of him. That's what he experienced. Chapter 4, verse 1, Therefore, since Christ suffered in his body, arm yourselves also with the same attitude, because he who has suffered in his body is done with sin. Suffering has a purifying effect. Very interesting. Christians who undergo persecution generally are living far more holy lives than those who have it easy. It focuses your priorities. It purges you from the distractions and the temptations. Chapter 4, verse 4. He talks about those who wonder that you don't live like they you used to live with them and do the same things that you used to do, and now you're different. And so he says they heap abuse on you. And still we're surprised when we suffer. We feel like we are abandoned victims. Doesn't God care? And so he says in chapter 4, verse 12, dear friends, notice the gentleness, dear friends, do not be surprised. at the painful trial you are suffering. As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed, for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. And then he talks again, if you suffer, it shouldn't be for doing wrong. But verse 16, you suffer as a Christian. So then you praise God that you bear the names. We saw last week. You are counted worthy. Axios. You are in appropriate equilibrium in your fellowship with Jesus to be counted as the abuse, receiving the abuse that he received. And so he goes on, chapter 5, verse 1, is a witness of Christ's sufferings and how we'll share in his glory. He talks about being self-controlled against the enemy who's seeking to devour you. So that you know that because you're standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings, And then the climax again, the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while. You see, if you're surprised at that point, Peter said, You haven't been reading what I've been saying. This is about the fifteenth time, in fact I counted 23 all through the book, references to suffering. And so you and I need to stop being surprised at this. We need to see That in fact this is the way God draws us close and shows us his power, and he does it in every Christian's life in some way. We notice what happens in other countries, particularly. Bob Davis , my brother pastor over at Long Reach Church of God, we were praying together a couple weeks ago. And as we um finished praying, he was sharing with me about a recent trip he had been to Bogota, Colombia When he says, Al, you want to see a cell church? He says, You want to go down to Bogota, Columbia? They got a hundred and twenty thousand people in cells. Can you imagine? You think that doesn't make a difference in the community? It's making a difference, all right. In fact, it made such a difference in Bogota that the drug lords began to get up in arms The pastor Cesar, who Bob Davis had stayed with when he was down there , the pastor has three lovely children. His wife were out in their Ford Explore one day. Gunman drove up with an automatic weapon, completely sprayed that Ford Explorer, emptied the cartridge into that car. Bob said, I was sitting in that Ford Explorer a few weeks ago. One bullet went right through the pastor's throat. In one side, out the other. Didn't even hit a windpipe, Lawrence, nothing. Another bullet glanced off of the crystal of his watch. Received a couple of flesh wounds. His wife received a couple of minor flesh wounds. The children were entirely missed. Not a single bullet touched them. And this is with a car, Bob said he saw a picture, the car is riddled with bullets. The guy was right next to it doing it. Pastor Cesar is now in Texas. He's a dead man if he's back there now. Pastoring the church at a distance. In his situation, God utterly protected him. Bob said he heard him, I guess on a paper, I don't think he was down there in Texas, but he said he heard him preaching. Praising God. That it was his deliverance. Praise God if he took him. But you and I belong to Jesus Christ to save or to take. You look at what's just happened in these last couple of weeks. You think of promise keepers. Did you ever thought about what it would be like to be Bill McCartney in these last couple of weeks? Have you read any of the things that have been written about him? Gentlemen's quarterly came right to the point. They said he's a raving lunatic. Some of the other things that I've kept a a few of these. Um one from uh the Patricia Ireland National Organization of Women Has launched, of course, you've undoubtedly heard, a crusade, an all-out crusade against promise-keepers for this feel-good form of male supremacy. That has as its goal putting women into subjection and submission. They have a in fact a term that they they use in now for promise keepers that I wouldn't repeat here in a worship service She said in an interview, we have been into McCartney long before his little money-making scheme popped up. He doesn't fool me. This is a dangerous thing. What interested to me about the money making scheme was that Bill McCartney said at the Stand in the Gap that from now on we're not going to charge any money for the stadium events. Immediately the next day, I either heard or read that one of the opponents said, that's proof that he has a money-making scheme. He doesn't even need the money, so he must be excluded extraordinarily funded by the radical right and that proves that he is simply a pawn in their who this conspiracy, their uh hands to carry out a political agenda. So you know if you charge you're money making. If you don't charge you're still money making. And then there was the fellow Warren Hearn from the Boulder Abortion Clinic, who's author of an authoritative text on late-term abortions. who said in an interview, I think that this is a fascist movement, very much a part of the religious right. Coach McCartney is an absolute absolutely primitive man who wants political power and has considerable political power. He is an egg incredibly ignorant man and a very bigoted man. He's poison Yeah, it was beginning to, you know, you just want to heat more and more there because we're talking about high stakes. We're not just talking about Bogota Colombia, we're not just talking about communist China. It's endemic to the Christian faith. It's interested to see a cartoon in Columbia Flyer this week. I don't know if you saw it, but from all the back and forth, a little cartoon, there's a senator and his aide there, and they're standing in his office, and the senator says, Who are they? He says, promise keeper, sir. Men who believe in keeping their promises and remaining faithful to their wives. Senator looks out the window again and says, Wacky fringe group He says, only to people in DC, sir. Pros and cons. He you know, you ever stop and think What would you feel like if you were Bill McCartney? What if you were his wife? Stuff still hurts But if you and I are following Jesus Christ, there will be suffering. Not just the suffering of this world and disease And colds and frustrations, but in hostility. Some of us still remember back in 1984. being unceremoniously expelled from the meeting house over the simple statement that a person needs Jesus Christ. In order to get to heaven. I still remember that meeting where there were 15 clergy in there. It was actually 16, it was 15 plus me, and it was 15 to 1 If you took a vote and said, Do you need Jesus Christ to get to heaven? There'd been 15 no's and one yes. I was the only one that believed that. Afterwards, one of the liberal pastors Said to me, he was not on my side, but he said, they wanted to tear you apart in that room. One man stood about that close to my face, and he said, You have a gutter theology. Another man said he despised what I said. And I still remember that time. I remember how much it strengthened us as a congregation. And there were two things that were absolutely clear to us. Suffering is certain and suffering is short. Peter goes on to say that you will suffer a little while. A little while. Chapter 4, verse 7. The end of all things is near. Chapter 5, verse 8, be self-controlled, be alert. The enemy, you see, who is prowling about, his time is running out. You picture an hourglass, and the sands are draining to the end. And he's furious because his time is short. I've a person that's not quick, but I do enjoy running. One of the things that I notice is if you're in a run, let's say it's a five or six miler, or it's a ten-mile, whatever it is, you get down to that last mile And there is an intense conflict that goes on inside. Part of you is saying, I am pooped, one more mile, I don't care, I'll just coast on in. But then there's the other part that's saying, it's just one more mile. It's only another five or six minutes, you know, and that's into the mile. I'm not a six-minute miler, but It's it's close, it's just a little bit more, you know, another few blocks there I go, pour it on, just knock off another three seconds, pass one more person, keep going Because I know when I finish, if I've given it all I've got, I'll feel so much better that I finished the course with all my strength. The Christian life is a race. A little while. Hang in there, Christian. A little while longer. You don't know. The finish line may be just around the next bend. We don't know where the finish line is. It may be the last mile. It may not But Peter says it's a little while. And in the light of eternity, it's the blink of an eye. Hang faithful. Because not only do you live by the hope of eternal glory soon to come, but you live also by the help of your God. That's the last thing. My resource in this experience is God Himself. God Himself is my resource. Look what He says: the God of all grace, who called you into His eternal glory in Christ. After you have suffered a little while , will Himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast Not an angel. Not a human. Not even the brother or sister who encourages you and is such an encouragement in the time of the pressures. But he says, God himself, directly. That's significant. He himself is going to restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. Two things he'll do: he will equip you, first of all. That's the same word as Ephesians 4. 12 with those three ideas of restoring and supplying and training. Here the emphasis is on is restoring you. Remember that word means to set a broken bone or to mend torn fishnets. And here the idea is that he restores and mends a broken heart. Your heart is breaking because of the sharing of the sufferings of Jesus or our brothers and sisters in other countries. Our prayer for them and our prayer for us is that God will restore their broken hearts. He says that he will do that. Claim that. Claim that he is able to and that he will. Jesus Himself. drawing near to you with his own presence, feeling the sense of that presence in the fellowship of his sufferings. As he supplies all that you need and trains you so that you realize again you're not a victim. You're simply following Jesus Rather, than alienating those who are making life difficult for you, you are able to respond in love. And he will also strengthen you. Not simply to restore, but also to strengthen. In fact, he says it three different ways. He will make you strong, firm, and steadfast. He will make you strong. The word there is the one that's used in Luke 9. 51, where it says Jesus set his face resolutely to go to Jerusalem. It has the idea of resoluteness, the ability to fix your eyes and not waver. Of course, this is significant that Peter is writing this. Peter was the one who had denied Jesus before servant girl, vacillating and weak And then weeks later, and transformed by the power of Jesus Christ, he stood up at Pentecost before thousands of Jews and he said, You who with wicked hands have crucified the Lord of glory, repent. Boy, you're talking about a transformation of character. What accounts for it? A God of all grace had made him strong. If he can do that in Peter, he can do it in you. He can do it in me. Make you strong, make you firm. Word there is the one that's used in the negative in Romans 5:6. When we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. Without strength, without ability. flaccid, having no strength in ourselves to resist pressure or temptation. He made us strong, firm, and steadfast. Same idea of Ephesians 3. 17, you being rooted and established, made steadfast in the love of Christ. They know the dimensions of that love. And then Paul goes on in chapter 6, we'll see if ever can get to that. Four times he says in chapter 6, stand! In the midst of the opposition, it's the same idea here. Standing in the strength of Jesus Christ. And so finally he says in point five: my song in the suffering. Is that He is my hope and my help because He has the power. To Him be the power forever and forever. This is not a prayer. That's not the best translation. Literally, the Greek is to him power forever and ever. There's no verb in there And so the idea is to him is the power, or to him belongs the power. It's an ascription of praise to him who has all power. Power is not ultimately in the hands of the persecutors. It's not ultimately in the hands of anyone within this world. It is ultimately in the hands of Jesus Christ. Victimization paralyzes us because we believe we are in the hands of a person who abuses us. Stephen Hawking, the famous astrophysicist, confined to a wheelchair, utterly paralyzed, with ALS syndrome. It says, never let self-pity take control. It will utterly paralyze you. Sad thing is as Christians, we can spiritually be paralyzed by that victimization mentality. Praise drives out self-pity. The song to him, to you, is power forever and ever. It 's not only praise to him, it is power to us who realize that we walk in the strength of the risen Lord Jesus. Praise drives out self-pity. Your hope is in his eternal glory. Your help is in the sovereign God who equips and strengthens you in Jesus Christ. Are you a victim? No. You're a soldier. Are you a victim? No. Jesus Christ, you are a victor. Are you a victim? No. As a victor, you and I can celebrate. That day when his glory will be revealed, and we will be revealed with him. Somebody say amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, give us eyes to see, the glory that is on ahead, and help us to see not only our hope, but your help, which is for us. Any of us who do not know that, Lord, give us eyes to see Jesus. For those of us, Lord, who need to see the help that is at hand in you, strengthen our faith, open our eyes. That this week we would not walk as victims, nor would our brothers and sisters under multiplied intense persecution in other lands. But we would see that power in Jesus Christ that enables us to love our enemies and to stand firm for you. Amen.