Also, what is called Persecution Sunday, it's left this fall, interesting, to different churches to set the time from the end of September to the beginning of November And we are setting this Sunday and next Sunday for that observation, Persecution Sunday or Persecuted Church Sunday, or the newest name that's now given to it is the Suffering Church Sunday. Uh but this is uh what we are observing now. We did it for the first time last year, first time that such a a uh day was called. Why is it that we observe such a thing? Well, James Thompson recently wrote that a hundred and sixty thousand Christians have been martyred since when? How long a time? One year. Nineteen ninety-six. 160,000 Christians lost their life for their faith in Jesus Christ. Innumerable others were tortured, were imprisoned, separated from families, and harassed. So last year we began to look at this. We Looked at Hebrews chapter thirteen, you remember, where we saw that we are to remember our brothers and sisters who were in prison as if we were fellow prisoners, and their sufferings as if we were suffering With them and suffering the same things. So we have begun to look at this. It was we saw a video that was put together by a group of people Much of this has been uh prompted by a few Jewish leaders, Michael Horowitz in particular, James Thompson asked Michael Horowitz This year, why is it that you are so interested in helping us Christians with this matter He wrote Horitz's answer in one of his newsletters. Let me quote it. Horowitz said, There's a man who lives with us who is the embodiment of Christian faith, and I'm in awe of it. He is from the Ethiopian Evangelical Church, where he is the senior pastor. He is trying to get asylum into the United States and is meeting every possible roadblock that you can imagine. Here is a man who has been jailed over 25 times for his faith. He has been tortured. On one occasion, he was hanged upside down with hot oil poured on his feet. This is a man of abiding faith who will be tortured again and murdered if he is sent back to Ethiopia. But do you know what happened when we petitioned for asylum for him? The State Department sent a letter to the Immigration Service and said, quote, there is no persecution of Christians in Ethiopia. Harrow had said that's got to change. We've got to bring attention to these atrocities, and of course, out of the Holocaust experience of his own people, realizing what is at stake. But there's been progress since last fall. I'm glad to say that God has certainly worked in a powerful way in answers to our prayers. A number of things have happened, not only among churches and the awareness of this, but nationally. During the last year, the House and Senate overwhelmingly passed resolutions condemning anti-Christian terrorism. Currently there is a bill before Congress called the Prevention of Persecution Act of nineteen ninety-seven with real sanctions against nations that systematically and wantonly uh torture or persecute Christians. I have the content summary of that bill here if anybody's interested in seeing that afterwards. We need to continue to pray for the passing of that bill into law, as well as for a number of other things that God would do to make a difference. And I must say that while I have been gratified and encouraged at the tremendous response there has been since last fall. People beginning to realize this is a serious problem, we've got to do something. That along with that concern, I have been actually somewhat taken back and amazed at how vigorous the response has been. So I began to think about that. Why has this become such a cause celebre of our nation so very, very quickly? Then I began to notice some of the tones of some of the protests. And I began to become a little concerned. And the more I looked at it, the more I realized that what we were seeing here was perhaps not simply something which is a work of the Spirit of God. But something that also plays right into a major theme of our culture, which is victimization. We are a nation of victims. And whenever we hear about victimization, we leap to it. Because it touches something that we have been taught and conditioned to express. I'm a victim. We are a nation of victims, which is seen in many, many different ways. It is seen by blame shifting. Many examples could be given of this. Let me give you just two. Not to pick on the Northwest, but an Oregon man there tried to kill his ex-wife, and he was acquitted by the courts there. on the ground that he suffered from what was called depression suicide syndrome, whose victims deliberately commit poorly planned crimes with the unconscious goal of being caught or killed. The argument was he really didn't want to shoot his wife, he wanted the police to shoot him, and so they let him off. Of course, there's the famous Twinkie syndrome case, the attorneys of Dan White. who murdered San Francisco Mayor George Muscone blamed the crime on emotional stress linked to white's junk food binges. White was acquitted of murder and convicted on a lesser charge of manslaughter because he had eaten too many Twinkies. The other side of this is, of course, the proliferation of litigation, lawsuits. Whenever anything happens to me, it's not my fault, and so I retaliate and I sue. I blame someone else. There are many examples could be given of that. Let me give you also just two to illustrate my point. There was the man who recently attended a boxing match. Had too much to drink, got into an altercation, fell down a flight of steps. He died as a result of his injuries His family is suing Ticketmaster for selling him a ticket to the match. You think that's frivolous. No one would ever listen to it. What about the family of the man who bought a Piper airplane, removed the seat, the driver's seat of this airplane? In an attempt to see if he could control the plane from the rear seat. He failed. The plane crashed, he was killed. The family won a million dollars from Piper aircraft for not having proper instructions. You know, I guess you should say, please do not remove the driver's seat on this, or you do so at your own risk. Everything we do is someone else's fault. Perhaps you remember the song from Anna Russell. And three, I had a feeling of ambivalence toward my brothers. And so it follows naturally, I poisoned all my lovers. But now I'm happy I have learned the lesson this is taught. That everything I do that's wrong is someone else's fault. We're a nation of victims, whether it is women, minorities, gays, busters. In fact, U. S. News and World Report had an article just uh this week called uh from John Leo, Notes of a Non-Dictim This was a fellow who uh had been uh crippled by the uh unabomber, wrote a book, David Gulertner. Uh Drawing life, surviving the unibomber, and he said, uh, this guy stands out because he refuses the victimization mentality. And begins to talk about how, again, we are simply a nation of victims who are taught to nurse our grievances in every case and seek revenge. What's this all got to do with suffering church Sunday? I think there's an issue here for us to be careful in how we respond. To the criticism, to the abuse, and even to the persecution of the world. There's a danger that we fall into the victim mentality in our response. Let me give you an example Os Guinness in his book, No God But God , talks about a church that a few years ago, these were two congregations. One was a Gentile. Congregation and one was a messianic Jewish congregation, two believing congregations of the Lord Jesus Christ that in Boston sought to build a joint facility. They had a groundbreaking day in which the joy, he says, was very mixed. Plans for the new church building had run into stiff community resistance from the start. Neighbors opposed the project vocally, local authorities were difficult, regulations were used as obstructions, and other churches were silent and unsupportive. The property had even been set on fire and the windows shot out. Only legal action had made it possible for the groundbreaking to proceed at all. And then he talks about how the pastor had been formally cursed, members had been spat on in the face at the occasion, neighbors blocked traffic Then they blamed the church for obstructing traffic and on and on and on it goes. Kids were huddled in terror over in the side in what should have been a joyful occasion. Guinness then observes: for Christians the rise of such incidents is disturbing and important on several levels. But what matters most is our response. Going to court is a sound decision when constitutional freedoms are at stake, as in zoning restrictions. But one of reactions at the level of motivations and rhetoric Should our response be that of the pastor of this new church, that legal and personal grievances are different? Opposition is to be expected, and it is our privilege to bear the offense of the cross. Or should it be that of other local Christians who were outraged, unwilling to let the personal offense pass by, and eager to sue? You know, said one church member to a friend of mine, we no longer have to take this lying down. The traditional Christian response to injury is clear. The response to personal injury must differ from the response to injury to others. In all instances, the life and teaching of Jesus determines the response. As Gaspard de Colignier, a French admiral assassinated on the eve of Saint Bartholomew's Day, fifteen seventy-two, for his Protestant beliefs, declared, I will freely forget all things, whether evil will or injury, done unto me alone, provided that the glory of God and the public welfare be safe. Within American evangelicalism today, some have abandoned a distinctively Christian response to injury and have resorted to a Christian version of a current popular strategy redress through blaming or playing the victim Brothers and sisters, I submit to you that victimization is a non-Christian response. We need to look at the Word of God to see how we respond to suffering, even to persecution. So I want to offer to you this Sunday and next Sunday a text from God's Word, from a book that has in it in five short chapters. 21 references to suffering and persecution. Clearly this was written to Christians who were under the heat. Is 1 Peter. The text is 1 Peter 5, verses 10 and 11. Let me read that to you, beginning with verse 8. In order that you and I could develop and cultivate a biblical mindset toward the pressures against us in our world. Peter says, be controlled and alert. Your enemy, the devil, ultimate enemy, nailed. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Resist him. Doesn't say be passive. Resist him, standing firm in the faith because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of sufferings. And here's the text. And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a little while. Will Himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast to Him Be the power forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen I want to offer to you then a number of points from this text, both today and next week, on our response to suffering. First of all, notice my hope. My hope from this text is eternal glory. Eternal glory. See it there And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a little while, will Himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. The problem is that you and I so often simply live in the present. We forget that the Christian faith is essentially a life of hope. Notice how Peter begins this letter to those who are suffering. Chapter 1, verse 3. Praise be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy he's given to us new birth unto a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish Spoil or fade kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. The resurrection has opened the door of hope to you and to me. We now have a new heavens and a new earth that can never spoil, perish, or fade waiting for us. And that resurrection has made all the difference. I mentioned last night in my message last week that I was going to see that evening a neighbor who had just found out he had a brain tumor. That neighbor died this Thursday. So quick. Our life here offers nothing of security. Your hope, if it is not in Jesus Christ, and what he has to offer is an altogether insubstantial Transient and illusory hope. Peter says, Our hope is in the fact that Jesus Christ has died for our sins and risen from the dead, and he has opened the door of hope. To eternal glory for us. And so, verse six in this you greatly rejoice Though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. What keeps you, he says, is the hope. Let me illustrate that. Let's suppose that I had the ability To give to you a billion dollar inheritance. Fun thought. Alright, play with it. You're going to get this in one week. But during the next week, you will go through poverty in warfare conditions. Somebody says to you on Tuesday, you poor thing, I don't know how you put up with what you have to live with. You're such a victim. What's your response? Man, are you kidding? I only got a few more days of this. Next Sunday I'm getting a billion big ones. And the war is going to be at an end, and it's going to be peace, and I'm going to enjoy it from then on. Hey, this is easy to put up with. You see, as silly as that is, it illustrates living by hope. You and I as Christians need to recover in our present-oriented generation living by hope. God of all grace has called you into his eternal glory in Jesus Christ. You're all tired of hearing about our 30th anniversary and my wife's love letters. One more illustration When she was writing to me in those days, we started counting down to our wedding from day 107. And we would go down and down and down. And I remember, see I don't have my letters to her, so I don't know what I was writing. But I know what she was writing to me when we got down to day thirty and then twenty-five, and she was saying, I can't wait, it is getting so close, and we will Soon be together, and we will not be separated anymore. And I so hope we don't take for granted the fact that we will have each other together for the rest of our lives. Guess what? I'd like to say to you that through 30 years we've never taken each other for granted. And I'd be lying There are many times we very much take that for granted. It's no big deal. Why don't you go away for a couple days? Get some things done. When Jesus comes in his eternal glory, you and I will never take him for granted. For day after day, throughout eternity, there will be simply new discoveries of the delights of his presence, of his person, of his perfections, of his eternal glory. It's very short. Very short. We don't know how long Secondly, notice the basis that you have for that hope. The basis for that hope is sovereign grace. Brother and sister, you're not a victim. You are the object of God's grace if you're here this morning in Jesus Christ. He says, the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you've suffered a little while, will himself restore, make you strong, firm, and steadfast. Now I don't know why I did this, but I switched from my original notes A and B. That's purely a mistake. I meant to start with A. That's where the text starts. So stick a little A by the B and a B by the A. Or do whatever you want with them. But I'm going to B first, because that's A. Alright? First point is this by all grace. He says verse 10, the God of all grace The more I'm in touch with my heart, the more that I see the depths of my own corruption, my deceit My vileness, my resistance to serving Jesus Christ with all my heart. The more I am amazed at God's grace to me, the more I am staggered that He loves me He is the God of all grace. Do you see that? What's that mean? He's the God of seeking grace. Well you cared nothing for him. He's the God of converting grace, drawing your heart to him, the God of pardoning grace. The God of cleansing grace. The God of protecting grace. The God of preserving grace. But the God who will draw you in glorifying you, making you like Jesus Christ in transforming grace. He's the God of all grace. And that's what's given to you as the basis of your hope for eternal glory. But the origin of that grace is his call to you You didn't call to him, he called to you, the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ. As P as Paul says it in Second Timothy chapter one, in verse nine He speaks of God's call and says he's saved us and he's called us to a holy life. Why? Because we deserved it? No, he says, not because of anything that we have done. But because of his own purpose and grace. You say, I realize I've done nothing to deserve this. But at least when I heard the gospel, I realized my need for Jesus Christ and I decided for him. And so at least I responded to him. Oh yeah? When was that grace given to you? Paul goes on, 2 Timothy, the end of verse 9. This grace was given us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time, but it has now been revealed through the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus. who has destroyed death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. His grace called you Giving to you by his grace, believe in faith, to trust in Jesus Christ and a repentant heart to see your need for him. You trust him, but it's his grace that works that in you. That's the basis of your hope of eternal glory. It's all of his grace. And then you see that the means of it is in Jesus Christ. Notice how he says it: the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ. You see, the whole ground of your hope is by virtue simply of your union with Jesus Christ He kept the covenant and all of God's requirements. He therefore alone had the right to eternal glory Because he worked in you by grace to join you with him by faith. You are in him given the hope of eternal glory. Being in him, I've illustrated before, like taking this paper and you put it in this book. And so what happens to this book is what happens to this paper. Not because of the paper, not because the paper is resistant to anything that will happen in crumpling it or tearing it up. It's because it's in the book. And if you are in Jesus Christ, you have the hope of eternal glory by virtue, simply by God's grace of your being in Christ. He called you by his grace in Christ. To eternal glory. You are not a victim. You are a recipient of the grace of Jesus Christ. Finally, see your interim experience, which is suffering. Paul does not, Peter does not leave that out. The Bible is very realistic. Nothing of our experience, no matter how grim, no matter how much full of tears and pain, ever contradicts what the Scripture says is in this life. The God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a little while, Peter says. He includes that. Who? Christians in persecuted countries, in Islamic countries, in communist countries. Doesn't say that. He says you He's addressing this to you and to me. We are not exempt from this by living in the United States. All Christians runs through the whole New Testament. Just a couple of references. I'll continue this next week. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, Paul is giving a similar kind of statement of hope. And he says in chapter 4, verse 17, therefore, excuse me, verse 17, chapter 4. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory, same phrase, that far outweighs them all. Paul's saying, picture a scale. And on one side of that scale, you stick all the troubles of this life, all the things you suffer for Jesus Christ, all the things that you suffer simply by being in this life subject to sin and disease and death. Then he says you stick on the other side of that scale. Eternal weight of glory. And the scale goes right down through the floor. And Paul says there's no comparison with the eternal weight of glory and the momentary light afflictions that you and I bear. He says in Romans chapter 8, he's given to us not a spirit of fear, but a spirit of sonship. And in that spirit of sonship we are heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ if we suffer with him. And he speaks of our joint suffering with Jesus Christ as part of our union with him, that just as with Jesus it was humiliation before glorification A cross before a crown. So it is with you and with me who are joined to him. So you and I realize that we have been given in Jesus Christ two gifts. Philippians chapter 1, verse 29. Paul says, it has been graciously conferred upon you. It's been given to you. The word given there is the word that has the root grace in the Greek. Two things have been given to you, Philippians 1:29. One is to believe in him, the gift of faith. The second gift, he says, is to suffer for him. To suffer even with him. So the Paul goes on in chapter 3's prayer that I might know Christ. The power of his resurrection being made conformable to his attitude in death, in sharing in the fellowship of his sufferings. And so Jesus himself said in the Sermon on the Mount, When you are persecuted, and when you are scorned and insulted for my sake, rejoice. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And so in 1st 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 4, Paul says that when you are suffering Rejoice because you are being counted worthy to suffer for his sake. Remember that word worthy? We've seen it before, haven't we? Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. Worthy. Urge you as a prisoner of the Lord that you walk, live, worthy. The word, remember, means not something that we think of as being worthy of it, but it is the idea of equilibrium in the scale, what is appropriate. Paul's saying that suffering is simply appropriate to the Christian because of your union with your Savior who suffered. And so he says, you are counted worthy. And that reminds us of that use of that word in Acts chapter 5. Remember when the apostles were preaching Christ as the risen Savior, Jesus, the risen Savior, the Messiah. And they were arrested by the Sadducees. They were thrown in jail. They called the Sanhedrin to bring them out to trial. And when they went to find them, they found out that there was nobody there. An angel had released them. They were out preaching again. Couldn't stop these guys. Preaching Jesus as Messiah. They rested it again. And they said, don't you guys get it? You gotta stop this. Remember that's where Peter Said, we must obey God rather than men. And they would have killed him except for Gamaliel and said, Let it go. God's in it. It'll come to an end of its own devices. And so they simply flogged them, laid open their backs, beat them until they were bloodied and opened. And Acts 5. 41 says, they rejoiced because they were counted worthy. To suffer for the Savior. Brother and sister, what is your attitude? When you're criticized or you're ridiculed I have some quotes about some of the things we're said about Bill McCartney and running this event that happened yesterday. You see the glory there It's not all glory. I'll save this for next week. We're out of time, and I want to pray. I want to call you to pray for our brothers and sisters. But I want you to pray as you look at your own life and look at them, not with a whine, but with a shout of victory. Let's pray. Lord our God, we recognize that we are not immune to the victimization Attitudes and the winding of our day. And so often, Lord, when we are under stress or pressures, particularly when we seek to walk in integrity. We find great resistance to that in this world that is not friendly to that Lord, I confess myself I am so prone to whine. Self-pity, victimization And I forget that you've already told me that out of your grace you've called me into eternal glory after I have suffered a little while. Oh Lord, gird up our minds. May we with this week arise each day with a hope of eternal glory in our hearts. And therefore able to serve you with a song on our lips. Give to us that view of Jesus that will transcend the circumstances. And we pray that you would do that for our brothers and sisters in other countries. That beyond anything else, you will strengthen their hearts with the hope of the gospel. And that they will bring glory to you in Jesus' name