There's not one like it. Did you know that? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Some really know that. They've been around a while. It is, you know. As uh of all the churches I've ever spoken, something happened here, but never happened in any other church And that was when I first came here. I was staying with Jack and Rachel Schaefer at their home. I'd been there last night. And um and Larry called me up. You know, and he said, I want to hear how you came to know the Lord. You know, he was checking me out. And this is the first time that's ever happened. Someone, you know, when you're a speaker coming that You know, most churches kind of take it for granted. This church, no no, no, no. And and Larry grilled me, you know. And uh you know, I said it as best I could as uh tried to cover all the bases I wanted actually to ask then, Larry, now how did you get saved? You know, 'cause there were Presbyterians and Presbyterians, you know. As uh but uh you know that's a wonderful thing about this church. I th I think that's beautiful. Don't take anything for granted. And to know that those who speak do, uh, you know, really know the Lord. So I always remember that. I thought each time they come they were gonna kinda check uh check me out. But it's uh it's just a joy to um to be here. I'm based now in Atlanta, Georgia. I'm learning Georgian. I'm fixing a lot of things. It's uh it's great fun. I've been hearing all about your snow We threaten snow and everything closes down there. It's amazing. My sons, you know, when the weather comes, you ever want to hear kids pray fervently? My boys are twelve and forty Pray fervently, it's when there's a threat of snow or colder ice. They say, Lord, stop school, stop school. You know, and it's direct short prayers, none of this Mickey Mouse or meandering kind of prayers. Boy, they just go for it. And uh and school did get closed. See God answers prayer. So uh you kids keep praying. And for other things as well. Well, part of our ministry is books and I you know, I brought up too many. And um some of these books I've mentioned before but we just part of the ministry of Operation Mobilization, getting books and tapes uh into the hands of people. And um, you know, one of the exciting things being on the ships, w uh Lagos and Dulos. Lagos is right now on the west coast of Africa, Dulos in the Philippines is seeing maybe between the two ships about three to five thousand people a day. And people grabbing books. I I think I've got a an adult class or something. I'm going to share some stories of what God has been uh doing. But we love books And um here's a brilliant book. I may have mentioned this one before, from Jerusalem to Ariangiah. Anyone have this book? From Jerusalem to Ariangiah Anyone figure out this title? If you can figure the title out, you can get this book as a gift. From Jerusalem to Iri and Gia. Come on. Jerusalem was the first the center of the beginning of missionary. Right. Wow, very good Yeah, from Jerusalem to Irianjaya, from Jerusalem where the church began to Iriangia. This came up to kind of Don Richardson, Peace Child, and uh to Iriang Jaya. Brilliant. There you go. There's the books for you. Now people start listening. You know, I know these I know these Lesbyans By the way, my wife her father was a pastor of a wonderful Presbyterian church in Colorado. I met my wife in Singapore, chased her halfway around the world. These Presbyterians give you a hard time. So um Now how many of you have this book, Operation World? Oh that's great. If you don't have two copies of this, you're a backslider. This brilliant book, 500 pages plus. Of all the nations of the world. Incredible? All the nations of the world. And uh you know every Christian to have this next to their Bible. You should have a song book, a Bible, and a prayer book And this is just incredible. And it's in a calendar format so you could play through the world in a year. You could start today and by next year, today you'll play through the world in a year Absolutely brilliant, brilliant book, Operation World. And I know I've mentioned these before. Some of you have these. And uh you can change the world. Patrick, he spent a year with us on the ship, wrote this book. His wife said we need to do something kind of for families And his wife Jill uh wrote this book, You Can Change the World for Kids. And oh here's a map of the countries that are actually covered in this book. It goes from A to Z. You say A to Z, but it's really A to Z. And um And it's people, groups, and countries. It's got maps and pictures, stories, it's beautifully illustrated. And then here is actual prayers, not prayer requests, but seven actual prayers And I've used these with my boys. Jill's vision was that families once a week would have a global focus devotion around the table at mealtime. Once a week, maybe on a Friday or something, and uh they would use this book once a week She actually died of cancer just after this book and her friend uh Daphne said we gotta do the other twenty-six. It's a different cover for some reason, but uh she wrote twenty-six more And uh it's just fantastic. If you did this as a family once a week, you grandparents, when you get with the kids, uh do this with them, it would be a fantastic thing. We got some world maps as well you can put on the wall and uh look at those um those countries. Um just a couple of other things. These are great for teenagers. These are biographies of God's Hall of Fame. This is Bonhoeffer. You know Dietrich Bonhoeffer? Died the last weeks of the Second World War, an incredible man. And we've got a series of these uh on uh William Carey and uh others that are great uh Great for um kids. I want to mention a book, Our President he told me I've got to push this. Our president uh wrote a book with focus on the family uh that is quite brilliant and easy to read. It's called Boomer's Exus and Other Strangers. And what it is, it's it's a a look at this sh this century. Um On the generations and how things have happened. The twenties, happy days are here again. The thirties, brother, can you spare me a dime? The forties, praise the Lord and pass the ammunition. The fifties, rock around the clock. The sixties, times they are a changer. The seventies, bridge over troubled water, the eighties, we are the world, the nineties, candle in the wind. It is an excellent understanding of the world. It's got on the back this little brilliant flip, uh just giving you a kind of a a snapshot. of the twenties, thirties right through to to to to this century, uh just kind of exposing what are the cultural phenomena that have impacted our society and how they impact us today. And it's well written, easy to read, um and you'd like that book. Now this is one book uh as I wrap up the books here that uh maybe I shouldn't mention in church. But uh Bill Perkins is a friend of mine, he's a pastor in Portland, and he wrote this book. You know, there's some books you pick up and you read them in one sitting. You ever do that? You just you know, you don't you just can't put it down. Other books, you know, you start, put down, start restart about ten times, you think maybe it's the book, maybe it's me But uh this book is um it's called When Good Men Are Tempted. Any men any good men here? Any men that are tempted? Any good men that are tempted? Join the club And uh A Battle Every Day. Now I shouldn't read the first chapter in church, that's for sure, but you know, I'm y you don't have to invite me back. So uh it says Why naked women look so good? And all the men said This is this is one unusual book And uh I tell you, men, if you're struggling, get this book. If you're not struggling and lying, get it to somebody else. Wives If you know your husband is struggling and doesn't admit it, you get it for him. If he doesn't like reading, you read it to him. A chapter a night in bed probably is a good place. The last three pages are worth the book Just excellent. Young people read the last three pages of this book. Women don't read the last three pages, but that that is uh a great book. For you that don't read, here's a couple of tapes The five languages of love for children is excellent. And then George Boa, the founder of our mission, he came to my Bible school on Wednesday morning 24 years ago, never forgiven him In London, England. Never knew he'd that morning would set the course of my life. You know, I actually believe this morning could impact somebody's life and impact them for the rest of their life. I actually believed that. Not because of me, but because of the Holy Spirit. And George came into my meet that meeting Wednesday morning in a chapel meeting and said spoke. You know what he said? I never he said he got up. He was late so he couldn't kind of beat about the bush. He just said, So what are you doing for God? That's what I still remember that And he challenged us to go to France for a summer and I went to France, then to Turkey, then to India, and it's been, you know, we have a phrase, two weeks, two months, two years to stay. You like that? Two weeks, two months, two years to stay. That's what happened to me. He never told me that But uh he's an incredible guy. The the thing that impacted me about George was his openness. Openness. And he wrote this uh wrote this. These are two tapes of messages, failure, restoration and forgiveness Forgiveness. The confessions of a weak servant. If you're a struggling person today, you know, you're just a struggler You know, it's getting out of bed, putting one foot in front of the other. You've messed up in some area of your life. This is a tape for you. Do you know somebody that's really just going through the mill and they wonder which way is up and what's going to happen to their lives. This is a great couple of tapes. He breaks every rule in the homiletical preaching book, but uh don't worry about it. And um but those are some uh those are some great uh who d who doesn't like reading? Anyone struggle? Oh, I was gonna give you a free tape. No one. Great. Anyone? All the hands go up now. Brilliant. Well, we heard um red this morning This incredible prayer. The Lord's Prayer. And I want to just uh read it again Matthew chapter six, verse nine Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Father, this is your word. Lord Jesus, you gave this prayer. Touch our hearts, touch our minds, touch our wills, touch our feet. Amen. It's an amazing prayer, isn't it? Never been better, huh? You all wonder whether you should actually pray this prayer, you know, kind of word for word as it's given. Some say that, you know, a literal prayer, you pray it. Others say, no, this is a model of how you should pray. Actually it's probably both. It's interesting. Luke's account he says, and when you pray, say and it seems actually pray these words But Matthew seems to suggest the idea of, no, use this as a model, a way of praying, an outline. For this then is how you should pray. The way you should pray. And so it's it's both. There are times we can actually just pray this prayer, literally. When you pray, say and pray this And other times you can take it as a model. And when you pray, this is how you should pray. This is the kind of way you should go at it. And the thing that impacts me about this prayer as we as you have this mission's focus this month is this um Is this thing right here? Yours and ours So this is the real issue of this prayer. Which comes what order? What order? Yours and ours You know, I remember when I went out to India, young fellow, we drove overland to India, from Belgium, 40 of us, and a couple of trucks, a couple of minivans All the way oh I got my world map, so this helps. And um from England from Belgium no, we didn't go from England, they didn't have the tunnel then. From Belgium We went all the way through Europe and Turkey and uh Iran and uh right boy things are happening in Iran, aren't they? An amazing twenty years later. Right round, all the way through uh Pakistan, right to India. Took us three, four weeks, an amazing trip. That was an education just in itself. And we got to India. And India for me th that those years I was there, what a what a what an experience. And I remember one time I was praying. Just by myself. And um I've never had this experience before and I've never had it since. Quite like this. And I was praying, and it was it was just like the Lord put his hand on my shoulder and stopped me praying. Now I thought my prayers were pretty good, you know. I'm even better in public. And um, you know, I dot the I's and cross the T's and I thought it was a pretty good prayer But the Lord it was just like, as I say, he put his hand on my shoulder, stopped me praying, and he said, Richard, your prayers are like the ripples on a pond. They start with you and they slowly work out. And they don't get very far. And I knew he was right. They start with you and they slowly work out. Ours. He said, I want your prayers to be like the waves of the sea But start out and come in. And the Lord flipped my prayer life. He just said it's okay, just flip it. Just flip it. Get the order right. The sequence And as Jesus gives this prayer, which is a revolutionary prayer, because it's not the natural way of praying, the natural way of praying is you start with yours and you work out. The revolutionary way of praying is to start out and come in. And this prayer Is yours after ours Because it's first yours. Yours. Yours Before ours. First. It starts with with yours Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Yours That is, that your name be exalted. Your name be exalted. Your name be lifted up. That's why I love the worship this morning. That great hymn, Holy, Holy, Holy. I studied under J. I. Packard. Do you know that name, Broke Knowing God? Studied under him at Regent College in Vancouver, Canada. This was his favorite hymn, so this is the greatest hymn ever written Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, early in the morning, my song, our song shall rise to thee. Why early in the morning? Because first things first, that your name be exalted. And you know, every day, every morning, the first thing we should get up and exalt his name. That's the first thing I do in my devotions. Just lift up his name. Lift up his name with words of exaltation, with a song, often a new song, never sung before, never be sung again, and just exalt his name. That's the passion of mission. To exalt his name. One book I didn't mention here. Anyone read this book by Piper, John Piper? Incredible book, isn't it? Isn't it incredible? Two witnesses here. That's all you need, two witnesses. Incredible book. Mind you, this is uh this is steak. This is not McDonald's, is it? This is something to get your teeth into your teeth into. But this is an extraordinary book. Let me just read this to you. The opening paragraph Missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is. Missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. When this age is over and the countless millions of the redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God, missions will be no more. It is a temporary necessity, but worship abides forever. Worship, therefore, is the fuel and goal in missions. It's the goal of missions because in missions we simply aim to bring the nations into the white hot enjoyment Of God's glory. Ooh, what a phrase. It's the goal of missions Because in missions we simply aim to bring the nations into the white hot enjoyment of God's glory The goal of missions is the gladness of the peoples in the greatness of God. The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. Let the many coastlines be glad, says Psalm ninety seven verse one. Let the peoples praise thee, O God. Let all the peoples praise thee. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy But worship is also the fuel of missions. Passion for God in worship precedes the offering of God in preaching. That's why you can tell a lot about a church by its worship, not just its preaching. Passion for God in worship precedes the offer of God in preaching. You can't commend what you don't cherish. You can't commend what you don't cherish. Missionaries will never call out, let the nations be glad, who cannot say from their heart I rejoice in the Lord. I will be glad and exalt in thee. I will sing and praise thy name, O Most High. Missions begins and ends in worship. Isn't that great? Brilliant, brilliant Until the Lord's press starts, that your name be exalted In my life, Lord, in my family, in my neighborhood, Lord, in my school, in my office, in the elections going on in South Carolina Lord, in this whole nation, in the nations of the earth, your name be exalted. But 70,000 people today will name the name of Jesus for the first time. And what do I want? I want them to find that the name of Jesus is sweet and that they become a worshiping person who exalts the Father. That's mission You know, we sometimes think it's about getting money and doing mm, you know, all this stuff. Oh, it's exalting the Father. And as we exalt his name, then we want to extend his reign. We want to extend his reign. That your kingdom come. That your kingdom come. Your reign be extended. And say, Lord, let again, first today, your reign be extended in my life, every area of my life, Lord. Every closet. That messy room. Lord, come in, clean it up Clean it up. That room I've got all neat and straight. You can mess it up, Lord. You have control in every room. You can see the dirty laundry, Lord. And there's some of that But your reign be extended in my life, Lord, every area of my life. And your reign be extended in my boys, Lord, my wife, Lord, my neighbors, Lord. and to the uttermost parts of the earth, that your reign today, your rule in the lives of people, it's not to make you Lord, it's because you are Lord. You are Lord. It's just that people haven't recognized it. They haven't bowed the knee. And I want them to bow the knee voluntarily before one day you come and they have to volunte bow it whether they like it or not. But then it's too late Then it's too late. But your reign be extended. And then your will, your will be executed Your name be exalted, O God, your reign be extended, your will be executed. For your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Your will, that the way it's done in in heaven, for it to be done like that on earth. I've wondered how is it done in heaven? Lovely to kind of we do get glimpses When the father tells an angel, get to it, I don't think they have a committee meeting You know, let's have a three-year plan of discussing that. I think when they know what the father wants, walk speed, boom, do it And when you look at their faces, they're doing it gladly. Yes. Immediately. Yes. They're doing it completely. About four years ago I was on a beach in Panama. I'd come to visit the ship Logos there. And um I was walking up and down the beach early in the mornings, talking to the Lord, singing, and I suddenly became sensed that he wanted to say something to me. And I stood there. And I just sensed the Lord speaking from my heart. Richard, you're joining that ship. And I stood there and I went, huh? And I just knew it was God speaking to me. You're joining that ship. I was visiting the ship. I said, Lord, I've been on the ships, those ships. They're getting smaller, I'm getting bigger. And I knew it was God's word And then I said, Lord, I can't sacrifice see I had a discussion with him. I can't sacrifice my children. They get to an age where the ship gets small. And God said two words to me. Abraham did. Abraham did. And I stood there before God and I had nothing to say. Ever done that with God? I stood there. I had nothing to say. And as I walked 15 minutes back to the ship, I knew we as a family were joining the ship. Didn't know how, didn't know when, didn't know the position, but I just knew Your will be executed. Lord, to say yes, Lord. Immediately, Lord. Gladly, Lord. Whatever, Lord When I flew home to back to my wife Rachel, I thought I'd better talk to her about this. I I took the boys to s to school, sat with my wife at breakfast, she looked at me. She said, Richard, you want us to join the ship, don't you? I said, How'd you know that? She said, I know. She said for two months the Lord has been speaking to me. And we joined the ship for that two year period. When God speaks to you, you're gonna do it Some of you, God is speaking to you about a short term mission trip. You gonna do it? You gonna do it? I was in a church in New Mexico about four months ago. It was a Saturday night. I was just sharing a little bit. They'd been the main speaker. I was just kind of sharing And God had spoken to me, woke me up. And I I'm careful about this. I don't want to sound like, you know, I'm super spiritual. You know, some of you look at me like That's okay, I am a bit. And um one early morning, uh God deals with us in different ways, different we're different personalities, but this is how God deals with me. I didn't this isn't in the notes. Where are the notes by the way? And um I woke up at this you know, sometimes this happens. I woke up at two in the morning And there was a word just before me. And it was the word Rome. Rome And I I I was so by this I couldn't go to bed. I went walked up and down my road. They think I'm a bit of a nutter. They're absolutely right. Actually one of the policemen stopped me one time And uh, you know, said the neighbors have been wondering who's this fellow? And uh you have a jaywalking thing, don't you? I was stopped for prey walking and um And I told him, you know, I'm I sort of live here and I'm with a group called Operational Mobile Operation oh okay, okay, okay. So let me go. And um But I went walking just to walk talk this through Italy. Rome. And um you know this year the Pope is calling thirty to sixty million pilgrims from around the world to come to Rome, Italy. It's a year of Jubilee, setting the captives free. And in the Basilica, he said, if you go through those doors, you will receive forgiveness of sins. You just go through those doors. This side no forgiveness. This side, boom, forgiveness. It's pretty good, isn't it? Huh? And he's expecting thirty to sixty million Catholics from all over the world to come to Rome. In fact there's going to be so many coming that they they're going to make twelve other mock doors so you know they can get them all through. And God has spoken to different groups, focused on the family camps crusade for Christ and others, about let's go to Rome and say there is a door. Jesus is the door. You g you go through him, you find life. You want forgiveness through him. But God just said roam. It was about a week or two later I went to this church in New Mexico this Saturday night They were having a salad thing or whatever. And I got up. And I just shed about Rome. And I said, what about a team of twenty-five coming with me to Rome? And I sort of caught myself because I thought, boy, I hadn't even shared this with the pastor. You you know , who is this fellow Well the pastor, right after I've spoken, gets up. He says, uh, well I'm going. What about I need twenty-four others? I looked at him. I thought, boy, this isn't how they do church. We got a team of twenty-five from that church with the pastor going to Rome in July. They never done any lies before And I thought, Your will be done, you know, to respond to God as soon as He speaks to you And and as we walk longer and closer to God that we respond quicker. Isn't that uh you know? Don't you parents love that with your kids? But as they grow, they don't respond slower and get into a great discussion and great dialogue and the nuances of what you said and how you said it. But yes And whenever that happens, the parents will you know, go into a comatose, whew And I thank God sometimes, you know, that your will in heaven is done, that it be done on earth like that, immediately, gladly, yes, completely. This fall I want to bring a team to Italy. But it's yours first. That your name be exalted, that your reign be extended, that your will be executed. And then he says Then there's ours. Then there's ours. But ours comes after See, this prayer is yours before ours. But then it's ours after yours. Now some here could be so spiritual they could say, Lord, it's just yours. It's just yours, Lord. And the Lord would say, no , it's not just mine. It shows as well. But it's mine first And then it's ours. And if God's got three things He wants, His name, His Reign, His will, then we got three basic things as well But our needs be provided. Give us today our daily bread. You got needs? Not greed. Pay for a car, but maybe not a BMW. Or dinner tonight, but maybe not steak. But our needs be provided. It's a beautiful thing, isn't it? When you see needs provided God just giving you. Anyone met a a need this week that surprised you? Any anyone had that We just had somebody in our church back in Atlanta needed a car. Somebody gave them a car. Just gave it to them. They were so astonished in the prayer meeting Wednesday night they're just kind of going around United Days. And that was a real need for that family. Somebody else just gave them. But your needs be provided this week. Your needs be provided And your sins be pardoned. Forgive us our debts, as we have also forgiven our debtors. I sins be pardoned. You only sins need pardoning? I have. This morning I was confessing sin. As we've forgiven our debtors. It's interesting when he goes on to verse 14, if you've forgiven men when they sin against you Your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you've not forgiven the men their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins. It's interesting of the whole prayer, the thing that he elaborates on is forgiveness of sin Because some people choose bitterness over forgiveness. Bitterness over forgiveness. And every one of us has people we need to forgive before God will forgive us. Now it's interesting, I believe there's forgiveness of salvation at the cross, but daily forgiveness of sin that God won't forgive you if you haven't forgiven others And that actually if you live that lifestyle of bitterness, not forgiveness, then actually you've probably not been saved anyway. Because how can you not forgive somebody for this little thing when God has forgiven you for so much? We know the parable Any bitterness in your heart towards someone, you need to forgive them Get with them today, phone them up, send them an email. Forget Just do it. Forgiveness is an act of the will. Not how you feel. It's a will thing. And I sat by my father's bed and watched the monitor with the heartbeat until it became a line and he died You know I did? I turned to God and I said, God, I thank you, but I forgave him. I thank you that I forgave him. Because there I was born with my twin sister. In fact they didn't know I was born. Didn't know I was in there. This was before scanning. They pulled out Jane. Then they looked at it and said, whoops, there's another one. And dad had walked in the hospital and when he heard Mum had twins he fainted. He just went, he's a great big guy, loved his beer, had a great big gut, they come in handy. And uh he just gone straight down boom boom boom boom boom boom A couple of mercies as the big fella picked him up and when he heard Mum still had twins, he walked out of the hospital and out of our lives for twenty years. I met him twenty years later, Christmas Eve. That was quite a Christmas And then he died three months later of a massive heart attack. And as I watched him die, and then I said, Father, I thank you that I had forgiven him And so many people on the deathbed of somebody say, Father, I wish I'd forgiven. It's too late. It's too late. It says, Forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven past tense, our debtors Anyone you haven't forgiven, forgive. But our needs be provided, our sins be pardoned, and our way be protected. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Oh beloved, it's a revolutionary prayer. It's yours before ours, but then it's ours after yours. And what a way to pray. So if your prayer life is ours before yours, flip it. Just flip it Start your prayer life with exalting his name, with seeing his reign extended. That's why I love that world book, Operation World. And I pray for a nation every day because I want to pray out that God's reign be extended. God's reign be extended and His will be executed. Lord, let it be done in my life and in every life today. Let it be done in the President's life today. And then it can be ours. Our needs be provided. Our sins be pardoned. Our way be protected. Amen? Let's stand, shall we? Let's stand. Let's we close. Just close your eyes. You know that pancake and the fine plan, you just kind of flip it up and turn it over the other side. And I just believe the Lord would take us today and just flip us. And get it the right way up, the right order. But we say today, Lord, it's yours before ours. Let's just say the words of the Lord Prayer Lord's Prayer together. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us, and lead us not in temptation But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever and ever. Amen. Can I hear that loud amen? Amen. Bless you.