Let us again hear from God's word, his word to you, from Ephesians chapter six, verses five to nine. Hear God's word to you. Slaves obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ. Obey them not only when their favor to win their favor when their eye is on you, but like slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart Serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord, not men, because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does whether he is slave or free. And masters, treat your slaves in the same way. Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. And there is no favoritism with him. Last week, hold on for a minute Last week we uh considered verses 5 to 8 of this passage, the five duties of a Christian under the authority of someone at work And uh, you know, I thought a lot about that message afterwards. I had uh collected a number of illustrations and uh Quotes for that I wanted to illustrate for you and for me what it means for us to follow those uh Commands that Paul gives to us and how to uh integrate in the gospel, uh, what that means for us But I kind of felt afterwards like I had more stuffed your head with quotes and illustrations than really reached your heart and connected And um I felt a strong rebuke and warning from the Holy Spirit in that. You know, um preaching is a fascinating experience when you do it week after week. Right now I'm thinking day and night about Ephesians chapter 6 verses 10 to 20, which I'll be preaching in the fall on principles of spiritual warfare. And there are lots of quotes and lots of illustrations and lots of stuff that's written on those principles. Um and I sensed very much that the Lord was saying, watch out Because if I fill your minds with quotes and illustrations, but don't connect with your heart, then I've really failed. You see, the job of preaching is to help you to be in touch with your heart And to see your need, to see your sin, and then to see the perfect provision And the full sufficiency of Jesus for your need to draw you to Him in repentance and faith. And to do that I need to connect with your heart, not just give you information. So the question that I want to begin with this morning as we conclude the series is: how do you feel about your work. Now maybe you're saying, hey Al, it's vacation time and I really would rather not even think about my work. Thank you very much. Rather you didn't even bring it up. Well sorry, but I beg to insist and press the point. Do you live for the weekends and for vacation? My father did. Now, my father was a faithful provider, always provided for our family But he hated his job. And uh for forty nine weeks of the year, my father Seemed tired. The weekends he would just sit in front of the TV and watch sports. But those other three weeks, he was a transformed man It's like the Tasmanian devil. We'd go on vacation. I remember one time, the first time we came to Washington, D. C. I was a little kid. Back in those days, you didn't have to take the elevator to the top of the Washington monument. You could walk. My father and I walked up the Washington Monument two steps at a time, all the way to the top. At my father's funeral there was a man who I had never met but that rode in to Philadelphia on the train with my father every day. He said the one thing I remember about your father was he hated his job and he lived for retirement. And guess what? My father died at age sixty-five, and he never saw a day of retirement. How sad There's a recent book called Loving Mondays. It's Christian View of Work. And I I really love that title. Some of you will say that's because Monday's my day off. Of course. And that's not why I think I love the title. I think it's just a it's a good title to challenge us as Christians to say, do do we love What God has called us to do. Or do we just put up with it? Do we do we really hate it and chafe under it and resent it? We hate the pressure of our jobs. We hate the confusion of it. I feel taken for granted. I feel unappreciated. I feel used. You know, just a lot of relationships that are stressed with people that I neither respect nor trust. Uh maybe you feel a little bit like uh the person who wrote this. It was uh sent to me uh this week from John Sigmund, found it uh at his work And uh it's um it's called I Love My Job in uh kind of the style of Dr. Seuss, okay I love my job. I love the pay. I love it more and more each day. I love my boss. He is the best. I love his boss and all the rest. I love my office and its location. I hate to have to go on vacation. I love my furniture, drab and gray, and the paper that piles up every day I love my chair in my padded cell. There's nothing else I love so well. I love to work among my peers. I love their leers and jeers and sneers. I love my computer and its software. I hug it often, though it doesn't care. I love each program and every file. I try to understand once in a while. I'm happy to be here. I am, I am. I'm the happiest slave of my Uncle Sam. I love this work. I love these chores. I love the meetings with deadly boars I love my job. I'll say it again. I even love these friendly men, these men who've come to visit today in lovely white coats to take me away. Maybe uh maybe you laugh because you identify with some of that. See when we're really honest About our attitudes about our work and the people that we work with. We're really driven to Christ, aren't we? We see our need For a Savior to forgive us, to empower us, to be what we can't be by sheer determination. And so what I've wanted to give you from this passage is a new vision of work. A vision of work where you actually feel, chapter 2, verse 10, that you are a masterpiece of God's grace, his work in you. Through the finished work of Christ, whose job was to offer his life as a ransom for a people that he purchased for himself. And that he accomplished his work perfectly, and in being finished in that work, the Spirit has come to do a work in you. And you are a masterpiece of his grace. Because you who are dead have been made alive in Christ. You who were guilty have been forgiven through the finished work of Jesus. You who were strangers to God have been adopted as his sons and his daughters, Amen? And that's his work And you are a masterpiece of his grace, and therefore, based on that in chapter 6, Paul says, now as a masterpiece of grace, offered to God. An offering of your work with Soli Deo Gloria. I finally put it in writing so anybody wants to see how I actually spell it. There it is. Solely Dei e Gloria, Dei O Gloria, either literally written or at least in your mind to say, that's what I inscribe on what I do this week. Because it's an offering of worship from a masterpiece of grace. The attitude of the Celtic silversmith. Remember who produced the communion chalice where the most intricate, painstaking work was on the bottom of the chalice that was not seen by man But only when the communion cup was lifted all that beautiful work on the bottom was flashed to heaven, as it were, for God's pleasure alone. Flagman for Jesus at the DC construction site, who offered a work of beauty and grace in his simple job because he loved Jesus. And so we looked at the five principles that Paul talks about there. To ask God to give to you by his Spirit. That's what this whole thing is about, chapter 5, verse 18. The spirit of obedience, respect, sincerity, devotion, and cheer in your work. So that your heart is in your work, remembering you're doing it to serve Jesus. And now, before we conclude this whole thing, there is one more verse, verse 9, in which he addresses supervisors. Masters, we talked about why it's slaves and masters, dealt with that some weeks ago, but here he addresses the supervisors, thank you. And um You see that what I've done with the text this week is that there are two points, each of those are subdivided in two points, and I put them in red sub-superscript here so that you can actually see how the points connect to the passage. Masters, two things, how and why, how you're to treat those under your authority and why you're to do that Two things, treat your slaves in the same way, be do not threaten them. Why do you do that? Since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and secondly, that there is no favoritism with him So hopefully that'll help you to see again that this is from God and His Word to you, not just the thoughts of Al Harris. Well, first point then. How are you to treat those who are under you? Maybe you think, uh, well, it doesn't really apply to me. I don't have anybody under me. That's probably not true. If you have a home, then you probably have some service done, people laying carpet or doing something where people are working for you that you pay. when you have things done, or maybe you say, well, I don't even own a home, I rent. Well, there's still people who are service people that do things for you, that you pay to do And you supervise those because you're paying for that service. Clerks at a store, whatever it is, there are people who serve you. And so it applies for all of us, not just in work situations, but also in others. Now, you notice there's just one verse to the supervisors, and that's because their job's so much easier, right? Actually, uh one of you mentioned to me last week going out that uh you're looking forward to this message because you said uh I really think that supervisors have it harder than those under the authority because It's so easy for us to take advantage of our power and abuse it. So what is it that Paul says to you? First of all, he says to treat those who are under you in the same way. Beginning, masters, treat your slaves in the same way. Now what does that mean? Obviously, it doesn't mean in exactly the same way. But what I think it does mean, what he's getting at, is to treat them likewise with an attitude of respect and dignity. It means that also you're not just aware of doing what others will notice, but that you do things conscientiously. You do them as an offering of devotion to the Lord. And it means that you are an example to those who are under your supervision of respect, of conscientiousness, and of devotion to your work. There's no double standards. How often you hear people who despise a boss who says, do this, but he or she lives by a totally different standard. Do what I say, not what I do. And so you're an example. An example of the principle that, remember, overarches all of these specifics of marriage, parenting, and work. That comes from chapter 5, verse 21, where he talks about the work of the Spirit produces in you a heart where you submit to one another out of reverence to Christ, submitting to one another, mutual. So there is a mutual service. You remember that Jesus said concerning those in authority Back in Mark chapter 10 and verse 42, you know that those who were regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them. And their high officials exercise authority over them. Not so. Strong emphasis, verse 43. Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be slave of all. You really want to be the top of the pile, then you're the slave of everybody. For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, even, you see, the Lord of glory, he understands his dignity, his deity. And he says, even I did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many And so, godly leaders, next blank there, first blank, empower those who serve under them. Godly leaders empower Those who serve under them. I recall the ten years that I worked with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. One of the finest examples that I ever knew of that principle was my boss, fortunately. It was a man by the name of uh Dr. John W. Alexander, who was affectionately known as Dr. A to all in the organization. And he was always reminding us of the basics when he would get a team meeting together. Occasionally he would say something like this Remember that the Board of Trustees is those to whom we are re responsible to and accountable to in this organization. And they have given to me a very clear, simple job as the head of this organization. He was the CEO. They've given to me a very simple job. It is to fulfill the mission of inner varsity. Three purposes. Those are crystal clear. My job is to accomplish those three purposes, and I'm responsible to the board to do that. Your job, he would look at us then and say, your job therefore is simply to assist me in accomplishing my job as I'm responsible to the board. You got that? Very seer clear, see? Easy authority, we're under him to assist him, fulfill his job. Then he'd say, Now what's my job He'd say my job is to assist, equip, and empower you in the distinctive gifts and calling that you have as part of this organization to free you to serve most effectively to accomplish its purposes. You see, there was this clear sense of mutual submission. It was always very clear that Dr. A was in charge But his being the authority meant to me more that that means he bears more responsibility. And that frees me up, you see, to not have to worry about the things that he had to worry about so that I could do my job. He never gave the impression that he was more important whenever he visited with me, and this is back in the days when a staff person would cover a whole state, you know, back in the old pioneer days. Uh so I would see him a lot more than probably any of the staff would see the head of the organization now when he would be with me I always sensed that I had his undivided attention. Now of course this was in the day before cell phones and everything and else, so we'd be in the car and it was just us I always sensed that I was important to him and that he was there to help me to do my job better. See, and I think that's what Paul's talking about here. In the same way, you see, with dignity and respect, you are serving those who are under you to empower them. That's what God has called you to do. I believe that he was free to do that because he was secure. Leaders who are not secure have to prove that they're more important By pushing others down. Henry Ford I and his grandson Henry Ford II are two classic examples of those who were in authority and organizations and refuse to allow others to rise to what they could do because of their insecurity In John chapter 13, verse 3, we read that Jesus, knowing who he was, where he had come from, and where he was going, that Jesus then was free to wash the disciples' feet. See, it takes security in Christ to be able to do that. It takes security in Christ for masters to treat their slaves in the same way, not lording it over, but to empower and to acquit. And that same principle operates today in business. Notice the second thing he says is forbearing threatening Do not threaten them, he says. Now that's compared to verse 4, where he says to the fathers, don't exasperate your children. So it's the same kind of idea. Don't abuse your power for those who are underuse. Which is the custom of masters, of course, at that time to treat the slaves as brutes simply controlling them by threats, like uh you would control a mule with a board. And that was They're brutes and they're unmotivated. The only way to get them to do anything is out of fear But Paul, you remember when he writes to Philemon, who was a slave owner, whose slave Onesimus not only ran away from him but stole and took his money as he left. And uh Anessimus then became a Christian under Paul's ministry, worked with him. And Paul is sending a Menesimus back to his master in Philemon, and he says in verse sixteen, he's sending him back no longer as a slave, but better than a slave as a dear brother. He's very dear to me, but even dearer to you, both as a man and as a brother in the Lord. So, if you consider me a partner. Philemon, welcome him, your slave, as you would welcome me. That's pretty radical language See, any Roman master at that time would have likely beaten the runaway slave who had been retrieved within an inch of his life to teach him a lesson. And then he would have taken a red-hot iron and he would have branded an F on his forehead. F for the word, Latin word fugitivis, in order to shame him. But Paul says, welcome him back. Treat him as a brother. The tendency today is still to think of threats as the way to keep the unmotivated, semi-skilled, or unskilled workers in control. And Paul says, no, that's not the way to treat people who are under your authority. However skilled or unskilled they are. There's a better way. You notice when he says why to do it, the second point, why you're to treat them that way, it's not because you get better results It's not a pragmatic argument for psychological manipulation. He simply appeals to a truth, and that truth has two points. He says Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. Firstly, he says, because you are both accountable to one master who is in heaven. Someone once asked the brilliant statesman Daniel Webster, what's the most profound thought you ever had? Without much hesitation, Webster responded My accountability to Almighty God. Very sobering thought, isn't it? To realize that whatever authority you have is not intrinsic, it's delegated. You see, God has placed you in a superior position to whatever degree He has, not because you're a better person. Not because you are more valuable. He has simply placed you in that position so that you could serve him as one in authority to use your influence for greater service To those who are under your care. You notice that he says, Your master is in heaven Now that obviously helps us to know who he's talking about, but I believe there's another reason. I believe denoting that he is in heaven puts a perspective on the social differences, the comparisons that we have here on earth. In other words, our social differences are as nothing Compared to the Creator creature distinction between us and He who is in heaven. The distinctions that we have and are so important to us to feel superior to other people I like my standing on the top of the water tower over at Howard High School, which is, by the way, the highest point in Howard County. And if you are at the lowest point in some ditch in Howard County, to think I am above you. In comparison to looking up to the moon and seeing the distinction of that height. For I, like you, am a creature who has to go to a dentist, whose teeth rot and ache, who gets old and wrinkled and one day will die, and am dependent on my creator for my next breath. He alone is self-existent, sovereign, and eternal. So what really does it matter what the distinctions are here? And so he see that's what he spells out. And there is no favoritism with him That's the second reason. He views you both as of equal value. You are not more important than the person you supervise. You are not more important than the person who's doing work for you. You are not important than the most unskilled, ignorant person who you have ever met. You are not above them And you and I can forget that because many of us receive preferential treatment in medical services. In all kinds of services, because of our positions, because of our money, whatever it is But that will not be true on Judgment Day. When Judgment Day as we stand before the throne of God, you may be standing next to an illiterate mom from Sudan And you will not say, excuse me, I'm going first. In fact, you may be shocked to find her heart closer to Jesus than yours. There is no favoritism with him. All of our human distinctions are so vain. You see, what a radical thought that would have been at this time, for Paul to say that in Roman culture. To say that the master will not receive any favoritism from God because of his position, he is no more stature before God than the slave That was the quiet beginning of the end of the institution of slavery. And it's just as important for you and for me in our day, who are so dependent on our importance to feel good about ourselves. To feel like I'm important so people don't ignore my voicemails You know, they they respond when I leave a voicemail. That's a measure of importance in case you didn't know that. Others you do. Ah, maybe get back to a minute. That's why most people's voicemails don't say we'll get right back to you now. They say, you know, we're not at home, give it a shot. If you're honest You know, are my emails? You see, important people get their emails responded to within 24 hours. And we work hard to get to that kind of status, don't we? Or I'm noticed, and people know that my time is valuable because I'm an important person. But you know what? When that's our mentality It's no wonder, as I put it down here in your bullet mount line, that successful overachievers can be such self-righteous people We tend to think that we are superior because we're smarter and more talented. We've worked hard for that recognition, and so grace Is a very alien concept to us. Because in grace I realize that God's grace flows downhill to the humble God 's grace means that I have absolutely nothing to offer of my intelligence, my wittiness. My hard work, my talent. None of that. None of that makes me a better, more important person. Do you believe that? It's really hard to grasp, isn't it? You've worked so hard for it. To understand that the gospel levels us all before the cross of Christ. And when you and I really look in our hearts and are honest about what we're like, and then we see That Jesus Christ, the Son of God, humbled himself to become a servant. And give his life for you, that you and I could be forgiven, made alive Made as children, and heirs of heaven, where one day we will work for him with all of our creative passions unleashed to serve him forever and ever with no sin No stress and no frustration. Amen. What a day that'll be, huh? You only ever really enter into that if you understand grace And our attitudes about work reveal our need for grace. And so, what's the Spirit been saying to you through this series? What is your heart toward those that are above you at your work? Is it bitter? Presentful? You gossip about them? What's your heart's attitude toward those who are beneath you at work? Is it to ignore them, to threaten them , to despise them R. C. Sprohl was doing a study on work relations in Pittsburgh some years ago, and in his uh research he came across a term dropping the head And he said he didn't understand what that meant until he was uh observing in a hospital there uh the interactions between the employees. He said uh he saw a group of nurses who were interacting at this in this one room and as they were chatting together uh a doctor came in and they all looked up And they all acknowledged him, they all smiled, and they paid attention to him. And he said that was very clear that he was high on the ladder of the cast in the hospital And then he saw one of the nurses after that conversation leave and head down the hall. And on the way down the hall, she met an orderly who was walking up the hall, pushing a cart of soiled laundry. An orderly is about the lowest on the cast, and this fellow was smiling to greet her. And as soon as he looked to smile to greet her, she dropped her head Looked at the floor and passed him as if he didn't exist. And Spurl said, then I understood what dropping the head meant It means to treat somebody as if they're so unimportant that don't even exist in your world Brothers and sisters, are there people that you encounter, that you ignore, because they are simply totally unimportant to you and to me? What's God saying to us through this? What is he revealing of our hearts in the way that we treat people The Lord Jesus came as a servant because he loved you. And he didn't want heaven without you. And he gave all that he had for you. To make you a masterpiece of grace. And so now at the end of this series is the time for you and for me to offer up to Him as masterpieces of grace. The work that you will do this week and the rest of this year, that you will be able to write on it whether actually, which may be a good idea But at least in your mind, to write on it Sole Deo Gloria. This is for you, Lord Jesus. Let's pray. As we pray together, I want to read to you a prayer written by someone going to work. That you might enter into this, make it your prayer as we begin a time of giving ourselves to the Lord Lord Jesus, as I enter this workplace, I bring your presence with me. I speak your peace, your grace, and your perfect order into the atmosphere of this office. I acknowledge your Lordship over all that will be spoken, thought, decided, and accomplished within these walls. Lord Jesus, I thank you for the gifts that you have deposited in me. I do not take them lightly, but commit to using them responsibly and well. Give me a fresh supply of truth and beauty on which to draw as I do my job Anoint my creativity, my ideas, my energy, so that even my smallest task may bring you honor, Lord. And when I am confused, guide me. When I am weary, energize me. And Lord, when I'm burned out, infuse me with the light of your Holy Spirit May the work that I do and the way that I do it bring hope, life, and courage to all that I come in contact with today. And oh Lord, even in this day's most stressful moments, may I rest in you. In the mighty name That is above all names in the matchless name of my Lord and Savior Jesus. And so Lord, we offer up our hearts. You have spoken to us about our attitudes You have spoken, Lord Jesus, of the forgiveness that you offered based on your finished work at the cross, and that you are here to go with us tomorrow as we go to work. To sustain us, to remind us that our work is not for other people, ultimately. It is for you. And we have forgotten that. We ask you to remind us deep in our hearts about the people that we work with and the work that we do Lord, hear us as we offer ourselves anew to you, as masterpieces of grace, that our work would be an offering. Of worship.