How many of you have ever heard of Jack Benny? Jack Benny? Yeah, yeah. About the same as the first service. A good bunch of you. Either you're a lot older than you look or else you uh keep up on uh twentieth century cultural history. For those of you who didn't raise your hands, Jack Benny was a comedian, well known particularly in the forties and the 50s, one of the earliest of the television comedians. And he was a guy who was um, as part of his persona, was known for being a tightwad, the guy who was never willing to part with any of his money And there were always a lot of jokes about that. One of his most famous skits had a guy coming up to him as an armed robber and he says, Your money or your life. And then there's a long pause. Finally, the bar the robber says, Well, then he says, Don't rush me. I'm thinking about it. Well, you know, we kinda titter at that because we think of it as such irrational behavior, but even as Christians we can look at that and think My attachment to money is a little closer to Benny's than I'd like to believe. I mean, why else? Do we wear ourselves out trying to get rich, trying to accumulate, taking more courses, lining up our investments, our savings, our gatherings And then God's word comes to us from Proverbs chapter 23, verses 4 and 5. Do not wear yourself out to get rich. Have the wisdom to show restraint. Cast but a glance at riches, and they are gone. For they will surely sprout wings and fly off to the sky like an eagle. Rather vivid image there, isn't it? I think often as we look at scriptures like that, scriptures that talk about money, we have this vague sense that God is trying to just make us feel guilty about the stuff we enjoy. The scriptures about money seem to be generally negative, don't they? Don't wear yourself out to get rich. Money is gonna take off and disappear. And there's this there's a sense, a suspicion among many of us That God is really some kind of a celestial spoil spoil sport who never could really identify with the fun of owning or driving a Porsche box turn I don't know if you saw in the news this week, but there was an article about mercury computers. And if you happen to see that, uh The executives of Mercury Computers last year were offered an incentive. They said, the CEO said, uh If we double our stock by the end of 1999, the top 20 executives will all receive a gift of a Porsche Boxer. Now for those of you who may not know what a Porsche Boxster is, It's about a forty-five thousand dollar sports car. You know, that kind of Porsche. All right. Well, they not only doubled their stock, they over-tripled their stock I mean, these guys were really motivated. You talk about wear yourself out To get rich, to get a Porsche Boxster? So the news this week was all 20 of them received their new Porsche Boxsters this week. Congratulations, guys. Unfortunately, one of those guys is going to be driving his Porsche boxster, listening to that hum of moving into fifth gear And he's going to be passed by a guy in a red Ferrari. And it's all over. Never enough. Always one more thing to knock yourself out for, I see. And you see, instead of our looking at Proverbs 23, 4 and 5 and saying, This is God trying to just put a clamp on my enjoyment, you know. He doesn't understand what fun it is to own or drive a Porsche Boxster or to be able to move out to Waverly Woods. You know, like I don't know where Waverly Woods is out in Marriottville, you know. Our neighbor across the street sold their house. And they're having a house built out in Waverly Woods. And another neighbor went out and saw the house they were having built. He came over to me and he said, Al, you could take your house and my house and stick it inside his new house. That's a house, man! Wear yourself out to get rich. And instead of saying that God is this spoil sport that really can't quite appreciate how we'd enjoy those things When we read these verses, I think rather I like to picture God as a loving, kind, Heavenly Father. who 's sitting down with me is his son on the couch, and he puts his arm around me and he says, Alan, I've been around a few zillion years more than you. Let me tell you something, because I love you. Don't wear yourself out to get rich. Have the wisdom to show restraint. Cast but a glance at riches, and they're gone, for they will surely sprout wings and fly off to the sky like an eagle. And you can see that he's saying that because he loves you, because he understands life a little better than you and I do. And he doesn't want us to miss the best. So I thought we would look at this today and simply look at this question of money because we will be taking up our special offering for the early debt retirement fund we talked about last week. So that we can pay off the bonds for this facility early, save maybe $100,000 of interest, paying them off by 2004, or perhaps with all the enthusiasm that's generated on this. By 2003 , the kind of interest that there is for, rather than 2008, and be able to free that money up so that we will be able to expand the base of operation for making disciples in this place Join Max Milkey and Lisa and Joe back there also, see, and making this offering today. Because some of us have sacrificed for this. Some of us have thought a lot about in praying about this whole matter, the matter of money, uh, and our attitude toward it and Of giving and sacrificial giving, I thought I would take one of the two thousand three hundred and fifty or so passages. That's what somebody counted them up as. Passages in the Bible that talk about money and material possessions And get God's perspective. You notice there's just two verses that deal with this question right there, and uh So I want to divide them into two parts. Verse 4 is the command. Verse 5 is the reason. It's not the only reason that can be given, but it's the one that the author of Proverbs focuses on here. And I'd like to look at both of those, and then I want to apply it. Practically to our lives and see the alternative. First of all, then notice the command: do not wear yourself out. Very simple, the blanks are right straight from scripture. Can't miss them. Do not wear yourself out. To get rich. That's what the NIV of verse 4 says. This is addressing, you see, the problem of what's called materialism Materialism, according to the dictionary, is a preoccupation with or tendency to seek after or stress material rather than spiritual things. A preoccupation with or tendency to seek after or stress material rather than spiritual things. In other words, it's a preoccupation with things and the money to get things. Our culture is financially rich in general and spiritually impoverished. Not only that, we're financially rich in general and relationally impoverished. Relationships are tough, and relationships are often disappointing. Many of us come from brokenness in backgrounds of parents and families and marriages. It is very tempting after you've had a number of disappointments to begin to find some consolation in the acquisition of things. Because things don't let you down. Unless they break, you know. But in general, at least when they're new, things give a lot of satisfaction and pleasure, don't they? I mean, let's not for a moment deny that as Christians There's a lot of pleasure. I mean, I wouldn't mind having a Porsche Boxster. Nothing wrong intrinsically with that But you see, it's when my heart begins to grasp that as a substitute for intimacy with Jesus Christ. for relationships with other people, to try and control and to protect my life by things. Rather than relationships or the ultimate relationship with my Heavenly Father, the things break down. Wearing myself out to get rich Because somehow that seems more predictable. I can control it. Maybe if the Proverbs was being written today, uh there would be an an alternate or an additional phrase there. Besides uh wearing yourself out to get rich, you might also be saying And don't wear yourself out paying off the debt that you've accrued because you thought you were rich. You thought you could pay it off. You thought you could acquire it and just put it on credit But nevertheless, the idea is still the more. Don't have enough. Need more. Always acquiring. But now notice the reason that he gives for this. The reason, quite simply, is that riches are fleeting and uncertain. That's verse 5. Cast but a glance at riches, and they're gone. For they will surely sprout wings and fly off to the sky like an eagle. Today's English Version translates it this way. Your money can be gone in a flash as if it had grown wings and flown away like an eagle. Boy, have we been seeing the truth of that recently in the stock market, right? Since 1999 and 2000 I mean you talk about money taking off. You know, April 3rd, Time magazine, Time magazine each week has winners and losers section. I don't know if you've ever seen But the the the time big loser of the week on April the 3rd was a fellow who lost four billion dollars in the stock market that week Can you imagine losing four billion dollars? I mean, that's like a dollar for every person on earth outside of China. You know, four billion dollars. Hey, easy come, easy go, you know. Well you take Microsoft, you know, Bill Gates, poor Bill Microsoft's stock was worth a hundred nearly a hundred and twenty dollars the end of last year. Currently it's worth less than seventy dollars. So somebody that bought Microsoft stock at the $80 and then saw it increase 50%, yes, up to 120 He's now lost money. It's worth less than he bought it. In fact, this week the news said that Bill Gates is no longer the richest. He's been surpassed. Poor Bill, he's only worth fifty-one point seven billion dollars. But Larry Elson who 's the CEO of Oracle is worth over fifty-five billion dollars. Eat your heart out, Bill. Some of you hope he goes right down there, don't you? You know, there it is. I mean the truth of Scripture. Isn't it true? You know, money is so uncertain. It seemed like we're in a day of such rapid acquisition And yet who knows what the next five years could bring? Riches are so uncertain. Maybe you listen to this while I'm talking about this and you say, Well, I'm not even in the game, you know? Well these people are getting rich and are making all these investments. I can't even I don't have money to invest. I d you know, I barely have money to make ends meet, to pay the bills I'm not into investing. Are there ever times when you begin to wonder, why has my heavenly father left me out of the game? Why is everybody else in? I seem like the only one that's not So there could be resentment, it could be bitterness, perhaps for some of you, that somehow it doesn't seem like God has let you enjoy the party that the rest of the country is having Do you really believe that you have a Heavenly Father who has taught you to pray? Give us Our daily bread, and he fully intends to answer that in your life. To take care of you, to provide all that you need See our problem so often is what do I need? Some perspective was brought home to me and I had in a full page picture in Time magazine this week about the emerging with a famine in Ethiopia that is on the border of becoming a real disaster. There's a picture of a couple of kids within um a little hut of sticks with a few claws torn over it, and that's their shelter We think about moving up, expanding our homes What is it that we need? Do we believe that God is really a heavenly Father to take care of us? We can trust Him. How do we know whether this passage is speaking to us? And so what I did was, uh as I thought about this, I thought to try and help us to get a handle on that, I wrote down seven danger signals that I find in my own life are helpful to me to see if this is in fact an issue that the Holy Spirit wants to deal with me about, and I offer them to you for your own self-examination. First danger signal that this passage is speaking to me or to you is when I go from managing my money to being anxious about it. When I go from simply managing it, knowing God has called us to work, and that there's nothing wrong with investing, and that we should invest for retirement and save for homes and Things that we want to get, that's managing our money. We're called to steward it and manage it. To the point where we become preoccupied with it because we're anxious That we're not going to have enough and that God's not going to take care of us. Recently, Kathy and I Faced squarely the fact that we will not have as much for our retirement as we could have had if we had managed and invested our money more closely. But there was a point in my life a few years ago when I began to look into the investment question. And, you know I I don't know if you know, but I'm kind of an intense person. Uh I got a few titters in the first such first uh service too. Um but you know whyver you might be laughing, the fact is you may know I I am and I know my personality enough that if I started really getting into this Boy, I could really get into it. I mean I'm not talking about becoming a day trader. I'm just talking about following and making sure that, you know, switch from this, what about that? But as I began to even contemplate that, I realized how subtly you move from managing to being anxious and preoccupied. There's so much in our culture that is designed to simply make you think about money. And if the culture can get you to think about it enough, you become preoccupied with it, and all of a sudden you've moved From the position of a child of God resting in his care, doing the best you can and simply letting him take care, feeling like you've got to control it, you've got to manage, you've got to, you know Very subtle, subtle line. But it's that anxiety, it's the preoccupation that's the clue, I think. Secondly, another way of seeing this is when I am regularly unable to pay off my credit card balance. Um now I have no problem with credit cards for convenience. I have a credit card and I use it because it's easier than bringing along cash and um use it regularly, but the point is that I plan to in fact when I do that I actually take money from what I have and I clip the money to the bill so that when the when it comes in I know I have the cash because I quite literally have it there But I can pay it off at the end of each month. The the subtle trap is, well, this month I didn't quite get to pay it off, and then next month uh little further behind, but that's okay, I'll catch up. And then further and further and you know that slippery slope. Now our daughter has a friend who's in her late twenties who does not own a house and does not have a particularly nice car, who has in some way that is totally beyond my ability to fathom, acquired between thirty and forty thousand dollars of credit card debt. Can you imagine? Hasn't hit 30 yet and she's almost she doesn't even know somewhere between thirty and forty thousand. Ah, you know, give or take five thousand somewhere around there You know, and I I mentioned that in the first service. Somebody came to me after the first service and they said, Hey, I got you beat. Our son, in his early twenties, has a friend who has $60,000 of credit card debt But he says he's not worried about it because Jesus is going to come back before he has to pay it off. How's that for application of our prophecy series? You know, kids and people in their twenties declaring bankruptcy. Um if you begin to find you can't pay it off You're slipping into the danger of what Proverbs is talking about. Thirdly, when I begin to be dissatisfied with what I have and begin to think more about what I do not have You know how that goes. When you had very little, you were very thankful for what you had. And then as you've acquired more somehow suddenly your attention is shifted from what you have to what you don't have. Is that interesting? Now the more we have, the more we think about what we don't have. Whether it's the electronic toys or the cars or homes or things that our friends have and you kids Think about not what you have and all that you enjoy that mom and dad have provided, but you think, my friend's got This kind of Game Boy gives me a win. I don't have that one. And this piece of software or that thing. We begin to think that we need these basic essentials. Laptops are a basic essential of life and palms. And cell phones and cable. People come to our deacons to help them pay off their cable bill. Let me say and go on record, it is possible to live in this life in peace and contentment without a laptop or a palm or cable or a cell phone. I don't even want 'em. I know some of you have them and you gotta have them, you need them, and you probably have a great reason for 'em. But every one of us has to find some line where we say, Can I live with this? Can I live without this? And Life is good? And I can get up in the morning and I can thank God for his blessings and his goodness, or do I think I'm just not going to be satisfied till I get the you know like my friends have Another sign. Fourthly, when I find my self-image is related to comparing my salary and possessions with other people When I find my self-image is related to comparing my salary and my possessions with other people, I begin to admire rich people. They seem more important. I envy them. I want to compete with them. I subtly drop Little things in the conversation about what I have. And others do too, just to make me envious. And it works. And I'm ashamed of what I don't have. And I bought into this world's values. Listen, there is nothing shameful about the statement, we cannot afford it. Kids, listen to me. When your mom and dad say we cannot afford that, that does not make them evil parents. That is a perfectly justifiable statement, which may mean in our value system we are not going to afford that. We have choices to make with very limited resources. And we cannot be pressed into feeling from the world you really need to have, and you're really not Fulfilled, you're really not what you should be if you don't have. And advertising has made us a compulsive people, dissatisfied whose self-image depends on the comparisons with other people. Fifthly, backside. When I consistently work more hours than are healthy for me, for my family, and for my other ministries, because I need more money Always the not now, the workaholic imbalance of someday, but right now I need to take this course to stay competitive. Right now I can't spend time with my kids or nurture my wife or my husband. Because I've got to do this project, I've got to do this thing. Sure, we all have short-term things that put us under pressure Nobody escapes that. I'm talking about when that begins to move on to the the deception that it's always not now And so somebody invites us to join in their cell , Christian community, to live out the gospel. We said, well I'm I I wish I could be in a cell, but I'll I'll tell you I could be in one if if you have one that meets every six months Um in fact if you have one meets every three months, I could probably try. I might not get to e each meeting, but you know, I could I'd do my best, give it a shot You know, we wonder why our life with Jesus Christ is not moving on to intimacy and faith. There's always not now. Right now I'm busy. Right now, I've got to work all these extra hours. Don't wear yourself out to get rich, God says. Let's face it, we're not wearing ourselves out for bare necessities. Our standard of living is in the top couple of percent of the history of the world Sixth, when I am often unable to attend worship because I am working or too tired from work, unable to attend worship. Make it half the time. Say, well, you know, I'd like to, but I'm too busy. Talk to somebody recently and said, yeah, I don't get to worship very much. And it's not as if we have a direct conflict Sunday mornings, it's just we're too tired from other stuff we're doing. And you say, well, you're preaching to the choir, we're here. Yeah, I know, but maybe for some of you that's an issue Where is that in your priorities? Somebody has said, uh tell me where you spend Sunday mornings and I'll tell you what you worship. Um and that doesn't just mean You're either worshiping God or you're worshiping yourself. It's just it's an indication of how we spend that time of discretion about where our values are Or seventh, when I lose the joy of cheerful giving to God's work because I think I cannot afford it When I lose the joy of cheerful giving to God's work because I think I cannot afford it. I hear about the opportunity for us to give so we could expand the base of operation for disciple making. And I say, great idea. Hope others can do it. I can't do it. I don't tie, you know, the average American churchgoer gives two percent of their income to their local church, to God's work Interesting thing is as the economies become or f more affluent, the amount of giving has gone down. We're stressed. We're anxious. I don't think I can afford it. I gotta I gotta, you know, we talk about first fruits. I I don't have first fruits. When uh my check comes in it's already spent Not on anything that's discretion. When we see that happening, then we realize that I've got something that's going out of control Preoccupation with more, with the things in this world. The alternative It's very interesting. You turn to the New Testament. Don't worry yourself out to get rich, have the wisdom to show restraint, because you see riches are so uncertain. Jazz a glance, cast a glance at them, and you're gone. It's like they sprout wings and fly off to the sky like an eagle. You know, you can that's a very vivid illustration of probably what you say, yeah, I relate to that. Just exactly what seems like happens to my money More month at the end of the More month at the end than there is money. Or something like that. How's that go? I don't know. You turn over to first Timothy chapter six And you see what Tom read here earlier, a contrast between what's uncertain and what's certain. Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant or put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain. See, same thing as Proverbs. But contrast to put their hope in God who richly, very interesting, talks about this same word, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. He cares for your enjoyment. He cares for you, for your needs. And so the uncertain wealth is contrasted with God, who is certain, who is able to be dependent upon. Who's taught us to pray? Give us, Lord, our daily bread, and we can come to Him as a Father to provide for us. To provide for you in your situation. Then he goes on, verse 18: Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous, willing to share. In this way they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age. Uncertain wealth there is contrasted with the certainty of treasure in the coming age. that results from generosity. So generosity here is pictured as an investment in heaven, an investment in eternity The choice to sacrifice some immediate self-indulgence, which is perfectly legitimate. To say I'm going to give to God's work as an example, the early debt retirement fund, simply because we're saying it'll save so much interest in God's money To enable us to do gospel ministry more cheaply, more effectively, which we need to do. And so I will invest. Through my sharing, through my giving in eternity, because that's certain. You see, what you invest in God's kingdom can never be taken away It 's established as a firm foundation through Jesus Christ. And this life is so brief. Some of us have been shocked to hear this week that I've gotten three emails on the fact that uh James Boyce, who A very well-renowned Bible teacher and writer was diagnosed last week with terminal cancer. And um the latest report I received said he has about a week to live Now uh think of all the books that James Boyce has written on scripture, all the ministry that he has done around the world, and what he's invested his life in Somehow I suspect if he were able to talk to James Boyce now, he wouldn't be saying, Boy, I sure wish I had spent more money on the market. I sure wish I had been spending more time investing and watching my portfolio. But there's an investment in the eternal treasure by investing your life and the resources God's given you in Him and His kingdom. None of us know how long we have. But God does. And He says He'll take care of you. Because he finishes with the contrast of the uncertainty of this life and the one that's to come, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. You see, the whole point of this is not about how much you give or particulars of activities. It's about the heart. It's about the fact that we have greedy hearts that want to control. We have insecure hearts that want to establish a tangible security. We are people who feel like we have got to be able to control our destiny and enjoy what we want now, and we're going to do it in our strength. And this scripture comes to you and to me to search out, to reveal your greedy heart, my greedy heart. Your controlling heart, my controlling heart, your insecurity and my insecurity, in order that we might turn to Jesus Christ, who has given his life, given his all, all that he had. To live for you and to die the death you deserve for your greed, that you and I might be freed from the bondage of our greedy insecurity. He offers that to you right now. Let's come to him. Lord our God, reveal in our hearts, give us honesty, the grace of honesty. To be able to see, Lord, what it is we trust in, what our motives are for the labor and the investments that we expend. Lord, for those who are here in bondage, bondage to debt, bondage to acquiring, that you would free them from that bondage. That you would show them that through Jesus Christ you desire to be their Heavenly Father, who will take care of them and meet each need. Lord, we pray that like Jim Boyce, we would be ready in that day at the end of this very, very brief life. To be able to rest in the investments that we have made in your kingdom, and to know that we are secure in the life that is really life. In Jesus name, Amen