We are now back to our study of Paul's third example of how the filling of the Spirit produces a submissive spirit in us, whether in, first example, marriage, whether you are wife or husband Or, second example, the family, whether you're a child or parent, or third example, the work situation, whether you are under authority or whether you are in authority. I'm speaking on work for those of you who are going to Hemlock, just so that you uh you know understand that uh you're there to work, right? So very appropriate. You know everybody's taking off on vacation and glad to have you guys with us. Actually, remember that Paul addresses in that section of Ephesians chapter 6 slaves and masters. And uh so we looked at why is it that uh Paul didn't condemn slavery, which is so obvious to us as a wrong institution And we were amazed. I hope you were amazed. I was amazed. I don't know how many people were amazed with me to see how Paul dealt with that. It's really fascinating when you think about it That what Paul does is he commands the slaves to be good slaves, but in such a way as to give them dignity and freedom in the gospel so that that undercuts the institution of slavery while maintaining the preeminence of the gospel rather than social revolution. Now that is brilliant It took centuries for the church and for societies to begin to think of the implications of that and work it out. But you have there just an absolutely brilliant statement indicating, I believe, the supernatural origin of the Bible. I don't know, you know, I mean you know, I didn't take a poll, didn't talk about it. How many really saw that? Didn't you excited? Oh, you know, you just sit there in this book and hope you got it. Well, okay, move on Now two weeks ago we looked at also the fact that these commands, while they're to slaves and masters, nevertheless do give us principles that are very appropriate and pertinent to our current contemporary work situation. So we saw that this really does apply to us And we looked at the larger context of the Bible to see its theology of work as sacred, cursed, and renewed in Christ, and then the particular Focus of Ephesians. Remember the pattern of Ephesians. Every command in chapters 4, 5, and 6 is based on a statement of fact. Who you are, your new identity, your new life in Christ, in chapters 1, 2, and 3. And so we saw that this section, the commands of Ephesians chapter 6, verses 5 to 9, These commands are based on the facts stated in. Anybody remember? Chapter. Same response as the first service. Must be the lack of air conditioning. I uh chapter good shut Just a little off. And that's why nobody wants to do anything. Oh, you know, it's kind of a risk. Chapter two and verse 10. Okay? Um I didn't write in the bulletin there, so I got a oh well. Remember in chapter 2 and verse 10, Paul talks about how you and I are masterpieces of God's grace. You were dead. He made you alive. You were guilty. He forgave you through the finished work of Christ. You were orphans. He adopted you as his children. The work of Christ He said on the cross is finished. And that work made you a masterpiece of his grace. Therefore, because of that fact, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning Then he says to you in chapter 6, verse 5 to 9, now make your work an offering An expression of the masterpiece of his workmanship in you as an offering to him Now that was the basic principle, and so we want to look this morning at how that works out in some of the particulars, the particular commands he gives. The basic reorientation we saw is that from being self-centered, man-centered, to being God-centered. And that is a radical shift in our thinking But it's also subtle. Let me illustrate that with another example that I came across since that time. This is from an article in Fortune magazine, July 9, 2001, courtesy of Bill McDill passes on half the illustrations that I use up here, eh? But um this is a very lengthy article on God in business. And uh it's very interesting. It talks about how uh you know spirituality is becoming a big thing now, and so you've got spirituality and work and a lot of books being written on this They mentioned in the article that a Gallup poll asked Americans in 1999 if they felt a need to experience spiritual growth. Now they had asked that same question in 1994. In 1994, 20% of Americans said that they felt a need for spiritual growth. In nineteen ninety-nine Seventy-eight percent of Americans said, I feel a need for spiritual growth. That's a dramatic increase. And that's working itself out in things like how you think about work. A lot of organizations, conferences, big conference going to be held, global conference in New York City next uh year Uh good news is they're thinking about spirituality and work. Uh bad news is the keynote speaker is the Dalai Lama Now, you know, I mean that tells you something, you see. I mean no longer when Americans think about spirituality do they think about Christianity Spirituality, yeah, hey, the Dalai Lama is as good as anything else. Besides, he doesn't require any kind of conversion, so you know, he can offer us something that'll help us to feel good Well, they talk a lot about spirituality and work, and one of the authors that they quote, a fellow Gregory Pierce, wrote a book called Spirituality at Work, and he asks this question, why would we want to look for God in our work? Good question. The simple answer, he says, is that most of us spend so much time working. It would be a shame if we couldn't find God there. Now do you see the subtle but the radical man-centered God-centered I mean man-centered self-centered orientation of that? Why do I want to find God and work? Oh well, not because He's preeminent and needs to be worshipped, and because He's God. Well it's because I spent a lot of my time there and hey I'd like to find God there. Give me some meaning in my work. In fact he goes on to say a more complex answer is that there's creative energy in work that is somehow tied to God's creative energy. You know, be able to be more creative if you can somehow tie into the spiritual force Well, this is the way we think today, and you see how Paul's words are so radically different. Now let's have them on the overhead, please, as I read to you God's word. But notice that in this short section What I've underlined, in these three times in these four verses, the focus is on that you are serving Christ. You're as you would obey Christ like slaves of Christ as if you were serving the Lord, as if the Lord is going to reward you. So The whole focus of this passage is to shift our thinking about work from what do I get out of it, what credit, what promotion, this to focusing on Jesus Christ and my work as an offering to him. So let's once again read God's word, Ephesians chapter 6. And I'm just going to read verses five to eight because that's what I want to focus this morning. And then next week we'll look at verse 9, and that'll complete the series. Slaves Obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ. Obey them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but like slaves of Christ doing the will of God from your heart. Serve wholeheartedly as if you were serving the Lord, not men. Because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free. First point to notice. Now notice there are five points on this, and I have put the numbers of my points before the word so that you can see how the points that I'm making in my message are tied to the scriptures. So that you understand these are not just the thoughts of Al Harris about work. This is God's word, and I want you to see how the points come from the text. So if you have your Bible and it's open to that, notice how the points are related there. First point, then, is obedience. The first point in your bulletin outline , first blank there, is obedience. That's the first thing Paul says of five things that should characterize a Christian's attitude Toward work, five things that should characterize your work and mine. Slaves, he says in verse 5, obey your earthly masters with respect. Just as you would obey Christ, obey them three times. You see, he uses the word obey. And it's significant that that word obey is the same word he used in verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Now, be honest, you kind of react to that. I'm supposed to obey my boss? I'm supposed to obey my superiors at work. Those incompetent boobs? You know, as Americans, there's a strength and weakness to our very independent kind of thinking. We are the kind of people who are always asking, well why? And you notice that if you travel around the world in other cultures, how much Americans are independent versus most other cultures. Which enables us to be more creative and analytical and all that kind of thing. But it also means that we have less community and we find it much harder to submit ourselves to authority. The idea of obeying someone who may not be as competent in a particular area as me sort of offends us And yet that's what Paul says. He says obey. He doesn't say if their idea is better. He simply says, as a Christian, if you're filled with the Spirit Verse 21 of chapter 5, and that produces in you a submissive heart that by the Spirit enables you to not argue and to say, but my way, but but but but you will obey And Scott Adams Gilbert cartoon has just made millions on that exact attitude. The incompetence of bosses and how ridiculous it is to serve somebody that doesn't really know what they're doing. On and on and on. Every once in a while he will show the problem of people who are the subordinates who refuse to obey And there was a recent example in this that I happened to come across. So uh here's one more Dilbert cartoon for you before we jet us in this thing. This one is the boss now with his administrative assistant, no connection to anything in the local area, I promise you, but uh he's giving an evaluation to his uh administrative assistant, Carol Your overall performance rating is good. Ha good good is bad. What did I do to deserve this humiliation? Which is of course a comment on today's performance reviews. He says, Well You gave me 600 phone messages that said it might have been Bob. And she says, Well you can't tell me that none of them were from a Bob. He says, Well, uh you arranged for all of my flights to have connections in war zones. She says, Well, excuse me for trying to save the company some money And then he says, You held a press conference to announce that I was the Parkside Strangler. The last time she's talking to Gilbert, you know, with a mug there, and and she says And he refuses to take any responsibility for giving me vague objectives. But you see, isn't this isn't that the attitude? You know? Blame shift, you know, what does he know? I do what I want, but you know I'm not responsible to him. I do what I want. I don't have to obey. And of course, Paul relates this to the fact that it's not simply a matter of obedience, it's the attitude. Now, this is not, of course, just simply a matter of obeying blindly. Obviously, if your boss commands you or orders you to sin, then you cannot comply with that. That is not the issue. You must obey God rather than men. Came across an article of a person who was struggling with this in their job they were talking about how uh they were a police officer and their superior was rather antagonistic to Christianity and said, I want you to know it's policy here in this department you may never share your faith while you are on duty. And he uh was in a situation where a woman had attempted suicide by carbon monoxide in her garage He dragged her from the car, he was training a rookie cop with him, dragged her from the car into the house and revived her, finally got her stabilized a bit And he said for the next hour she began to talk about the tragedy in her life and he felt absolutely compelled as a Christian. He needed to share the gospel with her. But he was forbidden by his superior to do that. What's he going to do? So he said he decided that he would do two things. First of all, that he would tell the rookie who was with him, I am about to disobey my superior. And I don't want you associated with this to get you in trouble. So I would encourage you to leave at this point Then the second thing he did was he shared the gospel with this woman, not only did he shared the gospel with her, but he then called his pastor to come over and follow up, which he did. He went back then to work and the first thing he did was went to the boss and said, I want you to know that I disobeyed regulations and I shared my faith with a woman who I just was reviving from a suicide attempt The boss said, that's going to cost you your badge. However, the next day, it turned out that the husband of the woman who attempted suicide was a very influential man in the community, called the police department Instead, I want to congratulate you guys for the training that you give to your officers that they were so spiritually attuned that they were able to minister to my wife. She's a different woman. Thank you so much for what you've done. to which he said the the boss was very glad to take the credit for the department of their insight in how they handled the situation and he in fact got a letter of commendation rather than losing his job. His point in that was to say I must always remember that I am responsible to serve my boss and to obey. If I decide as a Christian That I cannot do that. I am responsible to tell the boss and why, but to remember always that I am first before all things a servant of Christ. Now, for most of us, the issue is really not so much an ethical one as it is we don't like having to obey, isn't it? And maybe the Lord would have some of us this morning to think about that. We need to repent of an attitude that says, I know better. I don't need to. He pushes it further in saying how to obey. You notice he says, obey your earthly masters with respect and fear. And that's the second point, sincerity. Excuse me, uh that's the third point. Second point is respect. Uh and literally it's with fear and trembling Um it doesn't mean to shake in your boots. It's used in a number of times in the New Testament about Paul and others. It simply again follows from verse 2. Verse 1 Goes to verse 6. Children obey your parents. You learn to obey your parent, then you're gonna be able to learn to obey your boss And it will go well with you, he says. So verse 2, honor your father and mother and respect your boss. Same thing, it's a parallel idea Once again, you see the blessing you kids have growing up in a Christian home. If you learn obedience and respect at home The it will go well with you, I think, has partly the reference to the fact that in life you're going to find these attitudes will make things easier for you to learn how to obey and to respect your boss, whether it's at hemlock or whether it's in the office or whatever the situation you see. that you learn that uh this is a good thing. Paul emphasizes this in 1 Timothy chapter 6 verse 1 where he says that you must respect your boss, your master, he says there, because it reflects on God's name. In other words, if you're a Christian, it ought to be known at your work that you're a Christian And so how you respond to the boss is going to reflect on Jesus Christ. That's what Paul says. And then he goes on to say, and if your boss is a Christian, even more so You don't take advantage of that, but rather even more so because your boss is a brother or sister, and therefore you give to that person even more devoted service because of the relationship with it. It's not that I can take advantage of this because this is a Christian, but rather I will serve even more, with more respect, with more devotion Do you need to look in your own heart about your attitude around the water cooler when people are cutting down the incompetent boobs that run your organization and all this stuff? Be able to say, do I join in with that? Or do I as a Christian realize I I really shouldn't be gossiping, I shouldn't be giving these smart alec remarks to join in to make us feel better, like we're so superior. Do you ever see the sin? That's what Paul says. Obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, with sincerity of heart. We need to be honest about our hearts in this matter. And notice he he goes on to say it's with sincerity. Um that is literally, that's the third point, sincerity, you see it right there. With sincerity of heart. Literally, it's not by way of eye service as men pleasers. He says, obey them Not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, literally not by way of eye service as men pleasers. Again, you see that contrast, man-centered versus God-centered. Not just when you're being watched, not just when you'll get credit for what you do. It's like the gym class, you know, in school, kids where The gym teacher says, Okay, we're gonna do push-ups now, so you're doing the push-ups, you know, and then the teacher looks over and you go, you know, until the eyes come back and then you're back in uh as long as somebody's looking, you're gonna do it. As soon as they stop looking, it's on hold And so everything at work is kind of like, well, who's going to notice? Whose name's on the report? Or who's going to get credit? Or who's going to get blamed? And so much of American business is just kind of covering myself. Well, who Who's going to be online for this? And hey, I'm not going to do it if if it's not my job. And so much suffers from that. One of the things that the Fortune article talks about is a very ethical Mormon who built a very large business in large appliances and furniture because people learned to trust him, because he did things that that hurt Like honoring a warranty for a company that went bankrupt when the other stores said, Too Ned, no more warranty And he said, No, the right thing is to honor it and paid out over a million dollars in warranty claims simply because it was right. But then people began to trust them. Same as that fellow I mentioned a couple weeks ago, Jay Howard Taylor, who built up Club Aluminum, by doing things by conviction, not because it would get him credit, not because it was the the prudent thing to do in the business, but simply out of convictions as a Christian, this is what I must do. Very interesting, you know, you look back on American business in the last couple of decades and see how Japanese cars uh dominated the market in the seventies and the eighties. And why was that? Largely it was because the Japanese cars that had been bought in the fifties and the sixties were still running And the mechanics began to notice that the parts were put in those cars were parts that far exceeded the quality of the parts in many of the American makes. I remember talking about to mechanics about the things that they were finding and cars that I was acquainted with. And how impressed they were. This was really made to last. Not just, you know, we'd sell well, a lot of style and everybody'd look at it, but this thing was made to run and run and run Uh Hyundai was in the butt of jokes of cars a couple years ago and um really beefed up quality controls. This is what we must do. We must build these things to last. Gave a hundred thousand mile warranty. Most American cars and even some of the foreign cars now are just barely holding their own, if not down a few percent. Hyundai is up 70% over last year You know, the doing things by conviction can't be just for profits as a Christian. It's got to be because I do it with sincerity, because I'm obeying Christ But when you do that, you think what's right to do. And that's what you do. It may cost, it may be the more difficult way, but you do it simply because it's a work of love and devotion for him But so the question I ask you there is, do you work differently when your boss is looking? When you're going to get credit personally for your work from the times that no one else is going to know You have to look at your own heart as you think honestly about what what God is saying to you. Because you see, the work, and this really gets to the heart of it now, is a work that Paul says is a work of devotion. See in verse 7? To serve wholeheartedly as if you were serving the Lord, not men. You see what Paul's saying here, this word wholeheartedly, is literally with goodwill. It has to do with liberality. It's giving your whole heart and soul in something, putting your everything into it. Because you're doing it out of devotion. You're doing it as something that's an offering. Not just something that you give to the boss or what you're going to get out of it in credit or promotion or raises or any of the rest of this. One of the best examples that I know of this is one of my f favorite stories of Celtic Christianity that I became acquainted with last year when we were in Ireland. There are two cups that archaeologists have found from Celtic culture. One was actually from the pre-Christian Druidic culture. It's a cauldron from first or second century before Christ. It was made by the Druidic pagan priests. It was a cauldron of sacrifice, and it was a silver cup of tremendous skill and intricacy. The panels were religious panels involving human sacrifice as one of the things that were practiced. One of the panels shows one of the gods dropping human beings into a vat like we would drop lobsters into a pot And this cup had been broken ceremonially before any human would use it as an offering to the swamp god. The second cup was a chalice that was made somewhere in the 7th or 8th century A. D. a couple of centuries after the gospel came to Celtic culture and utterly transformed it. This was a communion cup. It's even more intricately formed in the silverwork and the and the uh engravings, the pictures from biblical themes that are on it. When the person coming to take the community would approach that cup, as they would get near, they would see the fine detail. The kind of detail that you see in the Book of Kells, this amazing detail crafted on the sides and the rim of this cup in tiny little letters. the names of the twelve apostles with whom we commune, and all these motifs and ideas. As the person would lift the cup and they would drink it, Remembering now that this is no longer a God for whom we offer our sons and daughters as sacrifice, but this is the God who offered his son as a sacrifice for us. That this is the cup that symbolizes not that he drinks our blood, but that we drink his blood in sacrifice to us to make us the masterpieces of his grace. At the moment when the communicant would lift the chalice and they would drink from the cup, that underside of the cup would be exposed. Now on the cup, the most intricate, beautiful work was not on the side. It was not on the rim. He was on the bottom of the chalice that no person saw, symbolizing by the artisan that at the moment when that cup was drunk God himself looked with pleasure upon the base of the cup to see the work of devotion. So man's pleasure and God's pleasure are fused in the moment of communion. Soli, Deo, Gloria. I don't know about you, but when I think of that, it makes shivers run up my spine. To think of the insight that those Celtic Christians had to the theology of work that we couple reformations after, couple centuries after the Reformation, many of us still have not grasped Our work is an offering of devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. That transforms everything, doesn't it? Do you see your work as something that's an offering of devotion to Him? Well, it is. As much as my sermons are Evans leading us in worship, your work is an offering of devotion for the pleasure of Jesus Christ. That brings us to the fifth point. Final point, is that a Christian's work ought to be characterized by cheerfulness. Cheerfulness. And you see, the word I relate that to is reward in verse 8. He says, Because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does. Whether he is slave or free. You know that whatever good thing that you do, that the Lord sees it, and the Lord in his way will recognize and reward it That you will have your pleasure from him as he has his pleasure from you, and that that will have eternal consequences That produces, brothers and sisters, a sense of purpose, a sense of hope, and a sense of cheer, doesn't it? To know that, like Brother Lawrence in his practicing the presence of God, whether he washed dishes, he said that I wash a dish. I am as much in the communion of the presence of God as when I am taking the sacrament at the altar. Do you see eternal consequences and hope in your work? And just this um couple months ago I finally got to read a book I've been looking forward to for a good while and hadn't gotten a chance I read the Gate Great Gatsby And Great Gatsby by S. Scott Fitzgerald is somewhat of an autobiographical book because it has to do with a fellow working in order to be able to get rich so that he could get a girl who would marry him. And that 's Gerald's case, was uh the daughter of the Alabama Supreme Court judge who he loved, Zelda, and um she broke the engagement because he wasn't going anywhere. And so he decided that little fire under him, he worked like crazy and started writing and got famous and rich and got to marry Zelda. And then uh she died in an insane asylum, and it wasn't a very happy marriage. He wrote the Great Gatsby in order to depict something of that delus disillusionment, the struggle where he talks about this fellow Gatsby who loves this girl Daisy and when they were very young uh they had these wonderful times together, very very romantic, uh, but he went off to war and she married a rich man instead of him. And so he decided he was going to get rich and he worked like crazy and he built himself to become a millionaire and talks about all the opulence within w where he lived, the parties he threw, tries to win back the hand of Daisy and The result of it all to reclaim these dreams is that the dreams are crushed, they're destroyed, Gatsby is murdered. And in the last page of the book, you have his friend who's recounting this whole thing, reflecting on this. And as he reflects on it, he reflects on Gatsby's Dream and says that Gatsby was trying to regain something, the dream that he had with Daisy But he says he never knew that all that he looked for was actually behind him, and the more he grasped for it, the more it receded. And that's Fitzgerald's comment on life. You can work your tail off, but all that you want is probably simply an ideal that you experienced as a young person, and you'll never get it. Brothers and sisters, the gospel says the best is yet to come. It's not something we've experienced and can never recapture But you work because the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he's slave or free. And when you stand in the presence of Jesus Christ and he says, Well done, good and faithful servant. You will have there in that moment of divine pleasure a sense of his pleasure in all that you have offered to him as the masterpiece of his grace, offering all that you have done. with all your passion and devotion, to lay it before his feet. And there will come in your life a reward that I can't explain, that we couldn't understand, I think, right here this side of heaven. There will be far beyond any hope. More than I have seen, more than has entered into your heart. In the delight and the exquisite pleasure of that moment that will last for eternity. Do you see eternal significance in your work? That's what the gospel says. And so the gospel says that you and I, as masterpieces of his grace, need to look at our hearts and to say, do I need to repent of my lack of obedience? My lack of respect, my lack of sincerity working simply for what is noticed and what credit I get. Working for myself rather than as a devotional offering to my Savior, grumbling About what I have to put up with rather than cheerful seeing how what I'm offering gives the Lord pleasure and the hope that I have and the reward that He has for me in Christ. And as we close, let me not neglect saying that this really, you see, is a gospel issue. The fact is that if you follow these things that Paul gives to you here, you're going to have a lot more joy in your work And God will have a lot more glory. It's a gospel issue. And it's seen in things like at Columbia Presbyterian, the whole business of the nursery ministry we talk about. You know, our attitude toward that, you know, if you do a good job in the nursery and you're faithful in that, nobody's gonna double your pay. Well they actually could, wouldn't make any difference You probably won't have some plaque that will be stated there, you know, best nursery worker of the year or parents will come down and say, You are just such a tremendous nursery worker. My kids are so happy it's they look forward to this time of the week Why do you do it? You do it so your brothers and sisters upstairs are able to worship and to hear the word of God, knowing that their kids are well cared for in an atmosphere that's conducive to thought, meditation. It's an offering to the Lord, just as everything in our lives. There was a fellow by the name of Jamie Winchip. Who wrote of his frustrating commute into DC every day? Anybody can identify with that? Wrote this in Discipleship Journal And he uh says that uh one particular spot on this one hot July day there was construction and it was slowing everything down and people were impatient and they were having to merge down, you know, from three lanes to one lane and get past and And there's a flagman there, and he notices this flagman from way back, and this flagman isn't, you know, your typical flagman. This guy's dancing. And as he weighs people on, he does it with a graceful arc of his flag, and he greets the people as they go past, you know, and he's smiling and they're you know and he's thinking, whoa, I've never seen anything like this before In fact, it fascinated him so much that when he got up to the flag then, even though everybody was behind him, he actually stopped, rolled down his window, and said, What gives you so much enthusiasm in all this heat and hostility? And the flagman said, I'm happy because I'm not working for the man. I'm a flagman for Jesus Soli Deo Gloria. Let's pray. Father, I don't know how many of us can say what I do, I do it because I'm that person for Jesus And I'm conscious of that. I love Monday mornings because it's when I make my offering. I'm able to come and to say, Lord, there's a lot of things I'd change about this job There's a lot of things that if they want my opinion when I could tell them how I think it could be done better. But if they don't ask And Lord, I'm not going to undermine the work here. Because it's an offering to you. Lord, forgive us for some of us in our attitudes where Where we've really looked at it as something which just reflects on us. And uh we've really missed The devotional sacredness of our work. Lord, we want to ask you to work in our hearts to see what Paul so clearly saw To see that by your grace we are your masterpieces. The Lord Jesus has come and died that we would have life and forgiveness and hope and glory. And so Lord, like that Celtic artisan, we want to make a work that is for your pleasure Lord, hear us in our hearts as we offer that to you now and ask you to forgive us and to change us And to give us the vision of Solideo Gloria in all that we do this week. For Jesus' sake. Amen.