Are now on the threshold of studying the six pieces of armor that the Lord has provided and that we so desperately need in order to stand Against the temptations and the trials of demons who literally plan 24 -7. As far as I know from scripture, demons don't sleep, you know So they're always thinking about how to cause you to fail in your Christian life Because they are obsessed with bringing pain to God and causing you to dishonor Him. And that's because they are consumed with revenge. At their lost place in heaven. And they want to wreak as much damage as possible before they will be cast into the lake of fire forever. And that will be soon. Last fall we looked at a study of Satan and the demons. Last week, we looked at Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10, once again, the first verse that launches this off, and we saw there what the Lord tells us Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power We saw that there's two things the Lord wants us to see from that. Number one, to be aware of your weakness, and secondly, to be aware of his strength. We saw last week that the New Testament principle is not that power, his strength, is in order to escape our weakness But rather, the New Testament principle is power in weakness. It is only as you are aware of your weakness That you are able to experience true Shekinah glory, the power of Jesus. And so we looked At 2 Corinthians, come on down there, 2nd Corinthians chapter 12, in verses 7 to 10, we saw that Paul, who had been given the unique privilege of visiting heaven, seeing glory. The direct manifestation of God says afterwards, to keep me from becoming conceited because of these surpassingly great revelations, there was given me a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan. To torment me. Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said, My grace is sufficient for you For my power is made perfect in weakness. And you remember we saw last week that it would be better to translate that verse Because the word power doesn't have my, it's just the. And the word made perfect is really a word that means to bring something to an end, to finish it Probably the way it ought to be translated is my grace is sufficient for you, for your power is brought to its end in weakness. It's when there is something you simply can't do, a person you can't cope with, a pain that you can't bear. Fears and anxieties and failures and inabilities, that he says, my power is then manifest. Therefore I will burst all the more gladly, Paul says, contrary to the way you and I respond to the unwelcome presence of weakness. I will boast all the more gladly about my weakness. It doesn't depress him like it depresses me So that Christ's power may rest or tabernacle. It's the word of the Shekinah glory, the power of Christ. That's why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, and hardships and persecutions and difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong. And I was encouraged this week with a number of you who share about how God had powerfully spoken to you from that. In your own weakness. I had one person that emailed me and said that in business there was an area of weakness they were trying to hide God spoke to them through the message and enabled them by his grace to be forthright about that area of weakness, and there was a new freedom in just being open that God used. What is it in your life? What is that area that you would so want, long to, have prayed for for months or years for God to take away? An area of weakness, of inability, of failure, of pain. And he's saying to you, My intention is that you come to realize That I want your weakness more than your strength. That's a powerful principle, isn't it? I mean that that's life-changing when you begin to grasp that And we saw last week um um well let me back up four weeks ago you remember I chaired what uh has been called the Easter Challenge Where um after talking about the peace of the risen Christ, we saw that Jesus says, The Father has sent me, so I send you, and I challenged myself and I challenged you Sometime during the month of April, to share how to obtain the peace of Christ with at least one unbeliever Would you be willing to commit yourself by faith to do that? Have you done it? Well, I don't want to tally your hands or any of that. One week left before the Lord's Supper Now, let me bring this home here. So you're saying, yeah, I really would like to do it, but you don't understand. Evangelism isn't my thing. I'm really weak in that area. Exactly. That's the point. It's an opportunity for you and for me, and by the way, I am not natural in evangelism. It's not something that is easy for me to just talk to people about spiritual things, especially when I think, you know, I can find out I'm a pastor, and then you get this stereotype thing and all that business, you know But in our weakness, we cry out to the Lord, Lord, Lord, I I I don't know how to do this, I can't do it, Lord. Lord, would you open up the opportunity? Would you, in your strength and your power, would you Give me that opportunity this week to see. Then he's glorified. Then he come next week and say, let me tell you, the Lord did this because I know I couldn't do it. See? That honors him. And it's not just individually We saw that it has to do with the church corporate. Hugh McKay, who's an Australian, says that in modern Western culture There are two yeah thanks Michael, we don't need that now. There are two competing impulses. One is what he calls the sporting impulse. That's the impulse of competition desire, drive to win. And there's the spiritual impulse, which is the sensitive impulse, the desire for humility and to serve And he says in Western, modern Western cultures, these two things are intentioned. They are always buying to compete. And Even he says, in the church in Australia and in the United States, we find that the Sporting impulse seems to take precedence over the spiritual impulse. That is, we want to win. We want to compete. We want to show that we're the best church and the strongest church with the best worship service and the best programs and ministries and on and on and on. And so as we seek to operate out of strength to compete. We then wonder why revival tarries Revival historically has come from people desperate in weakness. For the power of Christ to be manifest. And this Thursday is the National Day of Prayer. Now there are four opportunities that we're part of or will be operating that that day. You can come to our regular Thursday morning, 6. 30 to 7. 30, and we'll have a special time this Thursday just to focus on National Day of Prayer. Be out by 7. 30. There it is Move on to your day. If you're done with it, finish by 7. 30. Or there's going to be two meetings at 12 o'clock noon Uh one at the People Tree, the other one down at the courthouse. The Kim Flora is going to be leading for an hour. If you can get away just to come down and join the crowd down there to sing and praise and pray at the Ellicott City Courthouse. And then um from five to seven we're trying something new or just as you drive home. You know, before you get home, settle down. Just stop by over at Centennial Park and I'll be starting off, and then others will be leading various parts there of the National Day of Prayer for those two hours May God give us the spirit of humility and weakness as a nation and locally to cry out for His power. Revival will not come, I'm convinced, as long as we're operating out of strength Now, if you see your weakness, and God has given you grace and the ability to look at your heart and to see, like me, how pathetically weak you and I are Then the demons have another trick, and that is to keep you there Once you get in touch with your weakness, what they want to do is to have you focus on your weakness and obsess on your weakness and be consumed with your weakness and just keep looking at your weakness. Whereas Ephesians 6. 10 calls on you to look away. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in His mighty power. And so what I want to do for the rest of this morning's message is to suggest to you four things to meditate on this week. In order to be more aware, have your faith increased and strengthened by seeing the power of Jesus Christ. Four things to meditate on, you can do them one a day because there's some things at the end to meditate on also. So you decide, but again I'll remind you, you'll get much more out of this if you take the message, take the particular points in the scriptures and then meditate on them day by day. Four things to look at in order to be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. First of all, look at his creation. That's the first blank. Look at his creation. When it says the Lord and his mighty power, that's speaking of Christ. But you remember that the Bible says that The Son, the second person of the Trinity, was involved with the Father and the Spirit in the work of creation. For instance, in John 1, you read, In the beginning was the Word, that's the one who became flesh, Jesus. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning, through him, the Word. All things were me Without him nothing was made that has been made. And so Ephesians 3. 20 talks about he who is able to do exceedingly abundantly beyond anything we ask or think. And we say, yeah, that's I know, I know, I have this vague notion that you're powerful in creation, yeah, wow, it's really powerful, but you know, it's so vague to us, it's very hard for us to wrap our minds around that, isn't it? Four years ago, astronomers discovered something in the universe that they had never seen before. It was an explosion. But it was not an explosion like any other explosion that they had detected or witnessed. This explosion far exceeded anything that they had seen. Now a supernova Is an explosion that shreds stars. This explosion was more than a hundred times more powerful than the most powerful supernova ever witnessed. In fact, for several seconds, this explosion outshone the rest of the universe. Believe that hundreds of billions of stars, and this outshone them all. And so they asked, what could possibly produce Such an explosion. This explosion occurred twelve billion light years away. And we detected it. It wasn't exactly a danger to us, but we could detect it. Now, what could produce such a thing? One speculation theory is that it was a neutron star. Now, a neutron star is a star of such density That if you were to hold one cubic inch of it here, that would weigh several billion tons. Now remember, a billion is the number of grains of wheat there are in a boxcar. Several billion tons. One cubic inch. Took one cubic inch of that, which is as bright as our sun, put it in Philadelphia, it would kill you instantly here. That's how powerful it is They thought that this neutron star had been swallowed up and absorbed by an even denser, weightier mass of power. And that produced the explosion. Other scientists said even that wouldn't account for the explosion that we have seen This explosion, they say, was probably the greatest explosion since the creation of the heavens and earth. And who made that star? Who produced that power? The stars we read in Scripture are his handiwork. And you and I say, Lord, are you really able to give me somebody to talk to this next week? Lord, are you really able to handle that problem that in my weakness I just don't even see how you could do it? Exceedingly abundantly beyond all we ask or think. Be strong in the Lord and in His mighty power Now, after you've wrapped your mind around that for a little while, move in even a little more specifically to focus on, meditate on the Lord Jesus' temptations. Because here you see you're able to move into an area that's uh even more pertinent to spiritual warfare. Think about the Lord Jesus, who was tempted like you by Satan in the wilderness and successfully endured that. And maybe take a look at Hebrews chapter four, where you read In verse 15, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, at root. There is nothing you have been tempted with that Jesus wasn't tempted with. Believe that? Now do you believe this? He was tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without sin. So let us then approach the throne of grace with confidence. So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. Do you believe that Jesus, who was who experienced temptation in every area, that you experience it Successfully resisted it, bids you, welcomed you, come, come to receive mercy and find grace to help you. to resist and endure and to conquer in the time of your need. Now, you need to affirm that. Answer me when I ask the question, you know? If if you believe it, say yes. Do you believe that you can come to him to find grace and help in your time of need Amen. I hope you believe that. Say it to yourself this week. Read those verses. I believe that, Lord. I affirm it. And then move on to the third thing. Thirdly, I'd like to suggest you meditate on his miracles. Jesus, who came in the flesh. Who stilled the storm, even the wind and the waves obey him. Jesus who healed the sick who raised the dead, but more specifically and pertinently to this verse, Jesus who cast out demons Go to the Gospels, read some account of his casting out the demons, and notice Jesus never flinched before demons. The demons always cower before Jesus. Don't you wish you could have seen one of those? Boy, I sure do. Can you imagine somebody slobbering in bondage and they're raging and you know they're like a wild animal and Jesus comes and speaks that word of power And the demons flee, and that person's restored to their right mind. When you hear the interchange between him and them, and you understand he is above all rule and authority and power and dominion. They cower before him. And I can't dare to speak to them. I'm a coward before demons. But my Jesus cast them out. Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty strength. And then finally, I would ask you to look at his death and resurrection Recall that Peter, I mean excuse me, Paul in Ephesians 1 , prayer that uh Tom read earlier Praise that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened so that you might know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance of the saints, and his incomparably great power for us who believe Now that power he does not compare to creation. He doesn't compare it to it as resisting temptation. He doesn't compare it to his miracles. He says that power was like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Why? Because it was at that point that he seated him at the right hand in the heavenly realms far above all rule and authority, power and dominion. Every name that can be named, both in this age and the age to come. And God made him to be the head over all things for the church, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. You and I have no power or authority over demons. But Jesus has all authority and power over demons. And so those demons who want you to fail and are determined to discourage you and to separate you from Jesus this week, to cause you to be self-sufficient, self-absorbed. Those demons tremble and cower before Jesus. So if you intend to do battle, I suggest that you're strong in the Lord. And in his mighty power this week, that you would claim and exercise the right and the authority of Jesus Christ in resisting the evil ones who are obsessed with making you fail. Well, having done that, what do you do now? Let me give you a few final thoughts. in application of this to prepare us for next week. I'd suggest you also take some of these things and just kind of meditate on them. You know, whatever pace you want to for this week. Four things in wrapping this up then. How do you close with yourself with his strength? How do you do it? Number one, by recognizing your weakness. That's what we've talked about. Let me suggest that you consider praying The words from Second Corinthians chapter seven, verses nine and ten. And did you You come before the Lord and and you you read those and then, Lord, I you know I'm not there. Um Lord help me. And just cry out to God, oh God, you know my weakness depresses me. Help me that I might understand what it means that my power is brought to its end in weakness. Help me to know what it means that the power of Christ could tabernacle upon me. What does that mean? Wrestle God. Ask Him to show you your weakness. You know, there's seeing your weakness, and then there's seeing your weakness. You know? Yeah, I see it. Wow. Now I really see it Get in touch with it. And then secondly, recognize his strength. Meditate on the four things That we've just talked about as witnesses to the strength and the power of Jesus Christ available to you. Thirdly, then determine to stand. Remember that verse 10, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power moves on to then put on the full armor of God so that you can take your seat Stand against the devil's schemes. After describing the spiritual warfare, verse thirteen, so that you may be able to stand your ground, and after you've done everything to stand. Stand firm then Stand is a key word. It's important. So let me just remind you of four things that are implied as we've studied stand, four things that are implied by the word stand. To remind yourself of this week. To stand means not to be surprised by conflict. It means you're not surprised Paul's taken of the four postures of the Christian life. One of them is to stand, because he says that is a basic reality to Christian living. conflict, spiritual conflict. And after all that I've said and after all we've studied, you know the chances are that if you or I We're smacked in the face with some major crisis this week, an accident, health, something in our families, a dread diagnosis from a doctor. A loss of some kind, our initial response would be, Lord, how can you say that you love me and do this? Lord Why is this happening to me? It doesn't make sense. I don't understand. I can't square it with a loving Heavenly Father. And that's why Peter wrote in 1 Peter, in chapter 4, verse 12. Dear friends Do not be surprised at the painful trial that you're suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed. When his glory is revealed. Don't be surprised. Stand. Chapter 5, verse 10, the God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you've suffered a little while, will himself restore you, make you strong, firm, steadfast. Philippians 1:29 For you it is given the gracious gift of God, not only to believe in Him, the gift of faith, but also to suffer For his sake, the gift of suffering. Acts fourteen, twenty-two It is through many tribulations that we enter the kingdom of God. So, brothers and sisters, stay Don't be surprised and shocked, reckon with the fact that there will be conflict as long as I am in this life. And Peter says that it produces in you that longing For the joy that you'll experience when Christ is revealed, and there will be no more suffering. But as long as we're in this life, we will suffer. Stand. Don't be knocked off balance by that. Secondly, don't be intimidated by Satan Standing means that you are ready to resist. You're not helpless. As soon as you begin to feel like you're helpless and overpowered and My history is that I've always succumbed to this temptation and my temper, my lusts, or my addiction to this, or whatever it is, I I've never had victory, and so I don't expect to ever have victory. And you never will, as long as you continue to look at your history, to look at what you have been able to do or not do. Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty strength. Don't be intimidated. James says, resist the devil, and he will what? Flee from you. And you know, have you ever had the experience where God has brought you to that place where you say, Lord, Lord, I'm crying out to you now Lord, enable me to resist. I want to resist, and I will, by faith, I will resist. And you do? It's exhilarating, isn't it? You understand what Paul says when he says, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Don't be hesitant. Don't be intimidated. Third thing is don't be hesitant. Don't be surprised. Don't be intimidated. See, don't be hesitant. Not Hesitant That is, don't be half-hearted about your resistance or uncertainty. Stand. Stand means you're drawing a line, you're saying, this is the line, I stand and I will not be moved. So whether it's some conviction, you need to draw the line and say, this is where I stand, Satan. And I'm not going to compromise. I'm not going to move. That's particularly important for you kids, some of you teenagers. Where you've grown up in a Christian home and you've sort of inherited secondhand certain convictions. And if those are not your convictions, if you don't believe that stealing or lying is wrong Cheating, various things, whatever the issue is for you, if you don't believe it's wrong, you'll rationalize and you know it's because you're mom and dad You've got to take the stand and say, I believe this is wrong. If you're ever going to see the strength, the power of the Lord to enable you to resist. Don't be half-hearted about your convictions. Back in 1965, coming into the World Series, there was a pitcher. That the LA Dodgers were all depending on Sandy Koufax. Going into that World Series, turned out the first game was on Yom Kippur, and Sandy Koufax was a devout Jew. Sandy Koufax said, sorry gentlemen, I won't be pitching that game. I'm going to synagogue and celebrate Yom Kippur. And they said, You gotta be kidding. No, I'm absolutely serious. We're only talking about a couple of hours, you know? Go to synagogue in the morning, in the evening, go the whole rest of the day. Just pitch those nine innings. No And he didn't. And they lost. Came back the second day, ready to pitch, and lost again. But they won the series four to three. Now here's a fellow not standing for Jesus Christ, but he's ready to draw a line and stand You have convictions like that? 1995, 30 years later, followed by the name of Eli Herring, offensive tackle for Brigham Mill University, considered third best tackle in the country. Coming to the end of his college career, 3. 5 average, he's up for the draft. He said, sorry, I'm not going to serve. I'm not interested in Pro Ball because you guys play on Sunday. And I'm not going to play on Sunday. This was his Mormon conviction. Again, the pressure But you know, you're religious. Don't you want to influence kids for good and use your influence? Look at if you're a pro-football player, think of all the influence you would be able to have. You know what his answer was? You don't gain spiritual influence by compromising. Life is too short in the light of eternity to mess up. I'd rather teach high school and coach high school football than to compromise my convictions. Down into the draft, the LA Raiders were so desperate they drafted him anyway, just hoping he'd change his mind. And he still resisted. Stand. That's what Paul means. Are you ready to stand? Jesus Christ is looking for men and women, boys and girls. We're ready to stand, saying, Lord, I can't do this. I can't do this and stand against this pressure. Be strong in the Lord. The power of his might. And then finally, don't be caught off guard. To stand means to be alert Peter says, be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking who he can devour. Resist him, standing firm in the faith because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of suffering. What are you and I suffering compared to Christians in other countries? Don't be caught off guard. Realize that you are suffering the same temptations that Jesus suffered. With one difference. Now he's a defeated foe. And do you know how the story ends? That when Jesus comes back, you will be crowned with glory and sit in victory. And Satan and his angels will be cast into the lake of fire forever. Romans 16, 20 The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet But in this time before that climax, we need to put on the armor to fight the battle. And that's what we'll begin to look at next week. Let's pray. And sorry, Father, we confess our weakness. We've tried to deny it and hide it and cover it and everything else. Give us grace that we might see it. And recognize it, so that your strength would glorify Jesus because it's so evident it is through weak people. Let us see your strength recognizing the conflict, being willing to take a stand And principle to follow you and to follow your word. Deliver us from our fears. Make us a people who even this week are alert. To watch and to see what you will do, whether it's sharing our faith or standing in a principle or against temptation, Lord, we ask you, show us the strength and the power of Jesus Christ. Available to each one, to the very weakest in this room, even to me. In Jesus' name. Amen.