Well, we come now to the last, the eighth principle today. And before we state that, look at the situation in Nehemiah. The wall's finished. We see that in chapter 6, verses 15 and 16. So please turn in that if you haven't already in Nehemiah. We see in chapter 6, verses 15 and 16, so the wall was completed on the 25th of Elul in fifty-two days. When all our enemies heard about this, all the surrounding nations were afraid and lost their self-confidence. Because they realized that this work had been done with the help of our God. The unbelievers looked around and they said, This work was impossible. They could not have done it. And so they had to acknowledge that God was in this work, and they lost their arrogance and their self-confidence. Now, let me be absolutely clear on something for you and for me. That is not going to be true of our ministry center. When we hopefully take possession of that in January, now it's looking more like January 16 than January 9, but whenever it is we finally get in there. Howard County is not going to throw off their hands and say, my God, the Bible must be true Because we did that. The Mormons have put up in a more elaborate structure than we'll have. Mosques are going up all over the place. Synagogues and various other facilities , the facility will not demonstrate It's just because we are a weak, poor people, that God has somehow shown that He is real, because that's there. The Ministry Center is a base of operation for the building of the true temple, the body of the Lord Jesus. And it's when the county and when this area sees that here's a group of people very diverse, but that they love one another and they care for one another and they live in community and their lives are transformed by a living Savior. Then they say the Bible must have something to say to our lives That's when the people are then, and verse 16 says, our enemies heard about this, that the body of Jesus Christ is being built. And there's a supernatural community that the surrounding nations were afraid and lost their self confidence because they realized this work had been done with the help of our God. The Ministry Center is simply a base of operation for that. However, after you've read that, you go on in verse seventeen of chapter six for chapter seven. To see one of those passages of scripture that rarely make it in the devotional guides, rarely make it on people's walls, rarely is framed. Because it's one of those passages that talks about administration. It talks about how various administrative details and how life is basically returning to normal. Nehemiah remains governor after the wall is completed. In fact, Nehemiah will stay in Jerusalem for twelve more years before he eventually goes back to Susan. So the government's stable. The people are secure. We even see evidence that the economy is beginning to pick up. And so at this point, there is a real danger of the people falling back into a complacency. And so what God does at Thanksgiving time of 445 BC is to shake them out of that complacency. And God begins to do a work in them to show them that in fact chapters two to six, or actually actually chapter two to seven, were only the first step of ten necessary steps toward renewal and revival. And I would like this morning for us to look at these ten steps, because I would suggest that these ten steps toward renewal and revival that you see here in the balance of the book of Nehemiah The first in chapters 1 to 6, and then the uh the second to the tenth step in chapters 8 to 13 are very instructive. Doing for me and for our congregation here at the end of the 20th century. At a time when we are still in the balance as to whether we are headed into a new dark ages of barbarism and neopaganism, or whether we're on the threshold of a new great awakening It will usher us into a time of unprecedented light and power of the gospel to transform this country. Chuck Colson has said we have five years. to turn around this culture before it will become far more difficult to do so. And so let us look at these ten steps And as you'll see on your bulletin outline, they are 10 R's. 10 R's to revival and reformation, 10 Rs to help you remember the steps to revival and reformation. And so if you uh are one of those people that like alliteration, you'll love this message because it's going to help you to be able to keep these things in mind. All right? Let me say that I could do a message on each one of these. We've spent a number of weeks on the first step. And I could uh spend a message easily on each of the other nine. But this morning all we have time really to do is to barely more than list them and explain them so that you get the drift of it and then see where in those steps is your life Where is God having you to participate in what He is doing to bring about renewal and revival in your life and my life, in our congregation, as well as in our culture? So let's look at these and examine ourselves as we see each one of them, then we'll do them very, very briefly to get just simply an overview. The first step that we have looked at so far is the one to respond obediently to God's call to rebuild. I know some of you kids probably have You know, I had these kids in this kids communicing class and they love these blanks because they're always trying to guess what's in the blank before I get to it. And some of you if you get close enough would be up here trying to look at my notes so that you could see them before you could I would get to it and have it in your little folder there, but um that gonna let you peek and see if you can figure out what they are. First one to respond obediently to God's call to rebuild. Chapters 2 to 7 From status quo lethargy, God raised up a leader, Nehemiah, who imparted a vision to the people that God is calling us to rebuild And Nehemiah called the people to turn in faith and obedience that they would all use their gifts as a mobilized people upon the wall to do the impossible. And they in fact did that. And as the people were mobilized under this vision and responded obediently to God's call to rebuild, God did the impossible through them. And we're seeing the same kind of thing happen today, Columbia Presbyterian, as well as in our nation and all around the world, in what's sometimes called the Second Reformation. The first reformation, you recall, returned the word of God to his people. The second reformation is returning the work of God to his people The first Reformation returned the priesthood of all believers to all the people of God in terms of their vertical relationship of ministering to God. The second Reformation is returning the priesthood of all believers to all the people of God in terms of the horizontal dimension of ministering to one another. And so no longer do you see in a typical alive church in the United States that the congregation are spectators But rather you as the people of God, and I sure hope in being part of Columbia Presbyterian by this time, you realize that you're participants in ministries. No longer are you like the football game analogy where you have 22,000 spectators cheering on people on the field 22,000 who desperately need exercise, cheering on 22 men feverishly running around who desperately need some rest. But the church now is much more participatory, in which we are all involved in the game. And so this is a great thing that we're seeing God do in our day. But let me be absolutely clear. We could finish this ministry center and we could in the next six months begin 25 ministries in which we would be having things going every day and every evening of the week And still not change this culture one day. In fact, even do all that and have spiritual void and emptiness in our own lives And that's where we get to the eighth principle. The eighth principle states that we must never be content with simply successful projects. But only with a deepening awareness of our God, of our sin, of his mercy, and of his transforming power. Last week we saw God in the service here and bring about An offering of $36,000 in one week, both for our general ministries as well as for the facility. And it'd be very easy as a congregation to say, that's great, boy, we're alive, something 's happened. And yet as we looked at the coalition this Thursday and saw that Jesus' words to the church at Sardis is that you have a reputation for being alive. But you're really kidding yourselves You're really about to perish. And I think it's a great thing that God's been doing, and I believe that God is doing a great work that's reflected in that kind of giving. But we must never be content with simply seeing that things are happening. What we need to be looking at as the people of God is are we in fact deepening in our awareness? Of who our God is and what He is like, and how terrible sin is. And as uh Julie saying that it is not worthy to be forgiven. And then we go down on our knees to understand His grace and His mercy and His transforming power to us. When that begins to happen in the people of God, then the culture begins to be transformed. Then we see the Spirit of God break forth in power that cannot be programmed. And that's what happens in these second to the tenth steps. And so what God did on that thanksgiving in 445 B. C. was to begin to get a hold of his people To affect the rest of the work that needed to be done in their lives. And it's appropriate that we look at these steps the Sunday before our Thanksgiving So that we can see what God did that Thanksgiving so long ago. If you're really looking for an actual Thanksgiving message on Thanksgiving then join with a number of us who go down each year to Knox Church, which is our grandmother church that started the church that started us down in Silver Spring And down there we all join and worship together, three congregations, and I'll be bringing a message there that's actually on Thanksgiving. So we don't have to feel cheated if you can come Thursday morning and get that But this morning still is a message of something that took place at a Thanksgiving Harvest Festival of Israel so many years ago. What happened there was that Nehemiah gathered the people at a plaza in front of a gate. It was called the Water Gate. You see that in chapter 8, verse 1. When the seventh month came and the Israelites had settled into their towns, all the people assembled as one man in the square before the water gate. It was called the Water Gate because it led to a road outside of that gate that went to the main source of water for Jerusalem, the Gihon Spring, which was east of the city, just north of the Kidron Valley. And this plaza was apparently large enough that the whole city could gather in it as long as they stood. Now the second thing then that we see, the second step. That God brings about on that day, the first day of the Feast of Trumpets, the harvest festival, was to read Scripture itself. To read scripture itself. Look again, chapter eight, beginning verse two. Uh well , right there uh the end of verse one They told Ezra the scribe to bring out the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded for Israel. And so on the first day of the seventh month, Ezra the priest Brought the law before the assembly, which was made up of men and women and all who were able to understand. He read it aloud from daybreak until noon, as he faced the square before the water gate, in the presence of the men, the women, and others who could understand And so here's Ezra reading from daylight. As soon as it's light enough for him to read, everybody's gathered. They all had them all get out of bed at dark, and they all gathered in there. And he reads. For say five, six hours. And remember, there's no seats. They're all standing. And it's getting hotter as it gets toward the middle of the day. But these people are listening to the word of God being read. That's all he's doing. And you see that this is very significant because it's the first step in the revival and the renewal that God brings in Israel. And so it reminds us That if there is going to be renewal and revival, it's going to be because we as God's people are in His Word. And it's so easy, isn't it, to be in Christian books and biographies and everything else except the Bible Easy for even our small groups to study everything else, except the Bible, to have in-depth sharing, to pray together, but somehow not to get into the Bible. And if you find that there's a strange thing about the fact that every time you seem to determine that you're going to get into the Bible more, it seems difficult to do Let me clue you in. You're in a spiritual battle. Satan wants to keep us out of Scripture. Individually, as families, as small groups, as a congregation. Because it's the reading of Scripture. It is our exposure to the Word of God that begins to bring the renewal and the revival in our hearts to seek Him. And so the first thing that you see here is that Nehemiah said to Ezra, read the Bible. The people need to hear God's word. But they don't just hear it. The third point is that they respectfully attend to God's word. Look how they hear it. You see in verse 3, the end of that verse, and all the people listened attentively to the book of the law. Ezra the scribe stood on a high wooden platform built for the occasion. Beside him on his right stood Matathiah, Shema, Ananiah, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkaiah, and Masaya And on his left were Pedeiah and Meshel and Melchijah and Hesh. Why did I bother to read? This was Hash, Badana, Zechariah, and Meshulam. That's right. Okay. Ezra then open the book And all the people could see him because he was standing above them. And as he opened it, the people all stood up Ezra praised the Lord, the great God, and all the people lifted their hands and they responded, Amen, Amen. And they bowed down and they worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Now that, I suggest, is respectful hearing of the Word of God. How do you and I hear the Scripture? How do we look at the Scripture? The scene itself reminds me of the Reformation churches that had the pulpits real high in order to depict graphically that the Word of God was in an exalted place as it was preached and proclaimed. And so the people heard the word and they had this visual image, just like Ezra, that that word was coming down as God's word to them. And they respectfully hear it, they attentively hear it, they worship, they prostrate themselves, they say, God is speaking. We've got to listen. It's important for you kids when the Bible's read at dinner time that you listen carefully. God's speaking. It's important for all of us. You know, I talked to a fellow On Friday, one of the construction workers over at the ministry center going up there, and this fellow was talking about how he read the Bible all the time He said he'd been a Presbyterian, Baptist, Mormon, Catholic, and a few other things he couldn't even remember. As we began to talk about what the Bible said about his knowing Jesus personally. He said, I know all about that kind of stuff, but I don't have to worry because there isn't any hell. I said, but the Bible teaches there is a hell. He said, well, that's your interpretation And so we have this thing that goes around again and again today where people say, yeah, I read the Bible, but everybody has their own interpretation, you know. And let me suggest that what that means is that we're not attending to it. Just a half hour of thoughtful reading of the clear passages of Scripture. make very clear what God is saying about hell and our sin and the work of Jesus Christ for us. But the fact is that we're an arrogant people. We look at the Bible and we say, well I can read it and then I can make up my own mind what I want to believe. But reformation and revival come when the people come to prostrate themselves before the authority of God as he speaks to them in his word. The fourth thing is that they restated the truths in contemporary terms. They restated the truths. In contemporary terms. Look at verse seven. The Levites then, Jeshua, Ben -I, Sheurah, Janem Akab, Shebiath, Shabbatai, Huriah Maasiah, Kelitah, Azariah, Josebed, Hanan, Peleh instructed the people in the law while the people were standing there. Now note, verse 8, they read from the book of the law of God, making it clear and giving the meaning so that the people could understand what was being read. The Hebrew could also, there where it says made it clear that Hebrew, where it also means to translate something from one language even to another. And so what it means is they took these historic truths that had been given generations before, and they restated them in ways that were relevant to the contemporary culture. They said, this is what it means in our situation. And that's exactly what we need to do. What my job is to do each Sunday. And for us to do with one another is to take God's word and then to see its relevancy. To our own decisions, to our own living, to our lifestyles, to the things that we're doing day by day, in order that we might see that God is speaking to us in our own situation. Then fifthly, they repented of their sin openly when they saw that. They repented of their sin openly. Verse 9. Then Nehemiah the governor, as were the priest and the scribe and the Levites, who were instructing the people, said to them all, This day is sacred to the Lord your God. Do not mourn or weep. Why'd they say that? For all the people have been weeping as they listened to the words of the law. Why were they weeping? Because they saw that their lives had fallen so far short of what God intended and commanded for them. These were a people who understood that they were spiritually, morally bankrupt. Let me ask you. When's the last time you read a passage of Scripture and saw that your life fell so far short of that passage that you began to weep? When is the last time that you or I saw that our efforts and all that we were doing were so short? We're so weak and our rationalizations were so disgusting that we finally said, it's not just that I'm missing this. I don't know how to change my heart. And we began to weep, not weeping for remorse out of how it's affected us or other people But weeping tears of repentance because we see how it has affected and offended and hurt our God. Think of what sin does to him and how he hates it, and how it offends and assaults his majesty and how it disgraces him in a life that should reflect something of his character. Revival comes when we as God's people take sin so seriously that we are able to weep. For the brokenness of our own lives, as we see how far short they come. And after having done that, now why is it And then Nehemiah and Ezra discourage the people. You think they'd be encouraging that? That's great! The people who see and sin, they're weeping. Boy, more, more, read it some more, Ezra. He says, no, no, stop weeping. Nobody's allowed to weep today. Why not? Because it was the first day of the Feast of Tabernacles, of the trumpets. And God said on the first day of the festival, you're to focus on my redemption, and that's a day of rejoicing. And so what it says to you and to me is there are seasons that God gives. Sometimes He wants to focus us on His goodness and to rejoice. Another times he wants us, as before the Day of Atonement, to be able to focus on our sin, and to see that and to weep. And Ezra and Nehemiah said, wait a minute, hold on, we're going to get to that. But right now we want you to see the goodness of God and to rejoice together on this day. And so they rejoice. And what they do then in the next step is that they relive God's redemption. That's the sixth step. They then turn from this to relive God's redemption. Not only do they hear the word, but they practice a sacrament. In chapter 8, verses 10 to 18. We read how the joy of the Lord is their strength, and they're to go and to build booths, lean-tos, temporary lean-tos. And they're to live in these lean tos for a week. One giant camp out of all Israel. There on the plaza and all over the any place they can get. That they live in these lean tos in order to remember how God brought them out of Egypt. As a pilgrim people who had no permanent place, but God was bringing them through the wilderness into the land of his promise And in doing that, what God intends is that he says, now when you read this, how I brought your ancestors out from Egypt and redeemed them with a mighty arm. The danger is that you'll say, well, that was for those days. It's not the same today. You ever have that? You know, you read the Bible and you say, well, that's how God answered them, but he doesn't do that now. And what God says is, no, I want you to understand it was just as if you had been there. And so in order to experience that, I want you to live and lean to for a few days. I want you to feel The redemption of being brought out of bondage and into freedom. I want you to experience that. And that's exactly why we have the Lord's Supper. The Lord Jesus has given to you and to me a sacrament so that month by month as we take that We are able to relive the redemption that Jesus has accomplished so that we understand that it's just as if we had been there that night that he was betrayed. And just as if Jesus had been handing us that bread and that cup, we take it because we have been redeemed just like those disciples It's just as if we had been there. In fact, the Bible says it's as if we had died on that cross with Jesus. Our sins were nailed to that cross. And in order to feel that, you and I need to relive it. And so part of the renewal and the reviving of our own lives is not to just come hear the word, but what's the priority of coming to the Lord's Supper in your life? To come month by month that you might experience and relive that precious reunion of Jesus as he speaks to you and says, My child, this was for you. And you feel that and sense that. That begins to seep into your soul. And then, as a result of that, they move on to the seventh step, which is to recall God's mercy with in-depth confession. In-depth confession. Beginning in chapter nine, at the end of verse five, we read there That uh the people stand up, they praise God, stand up, praise the Lord your God, who's from everlasting to everlasting, and they begin blessing. Be your glorious name, may it be exalted above all blessing and praise. And they talk about Him who has created the heavens and the earth and everything. He gives life to everything, and all are to worship him. And then they go on to recount how in uh God's mercy to Abraham and in Egypt and bringing the people through the wilderness and bringing them into the land and then they say in verse 16, but But they our forefathers became arrogant and stiff-necked. They did not obey your commands. And chapter 9 is the longest chapter of confession in the entire Bible. It's the longest statement of a prayer of confession. They go on here saying, here's how merciful you were, here's how faithful you were, but But, but, again and again and again, we turned from you. We went our own way. We were self-sufficient. We ignored you. Then in contrast to that you see again and again verse 17, God's precious butts. Verse 17, they refuse to listen. They failed to remember the miracles you performed among them. They became stiff-necked, and in their rebellion they appointed a leader in order to return to their slavery. But you are a forgiving God, gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and abounding in love. Verse 31. Go on again about their stiff-necked rebellion, verse 29. For years you were patient with them. By your spirit you admonished them. Verse 31. But In your great mercy, you did not put an end to them or abandon them, for you are a gracious and a merciful God. And so in the light of this, they number eight renew the covenant. They renew the covenant. And you see that at the end of chapter 9 and all of chapter 10. So you are a gracious and forgiving God, and so we want to come and we want to very seriously and specifically now deal with our sins. What's interesting and significant for us is that they deal with the three major sins of their generation very specifically. There were three problems that Nehemiah and Ezra had brought to their attention. It said that these things in particular are separating them from God and His work in their lives. Number one, the mixed marriages in verse 28 to 30. The impure relationships that they were carrying out. Secondly, there was the breaking of the Sabbath in verse 31, their use of time And thirdly, there was their giving to God or their lack of it, and their intention then to give to God and to deal with the problem of their materialism, the problem of money, in verses 32 to 39, chapter 10. And I would say to you that these are the same three things we're dealing with today, aren't they? The problems of impure relationships The problems of our use of time, the problems of our use of money, and our problem of materialism. See, we don't mind admitting that we're not perfect. But it's when we begin to come down to impure relationships, my use of time, and my use of money, that I begin to really ask the question: how serious am I about really wanting God's work in my life? It's when I begin to renew the covenant and say, my God, I'm going to give to you these areas. And I want for you to do a new work in me. I'm going to outline steps of correction, and I'm going to be accountable to some other brother or sister in my small group or someone else in the body of Jesus Christ. I really want to see you work in my life. That's a hunger for God. And we see that kind of hunger that comes out of a sense of his grace and his graciousness. of his forgiveness, of the wonderful buts like you have in Ephesians chapter 2, you were dead in your sin. But God. out of his great mercy and favor transformed you in Jesus Christ. That we then say, I want to, nothing is going to keep me from God now. And I want to give up anything that it takes is going to stand in my way between me and Jesus Christ. And when they do that, God meets them. And so revival comes. And in the ninth place, you see them rejoicing in the revival that occurs. And what a celebration it is. They don't just have one choir, they got two choirs. And the two choirs are marching along the wall that they've just built, and one's going one direction, one's going the other direction, and they meet up in the temple. And then there's this tremendous crescendo of sacrifices and praise, and you read in chapter twelve. In verse 43 , when they all come together in that verse 43, on that day they offer great sacrifices, rejoicing because God had given them great joy. And the women and the children also rejoiced. And the sound of rejoicing in Jerusalem could be heard far away, or down to Bethlehem. People were hearing them sing and shout and praise God. Now when's the last time that they heard us all the way down to Ballybrook, huh? When's the last time they heard us out on Little Potoksin? Do you have a sense of the thirsting of what kind of rejoicing that must be when God begins to work revival within his people? There should be a hunger, a tasting of that. To say, yes, we have an experience, we've gotten glimpses, we've gotten little bits of God's goodness and his work in our lives. But oh, to see the day. We will say the work of God cannot be denied. God is doing a new work, as we see in Eastern Europe or in Russia. God is doing a work here that no one can deny is a supernatural work. The rejoicing then is a rejoicing that is absolutely exuberant. But that's not the end. See, the Bible is very realistic. It doesn't just end. That's the climax. But the Bible goes on to a tenth step. And the tenth step is that the revival is deepened by reformation. The revival is deepened by reformation. See, revival is an awakening. It's that work of the Spirit of God to give us a new sense of who God is, our sin, His grace, and mercy. But Reformation is the changes that are wrought by the revival. And so that's not just a notion. And these changes are then recorded for us in chapter 13. Take a look at them this afternoon. But you see that it's after twelve years that Nehemiah returns to Susa. That's in verse 6 and 7. And then he comes back, and after you see some of these changes taking place, Nehemiah comes back and he says, Oh! There's some things that have gone downhill since I've been gone. And so you see Nehemiah once again in his usual gentle and halting manner in verse eight, I was greatly displeased with Tobi and I threw all his household goods right out of the room. Uh-oh, Nehemiah's back in town. Watch out And the Reformation continues, and he talks about other structural changes that need to take place and sin that has to be dealt with. And you see, what this happens, what very significant, what happens, you come up to the end of the book and it just stops It's like a hunk of bologna, you just slice it off, you know, just stops. And why is that? Well, because the book is telling us that this is incomplete. It just stops and you're kind of impelled and you're you're waiting for the what's the end? You know, where did they live happily ever at? That's not there. And so what was done is God impels us to see this reformation is incomplete. There it points us to the need of a deliverer. Who is going to come as the true Nehemiah? Who is going to finish the work? Who's going to build a new Jerusalem? Who's going to change hearts so that they're never going to revert back to sin? That's what you see in the book of Revelation. In chapters 21 and 22, our Jesus has come as the great Nehemiah who has finished the work that Nehemiah had begun. In Revelation chapter 21, verse 25, on no day are the gates of this new Jerusalem ever to be shut. For there's never going to be a night there. The glory and the honor of the nations will be brought into it, and nothing impure will ever enter it, nor will anyone who does what is shameful or deceitful But only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Then the work will be completed. And you and I will understand the power of Jesus Christ as we've never seen it. Do you long for the first fruits of that now? I believe he's intending to show it to us. We seek his face. Let's pray. Lord, we want to know more of the power of our Jesus, seen here and now. We ask, Lord, that you would take us individually and as a body of your people. From step two, I believe, Lord, we have been seeing step one already. Now, Lord, you need to move us into your word and to our response to that word. So that we would see your power as we have not seen it in our generation. Lord, speak to each one of our hearts And where we are in this work, that you would have your way with us. For Jesus' sake. Amen.