First of Luke, chapter one. All along, as I read in Luke chapter one, the first twenty five verses. Luke 1, 1 to 25. Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled in others. Just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the Word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning It seemed good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent theophemist, so that you may know the certainty of the things that have been taught. In the time of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zachariah, who belonged to the priestly division of the Bible. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were upright in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations lamelessly. But they had no children. Because Elizabeth was bad, and they were both well along in years. Once, when Zechariah's division was on duty and he was observing as priest before God He was chosen by lot according to the custom of the priesthood to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were playing outside. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him. Standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When Zachariah saw him, he was startled. He was gripped with fear. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to give him the name John. He will be adjoyed, delightful, and many will rejoice because of his birth, but he will be grave in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or other from any drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from birth. Many of the people of Israel will bring back to the Lord their God. And he will go on before the Lord in the spirit, power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Zachary asked the angel, how can I be sure of this? I'm an old man, and my life has grown on in years. The angel answered, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God and have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. Now you will be silent. And not able to speak until the day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come true at their proper time. Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he stayed so long in the temple When he came out, he could not speak to them. They realized he had seen a vision of the template, and he kept making signs to them, but remained unable to speak When his time of service was completed, he returned home. After this, his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five months remained in seclusion. The Lord has done this for me, she said Will these ladies he have shown his favor and taken away my disgrace from among the people. Zechariah and Elizabeth Two characters that open up the pages of the New Testament to us. Zachariah, the rustic priest from the hills of Judea. A priest who couldn't untangle the theological knots that were the delight of the priests in Jerusalem. A Hick priest, a guy from the hills who would have been looked upon with some benign contempt by the priests who were his peers in Jerusalem. Zechariah has come up now to serve as priest. His course, that is his his section of the priesthood, is now on service. And so it comes up. As you recall, we've looked at in the past. Uh this one very special morning, somewhere around 6 October 6 BC. Zechariah has been chosen by lot to offer the burnt incense in the morning offering. This was a privilege so rich that it could only be experienced once in any priest's lifetime And after all these years of service now, the lot has fallen upon Zechariah. And so he's headed into that holy place within the sanctuary. And he stands before that altar of incense just before him. The table of the showbread is on his right. The golden candlestick is on his left, imparting a dull uh glow of light, which among is the light for that room. And as he's just about to Depart from offering that incense on the altar, an angel appears to him. And that angel appears. and tells them that he is to have a son. And that that son is to be a very special son. And he goes on to speak of something of the mission of that son and what God's going to do and bring the Messiah for whom the son will be the forerunner. And then we see Zechariah's answer in verse 18. And that's what I want to focus on this morning. His answer to the angel and what we can learn from that in its surrounding circumstances. After hearing these amazing promises of the angels, Zachariah responds, How can I be sure of this? And after all, I'm an old man, and my wife is well alone in years. And we see in this the picture of Zechariah, the doubt of the Satan. And so I want to notice three things about doubt this morning that we see pictured here in the life of Zechariah. Three lessons that you and I need to learn about doubt. First of all, I want us to notice the seriousness of doubt. Secondly, I want for this story for us to observe the remedy for doubt. And then thirdly, for us to see The graciousness of God in using doubters. First of all, notice then the seriousness of doubt Can you imagine that scene? There's the same Dagab standing before Zachariah Now we're told in God's word that when Moses went up to Mount Sinai and spent forty days with the Lord before his presence , But Moses came down with his face shining so brilliantly, so radiantly, that the people said, put a veil over your face. We can't stand to look at it. It's too radiant. Now here is an angel who stands constantly in the presence of God. What an awesome sight that angel must have presented to Zachariah. We know that it had an effect on him because we read that Zechariah was startled and gripped with fear The angel has to start off as all angels do before they say anything of their message. They always start off, but don't be afraid. I'm not going to strike you dead. There's an awesome sense of power in the presence of an angel who stood in the presence of God. And so this angel comes and he gives them this message about his son, and about the place that God has for this son. And Zach Wire 's response to that presence and to that message is never too old Do you see what's going on here? Picture that response to an angel. Don't pass over that real lightning now. Of course he's saying, no, we're too old. Think of the context of his saying that. Well, on the one hand, we can sympathize with Zechariah Campbell. We can sympathize with him because we understand what doubt is. We all struggle with doubts, don't we? And we understand that in Zechariah's life, he and Elizabeth had bought each other so long, and they had prayed about it for so many years. But surely they have given up hope. And you know how quickly goes when you pray for something and you hope for it for so long and it doesn't happen after a while, you're afraid to hope. Because you're afraid your hopes will be bashed again, aren't you? That's precisely the way it was with Zechariah and Elizabeth. And so when he hears this message, he's afraid to hope. And he says, but I don't dare hope. How can I be sure of this? How am I going to be sure that I I won't have my hopes dashed again when somebody prophesied that I would have a child if I did this and if I just humbled myself on the Lord or if I had enough faith or other things that have been told me through the years How can I be sure? So we can sympathize with Zachariah's position. And we can so readily identify with him because we find that we doubt in so many ways in our own lives. But in sympathizing and in doubt and in identifying, we have to be careful of a trap. And that trap is that we see the doubt as a problem rather than a sin. We live in a culture in which so many of our needs are met, apart from a sure grip upon God's promises in faith, that we don't look at God as very seriously. Because we don't see it contrasted with very strongly remarkable faith very often. And so we have come, I believe, to look upon doubt as a rather small matter As a kind of a problem that keeps us from entering into the fullness of God's blessing. But God wants us to see here from His Word that doubt is not simply a problem. Death is sin. Doubt is sin because it's implying that God is a liar. It's implying that what God says may not be totally trustworthy. But God might deceive us. Doubt is really not believing God at his word. And it's calling him a liar And when you stop to think of what that means, that's a terrible, terrible indictment against the Lord Death therefore is sin. Now contrast Zechariah's response with other situations, other responses that might be thought of as doubt. For instance, in Abraham's life. Do you remember when Abraham was told that he would have a son? How did he respond? God said to Abraham, Abraham, I'm going to be your shield and your great reward in Genesis 15. And do you remember how Abraham sort of looked down at the ground and said, Lord, what are you going to give me? You haven't even given me a son. And this guy Aliazar of Damascus is going to be my heir. And the Lord gently took Abraham outside of his tent and said, Abraham, look up at all those stars. That dark eastern night in the desert, you'd probably see ten thousand stars at a glance. Abraham, look at those stars Can you count them? Abraham says, That's silly, Lord. There's too many up there. And God says, Abraham, that's the way your descendants are going to be. Then Abraham, we would read in Genesis 15, 6, believed God. He took him at his word. Said, God, I believe if that's what you said, that you can do that even out of an old man like me. And God counted that to implement this. But then God went on in Genesis 15, 7 And God says, Well, I'm the Lord who brought you out of Er the Chaldeans to give you this land to take possession of. How did Abraham respond? He said, Oh sovereign God. How can I know that I'll gain possession of it? That sounds an awful lot like Zach Wright. But it was purchased, you see, with a faith that believed God. And he was simply saying, Lord, that's such a brave promise. How am I going to have my faith strengthened to be sure of this? He was asking for a confirmation to strengthen his faith. That's different from Zachariah. Jack Wire says, How can I be sure of this? I'm an old man. He sees only the problem. And he disbelieves. And so there's a difference between asking God to strengthen your faith out of your death and simply saying, God, I'm not sure that I can believe that. And fasted with Mary. Just a few verses later, you know, you have the angel coming to Mary. In Luke chapter 1 and verse 30. What's the angel say to Mary as he announces Jesus' birth and says to her, Don't be afraid, Mary, you found favor with God, and you'll be with child and give birth to a son, and we'd have given the name Jesus, and he'll be grave and called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the thorn of his father's David will reign over the house of David forever, and his kingdom will never end. Mary's a wonderfulness. And how did she respond? Notice verse 34. How will this be? She says, since I'm a virgin. You see the difference. Mary's not saying, I don't believe you. I'm a virgin. That's impossible She asked, Hospital, are you going to do this? I believe you can do it, but how are you going to do it There's a difference, again, you see, between doubting, not taking God in his word, and saying, God, I don't understand how you'll do this. Help me to understand what you're doing. And so the angel responds positively then. But he tells her how the Lord will do it, that the Holy Spirit will come upon her, and the power of the Most High will overshadow it. He doesn't rebuke it. Not the case with Zechariah. Zechariah doubted and he questioned God's faithfulness. He questioned whether God could really be believed. Now, what about you and me? Do we think it's any less serious? The we who have the scriptures You 'll have God's full word and revelation in Jesus Christ, and He comes to you and to me. What does He say? Jesus says, seek you first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness. And all these things, what your wear, your shelter, your food, all the things you need, I'll provide for you. And we say, Lord, how can I be sure of that? uh the market hasn't been too good, you know. And and all the unemployment is up and, you know, my job's in jeopardy. They've been laying guys off. And then uh I look at this situation and that situation and we're in trouble. Uh I look at uh the uh what the doctor said and uh I see the problems I have with my health and No , I'm not really sure you can take care of me. Is that any less serious than Zachariah before an angel? We have God 's words, and doubt is sin. We know it's sin because of what happened here When Zachariah said this, Yainka didn't simply say, Well, yeah, that's okay, Zachariah, you know, we all have a little problem believing these things, you know Hang in there, you'll see. The angel says, now I'm Gabriel, and I stand in the presence of God. I told you this from the very mouth of God. And then it will be silent. You won't be able to speak because of what you have said here until the day that this happens. Because you didn't believe my words, it'll come true at your proper tongues. Talk about a dumb question That's exactly what Zachariah asked him. How he must have put his hand over his mouth and thought, how stupid of these answer. That really was done. And now I will be done when I must, because I doubted God. God doesn't take death lightly. It's serious when we don't believe it. It's something to be confessed, not something for you and me to say, oh, well, I just can't believe it. God help me. When you and I find that there's a promise in Scripture, and there's something that we doubt that God will do, we need to start by confessing that is sin. Lord, I don't believe this. I really don't believe He can do it. And I confess that is sin. Do we believe that God can provide the adequate facility that He wants for the years ahead for us, whether it has to do with this building? Well whether it has to do with anything else, do we believe that God will provide the right facility for us as a congregation? Or do we doubt it? You think somehow that slipped off his agenda? But somehow God really didn't pull that off, you know. He he forgot that how tough things are in Colombia. And somehow he's not able to provide things. Or take the example of the promise of Jesus to us. He said, if you follow me, I will make you to become fishers of men. Do you believe that promise applies to you? Well, do you say to yourself, well, you know, there's fishers of men, and then there's non-fishers of men, and I'm definitely in the category of a non-fisher. There's others who can talk to people about the Lord and that God could use to bring to himself, but not me. I just don't have the gift. And so I'm the kind of person who will let my little light shine and let people see my good words and hopefully Somewhere along the line I'll be able to be a testimony to Jesus. But I don't really expect that he'll ever use me to bring a person to Jesus Christ as he used Dick Stone to bring Paul. I don't really believe that I could identify with Dick in that situation. That's doubt. That's the Zachariah syndrome. That's saying, Lord, not we're too old. That's saying, Lord, I'm too weak. And the focus is on me. Do you believe that God could use you in evangelism? No, I'm not saying that you don't have to be like Abraham and say, Lord, I need a confirmation of that. I remember my early days as a Christian as I was a brand new Christian, University of Pennsylvania. And I was wanting to witness for the Lord that I felt very, very weak and inadequate. I was afraid to get started And so one day I remember very definitely praying, Lord, it was a hand a fraternity that I hung around and uh I had to talk to the guys here about the moment. And I said, Lord, I want to talk about you, but I'm afraid. And so I asked that if you want me to talk about you, that you will start the conversation today when I go over there. You start it well because I can't. And then give me the graves to pick up on. I walked in, I was coming over to see to visit my friend Stu and another fellow saw me and he said, Stu's not here right now, I'll be back in a little while. I want to sit down for a cup of coffee or tea or something. And so we sat down there at the table. As we were sitting down, he started out, have you ever heard of an organization called Intervarsity Christian Fellowship? I said, well yeah, I've I've heard of that. Um I had been to a few meetings, that was about it. And he said, Well you know there was a guy around here last night. He was talking about Jesus Christ and how he related to our lives in that group. What do you think of that? Now, very personally, you see, it's not simply that God was able to do that. But that with me as doubting and weak, asking for the confirmation of God to do that, that in his tenderness he did confirm that. He took my doubt seriously. But he was able to strengthen me as he strengthened Abraham. Well, you may come as Mary. You may say, Lord, I believe you want to use me as a bishop, but how are you going to do it? How are you going to accomplish this miracle? See, and the Lord may respond to you. I've provided some opportunities for training. Take advantage of it. Get in touch with a Christian who you can get next to and have some evangelistic experiences with them. Try speaking to your neighbors and seeing if they might be interested in getting into a Bible study to look at the person of Jesus Christ Take advantage of the men's evangelism breakfast, and will you be willing in your weakness to simply ask of them to come with you to that breakfast? In your weakness to trust him. If we don't, that's serious because we are sinning in doubting God Now what's the remedy for? We notice that also in this passage. The remedy for doubt is given here too. What's the remedy They see the angel had spoken 135 words, if you take the NIV English, for simplicity here now, 135 words to Zechariah, but he heard only six of them. Elizabeth will bear a son. As Amariah heard, Elizabeth will bear you a son. The rest of that message sort of got lost in the dim background with that one blurry message. Elizabeth will bear you a son. And so Zerkariz Pogan was he focused on the small promise. The relatively small personal thing. And he lost total sight of the great thing that God was trying to do. And God's intention for Zechariah was that in hearing the great promise of his sending Messiah, accomplishing a revival in Israel, and using this son that he was going to bring about to accomplish that, but also that son was going to be his. You see, exactly how to put it in perspective, he couldn't believe. He had to believe the greater in order to believe the lesser. But because he focused on the lesser, he wasn't able to believe it. If you and I focus on our personal needs, our personal problems, And how God's promises pertain to that. And we wrench out of Scripture the promises of God only as they pertain to my needs and my situation now. We won't believe it Why? Because we're taking them out of the context of Jesus Christ. The promises are yea and I am in him. In order to make sense of those promises and to believe them, you've got to believe that God sent Jesus, his Son, to die for your sin, that he accomplished the miracle of incarnation. That's what this was leading up to. God was going to send his son in human history. And he was going to send that son to live in a human body, to fulfill the law in his own life. And then to die is one who had broken that out every point on behalf of you and me as a substitute, and then you would raise him from the dead. If we can see that, get our focus off of our own problems, and see what God has done in Jesus. We'll be able to believe. If he raised Jesus from the dead, don't you think he can take care of your health and your financial situation? The particular problems that are causing worry and distress and anxiety in your life right now Do you think that he might even be able to use you to bring someone to Jesus Christ? Think of what he did in the book of Acts and thousands coming to Christ. The day of Pentecost with the Spirit coming upon his people. Meditate on his great acts of the past of what he accomplished in Jesus Christ. And then he could even use faith Because of what he's done. Focus not on your weakness, but on his strength, as it's revealed in Jesus. But if you've never come to Jesus, if you still look at what he's done in Jesus as something far off and outside of your life, I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ today, come to him. That's the beginning of the remedy for your doubt. To come as you are to Jesus and ask him to take you with your doubts, your questions, all of those things. Don't solve them. Don't ever think I'm going to get all those down to put aside. Then I can come to Jesus. You come to him for one thing, because you're desperate and you believe that what he has said and that he would take away your sin if you come to him is true. And you come to him on that basis, in that basis alone. Then as a Christian, you're going to focus on him rather than our powers. And that limits by such a mountain to us, until we finally raise up onto our knees and peer over the hill and find out that God just blew away Mount St. Helens behind me. And the cross and the resurrection. But there's obstacles in our life, but so large until we rise up and see the cross and the resurrection. And our problem in lighting Thirdly, I want you to notice from this story. Not only the seriousness of doubt, doubt is a sin. Not only the remedy for doubt. To look from the smaller thing that we need God to do to the greater thing that He has done and is doing in Jesus, but also to see the grace of God in using doubtings. Isn't that wonderful? God uses doubt. He doesn't just use people that don't have debts. Look at Zechariah. Here in Zechariah, verse 18, his response to an angel has been, my wife and I are too old to have kids. It's beyond possibility for me. And here's a fellow who has sinfully responded to God's promise. God wanted him to look and see the greatness of the promise, and he hasn't seen it yet. He will. And wait till us. What does God do with it? He uses this weak man, this devant sacroye, to write one of the greatest hymns that were ever written in the history of the church, recorded for us in Luke Chapter one, beginning with verse sixty-seven, verse sixty-eight to seventy-nine. The Him was after all. He looked praise in Thanksgiving. He used Zechariah to build up the whole church of Jesus Christ down through the ages as his instrument in his hands. It's this Zechariah that God calls him to sick blameless. Pleasing to him, upright in his sight. It's this Zachariah that God will call to be the father and the forerunner of his son, the Messiah. Talk about being used of the Lord. Zachariah is mighty in the Lord, that he's mighty even in his house So it is with you and with me. God gently disciplines Zechariah. Zechariah says, What? Give me a sign. How can I know this? And Easter says, You want a sign? All right, I'll give you a sign. Yeah, shut your mouth for nine months. And so Zachariah comes out from the temple and everybody's getting kind of anxious out there, you know, and they're saying, well, why is he in there so long? Zachariah comes out and he starts to give the ironic blessing, the number six, which was the tradition after coming out after that sacrifice. And he wants our plan. And Zachary all of a sudden realized this sign is being fulfilled. God really does mean what he says. And so the people perceive that he's seen a vision as he tries to, you know. You know, and they make some signs and they get this idea that you've seen something tremendous in the temple, you know, and then he goes home and he tries to tell Elizabeth and you know and write some things down and tell him, Elizabeth sees you can't speak That's a sign that God is doing something amazing in this house. God is going to do something miraculous. You should then see the sign. And then when John is born, his mouth is open and he declares his praise. Zach Why I wanted a sign? He was given a sign. He was gently disciplined as he was used. You and I, when we doubt, it'll hurt. God will discipline us. He'll teach us through some painful situations sometimes to learn to trust Him. And you can think of instances when God in His gentleness has disciplined you and you're doubting Him. But he will still use you. That's what I want you to see again. He will still use you. Even in those doubts, he will still use you. Because he's gracious to use doubts. I remember back to our example of evangelism when I was on staff with university. Going to Frostburg State College, one of my campuses. And there I met a girl, Jen, who was in her first year as a freshman. She came to me, and she was A diminutive girl, shy, and we're scared about being on this big band secular campus And she said, I really want to get involved in any of varsity because I want to make sure that I don't lose my faith in Jesus Christ during my years here in college. All my friends have talked about all the attacks I'll have on my faith and how it'll be so hard going through here, and I want to make sure that I don't stop trusting the Lord. So I want to make sure I'm in a good fellowship And so she was in a Bible study and she was concerned that she's had, I just want to serve the Lord here, but I hope that I'll be able to hang on with my doubts. But you know, God gave down a heart that simply said, Lord, I want you to use me. In my bounce. I want you to use me. Next time I visited campus, Jan brought somebody with him. So this is my roommate, Bobby. I'd like you to talk with her for a little while. She pushed it on the door, shut the door, and left. I said, hi Robin, what are you here for? She said, Oh, this can I said, all she talked about is Jesus. And she told me, would you be able to talk to me about why I should give my life to him? Well, I'll tell you, I felt like Daniel. I had just been fit in the den with a lion. And had been released there. She took me over the polls for the next hour about all the intellectual argument and question she could think of about why you should never trust Jesus Christ, how the Bible was undeniable, and everything else that she could possibly think of. She was angry I think she partly angry because she thought she'd been sick. Well I'd been sick for her somehow and so she wasn't uh going to take this lying down. But jammed with her elves, still loved her, and kept talking to her about Jesus The next time I heard from Robin was just before Christmas. I received a Christmas card from her. And she wrote and she said, This is my first Christmas as a Christian. I've given my life to Jesus. And I kept on loving and talking. And God brought me to himself. Next time I went back to campus, it was Jan and Robin. Now they had Morris with him. Mark was a girl down the hall. And uh Jan was still talking to me about her doubts, but she's still talking to people about Jesus. And so she brought Marjorie and she said, Marge has some questions too. We think you could talk to her. So I started talking to Marja. Marge's a lot of gentlemen. She's a procrastinator. For three or four visits before Marge finally broke down in that little room and wept and asked Jesus to come into her life. And then Marge. And Robin and Jen started on Algern. Long down through that hall, so by the end of four years I had lost count of the number of girls who have come to Jesus Christ. Through doubting again. Because she wanted God to use her, even with her doubts. You want God to use you with your doubts this morning? Doubts about whether he really means it when he says, Seek first the kingdom of his righteousness of all these things that your needs will be added to you. When he has said to you, Follow me. And I will make you to be a fisher of men. Trust me. Trust me. Let's pray. Lord, we bring our doubts before you and we bring them, Lord, to you this morning, recognizing They're not simply problems and hang ups that keep us from getting blessings. Our doubts, our sin. They're terrible sin because They are the implication that you are a liar. They're saying that you could deceive us. You could go back on your word. Lord, none of us would ever dare to utter that to you. But every time we doubt your word, that's what we're saying. And we confess before you now our doubts. Lord, we pray for your remedy in our lives. But you would help us to learn from Zechariah when he heard all those great, terrific promises about Jesus, that all he could focus on was that he would get a son. Help us to learn, friend and lord. We're Zechariah. We 're so much like him. We see all the great promises concerning your kingdom. We see the consummation of it in the book of Revelation. We see the wonderful works of our God in the book of Acts. And we're concerned that you can't solve that problem in our own lives. It is so small in context of those things. Help us, Lord, to be like Peter, to get our eyes off the leaves, and to be able to look to you as you draw us through the storm. Lord, we thank you that in your graciousness and kindness we do use doubt. And that even as those who doubt you want at times who struggle With believing you in every point, you'll still use us. Because you love us. And because your use of us depends ultimately upon your strength and not our weakness. In our weakness teach us, Lord, to rely on your strength. Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. That we might be a people who trust you. Not a people of weak and doubting faith, but a church lord that lifts itself up, that uh encourages one another. by reminding each other of your faithfulness because we've taken you at your word. Make us a people of faith we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I mean it's good. We have heard that a remedy for doubt is to consider the lesser in the light of the greater. Hymn number 147 is a hymn that was penned about 800 years ago It's a hymn that in which the writer reflects on the people of God before Christ came. This hymn points to The prophecies that those people would have known. The hymn has five verses. In each verse, the Messiah is spoken of with a different name, coming from a different portion of the prophecies those people would have been familiar with. And so as we sing this hymn, let's remember