We turn together this morning to the Gospel of Luke as we continue to celebrate this Advent season, the season of waiting. We are doing two forms of waiting, if you will. We are reenacting every year. The advent that was first experienced by the early church as those waiting for Christ and the Messiah to come. As God had promised in the Old Testament, and that waiting would take place, as we looked at last week from the announcement of Isaiah in chapter 40, it would be a long wait, a very long wait. But a waiting that was worth it because of God's provision for his people, Israel. And for indeed the promise of God to bring redemption. It was God's plan Against sin and rebellion and death to bring light and redemption. So we reenact every year remembering the waiting of the first advent, but we're also In Advent as well, on this side of the resurrection, waiting for the return of Christ, when he will come in glory to judge the earth. He has been given all authority in heaven and on earth. And so we, as the process of reenacting that waiting and in our own form of waiting, are reminded of God's conspiracy, if you will, in this Advent conspiracy, the divine plan To bring redemption and salvation. We hear this in the book of Luke, a passage that I have never preached before. The wonderful song of Zechariah. Before I read it, let me give some context about what's happening. Because there's a lot of drama. Zechariah serving as a priest, was serving the Lord in the temple. He was approached by Gabriel, the angel. Of the Lord. And he said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah. And then he announces to Zechariah exactly what is going to happen, and that his wife will give birth to a son, and this son would be used of the Lord. to announce salvation to the people of Israel. He says, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, your prayer has been answered. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to give him the name John. He will be a joy and a delight. to you. And many will rejoice because of his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or other fermented drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. Many of the people of Israel will bring he will he bring back to the Lord their God, and he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah. to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. This is what Isaiah was prophesying. There'd be a voice crying in the desert , prepare the way of the Lord. And that would come through the mouth of this son, John. But Zechariah just asked the question, How can I be sure of this? For I am of old age and my wife is on in years. And Gabriel said, I am an angel who stands before God 's presence. He was challenging Zechariah in his doubt, in his desire for a sign, and he says to Zechariah, okay It's not a sign Zechariah was expecting. So now he's going to be silent for nine months. He will be mute and not say a word. We'll be unable to communicate. Can you imagine? Moms I want you to imagine being pregnant for nine months and your husband never being able to speak. Now some of you may say, that's not such a bad deal. But imagine having to then communicate to your husband through signs and ways of communicating that were unfamiliar Knowing that you've just been told that you're going to be giving birth to a son that will come in the power of Elijah. I would suspect she'd want to talk to her husband about that. Except he would have to do all the listening. Until this moment When they were arguing, oh, you can't give him the name John. There's nobody in your family named John. Why would you do that? And they're all squabbling about this until finally someone, poor Zechariah, I mean, he's a priest of the Lord. He said he's just been struck dumb and mute, and he's been that way for nine months, and nobody's asked him yet. So they finally turn to him and say, Hey, what should we give him today? Right. And this is what it says. The neighbors were all filled with awe throughout the hill country. Why? Because of this. They asked him, what should we name this son? He asked for a writing tablet, and to everyone's astonishment he wrote, His name is John. Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue was loosed, and he began to speak, praising God. And this was his song. His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied. You can go ahead and put those on the screens. I didn't detect you there, sorry Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come and has redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. And he has said through his holy prophets of long ago, salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. To show mercy to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath he swore to our father Abraham. To rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and to enable us to serve Him without fear in holiness and righteousness before Him all our days. And you, my child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise will shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. And the child grew and became strong in spirit And he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would bless the preaching of your word, for in your word is refuge, because in your word The living God gives us promises, promises of hope that we are to sing. Help us, O Lord, to sing as Zechariah sang. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is a beautiful song. Unfortunately, we don't have the music playing in the background as I would preach it. But it is a song that was meant to be sung and not just read. But it has three movements to this song. You see it in your outline. The movement goes from redemption to preparation to illumination. And what is so beautiful about this song and yet so unexpected is this That here he was just months earlier saying, I need a sign. You know, how is this going to be possible that my wife will give birth to a son I am old in years and my wife is on in years. How will this happen? So you would expect that the song would be entirely about his son. But only just two verses actually are about his son John The song is preoccupied, begins and ends with a focus on the song and praise to God the Redeemer. So let's look at these three movements. Redemption, preparation, illumination. In verses 68 through 75, what we see is the many facets that Zechariah sings about in regard to God's redemption. Let's look at them together as he eloquently and poetically sings them. The first The imagery, the rich imagery of this song, he tells us, is that the redemption of God will be seen, he tells us in verse 69, he is raised up. A horn of salvation for us. He's just spoken in verse 67 about God's redemption of his people. And then in 68 he says, this is the Lord the God of Israel, because he came and he has redeemed his people. What's beautiful is he's using a verb tense And it's called a prophetic errorist. Meaning, it is a prophetic word, but it is a prophetic word done in the tense and verb of already been completed. It's a sure thing. And so he says, the horn of salvation. That is a phrase that is picked up from the Old Testament, has rich imagery. And what he's singing of there are the horns of an ox. The mighty horns of a male ox, as he is going through the the work of the day, but when he does, he does so with his head down and the horns are forward and it forms A helmet like protection over the head of the ox. But its real uh imagery is with the house of David. That this would be a king whose helmet has a horn on it, as an imagery of the ox with its horns. And he will come with the horn of salvation. Meaning the king, last week we looked at, he is the warrior shepherd. Here he is the King Redeemer. He will come, not as one whose victory is uncertain But rather Zechariah sings he will come as the one who already has victory because he is God. In fact, he tells us Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come. He has redeemed Israel. So it's a song about what's going to happen as a sure thing, as the horn of salvation, as the king redeemer. That's the first image. Of this redemption. But secondly, it says that there will be victory over enemies. He says, and he as though sorry, as he said through his holy prophets long ago, salvation from our enemies, from the hand of those who hate us. Now, here, what we need to do is not first jump directly to the nature of what Christ's work on the cross is yet. What he's singing of is he's singing as a first-century Jew. And there were those who believed, and rightly so, that God would indeed come to redeem his people, and in so doing would do so by a king to what? to rescue them from the hands of their stated enemies. That was not a wrong expectation. And indeed, that is what Jesus would do, but not through the way that they would expect But what he's singing of here has not just salvitic overtones, but also political overtones. But he's saying, the Lord is coming again to redeem his people Israel. And he will do so by rescuing them from the hands of their enemies. He will have victory. The third picture in this redemption is in the display of mercy. Notice what he says. Verse 72. To show mercy to our fathers. To show mercy to our fathers That God's display of redemption is the display of his mercy. Now, we have a rich understanding of mercy. But generally speaking, when we speak of mercy, we tend to mean not receiving what we deserve. And that is a right definition of mercy. However, it is not the oldest definition of mercy, and it isn't the one that Zechariah is using. The mercy that he is referring to has a very rich and intense meaning for the entirety of the Old Testament found in one word, Hesed. And the word Hesed literally translated is loving kindness. That God's redemption Is his loving kindness on display It isn't to say that it's, of course, it's salvation to those who do not deserve, but that's not what's in view here. It's not just a negative, it's a positive. And we'll get into in just a few moments just how positive it is. But for now, hold that in your mind. That what he's doing here is that it's God's loving kindness, his mercy, on display. And then there's these words after he says, to remember to show the mercy to our fathers Hmm. Hmm. Man. I I can't even begin to take a month of Sundays to tell you what he just said there. It's just it's amazing. And so he says, and to remember his holy covenant. It is so Beautiful in its rich giftedness. He says, God is coming to bring a sure thing through the horn of salvation through his Savior King. To bring victory over his enemies, of his people, as a display of his loving kindness, not just for the people who hear Zechariah's song. But for his fathers, and for his father's fathers, and for theirs, all the way back. To Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. What a beautiful picture He sang in those two sentences of this song. This is it, though. God has come everything he's ever promised. Mercy. To our forefathers, though they sinned and rebelled against him in the desert To remember his promises that he repeated over and over and over again as he pledged To his rebel people, I will be your God, and you will be my people. Here in these verses, he says, and he will show mercy to our fathers. And and he says to remember his holy covenant. This song Is in a long line of the people of God when they partied and celebrated the renewal of the covenant. And what is he saying when he says to remember his covenant? It's something that you and I Long to be and something that we long for. We long to be a people who keep our promises and we long to live in a world where we can trust the promises that people make to us. God remembers his promises. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. There is no shadow of turning. Through the desert, the Lord would come, make a way for the Lord. Why? Because He is a Lord who keeps His promises. Those are the pictures of redemption. But there's one more. And here's why we need the one more. Because the pictures I've just said to you Are all announced objectively, meaning they're external to you and me They're what's saying what God has done, what God is doing, and what is a sure thing that He's going to do, regardless of individual. But then there's this final picture of this redemption which he's singing of when he says these words. The oath he swore to our father Abraham to rescue us from our hands of our enemies and to enable us. To serve without fear in holiness and righteousness before Him all our days. So what thus far has been an external, objective announcement of God's redemption pictured in these things, he now turns to an inside-out service. You see? Inside out. He will enable us. He will bring salvation He will bring you in his way, but not by your strength. He will enable you from the inside out to what? To walk in your righteousness To walk in his righteousness, to walk in his ways, all our days, he says Oh, but he continues. He says, without fear. In fact, without fear begins the phrase in the original Greek. He's saying, without distraction, without any concern for those who you think can hurt you, he says, without fear, God will enable you, empower you to serve him. In holiness and righteousness. Oh, but one more, before him all our days. Now there's something interesting about this. He says, I will enable you to serve. So the idea of the word serve there has a real meaning to it. It's not just we use the word serve and find different contexts, but in Greek it has different kinds of words used for different kinds of service. Here he's not talking about service, that is technical service, meaning service in worship or temple. No, he means something much broader than that. Why? Because he says before him, corumdeo, before God. He is saying that the redemption that God is bringing will be done through these pictures to empower those who belong to him to serve him in holiness and righteousness before the face of God, meaning every aspect of life. Every area, every jot and fiddle, every day, every hour before the face of God to serve Him in whatever you do We do in the name and quorum dea before the face of God. What a beautiful picture. What an amazing thing he actually intends for the people of God to be. A redeemed people, empowered to serve, not just on Sundays. But on Monday through Saturday, 24-7, because this is the kind of redemption that God has brung And that's just the first few verses of a song. I would say that's a pretty big song. I would say he saved up his words wisely. Guided and filled by the Holy Spirit, God used a priest To sing a song. And isn't it amazing? He didn't first sing it about the son that was going to be born to his wife, but rather the God who is the giver of redemption. But how is God going to do this? What is he going to do? What is the pathway? Well, that's the preparation in verses 76 through 77 as he talks about how God is going to accomplish that. He's going to accomplish it, he says, Well, through my child, being a one who will prepare the way. Not as the way, but preparing the way. And he says first and foremost in verse 76 that he is going to be a prophet of the Most High, meaning he's going to go before God means he's going to be the forerunner. That's the first way that God is going to prepare to accomplish this task is through his son John as a forerunner before Christ. He will be doing the preparing for the thing that God has already said in verse sixty-seven, rather sixty-eight. God, the Lord, uh so because he has come The God of Israel has come and has redeemed his people. Now he says, For you will go before the Lord to prepare the way for him He's going to roll out the red carpet for the Lord And then he says, and one of the first times in in the Gospels and in the most detailed of ways is the description of not only just the calling of John as the one who will be the forerunner of Christ. He also gives the content of his message. And the content of that message is salvation in the forgiveness of sins. And I don't know if you can, I want you to be able to tie together the verses and the theme and the movements of this song. God has said and re and revealed the different facets of his redemption, how he's going to enable his people to serve without fear and distraction before the face of God in holiness and righteousness. And he will do so by preparing the way to the forerunner of my son. But listen to what the message is, and this is when he gets down deeper, and he really shows us How is it that he will enable us to do this? He will do it because of what? He brings the redemption that is salvation in the forgiveness of sins. He is tying now together the inside-out service to the means through which God will make us a people who will serve him. A people that will be redeemed by being forgiven of our sins. And can we not sing this morning Is there any greater gift that we could rejoice in at Christmas A remarkable thing happened a few weeks ago. One of the shows that I enjoy watching is a show called Parenthood. And in this particular story, a husband and wife have been separated for a year. A lot of hurt, a lot of pain The husband realizes the error of his ways. He comes back and they have already prepared the divorce papers. And he says to her, I failed you, I did not stand up for you, I did not fight for you, but I am fighting for you now. And yet she understandably is very hurt. And she's done her hurting. And she believes it's impossible. And she goes to her mother. A complete secular show. It is life without God. And yet, right at the heart of this episode, she says, But how am I going to do that? And her mother looks at her and she says, marriage. Is about forgiveness. What is the greatest gift That we can give to one another. Whether we're husband and wife, brother or sister, friends, neighbors. Forgiveness. And what is announced here is that forgiveness begins with a forgiving God. The sweet, unrelenting, unparalleled, all encompassing, powerful, intimate. That is the content of John's message that he will bring salvation in the forgiveness of sins. And his message would be repent, therefore. Repent specifically of specific sins, as my brother Tim has been wont to remind and teach us. To repent because we have a Father ready to forgive And after he said those two verses, the preparation, and after he's talked about his son and the message and the role that he will play He finishes with illumination. Illumination. He says in verse 78, because of the tender mercy of our God. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high. To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Oh Glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, this illumination. When he says, first, because of God's tender mercy. Remember I talked about loving God's loving kindness to tested Well here, Zechariah, he finishes this this song, and it's like he just, he, the Holy Spirit just Wow. And this is what he says. Because of God's tender, that's a word that we use, and what it's referring to is the tender most parts of ourselves. And the reason why we have skin and muscle and bone is to be able to protect our most tender sections, our bowels. And that is literally what is being referred to here : from God 's bowels, the depth of his character, and the depth of who God is. That is loving kindness. That God is loving kindness, and from His most tender place He comes. And what is that tenderness? That tenderness is his son. And that sun would come as illumination. What's the first image? The image there is day spring. Literally, when it says the sun that rises there, is translated from this great old biblical richness of the dayspring of life. It's in our hymns. It's in our Advent hymns. He is the Dayspring who will come and visit us. But here's what it says. Thanks be to God. It is the fact that the day spring, the sun, comes to us. You know, I I've used this and it's this time of year again. I've used this illustration before. I apologize because I'm that boring, but here you go. As a cyclist, this time of year I have to wear a headlamp I've got a really cool headlamp. I mean it can like sheer burn your eyes. I think it's the coolest thing ever. Because I can wear it on my helmet and drivers who would want to hit me by by accident in the dark, I can shine my light to them, you know. It's great fun. It's payback. And you feel really powerful when you pull up to your group of cyclist friends and and theirs are all rather small and you have one that's you know. And uh and everybody but but then nobody wants to get in front of me. They all just want to be behind me because they can see, you know. And and then at about 645, all it takes Is the sun just barely making it over the horizon? It takes my really cool bright light And makes it seem so small in comparison. And when that Son comes to me My darkness is dispelled. But that light comes and exposes all things And it is a painful thing. But it is a beautiful thing because when the day spring comes, we know it comes with mercy. and salvation for those who are sit who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, those who sit in ignorance of the gospel, those who are bound to their sins, those who are sitting in a world That not only recognizes that we have sin within us, but sin around us. And regardless, my friends, regardless of what you think. or of your political affiliation, I think we can all agree that the events of the past few weeks across our country And across the world, and on these devices This last week, in an interview with the CEO of YouTube, nearly 40% of all internet traffic is on YouTube. 300 hours of video is put up on YouTube every minute of every day. Now on one hand I recognize it's a lot of kitty cat videos. You know you watch them. But friends, as the director of the FBI said It is the most dangerous parking lot you could ever go into. Is it because the internet is dark? No, it is because the heart of man is dark. And today, as I speak, there are thousands of employees of companies like Facebook and YouTube And Gmail. All of these companies hire thousands of people around the world to do one thing: to be moderation, to be content moderators Do you know why? It is because of the vile, hateful Wickedness of men 's hearts are now on display And they spend hours upon hours a day and then go into crisis counseling because of what they have seen so that we don't see it. The heart the world is full of darkness, not because the world, it is because our hearts Are full of darkness, and we need the day spring of light and of salvation. This is not the way it's supposed to be. And God brings his light. And that light is the path of peace, when he says To shine on those living in darkness and the shadow of death. This salvation comes through Jesus Christ to guide our feet into the path of peace. In the way of peace to guide our feet. And that word peace there is that Really wonderful Hebrew word, drawing on that rich tradition of shalom, of human flourishing. That God brings his salvation by his loving kindness to work on the inside out to serve him twenty-four-seven before the face of God in the holiness and righteousness brought to us. because of his tender mercies through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who comes as the mighty King Redeemer. Who will bring what? The salvation in the forgiveness of sins through his death on the cross. And in so doing, he comes as the sun, the day spring, on high, the sun coming into our darkness to redeem. But then, and once he redeems us, what does he redeem us for? He redeems us. For service. Our redemption is a means to an end. And that end is to serve Him and to walk in the way of human flourishing, the way of peace. And the way of human flourishing is to follow the ways of the Lord. But it's not for you and me alone. That means that when we, by Christ's righteousness, through the forgiveness of sins, through the enabling of God's power I take my gifts, you take your gifts, regardless of where you work, and regardless of what you do, regardless of where you live, you live before the face of God, and you seek to bring justice. Mercy, love, and forgiveness to those around you. We began this month with this idea of advent conspiracy that instead of falling into the ways of the world and buying up just more and more gifts Perhaps we can spend less and begin thinking, how can we give ourselves to one another and give ourselves away in love towards others? Let me put some practical feet to that. One way of doing that is this congregation is committed to ministering to the Sunrise Assisted Living Community here in Colombia. One of our own families, Mike Espy and his family, began a ministry many years ago that every Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock, they lead a worship service for a group of residents at Sunrise Assisted Living And most likely, an hour or two after they're gone, maybe most of the residents who were there in the service don't remember what happened But they knew when it was happening. And they're being ministered to through the ministry of the gospel, the leading through song of service. And that is one way that we as a congregation can commit ourselves to giving to our community. Of giving of our time, of ourselves. If you're interested in finding out more about that, come speak with me. I would love to introduce you to the Espies if you have not met Mike Espies, one of our deacons. This is just one way, and I'll be cataloging as we go through the month of ways to do that, that we can be a part of God's divine conspiracy in bringing about this wonderful song of redemption. And this is what the Lord has done, and may He be praised, and may He equip all of us to walk in paths of faith. Peace through His Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Now, Father, come By your word, equip us and make us the people you desire us to be through the powerful work of redemption. That enables us to serve you for your glory. May you be praised, and we thank you for Zechariah's song. And may it be ours. Thanks be to God. In Jesus' name. Amen.