And I'll show you the whole scene. Because it's holiday time, we're meditating on a portion of God's Word that helps us to uh be able to celebrate and anticipate the coming of the Lord Jesus. We're looking at uh the song of Zechariah His prophetic song, which has been called the Benedictus because of the first word of it, praise, blessing, from Luke chapter 1, verses 68 to 79 And I've reminded you, we said last week, that uh Zachariah uses the word salvation three times in this song, because that's the theme of his song, and each reference gives us an insight. To challenge our notions of what salvation is. The first insight that we looked at last week is that salvation is accomplished for us by a horn Now you see there in verses 68 to 70, praise be the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come and has redeemed his people. He's raised up a horn of salvation for us. In the house of his servant David, as he said through his holy prophets long ago, long ago. The horn we saw is a symbol in the Bible of power And so we're seeing that our salvation was not something that we could accomplish. It was 100% accomplished for us by a personal, powerful Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. When he, the Lord of glory, came for us, he came in weakness and died on the cross, executed for your crimes and my crimes. So that in that weakness he in fact exerted the mightiest of power in defeating Satan and conquering his territory, his kingdom that you and I were held captive in. We've been singing a lot about that. I really appreciate the various parts of the worship so far this morning to help us to feel that in different ways. As we see Stephanie, as we sing, as we're able to bring our prayers and our confession to the Lord, we see our helplessness. And that it is a whore and a powerful Savior that we need and that God has given to us in the Lord Jesus. Now the second insight from this song that we see From verses 71 to 75, is that salvation is always from our enemies. Salvation in the Bible is from our enemies. Look what Zechariah goes on to say. Salvation, verse 71, from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. To show mercy to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. To rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and to enable us to serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all of our days. Does that excite you when you hear that? Is that meaningful to you when you hear that Jesus has come to save you from your enemies? We uh wonder what that means. Think about that. I've found that's uh been a difficult thing for me to really grasp a hold of what does that rain mean when he says that we are Having in Jesus salvation from our enemies. We live so much at home with our enemies in this world that I think sometimes we can forget how disrupted. What a chaotic, what a sinfully wicked place this is that we live in. And how it can never be a friend to someone who in fact is a friend of God This world is a disrupted place. It's a place of violence. It's a place of fear. It's a place of enemies. I heard just uh this week of uh three eight-year-old boys in Arkansas that went out riding their bikes. And the next day they found their bodies beaten to death and stuffed in a drainage pipe. Three were arrested for the crime. We think in our own area, teenage girl that was stuck in a drainage pipe some months ago here in Columbia, just a few minutes from us Or Mrs. Bassou driving her little daughter to daycare, car hijacked, her body dragged for a couple of miles along the road until she was beaten to death by just being dragged along. um by her hair in the car and then uh left for dead and left dead um brutally beaten in that way We think of the various ways that we hear of things that are just uh shocking to us, the uh cars bumped in Miami and people beaten to death, Bartness, Massachusetts Three kids uh stabbed to death, their nine-year-old classmate. Remember what when he lay there bleeding and dying They created high fives and laughed as if they had just slammed onk in a basketball game. Charles Colson has reminded us that we're living in an age of the death of conscience The crime is seen as a sport among many in our own generation. In the last twenty years, violent crime in this country has increased five hundred and sixty. We live in a violent, hateful world. We see this not just in what we read, we experience it, don't we? The tension. Not violent necessarily, but in our own families. Tension. Conflict, stress between husband and wife, brothers and sisters, parents and children. How much is home really a restful, peaceful place for you that you can feel like this is a refuge, it's a it's a haven that I can come to and know that there's no stress or conflict here. You know, we have the conflict, don't we? The stress and uh you know you see these bumper stickers, you know, my my son, my daughter's an honor roll student, so and so, you know I saw one a couple weeks ago on an old pickup truck. Said my kid beat up your honor student. What a world we live in, you know? I mean stress, conflict. On our jobs. You know, people that are just out for themselves. You know, they don't think of themselves as our enemies, but bring stress and conflict and they're just as weak I had some experience of stress and we did in the office just trying to get things cleared up in the ministry center, trying to get the the chairs finished up. Don't mention chairs to me anyone now Don 't want to hear I don't I sit on the floor now, you know. I don't I want to think about chairs, you know. I had this whole thing wrapped up with a lot of problems trying to get this thing taken care of. It was kind of like a disease I thought I'd recovered from when we finally got this thing wrapped up a couple of weeks ago. And then Wednesday there's a memo that says um you're out of the fabric, won't have the chairs till March. Wow, what do you guys think about standing for the first couple months in the ministry? You don't mind, do you very much? I mean you can understand it's all for the kingdom, right? We'll just stand, right? No problem I didn't think you'd go for that, so we had to go back to the drawing board. More problems. You know why? Because people were irresponsible. They broke contracts. They didn't tell us things they should have told us Do you experience that in your life? People letting you down, behaving irresponsibly, shifting blame? All these kinds of things. What is this? These people aren't our enemies. But it's a reflection. These petty tensions and stresses are a reflection to you and me that we live in a world that is fundamentally flawed. A world that is at war with itself. A world that is in disruption. And Zechariah's word comes to us: salvation is from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. To show mercy to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to rescue us from the hand of our enemies And to enable us to serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all of our days, to live in peace, as he says in verses in verse 79. Guide our feet into peace. You say biblical salvation is always deliverance from the enemy. And here is what I want for us to grasp because I think it's so important for us to understand salvation as the Bible presents it. You see it in your bullet mount line there Salvation is always deliverance from either the enemy or the enemies, singular or plural, and the enemy or enemies are always both flesh and spirit. The enemy or the enemies are always both flesh and spirit. You see that through the Old Testament. Again and again, salvation is defeat of the enemy and restoration of the peace that existed in the Garden of Eden. Take back in Genesis chapter 3 You remember when Eve listened to the serpent? And you note, if you read in Genesis chapter 3 about that temptation. Genesis 3:1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord God had made. It never identifies the serpent. He is simply described as a physical creature. And yet we know from Revelation chapter twelve, as if you needed any help, but if you want anybody tells you, well that the serpent wasn't really Satan, the Bible never says it's there. In Revelation chapter twelve and verse nine, we read that the great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray, clearly identifying The serpent of chapter 3 of Genesis with Satan. Now, what you need to see that becomes a pattern for all of Scripture is that the serpent is both physical and spiritual. Now the serpent, that animal, we don't know what he looked like. It wasn't some snake wound around the branch of a tree talking to her. We don't know what the serpent looked like. But that animal, whatever it was, is referred to as the serpent because it's referring to his true identity as Satan, who is called the dragon, the serpent, the monoton, all these different terms that are used in scriptures to refer to the same being, the head of all evil. Our ultimate final enemy, a spirit being, who manifests himself in physical ways. And so the serpent comes to Eve, and he deceives her. And when that happens, you read in verse 13 of Genesis 3 that the Lord God said to the woman, What is it you've done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. And so the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all the livestock and all the wild animals. You will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enity between you and the woman Between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. And so you have here a declaration of war. God is saying, I am going to make all of your offspring, Satan, and those offspring are both flesh and spirit. It's clear in Scripture's use of that, that the offspring referred to here are both the demons, those who are the whole host of the evil ones, the spirit beings who follow Satan. As well as the enemies of God and his people on earth. And the offspring of the women, of course, are the people of God. Issuing forth ultimately in Messiah from that line of redemption. And all of those who are grafted in through Messiah to become God's people through the righteousness that He has and gives to us as a free gift by faith. And so this is the declaration of war, and the rest of the Old Testament is the unfolding of this battle. And so when Israel is in bondage to Egypt, you have the same picture Egypt are physical people. They hate God and they are arrayed against God. They have their gods. They follow occultic practices, that's clear. Moses and Aaron come in. Do you remember? Moses says to Aaron, throw down your snake. Aaron's snake, his stake, his rod, his staff, becomes a snake. And then all the sorcerers, the occultic magicians, say, oh, we can do that. So they throw down all their staffs and they become snakes. And then the Bible says Aaron's snake ate up all the other snakes, showing us in Exodus 7 that when you see these plagues coming, Don't see these as simply physical manifestations. They're a reflection of a spiritual cosmic conflict that's going on between the powers of Satan and the power of God on behalf of his people. And so God delivers his people. And you have in the scriptures listed there in your bulletin outline. We're going to see a lot of scriptures here today. And we're not going to have a chance to go through them to read them. But this is so rich that tonight the Lord's Supper is designed around these scriptures. And we'll be reading through these and worshiping God as you hear the message this morning and don't just hear the scriptures this evening to worship God through that. to see the wonderful story of the conflict. Because you see in those scriptures that are stated there in Psalm 74 and Psalm 75 , Revelation 12, that all these things that were happening at the Exodus. Where God accomplishing his power over the enemy. And that enemy is even described as Leviathan, the serpent who is holding his people in captivity. And so God brings his people out from that captivity. And you see the same thing again and again. He brings them into the wilderness. They're attacked by Amalek, they're attacked by the Edomites, the Moabites, Og, and Vash. And again and again and again the Bible says that these physical enemies were reflecting a spiritual conflict that was going on. And that God was delivering his people by his power from the enemies. They come into Canaan. And they overthrow the Canaanites and the Philistines. And again, it's the same story. It's a real conflict between Yahweh, the true God, Jehovah, the God of Israel. And Baal and Dagon, the gods of the Canaanites. You know, you come on down to Assyria And Assyria brings the ten northern tribes into captivity, and it's again a spiritual conflict. The real question that's raised in the Bible is that mean God's lost? And the prophets come to say again and again and again, no, Israel being carried away into captivity is not God's lost. It's because of your sin. And then Babylon comes and they take away the two southern tribes. And again the question is raised with even greater force, because now Jerusalem's been sacked and the and the Ark of the Covenant has been taken captive. What does this mean in Daniel? The whole book is written to show God is Lord of all the earth. And so he takes the very man Who has taken the treasures out of the temple, Nebuchadnezzar, and he humbles him as a madman until Nebuchadnezzar confesses there is one God in heaven. He is the one true conqueror, king. And so you have this theme all through. You have Persia seeking to accomplish genocide and wipe out Israel. God raises up Esther. What's interesting about the book of Esther is that God is not mentioned once or Satan in that entire book. Why? To help you and me to see That though we don't see God on the scene, he isn't writing on the walls and showing us when he answers prayer and when he works in history to overthrow governments and to work in bringing revival, that this was God that did that Do we say, well, the book of Esther didn't say God did it either, but it's very clear in the biblical theology of that who was at work in delivering God's people through Esther? And then you come down to Zechariah. Now what does this mean for Zechariah when he says in his prophecy Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us to rescue us from the hand of our enemies and to enable us to serve Him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all of our days. Well , Zachariah's day, you recall that After the Old Testament had ended, in 333 BC, Alexander the Great conquered all the known world. And at that time, uh Greek culture and civilization swept through the known world of that day. After Alexander's death, Palestine passed down to the domination of Syria eventually. And one of those who ruled in Syria in 175 BC was a madman by the name of Antiochus Epiphanes. And Antiochus Epiphanes swore that he would wipe Judaism from the face of the earth He destroyed the temple, went into the holy place, and sacrificed a pig on the altar within the holy place. Desecrated it. He's the abomination of desecration. And God raised up at that time an old Jewish man with five sons by the name of Judas, who became known as Judas the Maccabees. Maccabe means hammer. Judas the Hammer and his five sons, guerrilla warriors, who delivered Judah at that time from the Syrian yoke, and restored the temple and rededicated it in 164 BC. And so, in an overzealous act of gratitude, Israel at that time said that they would establish the Maccabees as a dynasty that would have a dual leadership, both governor and and high priest and pass it on forever. Never, never do that. No matter how good someone is. Never say that all of your family from here on will rule over us. You talk about absolute power corrupted. You read through the history of that time, and it's incredible how quickly the corruption began to set into the Maccabean household. And it was possibly when Zechariah himself was a little boy, that one of those Maccabean rulers, both high priest and governor by the name of Alexander Genaus. Became the absolute enemy of all of God's people. You see, we don't have scripture to comment on this, but it's very clear in the pattern that you've seen in the Old Testament that this man Is Satan incarnate? I mean this guy is is evil walking and talking and breathing On one occasion, he crucified 800 loyal Jews. And while these people were hanging on the cross, he had their wives and their children butchered before their eyes. in order to intensify their agony while he carried on a drunken orgy with a group of women before the spectacle It said that at least 12,000 perished in the insurrections that followed that. A man who is set against anything who was right and just and good. And on the side of God Himself. Zachariah remembers the stories of that. And he knows what's happened from that. The war and the bloodshed and the people of God being persecuted by the government. Until finally, the only way that there was any peace was when Pompey came in from Rome in 63 BC and laid siege to Jerusalem. And conquered the city. Thousands and thousands died in the siege of that city, in the storming of Jerusalem. And so, uh in fact, uh just to be accurate on that, um the numbers on the insurrection during the Alexander Genaius' time are Not real clear. Some accounts say 5,000. Josephus says 50,000. But we do have a record that says that there were 12,000 that died in the storming of Jerusalem by Pompey Then after that, of course, there was the smoldering kind of peace. Rome set up this puppet governor, another madman by the name of Herod, to be governor of Judea. And Herod is ruling, and we'll look at Herod a little bit more this year, that middle hour of the 19th, the Sunday before Christmas, we're going to look at the life of Herod and the politics of his time at the birth of Jesus. And so I'll hold that, plug that back in when we get down there to see how bad things really were. Maybe it'll make you feel a little better about the day that you and I live in. You think it's pretty bad, you know. I want to tell you about what it was like to be around when Herod was king Zechariah is writing in that context. And so when Zechariah writes, he's writing from the context of a person who understands what it's like. To try and live righteously in a culture that will not tolerate that. And he says salvation is to be able to live in holiness and righteousness. without fear of what's going to happen. To be able to live and to follow God and to be able inside to not have the conflict and to be able to Be able to live within your family and within your community and righteousness and holiness without fear. And so he quotes from Isaiah chapter 9. And he says that there's this one coming who's going to shine in those living in darkness. We'll look at Isaiah 9, as I said, next year, and you'll see the connection between Isaiah 9 and Zechariah 's Psalm. Because there's one coming, he says, who's going to shine on those living in darkness in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the path of peace. And so Jesus comes on the scene. And the first thing that Jesus does in his ministry is what? You remember after he's baptized? He goes out into the desert to face Satan. And so you have Jesus once again. Now you have this battle being brought to a climax. And you have God whose spirit becomes flesh. And you have Satan who's spirit, and he becomes flesh. And the two of them now are once again just as Adam and just as the serpent, just as Eve, particularly in the garden, faced the serpent. Now you have the second Adam. Jesus. Only now the scene's no longer a garden, is it? It's a desert to reflect the nature of the disrupted world. And so the second Adam comes in, he faces Satan. And he conquers Satan. He resists the temptation. And later on in his ministry in Luke 10, he says, I saw Satan fall as lightning from heaven. And then he goes on and he tells a parable a couple of chapters later, where the Jews accuse him of being in league with Satan, and he says, oh no. If Satan's in dividing against himself, I'm destroying his kingdom, then that's pretty foolish strategy. He says, I'm the strong man who's come to bind the strong man. I'm the stronger man, the hero, the horn Come to bind the strongman of his spoil, of those who is held in captivity. And so when Jesus comes down to the Passover Well that last week, what do you read? Read in Luke chapter 22 that Judas, who is now out to betray Jesus. When he begins to have those thoughts, Luke chapter 22, verse 3 tells us, Satan entered Judas. See it again? Flesh and spirit. Evil and good. The spirit world doesn't operate in a vacuum. It works through people and governments and systems. Judas is full of Satan in his control. He betrays Jesus to the high priest, to the Pharisees, to the Sadducees. So Jesus, in that moment there where he seems to be at his utter weakest, when he's crucified on the cross, understand the picture. Jesus the Son, become flesh, now becomes the enemy of God. So that God curses him as the enemy, so that you and I would be reconciled, and that's the blank on the back, so that you and I could be reconciled to God. And so because Jesus was willing to be the enemy, you and I have been reconciled and not only reconciled, but adopted as sons. Amen. What a wonderful song, isn't it? Salvation from our enemies. Because the Son became the enemy. Salvation from all those who hate us, to enable us to live without fear , righteousness, and holiness Even delivering us from the enmity with ourselves, ultimately, the conflict you feel in your own life to be able to do the good and not be able to do the thing that you want and hate the thing that you do. And he will transform us to serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness all of our days. So what does this mean for us in our time? As I said before, you and I live in a world of disruption. And the particular focus of this song is that God's people, those particularly willing to live all out for Jesus. Will always be the particular focus of the hatred of the enemy. If you're willing to live , radically for Jesus? Not just fit in to the unbelievers that are with you during the week, and then fit in among the Christians on Sunday. But you're willing to stand as one who follows Jesus, you will experience hatred. You'll experience what enmity is. And it won't be pleasant. But Zachariah's song becomes, for those that do that, a song of great joy. That there's coming a salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all those who hate us. And we haven't experienced that in its fullness yet He's shown us mercy to remember his holy covenant, to rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and to enable us to serve him even now. And the first fruits of that salvation without fear. Without fear because we trust Him with whatever happens to us in our job. In our reputation, our embarrassment, the tension in social situations, when we're willing to speak with integrity a word for Jesus. Not forcing him into the conversation, but simply speaking as a Christian. And let the chips fall where they may, because we know we've got a promise. That in this world of disruption and tension God is going to deliver us. John Isaac, who's been leading us in worship this morning, told me a little while ago he saw in an office that he was in a political office a sign that said List of the enemies of America. James Dobson, a few others that some of us might count as some of our heroes. These were listed in this office as enemies. Chuck Colson said recently that he had heard that someone high in government, in the United States government, But then I believe he said the Senate had said that he and James Thompson are two of the most dangerous men in America today. And Chuck Colson said I was glad when I heard that. Because he said, if you're trying to stand against everything that's going on, then at least if you're seen as dangerous, it means you're doing something. Let me ask you, as I asked myself this morning, does the enemy see you as dangerous Does Satan see you as one to be reckoned with? That doesn't mean that you're famous like Chuck Colson. It doesn't mean that you're well known. It just means that you're faithful. And in what God has called you to do by being faithful in that, you're experiencing spiritual conflict Does this song become a treasure to you? Because in the midst of that conflict, you know you have a horn, a powerful Savior. Who's come to deliver? And that you don't have to fear. You can serve him without fear because your life is in his hands. And the very worst that could happen to you or to me is that we'd lose our lives for Jesus. And anything less than that. You know, inconvenient, hurts, painful, no question. What is it? In the light of eternity. In the battle that you and I are called to fight with our Lord Jesus. And so he will use, as you see in the blanks there, deceit. In order to sidetrack you. The scriptures there refer to Satan as the agent of deceit. He will use temptations. 1 Peter 5. In order to sidetrack you and get you off the course in following Jesus. But take heart. Our Father will enable you to serve Him without fear. The gates of hell cannot prevail against our onslaught. The Father will empower you to prevail against Satan's fury. Revelation chapter twelve The great and wondrous sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun and with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head. She was pregnant and cried out in pain, and she was about to give birth, and then another sign appeared in heaven: an enormous red dragon. With seven heads and ten horns. Notice this dragon has ten horns. This is a powerful enemy. and seven crowns on his heads. His tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky, and he stood in front of the woman who was about to give birth, so that he might devour her child the moment it was born. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who will rule all the nations with an iron scepter. And her child was snatched up to God and to his throne. Verse 9, the great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil or Satan. Who leads the whole world astray? And he was hurled to the earth and his angels with him. And then I heard a loud voice in heaven say, Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God. And the authority of his Messiah, for the accuser of our brothers who accuses them before our God day and night, has been hurled down. And they overcame him. How? By the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. They did not love their lives so much as to shrink from death Therefore, rejoice you heavens, and ye who dwell in them. But woe to the earth and to the sea, because the devil has gone down to you, and he was filled with fury. Because he knows that his time is short. Let's pray Oh Lord our God, open our eyes that we may see what is going on about us. You call this book, the last book of your word, Revelation, because it reveals to us the reality of things behind the appearances. Lord, as we see those who we think of as enemies, help us, Lord, to see behind what is going on in our day. That ultimately, Lord, it's not the gay rights activists who are the enemies or the pro-choice people, or even our spouse, or our kids, or our parents, or our boss, or our co-workers. But we live in a time where there is disruption, an increasing, violent disruption, because Satan knows that his time is short. Lord, fill us with an understanding of truth and reality. That we might see the stresses and the conflicts of this coming week in the light of your word. That we might respond by faith and confidence in you. And that we might take our stand with Jesus against the enemy. That we might feel even the hot breath of his hatred because we are willing. By faith to stand with Jesus. Deliver us from our weakness and our shame of spiritual things. Give to us a sense of your victory within this conflict. Help each of us, Lord, in what that means. And we know, Lord, right now, if we're honest before you, what that will mean for us this week. Strengthen us in the battle, we pray. And thank you that you have the victory in Jesus' name.