Here with the story of the golden cow. So if you're able this morning, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's holy, inspired, and inerrant word? Deuteronomy 9, verse 13 to the end. Furthermore, the Lord said to me, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stubborn people. Let me alone that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven, and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire, and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. And I looked, and behold you had sinned against the Lord your God You had made yourselves a golden calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way that the Lord had commanded you. So I took hold of the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes Then I lay prostrate before the Lord as before, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all the sin that you had committed, in doing what was evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure that the Lord bore against you, so that he was ready to destroy you. But the Lord listened to me that time also And the Lord was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to destroy him. And I prayed for Aaron also at the same time. Then I took the sinful thing, the calf that you had made. and burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it very small until it was as fine dust as dust. And I threw the dust of it into the brook that ran down from the mountain. And at Taberah also, and at Masa, and at Kibroth Hateva, you provoked the Lord to wrath. And when the Lord sent you from Kadesh Berniah, saying, Go up and take possession of the land that I have given you Then you rebelled against the commandment of the Lord your God and did not believe him or obey his voice. You have been rebellious against the Lord from the day that I knew you. So I lay prostrate before the Lord for these 40 days and 40 nights, because the Lord had said he would destroy you. And I pray to the Lord, O Lord God. Do not destroy your people and your heritage, whom you have redeemed through your greatness, whom you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Do not dis do not regard the stubbornness of this people. or their wickedness or their sin, lest the land from which you brought us say, because the Lord was not able to bring them into the land that He promised them, and because He hated them, He has brought them out to put them to death in the wilderness. For they are your people and your heritage, whom you brought out by your great power and by your outstretched arm. The word of the Lord this morning. Lord Just like your mercies are new every morning, you do make your word to sound and to be as fresh and new every day. And you have revealed your great wonders to us through the pages of this holy and inerrant word, which we can only understand because it is illuminated by the power of the Holy Spirit And so we ask this morning, O Lord our God, send your Holy Spirit. May He enable us to hear it, to understand it, to believe it, and to obey it. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. The late great theologian and uh modern theologian, I should say, who just passed away not too long ago, R. C. Spro writes in his uh popular uh and acclaimed book, The Holiness of God, that sin is treason. Sin is cosmic treason. That sin is a treason against a perfectly pure sovereign and glorious God. It is an act of supreme ingratitude towards a God that has been so gracious to us And in fact, it is so bad that we are being ungrateful to the one who has given us everything, to the one that has given us life itself. So when we rebel against God, he's saying, when we sin against the Lord, he's saying, we are committing the most supreme ingratitude towards a God who has been so grateful to us. And we know as scripture reminds us that every time we sin against God Uh sin is described as something that separates us from God, right? It makes us to become enemies of God, not friends of God. But there's a reality about rebellion and about sin, even as we're looking at last week and talking about uh this passage that we just read this morning, and in the beginning, that God's people are reminded that He did not choose them because of their righteousness, and it is this. That even in our rebellion and even in our own sins, there is absolutely nothing we can do to fix our situation. There's absolutely nothing we can do to fix what is broken in us. The other aspect of it is as well that as much as That is such a horrible thing that there's absolutely nothing we can do to fix our situation, is that we have no right to even approach God and plead our case. We have no right to approach God to plead or case for mercy and grace. And so the question becomes: then where does that leave us? And that's why scripture reminds us and tells us that we need a mediator. We need someone who is faithful, we need one who is trustworthy, we need one who is spare, we need one who is blameless. We need one who understands our situation, but also knows God to represent us before Him, to reconcile us with God. To bring us who are described as enemies of God to be called as friends of God. And so as we look at in this verses that we just read this morning, we realize that a media we need a mediator because We are bound to rebel against God. Time and time again. We are bound to rebel. As we read in verses 13 and 14, we we realize that God is here threatening, and I shouldn't really say threatening because God doesn't threaten. And when he says he's going to do something, he's going to do something. But he is threatening to obliterate the people from the face of the universe for them to be never heard again. Why? Verse 14, it says, Because they have been rebellious, clearly. If the people are making the argument that they were chosen because of God's because of their righteousness, it really makes no sense whatsoever Because as soon as Moses goes up into the mountain to pray and to be given the Ten Commandments, which are supposed to declare their covenant relationship with God, 40 days, just 40 days The people have already turned against him in such a short period of time and made a golden calf to replace the Lord. As a friend reminded me this morning the way for us to act last week I I should say uh the way to for us to think about this aspect of God's people turning so quickly is is if you can imagine it is like a a spouse Cheating on their spouse during honeymoon. They cannot even wait. So Moses comes down from the mountain and he's faced with the awfulness of the people's sin. Verse 16. And and we don't know what the people were thinking in making this molten calf. We really don't know this. You know, back in Exodus 32, and this the passage here doesn't really tell us whether they were trying to replace God and create the this animal, this this this scalp was supposed to be uh God itself, or if it was supposed to represent the presence of God, or if this was some kind of a uh a symbol that was supposed to re represents uh a uh the footstool o of God which back in ancient Near East times they would actually do that to to make a footstool where you know God is sitting so to speak Regardless of what they were doing, this was an act of sin. It was breaking the first and the second commandment, maybe one or maybe both of them at the same time. And actually someone says, you know, the people might have been trying or Aaron might have allowed this to happen because some people are faint-hearted And so as they're waiting for Moses, he's been gone for forty days, they're thinking, well, we we we need to experience the presence of God. And so they made this calf to represent In some sense, or to feel safe that this was God's presence. Either way, it is sinful. It was bringing confusion Because God's people were commanded never to have an image or to represent his presence in any way. And this does explain why Moses, when he comes down from the mountain and his actions in verse 17, doesn't it? Holding the two the two tablets, he goes ahead and boom breaks them. Now we may take that a and think that Moses broke the ten the tablets just because they were in his hands and so this was a spontaneous act of anger by Moses That is not so. This is a symbolic act that is showing the gravity of what God's people are doing. They are essentially, as Moses dem Moses demonstrates, in the presence of these people, they are breaking the covenant relationship with their God. They are shattering the very covenant that God has given to them. This was a defiance, it was an act of defiance against their covenant. They are making the covenant that God has already given to Moses. 40 days and 40 nights has been interceding and praying and receiving these holy things from God and they're making it null and void. What a servant people indeed. And so having demonstrated by his action, breaking and shattering the tablets, Moses begins to intercede for the people and recognize that he's not just praying for the assembly, he's also praying for who? For Aaron, who was responsible as Moses was away. Now, do you really hear this from Moses' words and from God's word? How completely the people are devoid of merit. That they are completely reliant upon the grace of God, dependent upon his mercy. That even the very high priest whom they would have Moses uh Aaron is not here exactly a high priest, but he will be made high priest, and then he dies, then his son Eliezer takes over. But he is still acting as as a high priest that even the high priest himself had to be saved from death by intercession. But it wasn't because of their righteousness, Israel. It was not because of your righteousness that God was giving you the land, that God was saving your life. You cannot boast of that. You cannot even boast of the righteousness of your own eminent man like Aaron The people that you'd have expected to be held in high esteem. Even the high priest was supposed to operate on the grace of God. And then he reminds them here, as we see, of the events that are that that are examples of how they've been rebellious towards God and and he actually mentions several of them. Look at verses twenty-two. It begins with Taborah. We read of that passage in in Numbers chapter one through uh chapter eleven, verses one through through three, which you know the God's people are complaining, just complaining about their misfortunes. And we're told back in in numbers that it took the intercession of Moses to plead with God for them to be rescued and not to be destroyed And then he tells of another incident in Massa. We know that, right? We know that that example in Exodus chapter seventeen, where God's people were finding fault with everything that God had given to them, and in their presumptions And asking for water, which of course Moses goes ahead and hits the rock, angry. They were complaining: you have brought us here in this wilderness. There's no water. You basically brought us here to destroy us, to kill us. And they test God. Again, who is there interceding for them and asking God for help? And then we're told of the incidents at Kibroth Hateba. You know, this is centered against the complaining of the people who, despite the miraculous provision that God brought manna for them to eat, they were lasting for flesh, and by flesh I mean they wanted meat. And they were complaining that we we we had all the good oh good food we had all the good food back in Egypt. They forget about all the suffering that they had and they rejected God's provision. And then we are told as the people are gorging themselves in the quail that God had so miraculously provided, and they were eating and and enjoying all the meat. That's what you wanted, right? The Lord sent a plague towards them and many were destroyed Hence the name of the place that was called the Graves of Craving Now, why does God remind his people of all these things? Of how rebellious they have been? Of how unfaithful they have been constantly. And these are just a few. This is just nothing. It's just the tip of the iceberg of how God's people have been unfaithful. Is it just to show them that you've just been bad people? I don't think so. I really think that God is reminding them of how they've been unfaithful so that He may emphasize His grace towards them. He's basically telling them, you have been so unfaithful, but look at me. I have been gracious towards you You have been so sturban. But through it all, every moment of your sturbanness, I have been there showing you grace and forgiving you and bringing you back to myself. See, if it wasn't for God's grace, they would not be standing on the flames of Moab, would they be? They would not be renewing their covenant here with God. And we read again in Exodus chapter 34. After chapter thirty-two, which is the same story we're reading here, but in chapter thirty-four God commands Moses and tells him, Go cut two stone tablets again and and and I will write, I will m I will give you more command I'll I'll write the Ten Commandments again. I'll replace the ones that you shattered. You see, God's people would continue to rebel against him. This would not be the end. As much as it reminds them of where they've been and how they've been unfaithful, they will still continue to do the very same thing that God is telling them. You have done it and I've been gracious to you. Yet they would continue to do it over and over again. And so we read from the prophets in Jeremiah and Ezekiel, where God says, I will give you a new covenant, a new covenant that shall not be written on stone tablets. But a covenant that will be written in people's hearts. And we know that the mediator who comes is not Moses. It's not another prophet. It's not another priest. But it is the great high priest of all. It's Jesus Himself, who comes and becomes our mediator, who bears our punishment for sin, who guarantees our salvation. So that when we rebel, when we provoke God to anger, when we fail to do what we're supposed to do, Jesus says He stands in our place. He bears our sin, our past, our present, and our future That immediate come, the job of immediate is to secure peace between two warring parties, an enemy And brings us to God. You know, the psalmist cries out in Psalm 5:5 that those who do evil hate God. And God hates those who do evil. But Jesus is the one who purchases, who pays the ransom for our sin on the cross. And as our mediator, he represents us because It is in him that our sin is fully exposed that we realize that God's wrath is poured on Jesus Christ because He's become our sin. He takes upon our every sin that we have committed. He becomes the curse. And God pours his wrath upon him. That's us. But he also represents God. Because he displays God's love and his mercy and grace towards us by willingly going to the cross. He is the one who mediates between us and God. Those who were once considered enemies, he makes us to be called friends of God. See, I think that's why God's grace must remind us every day of our lives that our status is not based on our capacity to obey. Your status as God's child is not determined by the fact that you are capable of obeying because even at your best Even at your best, when you think to yourself, Man, today I haven't cursed at anybody, today I've not insulted anybody, today I've not lasted, today I've not been angry at anyone. I've been a perfect child of God. I'm sorry to tell you no. Even at your best, you come nowhere, nowhere close to the holiness that God demands. But praise be to God because that's not what he looks. He looks at the righteousness of Jesus Christ and he says, that is yours by faith. I don't need to pretend that I am perfect I don't need to pretend that there's anything I can do in on myself and tell God, God look upon me and see how good I am. Would you please accept me? But I can come to him and say, look upon your son that was put on the cross. Behold, he shed his blood for my sin. And because of his righteousness that has been imputed upon me, I am clean. I am righteous in Jesus Christ. And nothing else in me. But only because of what he has done. Count it righteous because of Christ's righteousness. So a mediator, we need one. Because every day of our lives we're going to rebel, but we need one mediator who intercedes for us. See the image that the people of God had created, 40 days, 40 nights, such a short period of time. As Moses Moses destroys this image and and he grinds it into fine dust and throws into into into the brook that runs from the mountain, all that God's people are left with is Moses to stand in the gap and to intercede for them. You know, I I think it's really interesting that when you look at the Old Testament and look at the the story of Moses and God's people, you realize, and I think this is so true in the Old Testament. That God's people are where they are because Moses has been interceding for them. That if Moses had not been doing what he's what he was called to do, chances are they would not be here. They are here because Moses has been praying for them. And I think Moses, in fact, does uh uh become one of the people that James declares that the prayer of a righteous person has a great power as it is working. And his intercession here begins so beautifully as he comes before God, he says, Oh Lord God. I mean that is just Three letters, three words that just recognize Moses recognizing the lordship, the lordship and his sovereign power. Moses has a relationship with God and he knows that this The God that is coming before is the God who has power and is sovereign. He's in control of all things. And what does he ask? Moses comes before God and says, Lord, please don't destroy these people. Don't destroy them. Please turn aside your divine wrath and judgment. The people are guilty. He doesn't say that they're not guilty. They are guilty. But in making this request, in making this his case, or rather making the request, Moses actually makes a case here. And we see that in verse 26. What is this coming for God and he's basically saying, Lord, I am coming to you on behalf of this people, but they are not my people. They're not mine. These are your people. This is your heritage I like that. And and Moses' prayer is actually based on three things that we can also base our prayers on. Three very simple things. One It's based on God's gracious act upon them. Two, it's based on the nature of God. And three, it's based on the vindication of the honor. What do I mean by this based on God's gracious acts? He says, Well, look, these are the people that you liberated from Egypt. You you save them, you redeem them So, O Lord God, who is sovereign and powerful, please do not let your plans be frustrated by the fact that these people are unworthy That these people are sinful. Let your faithfulness towards them and your gracious act of liberating them and your plans to bring redemption to the universe not be thwarted because you said so. Please, Lord, by your mercy Secondly, by your nature, God. You know who you are. You have made a promise. You have made a promise to our father Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Again, I'm not coming before you because these people deserve to be forgiven or anything else. I'm coming before you because your nature says you keep your promises. Told you Lord, please keep your promise and save this people, don't destroy them. Then finally, if we do not get into the promised land If we are destroyed here and all these things fall apart, what are the people going to say where we came from? That you brought us here to destroy us? Oh, are they gonna say that you're not powerful enough that you you you you actually couldn't fulfill your promises to your people So vindicate your honor before all nations that they may see your glory. Save them and make your purposes to be known. Isn't that beautiful? See I think Moses is here balancing so well the the justice of God, that God has the right to punish sin. And yet his mercy as well. And Moses knows so well that the only thing that he can plead for is not the justice of God. He knows that's coming, but he pleads for mercy. He pleads for grace. But you know what else Moses requires in order to do this? Great courage. Bravery. Because what is he basically asking? He's coming before the Lord in humility, and he's trying to turn the wrath of God away from everybody. I mean, just here. To be able to recount all the things that God's people have done. Absolutely nothing good. Like forty days, forty nights, you've already turned against the Lord your God And for Moses to come before God and say, please keep them, I mean it it almost makes no sense at all. Because they don't deserve it. What sustains you as a Christian? What sustains you as a child of God? Is it your righteous prayers? Is it your holiness? Is it your perfect walk with the Lord? Is it how good you are? What sustains you As a rebellious sinner who is saved by grace What sustains you is a rebellious sinner saved by grace What keeps your face on the event? Who keeps your faith I have a savior. I have a savior who pleads mercy. I have a Savior who did not just fast 40 days. I have a Savior who went to the cross and bore my sins. I have a Savior who says now you can approach the throne of grace. You may be self-condemned sinner. You may be undeserving. I have a savior. Who has given me the gift of God in Christ? Have a Savior who says, I am the one who lives to intercede for you before God. I have a Savior who when he ascended into heaven and sat on the right hand of God the Father left the Holy Spirit for us, who says he intercedes for us. before God with groanings too were too too great, too deep for words. Again, you see, brothers and sisters, it's not our obedience that secures our standing before God Our forgiveness is only based on the propitiatory work of Jesus Christ, who satisfied the wrath of God, who Lived a perfect life. Who perfectly obeyed all the requirements of the law so that we would not have to. I have a Savior who says, I will not leave you alone. Because that's what you desire. See, in our rebellion, we want to be left alone. But I'm glad he said I'm not going to leave you alone. I have a Savior who says, I will pray for you. See, I have a living hope and a living Savior, one who prays for us every day. But you know, I ask the question, who sustains you? See, Jesus prays for us so that our faith will not fall or fail. Do you remember Peter? Do you remember when Peter was arguing with Jesus and claiming that he was never going to deny Jesus? You remember when Jesus told Peter? He said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, but that he might sift you like wheat. But then hear this. It says, But Peter, I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. If you were drowning And you were deep in the water and just dying. And that was someone who was standing right there and saw you and they Wanted to come and save you, but this person can barely swim. And then they jumped into the water and they're trying to save you, but all they can do is and they start drowning themselves. They can identify with what's going on with you. They may be empathetic and sympathetic and trying to save you, but they can't do a thing. Jesus, a mediator Is the only one who is able to fix our problem. He did not just come to sympathize with us. He did something about it. And you know what he did? He did not leave you to yourself. He saved you. He saved me. And praise be to God for that. But we have one who saw our problem. And did something about it. Father, we thank you this morning for your word, reminding us that you have seen our brokenness and our sin, and yet you have done something about it. And that something is much more than we could ever ask for. Giving us your gift of grace. You have saved us. And Father, we do ask that you would continue to sustain us, to enable us to live for you as you call us to. We thank you for your holy word this morning, praying in your holy name. Amen