And if Bethany's sitting on this side here, I'm super thrown off, super thrown off. But we can Go with it, okay. Um I wasn't gonna mention this, but uh a couple things have been standing out to me In uh First Thessalonians one nine, I'm gonna remind you, we're in gonna be in chapter three that uh Um Kathy just read. But for they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, how and how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God You turn to God from idols. There's two idols that are on my mind right now today. It's always easiest to talk about other people's idols, right? Okay, so these are not my idols. I don't know that I have many. Um but the two that are standing out to me are these ducks that are on the dashboard of Jeeps. You guys know what I'm talking about? These little rubber duckies. What is up with these things? Does anyone have them? I would like to explain someone explain it to me, but I saw one recently that had like fifty Fifty of these little ducks, that's distracting drivers, right? So that's one. But did you hear that the reason I thought about that one one is because this one on Friday at the Orioles game they were handing out bricks of gold You would have thought. They were actually Tupac bobbleheads. Now I'm sure we have some massive Tupac fans in here. right? All the records, all the CDs, all the um but uh they were handing out these bottleheads. Now I don't really totally get the obsession with bobbleheads except you collect them and there's only certain ways to get them and I sort of get that part. But people were lining up how many hours early? Five, six, seven hours early? into the stadium to get one of these bobbleheads. And Lavender was telling me, you know, her mom works at the stadium and she said there was a woman who who who didn't get a bobblehead and was on her knees in front of her mom crying. A grown lady, right? Grown lady crying because she didn't get a bottle and she didn't know where to get one and how could she buy one? And this was a disaster. I don't think that person's in this room is this person In other words, idols can be strange. When we um hear about turning to God from idols, it could be little tiny things that we care so. so much about like that and I have them and you have them too. But today we're not talking about that. That's just something Lavender mentioned. We uh but also guys mentioned uh when power goes out. And and and as we're getting closer to the uh two hundred and fiftieth anniversary, I've been thinking a lot about the declaration of independence Which is awesome until the power goes out. Because then you realize you are real dependent real quick. Right? Um I don't have my shows. But I also can't call people. Eventually when the battery goes down, I could be in trouble Um pumping the water out. Sump pump. There's a lot of things go wrong and you can get real dependent fast. When the power goes out. Um I I mentioned Drew this morning and he works for Exelon and uh his normal job which he does ninety nine point nine But when the power goes out, eventually, after they go down the line a whole bunch, he gets caught. Right? And he has a hard hat that he doesn't have to wear sitting in the office, but he has to put on this hard hat and go down the line to fix the power to find out what's going on. When some people when when when we lose power, some people have to go out, right? Go up. Find out what's wrong. Um the storm moves for them from an annoyance to a calling. Someone has to move towards the failure point, find the break, and restore it. So that's some what we're talking about here. Thessalonians. Paul is thinking about this church plant that that he's been to in one of his missionary journeys. We mentioned that. And he's thinking about this church in Thessalonica, and he even sent Timothy because he was torn from them. And he talks about being in distress and affliction because Paul knows that in the darkness hope can flip. It's a lot easier to hope in in the daytime. And so he sent in Timothy for that line check to see how they're doing And Paul knows and he writes that the good news isn't necessarily the passing of the storm. That is good news. It's that in this sense the church still remains. Church is faithful, implanted and going and he gives evidence of resilience, he gave ev evidence of the faith. Uh John and I had uh lunch with Dorothy on Friday and uh she took us to Chick-fil-A. Anytime I can get a spicy chicken sandwich, waffle fries, and a diet lemonade, I'm in. And so we had a delightful time. Thank you, Dorothy. That was one Wonderful and and one of the things that we were just talking about was John was talking about he and Patty went and visited friends of yours in South Carolina. The Reeves. The Reeves. Yeah, I don't know them. And so what it just in the course of our conversation, uh, because you know Dorothy knows them and Dorothy said she talked to them. And so it was it was a report They're doing well. They remember you and pray for you and care for you and you remember them and pray for them. And care for them. And that's a report, right? Paul brings greetings. So this is what uh she was reading, uh Cathy was reading. But now that Timothy has come to us from you He has brought us the good news of your faith and love. Reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. Sort of what John is talking about the formation private. What's interesting about this little passage, this verse is uh Paul writes, but now that Timothy has come He has brought us the good news of your faith and love. That word good news, that's the word for the gospel Evangel, Evangelion, Evangelize. That's the word in the New Testament That's almost always used for the gospel. But in this sense, Paul is actually just using it for good news. This is really good news. It's not the gospel. But it's connected to the gospel. Because we're talking about your faith and your love, right? How you've always remembered us kindly and longed to see us as we longed to see you The report of this community's faithfulness, the report of the family of God is steadfast. we can be looking for is this good news. It's not always it can be a lot and it should be the good news of the gospel. But also when we just encounter Good news, we can stop and pause and say, Thank you, Lord. We're so grateful. Um so this is true when we hear good news about friends of ours. It can be uh stop and pause. But sometimes we see uh good news in stories or in movies, and we can say like, Oh yeah So Julie and and Drew have been watching Jack Ryan. I think it's okay to watch Jack Ryan. I don't know. Episode two or whatever, and I don't know what's going on. But I know this Jack Ryan is trying to save people. And sometimes he has to go through a whole lot of stuff. Um and it looks like he's not gonna make it. But he's gonna save somebody. It might be the president, it might be a little boy. He might need to go a and confront the bad guy, but these are all little glimpses of good news. Someone doing something to save others. Can hit our radars, right? Stories of rescue we talk about resilience, grace, love, and So in this church, the local church and Thessalonica displayed faith, vertical love toward God. trust in the Lord and the and they displayed love, horizontal love toward each other, toward people, toward others Paul, he's uh he notices stuff like this, like for example in Philemon 1, verse 7, Paul writes, Your love has given me great joy and encouragement. Because you, brother, have refreshed the hearts of the Lord's people. Your love has given me joy and encouragement. I can see it, I can tell it when I'm with you. Filing and a a tall drink of water, right? A a sight for sore eyes. Think everything is A plus plus. He understands that not every church is going to be doing great all the time. In 2 Corinthians, Paul's writing to the church in Corinth and he says this in chapter twelve. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast So in this sense, Paul's not boasting about how good they're doing, right? How they're killing it. Paul says, therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses So the power of Christ may rest upon me. There is sufficient grace, there is power and weakness. Even when the lights go off, there can be good news and great joy. Glad tidings. You go to Christmas, right? And so um as Tripp and Joy end their time in our UF, at UMBC I've been listening to to good reports of ministry. Tough times, you know, they started during COVID. So tough times to start a campus ministry but but they're giving ministry updates and talking about it. And and and I get ministry updates from friends and church planners and you know, like one of 'em uh my friend Told me this week our worship leader lost the bait. Um Said another man this week who came to Christ through the preaching of our word, older gentleman, real rascal Came to Christ, got baptized, everyone noticed how remarkably different he was, passed away. Two funerals in one week, completely different types of people in a sense And then he was talking about job transfers and you know sicknesses and doubts and and wondering will we make it as a church plan? Is this going to work? We need people. And in the same email, after all that, he writes, but I'm overwhelmed by God's goodness and faithfulness. Even when things are so difficult. We had a new family move to town and seek it. And they're so excited to join us. We baptize a member's mom this week too. I was there for one of these baptisms when they baptized baptized the mom of a uh a woman who grew up in the Middle East and the mom had come back to visit her daughter, but she had been a a seek Christian all the whole time. Her daughter didn't even know because it was so scary. She didn't want to tell her husband that she'd been praying her daughter would come to faith And so when she came over to visit her daughter, she got baptized. Which is risky. Praise the Lord. That'll build a church And that's what my friend was talking about. There's signs of God's Spirit moving a and in the world's math, the lights are out. We can pack the truck. This should not happen anymore. more but there are many gospels. There's good news that points to the big good news, right? Sharing stories of rescue because God's people were steadfast. Paul puts it this way in First Thess three. For this reason, brothers, in all of our distress and affliction We have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live if you are standing fast. in the Lord. For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God. As we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see your face, may see You face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. We hear about your faith, we hear about your steadfastness, and we, Paul, Timothy, Silas Are encouraged. It gives us hope. Their faith gave Paul oxygen Right, and it's a um I think it's important to remember that that's not always because you're doing great. Sometimes it is, but it's not always because you're doing Great. Um w earlier in the book, twice Paul talks about being an imitator You imitated me, uh and as we imitate Christ. He talks about this several times in one six and in two fourteen And so sometimes I think that we we have in our minds like the best of whatever. Imitate me means Learn from the best. So like Simone Biles, imitate me. Okay, I don't know if I can do that, Simone. Messi, imitate me Oh I wish I could, right? That would be freaking amazing. Uh and so we we have these people, but I think also Paul can say imitate me as we crawl around the block Um imitate me can could mean I'm gonna sign up for a marathon and I'm not gonna watch the people that run it in two hours. Two hours. Amazing. Okay, so imitate. I don't know how to do that, but you can imitate someone who runs a minute and walks a minute, and it takes eight hours. Right? And in some sense that can be really inspiring to be able to do something that you've never been able to do before by someone who's not great at it, but is a perseverer Steadfast. Has faith that it can happen even if it's not gonna be amazing. An another example of gotta retire. Ruby's Cube, but um uh I've been trying to carry it around and not be on my phone all the time when I'm waiting in the doctor's appointment or something like that, and so I've got this thing it and it is a conversation magnet, I mean for sure. Everybody knows what it is, right? And almost everybody says like I could never do that. Or I used to try to do that And I try to tell him it's like it it doesn't take intelligence. It takes finding someone to learn from Right? Now, there's no way I could figure out how to do it. That takes a lot of intelligence. How to make it happen. But I can watch a video and watch this lady do it over and over and over and over and over and over again. And when it What is she saying? She's saying, imitate me. And so when I encounter people this, I can never be like, okay, imitate me. You know how I did it? I imitated someone else Go flip this lady up. There's lots of videos on how to make a Uruguas cube. It'll take you a week or less. It doesn't have to be the state seven year old that can do it in three seconds. Don't imitate that girl. Don't imitate the guy that can do Rubus Cube while juggling them. Juggling three Rubis Cube. excuse and solving them with your left hand as they're going around. Okay, don't imitate that guy Imitate somebody that's like just making it the best they can. I think Paul has that in mind. Someone just helping someone not collapse. I can hold your hand as we go past the finish line But Paul still wants to help, right? Paul's talking about affliction and distress. And then in verse 10, as we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. Now that phrase supply what is lacking in your faith this is an Interesting term because it comes up first in the New Testament in Matthew 4, interestingly a passage that we've had occasion to talk about a lot this year. Let me read it and see if you can uh figure out where it is. And going on this is 421. Immediately they left their nets and followed him. Okay. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him, and going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, and the boat What's that phrase? Mending their nets Supply what is lacking. There are holes. There are things that we need. Paul uses the same term In Galatians 6, brothers, if anyone is caught in transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness These are the same terms. Supply what is lacking, restore him in gentleness, mend the nets, set a bone, find the tear. Y it's sort of maybe like the old school Christmas lights that didn't work and you had to find the one That does not true anymore, right? That was a we fixed that problem. But it used to be the whole tree. Like where is this light? I've got to mend this net. I have to supply what is lacking. I have to go up the line because this thing is in darkness. There's still more to grow, more to learn. And Paul exhorts them. There might be a new song to learn. There might be a new experience to have, a new insight. So Paul talks about uh what's lacking in their faith What's lacking in our faith? What where do we need to trust the Lord more? What are we risking for Him? What about what's lacking in our love We know that we love because he first loved us. And how did he first love us? What do we love enough to lay down our life for? Commitment. Commitment to Jesus, his people, to his church. Or is it to himself? Holiness is also a way to be committed to things. And joy. Do we lack joy? Gratefulness, thankfulness. Um I maybe mentioned before that one of the candidates to be an elder of one of the churches. He he qualified in every way except joy. He he just didn't like the church. He did it wanna be there. Uh he would be there. He was very duty bound, uh very smart, knew all the right answers. But joy is important So we can admit our lack and that can give the Holy Spirit a place. And I know for me, uh whenever I hear Paul talk about something like this, and we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you thankfully Face to face and supply what is lacking in your face. I would be like yo, just tell me what it is. Tell me what's lacking and I'll fix it I don't need you to come over here, Paul, and supply what's lacking. We can do it ourselves. I'll at least hide it from you so you don't know about it. Um I think it's good for us then to enter into places where we're lacking. My good example of this is signing up for soccer I know I'm bad at it. If somebody says you need help playing soccer better, I'll say, you're right! There's a lot of things you could say I'll say you're wrong, but that one I'm gonna say you're right. Um I know I need help. And that's good for us to put ourselves into, you know, dance class was another example. Example, right? I don't know all these moves. I don't remember what to do. I don't know how to play this music. I'm not gonna go through and tell you But we need help. And and so what does Paul say about that? Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus Just direct our way to you. And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you, so that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before God our Father. at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. So you are lacking. We are lacking i in lots of ways. But what Paul is saying is the Lord does the work. And we participate with him in the work what sanctification is. But the Lord does the work Ezekiel writes, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take away, remove your heart of stone and give you A heart, a flesh. The Lord is the power, right? The generator. The the what's making this happen. Jesus says it this way, similarly, I am the vine and you are the branches If you remain in me, and I remain in you, you'll be you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. We have to be connected to the source. Right? That's common. Abide in me. Abide in me, Paul says. Abide in Christ. He can do the work. Don't become self-righteous or brittle or performative. or transactional. Because the Lord directs us and increases us and abounds us, establishes us, makes us holy and blameless before the Lord. So on Tuesday we have Presbytery meeting. Everyone's invited. Super fun times. And uh on Tuesday we're gonna vote on this new campus minister, UNBC. I'll tell you his name. Cut the feed. I'm sure he's gonna pass, but his name's Caleb. Right? And so Caleb, um If he comes, if if it all works out, it most likely will. Uh he'll move his family from Chicago to Baltimore, outskirts of Baltimore, um, to minister to Share the gospel, to love, right? Talk about faith. And of course, we also know that trip is changing. Trip and Joy are leaving U of B C to go to Chapel Gate. And so he's got a new calling and we're gonna vote on his calling. It may be tempting to say, no, we don't want you to go. But of course it it It's amazing that he's getting to do that. He's going to minister to young adults and families at Chapel Gate. But also, we're also going to vote on on a new church plan called Saints Haven in Ann Arundel County. And they've been meeting since February first at Grace Point PCA And according to the Book of Church Order, chapter five, section one, we can establish a work according to the Lord. we can establish the work too. It's going to take a new work, right? A new a new leader. And and what we're praying for in Saints Haven is is that they would increase. And about This is what Paul's praying for Thessalonica. But there will be a new church in our Presbytery in our region. mean new officers eventually. It's gonna mean new Sunday school teachers and new DBS leaders, and it's gonna mean new covenant children most likely, born into the church. And it's gonna mean new problems. New problems. New ways for the Lord to supply what is lacking. Right? 'Cause none of us can do it. It's gonna provide new organization and and outreach and community and and gospel preaching It's going to require more steadfastness, faith, love, even in the midst of distress and affliction. And so in some sense this is good news. Right? It's not the good news of salvation In Christ alone, by faith alone, through grace alone. It's not that good news, but it's good news that there are going to be saints gathering. There's going to be new people coming into the church The church can grow and spread, right? Even in what feels like dark times. Because after all, as we go back, we can think of how when When Jesus died in Luke twenty-three, the the sky went dark. So he knows darkness And Jesus who lacked nothing. Lacking anything. He truly was blameless and holy before the Lord. And he truly was torn away from the Father. He truly was distressed and afflicted. And I think when he died and and was buried, he was mending the nets. He was tending To the holes. Right. He was providing what was lacking when he went to the grave and Of course, when he went to the grave, what is our great hope? Up from the grave he arose, with a mighty triumph for his foes. And I think just we go back then it it's connected to that joy and the love that that Paul feels for for them The Thessalonians, Jesus feels for us his church. Joy and love. He is our comfort even in that darkness that we all go through. And that's good news for us today, isn't it? It is. May He supply what we're lacking So we walk with them, Amen. Stick it a few moments and