And then we get judges. Fun times and judges, alright I've got a buddy who worked for UPS in college and he has talked to me about Steve Steve worked part-time, but then he got promoted at only at age twenty-seven, and he was going up the ranks higher and higher and higher on the fast track. Eventually being in charge of thousands of workers and hundreds of managers, probably going to be a corporate He had the s credentials, he had the skills, he had the education, he had been in the military. He also played politics and went behind people's backs, went behind his mentors' back. He fired rivals, got disrespected, but he was effective at UPS. The numbers were up, stuff was getting done, getting accolades, and then he got fired. Because he had bad character. He had manipulated people. He had manipulated numbers. He had inflated all those great numbers and he left the department in shambles. He went from the fast track to the police in jail because character matters in leadership. We're talking about how all of us are leaders. So this is especially the qualifications of overseers, elders, shepherds, and deacons. So this is really talking about elected offices in the church. But but I'm really pressing the point that this is for all of us because we are all leaders. Okay? Most of us will not become elected officers. in the church. But character matters. And of course Paul is writing to uh Timothy. And in Acts twenty Paul writes this or says this, pay careful attention to yourselves and to the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God which he obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the d disciples after them. Therefore, be alert. So here we are, years later He's talking to Timothy, his son in the faith. He's talking to these leaders in Ephesus about wolves. Those very ones, and how to protect a church like this. And so my points today are character matters. Because the church matters because Christ matters. Character matters because the church matters because Christ matters Character matters. We all can say this, right? We all know this. But honestly, we're all also pragmatists. Let's be real. We want results. We want credentials. Societal position, power, talent. It's hard for us to remember that Christianity turns everything upside down. The first or last, the last or first, the best or least. The strong are weak. The weak are strong. And we have these officers, right? Now, I mean, to become a PCA pastor is not easy, yo It's not. In our denomination, you you certainly have to have a master divinity, and that means you gotta go to seminary. Which normally means you have to leave. It's getting a little better to where you don't have to do that. So you gotta go to seminary, you gotta, you know, spend three or four years, thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars Then you gotta take tests, uh, which I think are fine. But they're not easy to pass. You have to have five tests One in theology, one in the Book of Church Order, which is a wonderful document to read over and over again. This is have in your brain. Church history test A whole Bible test. It's not a small book. There's a lot of details in this. Like I had one time I was at a test where someone was asked, okay, so let me just also say there's oral there's written tests, and then there's small group oral tests, and then there's big group oral tests. In front of the whole predatory where anyone could ask any question they want. That's very startling. And someone got asked to outline every chapter of Romans. Not outline Romans. I've also heard go through all of Isaiah These are the questions that get asked sometimes, right? So you have Bible, and then your last one is sacraments. You need to know what's going on here So it's not easy. But then also I'm I'm sort of looking at Dan because we've got we've been through this, right? Because we've done all that now we think we know what is going on We ha we do have a pretty inflated view of our credentials. But Timothy isn't talking about that, is he? I mean we have to have a way to do it. I don't think we're doing it wrong. But Timothy doesn't talk about the tests. He's talking about the character of the person, not the connection of this person's network. He's talking about reputation, not even really ability. Right? It doesn't say able to preach a three-point sermon. Able to lead a session meeting. He's talking about honity, honor, and dignity and godliness. And of course, remember, this is in the Roman Empire context of power. Power. Not that different from today. He's saying that Christianity is a new humanity a new society. So leaders should model something different than what is normal. And really what he says, it begins at home. Starts at home. Marriage, family, finances. And again, this is in a time of chaos, relational chaos. Which sounds familiar, right? This is the time of polygamy, infidelity, homosexuality, and worse That's the tip of the iceberg of what we're talking about in this day and age. Sounds familiar. And Paul says The Christian home, the home of followers of Jesus, should be an oasis in that chaos. Should be markedly different. Husbands and wives should be faithful to one another, care for one another, honor one another. Marriage is not required, but it's normative. Single people can be leaders, of course, but there's still to be Practicing chastity and dignity to be temperate. Children, if they come about, should be cared for Honored, raised to love God and their neighbors. Because in the home, it it's a little microcosm of a culture. It's a little mini-culture. And in this mini-culture, practices are formed. It has its own ethics, behaviors, its character, and those matter And leaders are not to be, Simon says, dictators. They're to be servants. Not heavy-handed. And also not hands off. Whatever you want to do, I don't care. It's another way. to have a home, right? Do what you want, just as long as it doesn't bother me, I don't care. But but instead Paul's talking about Being devoted, loving, faithful, sacrificial leaders. The home is a haven in a heartless world. We practice things in moderation. Things aren't completely outlawed. We should be moderate even like in our anger, in our arguing. Christian leaders, Christian people have reputations. And remember, here in the Roman Empire, these are by far in the minority. Christians are not in the majority at all. So what they do in private and in public, they embody a message. That they're proclaiming with their lives and their mouths. And outsiders should think well of them. Respect them. So there are people that are honest, truthful, not gossiping. They're relying on Jesus In 2010, there was a Salmonella outbreak. Thirteen hundred people were seriously ill. Five hundred thousand eggs. were contaminated. And it came from Hill and Dale Farms in Ohio. And they had often been in trouble in the USDA. But as they investigated this outbreak, they found safety violations like crazy Animal cruelty like crazy, hostile work environment, sexual harassment The owner was described over and over and over as a ruthless businessman who had made hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars Donated millions of dollars to Christian tech charities, taught Sunday school, led the church, So his reputation and character were very damaging to the name of Jesus. So we're not just pragmatists. Paul's talking about character. Character matters because the church matters. Leaders with poor character affect the Christian community We all affect the Christian community, right? We just sort of forget sometimes. But the church, the church is the visible manifestation of Christ here on earth. That's what we've got. It's how we see Him. The church is the bride of Christ, the public witness of who we say we are. We're the heralds of God's message of grace. with the scriptures and the sacraments, right? And with each other. And the the way it has to work is we have to be an organization. And an organism. But we have to be an organization. That means we need leaders. There's no way around it. There's attenders and members Communicate members, there's deacons and there's elders and there's pastors, decisions have to be made. You know, what time are we going to meet? What are we going to do when we're here? What do we do when we're away? What do we do with the money? So we gather as a session, right? And we gather as a presbytery, a group of sessions, and then we got to gather as a general assembly. I I texted Bethany a picture of myself with my voting clicker. It's like okay, do you want to trade places? I'm where I'm ready to But that means we're accountable to each other. We're not just doing whatever we want. We're not independent, we're connected. So I think denominations are a good thing filled with people that sin. Um I get I understand that. We sort of like and don't like autonomy at the same time. It's not easy to submit. I got to talk about that last week. But we're connected to each other. We're connectional to each other. And I just want to make sure I make the point. In the church, we're all leaders I mean w the word for deacon is servant. How many servants do we have here? Oh my goodness. We just heard about Ryan and Lavender. What about V how many servants do we have leading BBS? Ton. How many servants do we have connected to ESL? A ton. How many servants does it take to make church happen on a Sunday? A ton. Some of them are downstairs right now. Warren and Jim are trying to figure out how to get the thing to work Bethany and Rob are practicing. Right? So it takes you guys are servants. This doesn't just show up. I'm so thankful. So thankful Um I was with my daughter and TJ last week at General Assembly. They came because we're involved in this Podcast. It's not a podcast ad. But I'm just mentioning. And one of the things we're doing is looking at why institutions don't behave differently. And so they're feel like, you know, uh, shouldn't a seminary or shouldn't any uh church act differently from the world? And it's sort of like, yeah, they should, but but how you know I also feel like, ah, but we're just people. Like, you know, we didn't assemble the good people into the church. We're still sinners who make wrong decisions. We still need grace in our wrong decisions, in our wrong actions. So it's this strange dichotomy of we're following Jesus as best we can, but a part of following Jesus is saying we don't deserve to be with Jesus We get to. It's not because our behaviors are so much better than anyone else's, but we should have godly character Even in our institutions, even when we know there's abuse and neglect and oppression. And that abuse Neglect, oppression is soul sucking for people. Faith destroying for people And our leadership can end up in ruins without character. The drama, the infidelity, the heartache, the narcissism happens with pastors and elders and deacons and everyone. And we talked last week about shipwrecked faiths. Handed over to Satan. And people get shipwrecked Instead of saved in the ark. You know I love boat stories in the Bible, but not that one. I'd rather talk about Paul's actual shipwreck. That's cool. I don't want to go through that ever. But shipwrecked face is scarier, scarier, scarier, scarier. But the church, Christ's bride, the manifestation of him on the earth, is meant for flourishing, a people. Love, understanding, patience, grace, and leaders in the church should be humble, loving, caring, sympathetic, sacrificing. Character matters because the church matters because Christ matters. So in some sense, the conduct of church leaders and Christians does not necessarily affect Jesus. It's a poor reflection on him, but he still stands. Above all of that. And that's where we finally get to 316. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. So it's interesting how he talks about this. Oh, wait, I wanted to mention this. If we go back to the elders, the one that gets me is not a lover of money. You know, all of these are sort of uh How do I tell? Not quarrelsome? What's the bar? Zero quarrelsome? Half quarrelsome? But not a lover of money. I love money. I want money. I mean, I don't know if I overlove money. I think obviously he means overlove money. But just love it? I want more I do think that the Lord is a blessing to us when He doesn't give us all of what we want, right? If we all had as much money as we wanted, we would ruin our lives. I guarantee you we would ruin our lives. You look at the people that have as much money as they want, they are a mess. Okay, I don't I just wanted to make sure I said that. Okay, great indeed we confess. This is the mystery of godliness. It doesn't sound like the mystery of godliness The mystery of godliness, I would think he's going to talk about these things. But see what he's doing? He's connecting our framework of leadership, the way we live our lives, the mystery of godliness is this. He was manifested in the flesh. Amen. Vindicated by the Spirit. That means he rose again. Seen by angels. I think that's sort of a weird one. But the angels were there when they were who's born, right? So they were there all the time Proclaimed among the nations. Oh, that one's beautiful. That's Acts Believed on in the world. Amen. We're here. Taken up in glory. He's coming back though, right? Coming back. So this is the mystery. But the mystery is revealed So there's this thing, especially back in the day, called mystery religions. Okay, and it's sort of like maybe joining the Masons or something. Because you you sort of get initiated in it and then you learn the secrets of it And the only other people that learn the secrets have to be in it. Like you don't get to tell anyone outside of the group. That makes sense? I don't know if that's the way the Masons work, because I'm not in it. But it was a big thing, especially around up here. But this is different. Paul and Timothy says, Paul says to Timothy, there are mysteries. I'm not saying there's no mysteries, but they've been revealed. We talk about them. We tell people about them. We're telling the world. We proclaim it. So he's flipping the mystery religion. It's still a mystery, but I'm telling you what it is here. Now, can I explain all these things? No. I can tell you about them. You have to believe them for yourself But it's not hidden. And so leaders in the church are in the story themselves. We don't stand outside the story. We enter into the story. It's our story. It affects us. We embrace it. We proclaim it. That Jesus identifies with us. He became flesh. So he knows what it's like to laugh and and cry and he has friends And he suffered. He had friends die, right? He had joy, he had pain, he had love. He got betrayed. If that's happened to you He served as a deacon. He washed people's feet. He was truly human. And he died. And he rose again. And we identify with him. We're in that story. And so because of that, Christianity really isn't a religion of power. It's a religion of death and resurrection. And so our faith is entering the story, and that means our hope isn't in leadership. Right? Our central hope is his leadership, his overseeing us Overseeing the world, serving us in the way. His righteousness, his character, his glory. Christian leadership, character matters, but it's because Christ matters. And so we embrace good in the fallen world. And we're to be a community that's different. We're to be an assembly of followers of the living God. We're not a nonprofit. We're not a NGO. We're shaped by the story, not like it's a comic book convention or a Star Trek convention. You know, there's there's these people that are super serious about Civil War reenactments, right? You I'm sure you know these people. They're obsessed with it. And when you go that far down the rabbit trail of letting that story shape you, you dress that way. You know, you talk that way. You have to learn how to talk like someone talked in 1862 And and there are these hardcore reenactors who starve themselves for photos. So they look like they looked when they were starving. They will um eat the same food that was eaten back then. And they'll get bitten by mosquitoes. That's being authentic. Shaped by a story So the question I think for us is what story are we shaped by? Twenty twenty-four in America and Maryland. I remember when our kids were small uh not small but Twens. They read Star Wars books from the minute they got up to the minute they went to bed. They knew every single detail ever about it. For me, Star Wars was like 1977. I was in first grade. We made like Tinker Toy Swords. That's the that's the level of We didn't have nothing. Now they have everything, right? And I was like thinking to myself, Star Wars is their story. Not the Bible. They know way more about Star Wars than they know about the Bible. That's a problem That I don't know how to solve exactly. I'm just telling you. But I'm just saying we all have something like that. It's easier for me to identify it in them than it is for me to identify myself. But but Jesus should be that. It should be that. So we can at least confess maybe it's not, or we can say, yeah, um that's why I keep coming back. That's why I keep working on this. Our character matters in all these things, but it's his character that he imparts on us that saves us. Following these lists does not save you. As important as they are. We need him. Our competence is in these lists. Our confidence is in him. We don't hold tightly to these lists. We hold tightly to him. He's the king. He leads us. We follow him. Amen? Amen. We have several ways of responsibility