Paul, an apostle of Christ, Christ Jesus, by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope, to Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies which promote speculations rather than the stewardship that from God that is by faith The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion. Desiring to be teachers of the law without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully, understanding this that the law is not laid down for the just, but for the lawless and disobedient. For the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, and slavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. Amen. Please be seated So um you know we're following a little bit of a loose church calendar, not the intense one with all the all the feasts and festivals. So we just finished our uh last one Pentecost and there's now this is called ordinary time. All the way until Advent. So um just wanted you to know that. We're in ordinary time. Life in ordinary time. Um And and uh since now I've been here a year. You can sort of get my mindset. Um it doesn't have to be yours. but to do sermon series sort of in those uh times of the church calendar and then here in this big summer to do a couple different ones. I like to move around a bit. I don't like to park in one book of the Bible for for much longer than maybe twelve weeks would be max. So we're, you know, what what have we covered in the last year? The first part of Genesis, the first part of Acts, all of Isaiah. We didn't cover all of Isaiah, but enough of Isaiah, right? Oh yeah, Lamentations, that was lovely. We did some minor profits along the way. Uh we did an impossible prayers over Advent. So we've covered a good bit. Now we're into one of these pastoral epistles. We haven't touched on Paul's writings in this past year. So this will be our first time. And this book is really about leaders. Presidents, Governors, Mayors, Adley Rutschman, Lamar Jackson Good leaders, bad leaders, effective leaders, ineffective leaders, official and unofficial leaders, because leaders make a difference. Leaders set the tone, real leaders rally the troops. Leaders keep up morale, leaders get things done. And the point of this book, why I'm giving it to you, while we're preaching on it, I mean, is you are all leaders. Everybody has some leadership capacity or role, no matter what And so 1 Timothy helps us all. It's not only for elders and deacons, because let's be honest, we're not all going to be elders and deacons, are we? Certainly not in this church. You probably could be in somewhere else. But we are all called to lead In your family, in your school, in your work, in your neighborhood, in your relationships. So what does Paul have in mind for us? Number one, true doctrine. Paul starts a book about leadership with doctrine. And it's interesting to think about it because we swim in the waters of tolerance all day long, don't we? And here Paul comes out hard. And he's writing in the sixties. Not the nineteen sixties, right? The actual sixties He has left Timothy to lead this church in Ephesus. Ephesus was a very important city in Turkey. uh n what is now Turkey. 250,000 people. It was the fourth largest city at the time. A any guesses what the three other ones might have been Rome, perfect. Rome, Alexandria, and Antioch. Ephesus was religiously diverse, it was very commercial, and it had one of the seven wonders of the world, the Temple of Artemis. I had a slide, I didn't send it, but it looks like a temple. Like Roman temple. That's what it looks like. We also call Artemis Diana a temple. Times. And inside of this was a statue of the Lady of Ephesus, a fertility goddess. So we are not in the same context, are we? Well, hmm. Baltimore has five hundred and eighty five thousand people and we have two temples at least in Baltimore. For sure. We have people distracted, not with stone tablets with actual tablets, phones, Netflix. We have religious diversity. Not a lot of people talking about God or going to church. So in some ways this is a very relatable context, isn't it? And it's in this context where Paul talks about Christian Leadership. There are definitely how-tos, how to conduct ourselves, how to find leaders, how to lead, how to care for people, what to pursue, what to avoid. There are hard how-tos, but he starts with doctrine, specifically false teaching, three and four. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus. So that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine, nor devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies which promote speculations, rather than stewardship from God that is by faith These teachers, these leaders, the authorities, they're teaching allegorical, mythological, legendary Old Testament stories. This would be like the Da Vinci Code. People think that's real. This would be like getting your doctrine for for revelation from the left behind series. That's the way it's going to go down This is like getting your doctrine from the Gospel of Thomas, which is a Gnostic book of just teachings of Jesus that are not real, that's assigned in college religious studies programs. There is a book that came out sort of more recently called The Bible Code, and the author rearranged the Hebrew and then found predictions. And people believe this. On the other hand There are a lot of sermons, how-to sermons, that leave out the gospel all over the world. Talking about what you need to do, how you need to live, who you need to be like, and leaving out Jesus as the center of the whole story. So we are going to talk about how-tos, yes, and we need doctrine, but ultimately the most important thing is we need the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ in our hearts. And you've heard me talk a lot about how we're not only brains. We have bodies, we have emotions. That's one reason why we stand up and sit down and come forward, right? We're not only just thinkers, but we are thinkers. We do have brains. So don't don't misunderstand me about that. It's just in Presbyterian circles we love the brain. But we all have a theology from somewhere. Where does our theology come from? Paul says we should be of sound doctrine. And and sometimes we've been maybe taught we should shy away from this. This is less true in our waters. But the more we learn about God, the more we should love Him. The more we learn about His excellencies, His mercy, His grace, His love, we should draw closer to Him. The more we learn about our salvation, ourselves, our character, our church, and our world, we should know and love God better too. You know, when you meet your spouse, you want to know more. And the subject is not boring When Julie's the subject, it's interesting to me most of the time. Right. I was here on Wednesday and uh Carl and Neil were out there cooking burgers and brat and uh hot dogs for the ESL group thing. And Carl said, wanted to start talking about how the our presbytery should have been talking about what we learned out of COVID. I was like, Carl, I don't want to talk about COVID ever again. Even talking about it now, I don't want to talk about it. I I said that, right? I want to stop this conversation from happening. Now, of course, I do need to talk about it sometimes, but that's not what we should do about God. Certainly not what we should do about our loved ones. And in order to join things, some things, you need to learn about the history of those things. I worked with college students, so join a fraternity or sorority. There's an actual test that you have to take to learn the history and learn the doctrines of your group. You don't get to just sign up to be a doctor and show up one day, even though the commercials say so. You've got to learn stuff. The history of procedures How we got to this point. What used to be thought was true. What does that's true for lawyers? It should be true for pastors. It's not true for everything. You don't have to know anything about being a journalist to be one. You just got to show up and start writing. We as believers should learn Our faith, our history, our creeds, our confessions, where we've come from, w why others are different, our traditions, our beliefs. Not endless genealogies and speculation. Although there are what seem like endless genealogies in the Bible, aren't there? They're not fun to preach through. But so let's talk, discuss, learn, give opinions, debate even Disagree. One of the things of maturity is sort of knowing what to hold tightly and knowing what to hold loosely. Talked about that a little last week with speaking in tongues. What to go to war with. This is the difference between uh country borders and state borders. There are different passings, right? There's more to get through when this border gets crossed than going to Delaware. Let's humbly learn. Let's read. Let's study. Let's ask. One way we learn is through repetition. It's very common when you're learning something for the first time that you would repeat that thing and memorize it and do it over and over again. And then once you learn it, it doesn't mean that you stop caring about that thing. It's still with you, it's in you. But there are lots of other ways to learn. So true doctrine, true doctrine. But not only doctrine, right? Point two. True doctrine, true life It's possible to learn everything, get A pluses on all your tests, and flunk life. Right? It's like the professor in economics who can't balance his checkbook. We used to have checkbooks, right? I was thinking like if there were your kids were here, I was like, what you don't know what checkbook book you s every once in a while this happened to you, you're in the grocery line, and somebody pulls out a checkbook, you're like Come on, lady. I don't say it, I think to myself, it's sort of amusing to step back in time and remember we used to do this, but have you heard of an ATM card? So we are to know God, study Him, and follow Him. That's a problem in Baltimore and in Ephesus, too, isn't it? Breaking life This is eight through eleven. Now we know that the law is good if it if one uses it lawfully. Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but the lawless and the disobedient For the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexually Homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with whom I have been entrusted. Striking parents, slave traders Murderers. These sinless, I'll probably say this lots of times. These sinless that are in the Bible, people definitely tend to focus on one or two of them. There's one in here that's very focused. But just notice liars. Yo, who's not lied? It's in the list. Perjurers, maybe a little less often, if we think officially, but surely. I mean I've signed Julie's checks I I think she knows that someone has signed Julie's checks. So so once you hear these, just remember what's in these lists, okay? Um if if you have striking parents, surely you have striking children. So Paul's point here is there's a right doctrine and right living go together. There's a dynamic connection between them. What we think and what we do, what we believe and how we live. And Paul is saying that the law is good. And we have laws because otherwise people would break them. What if there were no speed limits? That sounds like anarchy, right? Laws curb our wrongs, or they're supposed to, or they show us what's right or what's wrong. We have locks and fences because people steal things. If no one stole nothing, I don't think we'd need those. We have voting rights because people abuse them. We live in a world where people steal, abuse, demean. Exploit, insult, discriminate against. So we need laws. But be careful because we have all accepted laws that we were told were good, but they were bad. So it's not just having a law, it's what is this law? This is where we start to get confused and all this. But you know, people in power make laws to benefit themselves, to keep in power So so we just have to be careful and think about that, but we don't have to do that with God's law. That's my main point with that little diatribe on laws. God's law is good. It's given to us. The Ten Commandments are good for us. They inform us, they guide us, we follow them. And in some ways, this is a spin-out of these Ten Commandments. Domestic abuse. Sexual immorality, the word for that in the Greek is pornea. It's a big category, embracing a whole lot of things. And so the law shows us how to live. It shows us that we're a sinner. And it shows us that we need Jesus. Those are its three uses. To show us what we should do, to show us what we're not doing, and to show us we need Jesus, to drive us to our knees. So we can see our forgiven that we need forgiveness and grace and fly to the Savior. Paul calls it sound doctrine. See, life and doctrine are going together. And that word sound is the word hygienic or wholesome. Or healthy, because the law and doctrine should bring life, not death I was thinking about you can move to Baltimore and it is just absolutely delightful. The harbor, the aquarium, the Orioles, concerts. culture. You can move to Baltimore and it's not all like that There's other sides to these tracks, aren't there? You can easily find yourself in corruption and crime and strip clubs and worse So parenting time. Don't sleep with anyone that's not your spouse Grow up. Move out. Eat right. Exercise. Attend church. Live within your means. Be kind. Forgive others. Ask for forgiveness when you need it. Believe the best in people. Don't automatically believe the worst case scenario. Believe the best. Be generous. Take responsibility. Leaders have integrity and credibility. Biblical ones at least are supposed to. When I was at OU, um they they started something called the Sooner Oath for athletes. And it was basically, you know, go to class, have strong character, and sportsmanship, and be role models. But they had to like say it out loud. It was a thing. Why did they do this in 2007? Well, the athletes haven't been known to be doing so hot in these areas. Shocking. Especially some of the athletes. Not all of them. So there'd be reminding of their standing in the community and their responsibility to others. Remember, you're a leader, you're a representative What you think is connected to what you do. When I was at Anna's graduation, I got to meet Joe Castiglione. the athletic director at the University of Oklahoma, in my opinion, one of the best in the nation. And he talked about Sooner Magic. Sooner magic is a a lot of times it feels like For OU, something crazy happens and they win. That's called Sooner Magic. But he made it into an acronym, like everybody wants to do, right? It's gonna mean something. So he says masterful, accountable, gracious inclusive, competitive. And this quote, uh I we didn't talk about this. He did mention it in his little talk. The in intentionality importance of creating buy-in and alignment. Will lead us to a manifestation we call sooner magic. When we understand who we should be and have buy-in and alignment It changes things. True doctrine, true life, true faith In 1 chapter 1, verses 2, to Timothy, my true child in the faith. In 1. 5, he says, the aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Okay, we haven't talked about Paul and Timothy yet. We've talked about Ephesus, where this is going to. Paul We probably know him. It's always good to act like at least you expect people that don't know the Bible to be in church. That's what we want. So let me tell you, Paul was a zealot, a Jewish zealot, persecuting Christians. He had been taught all his life. The Old Testament was true, which it is. There wasn't a New Testament, right? And that this Jesus is not the Messiah. There's no way. Because he was listening to all his mentors, all the Pharisees and Sadducees. He was, in some sense, the least likely person to convert. Confident, strident, super knowledgeable, absolutely a hundred percent opposed to Jesus and anyone who followed him. But he met Jesus. That changes something, doesn't it? That'll do it to you. And he had the most dramatic change you could ever imagine. And he went away and studied for years. And he became a leader in the church, a writer, a missionary, a church planter, a pastor developer. A church health assessor, an apostle. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our Hope. Powerful, confident, humble. And he's writing to Timothy, who couldn't be more opposite. His true child in the faith is young, timid, got stomach problems we learn later. Thirties. I think he's shy, introverted, and has acid reflux But they'd been traveling together, they'd done ministry together, and now Paul is saying that stay in Ephesus. This church needs you. I'm gonna help you, I'm gonna write you letters We need leaders in this church. We've got to establish some, right? Timothy also grew up in a Christian home with a mother and a grandmother, these beautiful women who taught him, completely different from Paul. This reminds us that there's no stereotype for a leader Leaders can be short and tall and old and young and fat and skinny and men and women, timid, assertive, big city, small town All leaders. Now let's go back to the law for a minute. The law is a part of what's good. It's a part of the gospel, isn't it? The law is a part of the gospel We have to know we're sinners and we need saving. And God punishes lawbreakers. He punishes sinners. He's holy and just. And God does not ignore this problem. He solved the problem, doesn't he? He solved the problem because Jesus came and lived and rose again. And is coming back for you and for me, for sinners. And so a genuine faith, a genuine faith understands this, believes this, trusts this. So these creeds, the Apostles' Creeds, isn't just an intellectual exercise. It does hit our intellects, but then eventually we have to go in faith A genuine faith, a sincere faith, or are we growing cold Christian leaders live with integrity. They mess up. None of us are perfect. And we have faith in this story that God saves sinners. Not in ourselves. Not in our own understanding True faith. True doctrine, true life, true faith. There's one more. True love. The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and their faith. The aim of our charge is love. Yes, doctrine, life, faith, and love, these go together, but the aim and the goal, according to this passage. is love. The aim and the goal is not passing Bible exams. We often Will elect leaders in the church that are very knowledgeable test takers, doctrinalists. They know their stuff. I gotta be honest, I have been to hundreds of session meetings, and very rarely do we pull out the Westminster Confession of Faith. Or the catechisms. I'm not saying we never do, but that's not really the deal of what you're doing in there. We also the goal is not behavior modification. Moralists, so doctrinalist, moralists. This is another very common way to elect leaders based on what they do, which is super fair. That's what you can see, right? But the goal, the aim is love. The other thing we sometimes do is we we see very capable people based on these two things. But we don't know how to gauge their faith. But we don't really care because they get things done. These are the CEO types. A shallow faith, not tender to the Lord, not repentant of sin, not weeping with sinners, not longing to worship together. But the goal is love. What are the two greatest commandments? Love God, love people. And so this is bringing it together. Loving Jesus means knowing him Following him, committing to him, vowing to him. Loving your spouse means knowing that person, committing to that person, following that person, vowing to that person. Now there are some times we don't do what we love because we love something else better. So it's not only do what you love. You've got to think about what you love, and sometimes you've got to do something you don't love for that other thing. When I was out of seminary, I was hired to be the director of this program called the Youth in Ministry Institute, Yemi. Youth and Ministry Institute. And we got a grant of $1. 2 million from the Lilly Foundation that we were required to spend in three years. It was awesome. I could make as many t-shirts and bumper stickers I one time flew to Tampa and we rented a whole aquarium and threw a party that must have cost $50,000. We flew in people and speakers, uh students that came to our conferences all got to go for free, including travel I was so miserable because it was not what I wanted to do. I did not love it. I loved some things about it, right? So I turned it over to someone who loved it. Leaders love well They understand what needs to happen in the situation. They're spending time learning about it. Leaders love the Bible Leaders love worship, serving, listening. Leaders love with integrity, passion, and care. Because after all, what do we sing? They will know we are Christians by our And so we get to this part. What if we're not loving the way we should be? Or leading like we should, or or or learning like we should, or acting like we should. Because leaders blow it, leaders have temptations, leaders make words that aren't correct, decisions that aren't correct. No leader has a spotless record In faith, love, beliefs, or actions. And so there's a certain sense where all of us are disqualified from leading Well the good news is this. To Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy. And peace from God the Father in Christ Jesus our Lord. Oh, grace, mercy, and peace. Grace is God's unmerited favor for those who deserve wrath. It's not just God's unmerited favor. It's God's unmerited favor for those who deserve wrath, which is us. We need. We can't work out enough to forgive ourselves. We can't study enough to forgive ourselves. We can't be nice or mean to people enough to forgive ourselves. It's only by God's grace that we can be forgiven, right? Mercy. Mercy is God's kindness with his forgiveness. It's the kindness to be spared from the consequences of the sins. Misery, distress. Mercy is special care in times of need. It's help for wretched, lonely, sad sinners like us. And peace. Because we have grace and mercy, we can be in harmony with God instead of at war with him, enmity with him. Peace then is a still a still soul, a satisfied soul, a stabled soul, a non-chaotic soul. Balance, wholeness, goodness. The Bible calls this shalom. It's way more than peace. We're not at war with our parents or our children or our world or our government or our lawyers And we're not at war with God. Shalom. Grace, mercy, peace for us today. We are repentant, limping leaders. That's why it's leading with a limp. We are not sending up your sin. I got it together. I need Jesus, don't I? There is a certain sense then the sooner oath isn't gonna work, is it? And I want you to remember this. Anybody can believe. Kids have faith Mentally challenged people have faith. Neurodiverse people Can know they are loved by people, of course they do, and by God Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible and and my parents, my friends have told me so. That's what it takes. So I'm going to get up here and bang on doctrine a little bit. Yeah. But it doesn't take doctrine. It takes trusting in Jesus. to have faith and to be loved by him. That's good news for all of us. There are all smarter, better people than any of us. That's not what we're talking about. Loving and following God, right? Amen.