Some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons, through the sincerity of li through the insincerity of liar. Liars whose consciences are seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer. If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Have nothing to do with irreverent silly myths. Rather, train yourself for godliness. For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God. who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe. Command and teach these things. Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity. Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of the scripture, to exhortation, to teaching. Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you. Practice these things, immerse yourself in them, so that all may see your progress. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by doing so you will save both yourself and your hearers. First Timothy four. Please be seated. One of my favorite leaders, Julie and I know. Her name is Valerie, and she did not grow up in the church. She came to Christ. And as she surveyed the city, she saw a huge problem for kids Her heart broke for kids. Kids, especially in public schools, were not being helped, not being loved, and they were not finding Jesus. And she knew that's not the way it's supposed to be. So she said, Let's go. She had a a heart, she had the devoted time, she had passion and energy, and she started an organization that would put a Bible Clubs, after school Bible clubs, that would also feed kids and have activities and teach them the Bible in these schools. And she called the organization Novo Which means to make new, to make change, Novo. That is a leader Making things new, changing things, persisting things, so more kids could meet Jesus. Valerie. First Timothy is talking to us about leading, and we've talked about how we're all leaders. Leading like Valerie. Paul is talking to Timothy, his true son in the faith, giving him instructions about what to do in this church in Ephesus. So this happened a long time ago. In a galaxy that seems far, far away, but it's a real place, real people, just like us. We've talked at length how it's not that different The mid-60s, but it still pertains to us. We're all leaders. So I have three points for you today. The first one is forsaking errors. Forsaking errors. Chapter 4 starts with pretty dark and gloomy, sad times Now, the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared. Leaders need to know the difference between right and wrong. What is false and what is true And sadly, some have fallen away. We've talked about shipwrecking your faith already. I was talking to a woman last week, and she was telling me that her husband had been an elder in a church and he had left the faith and been excommunicated and they're still married and we just sat and cried. It's devastating what that's done on her own life in her own family and how that affects so many areas. And it's so sad to hear these stories of people falling away of apostasy. People that used to call themselves Christians But now deny the faith. And maybe they never were. Maybe they're coming back. It's heartbreaking. We hate it. And you know some Maybe you've been one. Drifting, drifting. Sometimes something happens specific that you can pin it to Other times it's just drifting, drifting away. And some come back. Everyone's welcome to come back. There are prodigal sons and daughters out there that can come back. But Paul talks about how people are being led astray by demons and false teachers. Demons. Okay. The thing about demons and Satan is we have two sort of natural reactions. One is to obsess about it. There's demons and Satan's everywhere. Uh you guys remember Mike Warnkey, the Satan seller? This is like seventies, eighties. He was a c Christian comedian who grew up in uh a demonic cult And he wrote about it and I remember reading this in the eighties. I don't know why I read it, but he was sort of popular. He had records out. And so it's like, okay, they're everywhere The other problem is to completely disregard them. Pretend like they don't exist. Like they're not real. But the Bible says they are. There is a real Satan who's a destroyer and an accuser. We don't need to look for him all the time, but he's around. And we sometimes or often think that these demons are super noticeable, like Darth Maul in Star Wars. This is what they look like. But often they're very sneaky. They look very normal. They come in in normal ways and get us False teachers, liars, insincere, and they sear our consciences We know something's supposed to be true, but we just stop listening and stop following. It's like hitting the snooze button on our consciousness. There was a while where Julie was gonna do yoga at six in the morning, so she set her alarm at five thirty, and the alarm would go off and she would hit snooze and hit snooze and never go to yoga. And the next day I'm going to yoga at 6 o'clock. Alarm goes off, snooze, snooze, no yoga How long are we going to not go to yoga, but still have the alarm set to go to yoga? I understand why you don't want to go to yoga at six It's six in the morning, it makes sense to me. Turn off the alarm, woman. You are searing my conscience doing it this way, right? But this is what happens. We s we sear our conscious as um Because we we forget we shouldn't go to that spot or that site or have that conversation. The ringer goes off to say, Don't do it, don't do it, but we hit snooze And we do it and we go. Paul's talking about lying, hypocrisy, death, and danger. And the teaching area that he talks about here isn't the two normal ones. The two normal ones often, especially in the New Testament, are mysticism, we talked about that in the mystery religions, and legalism, Phariseeism. Both are super common. But this one is asceticism. Right? This used to be a a tour de force, a big deal. And and of course the idea is that things that are physical, body Earthy, these things are bad. Material things are bad. And spiritual things are good. And so, what we should do is get rid of as much as we can the physical things and only concentrate on the spiritual things. It's this division between body and soul. Body's bad, soul's good. But what if some of the worst things aren't physical, like greed? Hatred and anger and self-righteousness and lust, those come out of our souls, don't they? Paul talks about marriage and food. It's sort of wrong to be married because sexuality is bad. And food is to be avoided because it hurts your spirits. And it's like virginity is superior to marriage. And some still say that. It's sort of tolerated But you know in the Catholic Church not only are priests not allowed to be married, but they have these holy days where you're supposed to abstain from things. And it turns out that as you add them up, it's like half of the year Are abstinence eggs. And food, we we have the Jewish purity laws. So it makes sense. God said this But that was done away with with Peter. Remember? And now what God is saying is The gospel is for everyone, the Gentiles. That was sort of always true, but it didn't make sense to them because of this separation. But we're not separated that anyway. Not even with food. It's for the whole world. The food laws were for a time. Time is over. And and what tends to happen is we you know we have food laws. Some of them are because we get sick. Those make a ton of sense. Others of them are because we're choosing to be, you know, vegan or vegetarian. But but it can be like now I'm better than you. Because I'm choosing to help the world by my food choice. And so because you're not doing that, I can stand over you and I look down on you. It happens all the time. It's it's like we're uh creating our righteousness Now, I have chosen not to eat beef. The reason is because I don't like the way cows are treated. That doesn't make me better than you. But I was uh had the occasion to be invited to supper by someone and he you know, what do you what do you eat and don't eat? I don't eat beef, no big deal The person I was talking to had been the state representative for Cattle and Beef Association. It was like, no, no, no, just don't go there. Eat whatever he gives you. And so I had to sort of politely back my way out of uh just this is what I eat, right? But but we make our choices into these things like you know the way you give birth, the way you eat, the way you school Is like a litmus test of our goodness in the world. We're saying I'm more spiritual than you because of how we how we eat or how we live. But in some sense we're denying God's gifts if we do that. If i if it becomes essential to my standing before the Lord, that's a barrier. And it can create a guilty conscience when there might not be an offense there at all. It can create this compensatory righteousness as if Jesus isn't enough. And I can become self-righteous. But God is good. We still have to make choices. I'm not saying everything goes. There's a lot of reasons why food and sexuality are broken. But God is good. His creation is to be celebrated. And he says so, right? So we celebrate the stars and the flowers and the animals and the vegetables. Families, food, music, mountains, oceans, men, women, children, all of it we can be thankful and grateful for all of it, even if we can't consume all of it We should accept and enjoy God's good gifts in their proper places. Accepting and enjoying God's good gifts doesn't mean do whatever you want. Go wherever you want. Eat as much as you want. No, we still live in our bodies, right? So we give thanks, dedicate what we have to God, are thankful Not glib like rub-a-dub dub, thanks for the grub. We pray for our daily bread. We're thankful to have it What we get to see and taste and hear. And there are all these gifts in our world. Paul reminds us to be thankful for them. The things that are beautiful, the things that give us substance. Our experiences, our work that we get to do, our bodies, our relationships, because we have freedom in grace to live life with God, with Jesus. So leaders help people be free, not shackled. We make distinctions on what's important or not, but and we don't need to major in the minors. We've talked about holding our hands open. with most things, seeing the good, knowing what's wrong, and moving forward like leaders like Valerie Second point. Following training. Following training. Verse six. If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a great servant of Christ Jesus. Being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Amen. A good servant of Christ Jesus. Well done, good and faithful servant. Something we all want to hear, isn't it Godliness in verse 7. Have nothing to do with irreverent silliness. Rather, train yourself for godliness So in the first paragraph, we're told to evaluate, contemplate, think about. In the second paragraph, we're told there's stuff to do. You gotta know truth and error, and then get to work. Godliness is an action verb. It's not just sitting there on a couch. We need to read the Bible, listen to good preaching, go to worship, do service. It's a kinetic obedience And worship leads to obedience as God dictates our life. Paul talks about godliness with good teaching. Good teaching is the diet of godliness, a regular good diet. It's present tense, it's ongoing. We train ourselves in the word in good teaching. Reading the Bible, going to Bible studies, hearing preaching, hearing teaching. We're learning, learning, learning. Disciples are followers, they're learners. Godly training. That's the word for exercise, like a gym, gymnastics This is the time of the Olympics. So they're they're understanding these things. A good leader is in good training, godliness. Godliness is not perfection though, right? We recognize our sins, our faults, our failures, and we repent of those. A part of godliness is knowing where you fall short. A part of godliness is realizing my New Year's resolutions went out the window a long time ago. A part of godliness isn't just resting on what we've done before, right? It's present tense. It's this exercise, but it's not watching other people exercise. I think I told you my son drew he had a you could take a class and that you had to have a physical fitness class in Cornell and one of them was thinking about exercising. That was a class I'm not sure what that does. But you have to do it, right? To to make the Olympics. You have to train. To dance and ballet. You have to train. That's a performance. Godliness is this Bible reading, discipleship with the Holy Spirit, diligence, fellowship with each other. Patterns. Take spiritual discipline to read and memorize the Bible, to pray, to fast, to sit quietly with the Lord, to worship. And we've talked about how character matters. Our morality, our behavior, our performance, our humility, our godliness, caring for others, sanctification. Sanctification. And then he talks about how there's this global task. Paul reminds Timothy, the instructions aren't only for him, but for the world. Godliness you look in yourself and then you look up and you look out to the world When I first started running, which I don't do much anymore, um I would take the kids to uh basketball practice or games or whatever. And there was this little um lap running lap track track. Um and it was little, so you had to go sixteen times around this thing for one mile. So you know normally a outdoor track is four So I had to buy a clicker. Because you gotta click sixteen and I was trying to get up to like nine miles. And the other funny thing is that it's real tight. So like You know, you would run one way and like when the next morning it was like, oh, because you're like run the lap, so you had to return fast. But if you click Nine miles, 16, that's 144 clicks. Now it is sort of nice because you do get to click it all. You feel like you're making progress. Right, but you have to focus. You don't get to watch anyone else. That's not like running outside where you have to watch where people are. I was focused on myself. And so what I'm trying to say is a part of what we do, there's a social aspect to it, a global aspect. Just on Thursday, Julie's a part of this kayak club. And so when you go go kayaking, you don't normally go in big huge groups, although they do it sometimes. But the kayak club got everyone together to see each other, to meet each other, so they can maybe go together When we're training, when we're being godly together, we do it together. And we remember there's a world out there. It's not only for ourselves. We have a hope in the living God. This is verse 10. For to this end we toil and strive. Godliness takes training. Toil and strive. Why? Because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe. So our godliness isn't for our own gain totally. We look out to others, we invite others, we have a message for others. Lastly, faithful leading And then Paul gives instructions to Timothy as a leader, as a minister. Command and teach these things. Let no one despise you for your youth, but Set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity. Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching. Do not neglect the gift you have, which has been given to you by the prophet prophecy when the council of elders lay their hands on you. Practice these things. Immerse yourself in these things So that you all may see your progress. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this. For by doing so you will save both yourself and your hearers Doesn't matter how old you are to be a leader. Timothy is most likely in his thirties. At that time that was pretty young for any type of Authority. You don't have to be old. It's not a position necessarily. We're not all going to be ordained officers. It's the authority that you have. Where we demonstrate our godly character, our wise choices, and leading by example. The character means words, true words, gracious words, spiritual words, encouraging words. Conduct, how we live our lives, says something. Love. Loving well. Internally loving well. Externally loving well. Having a heart for the lost, sharing each other's burdens, caring and repenting when we fail. Faith, what we trust in. Especially the gospel. Faith that God saves sinners, just like me, just like you. Purity, ethics, sexuality, even in our struggles, honesty, the scriptures, reading, hearing, preaching, teaching them. And we have a lot of teachers, don't we? There are a lot of people in this congregation that do a lot of teaching. That'll be proven next week. Um it's very impressive the size of this church with the amount of ministry y'all do BBS, ESL, teaching people, loving people that way, having them come into our spaces Reading scriptures together so it's not just one person that you hear from. Using our gifts. Some of us are ordained, most of us aren't But we see each other. Some of us the church also sees and lays hands on, not all of us. If we have an inward call, the ministry there needs to also be an outward call for ordination. It's not just an inward call. I know of a a non-accredited seminary And they all got together and then they gave each other PhDs. So now they have a seminary full of PhDs. That is not what we're talking about, right? Just making sure we have the the things in place is not the inward or outward call. Diligent leading is what we need Not just caring for ourselves, but caring for others. Not just sharing the gospel to others, but reminding ourselves, because we need it too. And we can forget. Sort of like sometimes it's it's like on the airplane, right? Where You're supposed to put the mask on yourself first before you put it on your children. Sometimes we put the gospel mask on others, and we asphyxiate. Or we're so busy doing everything that we don't have time for ourselves. I was contemplating about how When I was especially in my RUF days, I would sit in the student union and have meeting after meeting, just discipling students, seven hours a day, back to back meetings. And I was making myself exhausted by doing spiritual work, but not a spiritual work on myself. So we need our hobbies, our friendships, our exercise And we need to think about what we believe. So we sort of take a check on that. We take a check on think about how how are we doing? In godliness. Most of the time, we're either proud or doomed When you take that self-check, you can so often feel proud or doomed. Persistence, he talks about persistence. I am persistent. I am flaky. I dip and I dabble. But the good news for us today Because we have a Savior. We aren't saved by godliness. Because Jesus loves us, we can pursue godliness. We don't pursue godliness to find Jesus. He gives himself to us. If we're flaky, he's resolute. Jesus was definitely ordained. He was a prophet, priest, and king, so we can follow him. He was anointed. He took on the office of glory and it led him to death and resurrection. So he gives that to us. So we can pursue him, be his disciples, right? He's the model of speech and life and love and faith and purity, which we can never attain. We all fall short of all of this, don't we? But he gives himself to us. He takes our failings. Amen. He's the word made flesh. Talk about Bible reading. He was the word made flesh. And he dwelt among us. So we've got a lot to do. There's a lot of work to be done. But where none of us are omnicompetent, I certainly am not. I'm sure failed a lot already, and I will keep failing. But we are free to strive. Because we know and love Jesus. That's our great hope. That He will save us, not that we will save ourselves So we can persist in our hope in Jesus even today. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments.