Christ in Christ Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. To the King of the Ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. Amen. Please be seated. I am, I'm sure, the least mechanical person in the room. I'm the least mechanical person that I know. I cannot fix one thing barely on a car. Um uh house projects are the worst. I can hang a picture if there's only one picture and it has a middle mount thing. If it has two, no chance. I cannot line those things up at all. So it's very nice To be able to call the maintenance man at the apartment right now. It's been awesome. I've enjoyed that. It makes leasing cars more appealing But cars aren't evil. Houses aren't evil. We're talking today about what we hate In leadership. In leadership, what do we hate as leaders? What do we hate as people? In this pastoral letter, Paul is writing to Timothy, his true son in the faith. Timothy is in Ephesus. which is in now modern day Turkey. Timothy is this church planter organizer, and he's called to raise up leaders. And the church needs leaders and we are all leaders. So this letter is for all of us. Point one today, leaders fight. Verse 18, starting at the end before the beginning Beginning. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare. I'm reminding you what I've told you before, Timothy. Fight the good fight. Fight the good fight. So leading takes courage, forthrightness, Because there are tasks at hand. We go into dark places. We make difficult decisions. And we should fight. And of course, we do fight a lot, don't we? We're called to fight and we're also called to turn the other cheek. These are types of things that take a lot of wisdom to know what to do. But we are to fight things. C. S. Lewis writes, certain things, if not seen as lovely or detestable, are not being seen correctly at all There's a book I like called Nine Things You Simply Must Do by Henry Cloud. You may have heard of him. And he has one chapter, and it's called Hate Well. Hate well. He writes, we are defined in part by what we love and what we hate. God hates, doesn't he? Listen in Proverbs 6, 16 through 19. There are six things that the Lord hates Seven that are an abomination to him, haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers. What God hates. He said some of them, what he hates, in First Timothy, in the beginning of this book. We made the point that we often zone in on one or two of the ones that we know we hate and we leave out some of the other ones that might hit a little closer to home. Do we hate what God hates? Hate is moving against something. So therefore, you're moving towards something different. Hate helps us protect what we value. I have a friend named Marcine, and her daughter has asthma, and one of the things that trips her daughter up on the asthma is eucalyptus So if Marcine is with her daughter, or her daughter's with her, and she walks into anywhere and smells eucalyptus, she hates eucalyptus. It hurts her daughter. So she goes the other way, right? We gotta get out of here. This is a good protective hate. that she has. So what do you hate? What do you fight for or battle against? I'm going to talk about two types of hate then. One is a subjective hate. A subjective hate is toward an idea Or something unresolved, an unresolved problem in your past, maybe, something that's not dealt with. Subjective hate is more like a pool of feelings. Or attitudes, and they sort of wait to come out. They're always just right there. They sort of live in you. Ready to come out and be set off at any time. This subjective hate brings destruction. It can wreck things. It blasts people. You can tell you have usually when it comes right out of there in an overreaction. It's unresolved, always there, conflict within you. It causes relational breakdowns. This sort of subjective hate sort of has a life of its own Versus an objective hate. An objective hate is sort of like this eucalyptus. I know what it is. I know how to deal with it. Objective hate solves problems. It protects. It stands against. You can state what you're angry about and why. This objective hate proposes solutions. And also an objective hate is respectful. To the person or to the problem. It's not a hateful attitude. You it can be objective with a time and a place to deal with the problem. Uh this uh objective hate is hard at the issue and soft at the person. So it comes connected to love. It's addressing real toxins in effective ways. And good hate reveals values. And we are called to hate what God hates and love what God loves. Proverbs 6, the Ten Commandments. Many places where we find this. We love what is good. with respect and kindness and forgiveness. We take a stand with love and dignity and respect. That's different than those touchy-touchy flare-ups So in other words, don't fight the bad fight. Now, our tradition is Scottish Presbyterian. That is fight, fight, fight. Everything needs to be fought against. Recently uh there's been there's always these denominational fights, which is very sad. disruptive and there was a breakout group maybe like three years ago of about 40 churches that formed their own denomination and they've already split So you get this fighter personality and then you you you win the fight. Now you gotta fight something else. It's just very impos it's impossible to turn off. It's like a personality I was reading about uh a church fight. You know, we always hear these carpet fights, but this one was should they serve coffee in the Narthex? Is that where the coffee should be? So they pulled it out of the basement. And this caused a lot of problems, especially with the the deacons and the ushers. I don't really know why. And so they went on strike. If you're going to put copy of an artifacts, we're not going to take up the offering. This is ridiculous. They had a walkout. Goodness gracious. We can be known so much by what we hate. I've got this buddy, Ray. Now you I've told you I do not like hot dogs. I hate hot dogs. I ate one piece of a hot dog for the first time in like 20 years just to prove a point. Because I love kids. But my buddy Ray really hates hot dogs, way beyond me, and he has these rants against hot dogs. I mean, he will go off on it for a long time. We're in this Facebook group, he's always talking about how much he hates hot dogs. So guess what happens? Anytime anybody sees him, they bring hot dogs. It's like, dude, you reverse-engineered this to where now all you get is hot dogs. And anytime anybody sees something on the internet, hot dog related, it's right in his face, right? So he really defined himself by what he hated a little too much. So we often are hating very small, petty annoyances And most of the time, honestly, our little hates are first-world problems, aren't they? This app isn't working! We have food hate, car hate, house hate, but we have food and cars and houses. We know we need to fight for our right to party. We know that. But we also need to fight that this Bible is inerrant and inspired. We need to fight that salvation is through Christ alone, by faith alone, with grace alone. A lot of our fights maybe are not as important. We talked about holding some things loosely and holding other things tightly. We talked about state borders versus national borders. So some of us need to think, okay, is this a an open-handed issue? Probably it is. Probably it is not, but not all of them are, but probably it is. Are we fighting against injustice Are we fighting against discrimination? Are we fighting against greed and poverty and abortion and abuse? And are we most of all fighting against Satan? Our accuser, who's at war with us, at war with God, who's attacking people, families, marriages, church, sexuality, and leaders We're coming up on D Day, June sixth, nineteen forty-four. Forty four hundred of Allied soldiers died on that initiative. We don't even know how many people died on the other side. It's estimated between four and nine thousand. That's a big range, isn't it? And I was reading this morning that this may be the last anniversary where there are living soldiers. It's fading, fading, fading for our memories. Fighting for something right, fighting for something important, giving your life All the way. To fight against evil. In your hymnals, there's a a hymn call 358. It's for all the saints. And it has these two verses. O may thy soldiers, faithful, true, and bold, fight as the saints who nobly fought of old, and win with them the victor's crown of gold. Another verse goes this way. The golden evening brightens in the west. Soon, soon, to faithful warriors comes their rest. Sweet is the calm of paradise. The blessed. There is a lot of soldier imagery, especially from Paul. It's one of his favorites. Leaders fight. Point two. Leaders clean. This is in verse 19. Holding faith and a good conscience. By yeah, holding faith. In the one of these Navi, it's clinging to faith and a good Conscious, holding, clinging. Our weapons in this fight are faith and a good conscience. Now I grew up in the 80s. Yeah This present darkness. Anyone remember This Present Darkness? Frank Peretti? Okay, this was a this book, couple book series, and it was all about angels and sword fights. Up in the sky, the very exciting angels slashing each other, stabbing each other, protecting each other But Paul says that's not what we got in our fight. In this passage, at least. No, it's not as cool of a thing. We're clinging to faith. Not making a wish for it all to go away. Clinging is a good word because we have doubts, don't we? Things aren't going my way. I don't know where to fight. I don't know how to fight. I don't know if I'm capable of fighting Right now. I have doubts. Is this true? Is this true? Is this true? When I have these doubts, I go back to the trustworthy accounts of the Gospels. Are the Gospels trustworthy accounts? I think they are. And if they're trustworthy accounts, the center of that trustworthy account is that Jesus was crucified on the cross. Did that happen? Assuredly so. No doubt. And did he raise from the dead? That's the kicker. Did that really happen? Well there were eyewitnesses to it That changed a whole bunch of things. It wasn't just wishful thinking that we hope he did. It wasn't just this legend That got created so that these people could be in power. In power? What are we talking about? They were persecuted. I think he did. And if I think that's true, then I can start to back into the other very reasonable, questionable things in this very reasonable, semi-crazy account. There's things in here that are very weird. Right? But if this bedrock thing, the weirdest thing is someone rose from the dead Okay, well then a lot of other stuff I can go with. I can believe in a God that can do all these things, right? So I'm clinging to that faith in the midst of a crazy world, in the midst of my crazy heart, in the midst of my crazy family. It's not sinking sand to believe in this, to rest in Christ, to cling to Him. We have faith in our consciences. The Holy Spirit working in us, molded by God and His Word and the Church and the Holy Spirit, not seared consciences, fooled or mixed-up consciences. And if we do go against our conscience, we can repent and ask for forgiveness. And go a different way. Right? Our faith and our consciousness go together. We're not interested in continually slipping morals Nor are we interested in rigid fundamentalism, following all our rules. That's not faith either. Especially because what we tend to do is create more and more and more rules, don't we? And also we create more and more rules that we can follow We dismiss rules that we don't like and don't follow. So we end up fundamentally all having our own little code, which we still break Believing, repenting, believing, following God, when we fail, when we hate too little or hate the wrong things. Or when we hate too much and hate the wrong things. When we hate too soon or we hate too late. It's not easy. We get it wrong. And so we become even more repenters, quicker repenters, early forgiveness askers, often forgivers Confessing, apologizing, asking for forgiveness, forgiving others, or we become stubborn, obstinate, hard-hearted, like what we read Holding faith in a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may not learn to blaspheme, shipwreck the faith, cling to the faith, shipwreck the faith And Paul handed them over to Satan. This is sort of like, okay, you can get what you want. You want Satan? You got it. That's pretty rough, isn't it? This is being cast outside the love of God, outside the safety of the church, given over ex community. Have you ever seen anyone or known anyone get excommunicated? Honestly, most of the time they don't care. That's being handed over Or they'll fight it on technicalities. Like you followed the wrong procedure. It's not connected to the heart anymore at that point. I have seen it. I have participated in it. I have voted for it And I have also worked like the Dickens to save people from not getting it. Even recently I had a buddy of mine And his presbytery was saying he may very well may not be a Christian anymore. We're gonna excommunicate him. Like, guys, that's just That's not true. I know you're mad at him. Fine. But you're saying he's not a Christian? It's just not true This is a drastic, scary step, a radical step, a severe step. The goal of this step is to come back. It's the goal of the step. Because sometimes for some people it takes being cast into the sea to realize the advantage of being on board the ship. Hey you want you you've been talking bad about the ship all day. You want to try it out there? So it's not to harm, but to heal. So we, church, we need to carefully take a stand on the right things. Not constant stand takers on everything. We need to be not too quick to judge, but to give others the benefit of the doubt Repentant, patient, kind, and clinging, holding Leaders hate, leaders fight, leaders cling or hold, and leaders celebrate. Do we celebrate? Well We talked a lot earlier about lamenting well, but the flip side is celebrating well. We need to, leaders need to, all of us need to leave live a joyful life Working together, noticing what is good. Okay, this is 12 through 14. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service. Though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor An insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. Amen? But I receive mercy for this reason, that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who believe in were to believe in him for eternal life, to the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul is celebrating a transformed life, a redeemed life, a rescued life, right? And we should put ourselves in there. We are not just dysfunctional. We're not just sick or handicapped. No, we are wretched. Dead in sin without Christ, rebellious, deserving of all we should get Because grace is not putting the finishing touches on already nice people. It's not like a little polish Thanks so much. Dead. Lost Enslaved, needing rescue, not touch-ups, right? So Paul is telling his story of rescue, and he says, I was not worthy. Here's my story. God had mercy on me. God saves sinners. Oh, that's such good news for us today. I was talking to somebody this week and he said their church had moved toward on purpose sharing the gospel during the service in the sermon once a month. And then eventually twice a year, Christmas and Easter, because that's when non-believers would come in. So that's when we need to share the gospel. Like, what are you talking about the rest of the time, yo? Well, there's a lot of stuff for us to do in the Bible, right? And I bet you they were talking about giving a lot, honestly, and going out and being missionaries. Well that's fine. But I was telling this guy's like, look, my stated belief is we hear the gospel and we walk out that door and forget it by the time we get to the car. It's our natural instinct to forget this stuff. I I don't go around thinking I'm a sinner who needs mercy. I'm killing it Or I'm not killing it. But God saves sinners, doesn't he? He's generous and gracious And faithful in his love, his steadfast love endures forever. And so leaders are thankful, eager for grace, eager to give grace Not ashamed of the gospel, not ashamed of grace. We tell our story too. And God saves what type of people? Good, talented, devoted, virginal. God allows sin. God hates sin. God fights sin. And he saves sinners. And Paul puts him as the worst of them all. What do you think about that? You think of the worst sinners you know. Hmm. Oh really, think of the worst sinners you know, right? You put Paul on that list? You know you know who the worst sinner you know is. You know your sin more than you know anybody else's sin. I know you I know you know some other people's sins, a lot of them, right? You probably list them out for them sometimes But you know your sin the most. You are the worst sinner that you know. We all are Some of you are rising up on my list. I'm excited. Who excuses? For sure, for sure. Whose whose sin do you excuse the most? Of course your own You overlook your own sin more than anyone else. And so it's important when we come to passages like this that God doesn't just save sinners in general. Like this is a general concept. It's specific. Your sin. My sin. God can save Paul and God can save Timothy. And and we talked about this last week. God saved them differently, didn't he? Didn't he? Very different cases. But one of the most important messages is there are no impossible cases. No impossible cases. There is hope for sinners because it's all impossible without God We all need forgiveness and grace today. We all are humbled, not proud. And when we realize this, we can say with Paul, To the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. To the King, to the resurrection. Not to anything else. Our titles, our positions, our achievements But it's to God alone. Amen. Wow, we should be thankful for grace, right? We often are tired, bored, distracted, proud, complaining, burnt out, fading, bitter, cold, fighting wrong, giving up. And it's easy to fall into the trap of leading without grace or faith. Sometimes we let everything go. I'm just tired of all this. You can do whatever you want. Sometimes we think we're in like the marine boot camp. I see dirt We sometimes grew up in families like that. Everything was by the book. Or some of us grew up in families where nothing matters. Just Take care of yourself. Or we cling to our morality, or our liturgy, or our theology. But ultimately what what I'm reminding you today is true is Jesus fought the good fight, and what happened? He lost. You can fight the good fight and die. Jesus fought and was crushed Under the pressure of the world, under the pressure of religion, under the pressure of people who hated him, and even under the pressure. Pressure of God, whose plan it was all along. And that's how He won. Right. And so he gives you and me that victory unearned by us, so you can wear that victor's crown of coal. So that you can fight where he wants you to fight. Because it's not going to hurt you, even if you lose. You have him. And so we celebrate that. We're clinging to him, but but of course he's got us way more than we got him. And so we celebrate that, don't we? That he took all of that pain and we get all of that glory. And so because of that, we can stand up and hate cancer and trafficking and overcrowding in prisons and homelessness and drugs, because I am the worst of sinners. But man, I found Jesus, right? He's given me his grace and his mercy. He's been patient with me. And I need patience. And more grace and more mercy and more help. And so we can sing amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved uh Wretch wretch. I hate the University of Texas. I hate Kansas University. I hate the Yankees. Do not hate the Chiefs, that's not okay. These are nothing compared to what we should be doing, right? Let's put our emotional energy in the two true things that matter instead of our diversions. And let's celebrate the goodness that we see in our midst. We can share our sin and our failings, and we've got to share Jesus' grace for us. Because after all, hallelujah, what a Savior. Hallelujah, what a friend. What is he doing? Saving, helping, keeping, loving. How long? All the way to the end. Amen? It's good news for us today. I'll tell it again next week. Let's take a few moments in responses. The first response we can