Right? If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord and Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords accords with godly good godliness, he is puffed up and can with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and con and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and depraved in of the truth. Imagining that godliness is a means of gain. But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world and we cannot take anything out of this world But if we have food and clothing, and these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation. into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that punch people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. First Timothy 6, 3 through 10. Amen. Please be seated. Before I start, I wanted to mention something to Ruth. You talked about your favorite thing. We did something similar when I did RUF for 10 years at the University of Oklahoma. We had weaken the word. And week in the word, I'd probably bring about fifteen college students to my parents' land. And they built the big house, but they also had another house that nobody lived in. So we just inhabited that house for a week. And we would do Bible study from nine to noon and we'd eat and then we worked on the property. And uh my dad had all these odd jobs, but we did all that and he paid for everything. Which was great 'cause he got a lot of work out of those students, for sure. And they enjoyed it because we got to work together doing stuff they didn't normally do. And then at night we would have a you know bonfire and I would usually have like a covenant seminary s speaker, professor come down, or we'd play midnight hide and seek. We just all did a whole bunch of crazy stuff. And it was such a fun time and um people grew so much and came to Christ. And so I'm glad you're doing that. I don't know about twelve hours of Bible study in a row, but Okay, we are going through First Timothy. We have this week and next week, and then we'll be finished. We've slowed down a little bit here in chapter six. And we're talking about leaders. Leadership. And over and over again I've said everyone is a leader. We're not just talking about elders and deacons in the church. But who do you think of when I say this name? Hurley. Hurley. There's not a lot of Hurley's in the world. Hurley was on Lost. Remember Lost? It's been a while now, all right? Maybe you haven't seen loss. That's okay, it doesn't matter. You're still gonna understand. Hurley won the lottery. Now this is True in the world, not just in TV shows, but it's it's been studied that a lot of people when they win the lottery, they don't like it. Their lives get worse, not better. And Hurley in the show, that definitely happened, and he became obsessed with the numbers. You know, he picked these numbers and these numbers start showing up all over the place and anytime these numbers show up, bad things happen, including winning the lottery. including a plane crash onto a cursed island. Do we want to win the lottery? I'm always willing to give it a shot, you know, like maybe I would be happy. I'm unsure, but but money, money, money More money, more problems, right? We want to get money, make money, spend money, save money. Uh I saw recently an ad for a four A poster bed. What are those called? For poster poster bed? Why are they called that? I don't know. Um Yeah, they're posts. Four posts. Okay. Uh five thousand dollars the bed is for a dog. So you know people don't just build dog houses, they build dog mansions with TVs in there and computers for the dogs So let's talk about money, right? First, we're going to talk about money at the end. Leaders love wholesome teaching. Leaders love wholesome teaching. Paul tells Timothy to teach, and he urges him to teach, right? He wants Timothy to be consistently preaching and teaching the gospel and the truths of the faith. He says, I want to encourage you and urge them. Urging means make application. So uh preaching and teaching isn't only information sess sessions. Like sometimes we think that we're getting so much out of it when we just learn more. Our heads get bigger. Our knowledge gets deeper. But preaching isn't also only application sessions. We just get told what to do. Do this, do this, do this, do this. Preaching and teaching, what Paul's talking about is both. Learning theology, learning the gospel. And when you learn the gospel, we need to go out in word and deed. Right? We take what we know about Jesus and the Bible, we we put it into action and word and deed. But anytime you put things into word and action by word and deed, you're gonna mess up. And guess what? You need the gospel. So we keep on going around in a in a very healthy way. We learn, we apply, we go out, and then we need more. Again, gospel, gospel. Sound, wholesome teaching. But Paul also reminds him there are other types of teaching, a whole different realm of teaching And he uses words like arrogant, unhealthy, quibbling, argumentative, jealous, divisive, slanderous, evil, trouble, corrupt, turns back on the truth, showy, greedy. Not good. All from bad teaching and preaching and living Now teaching and preaching the gospel and organization, which Timothy's also been learning about from Paul, Paul's Teaching Timothy how to get organized as a church, right? It's not easy. The Christian community isn't easy at all. And there will always be unhappy people Some people, Paul says, are conceited, or they argue certain words, like scholars. And when that's the norm in a Christian community, it divides into factions. But Paul tells Timothy, orthodoxy is healthy, sound words. Heterodoxy is sick, jealous, resentful, irritable And again, we've said this many times over in 1 Timothy, we need to keep the main thing the main thing, right? Don't fight over everything. We want to stay away from unnecessary controversy. And sometimes it's okay to give up a fight It's not worth it all the time. To be argumentative, one time I was asked to be on a debate panel about infant baptism. No way. I'm not doing that. I I'm happy to talk about it. I I believe in it. But debate it in front of people? No. I'm not interested. Not everything is of equal importance. And it's so easy for us to become unhappy, grumbling critics. We need to know what's important though. Timothy has been learning that. There are things that we need to hold on to The gospel has implications and other things matter as they come out from the gospel. So it's great to learn about infant baptism, to explore God's sovereignty, to understand church history. Creeds and confessions, predestination, to get into hymns, right? As long as we can hold those graciously and humbly as we learn. Sometimes people say we don't need any of that. Just follow Jesus. That's it. Well, you've got to know what Jesus you're following. And what he's like and what he does and what he says. Sometimes people say, all I need is the Bible. Fine. But there's a reason why we have creeds and confessions. They help us understand the Bible. They go along with it, underneath it, but along with it. Sometimes evil can look very simple and pretty. Other times it's super complicated and confusing. And our minds cave in on ourselves. We start believing our own truths instead of the truth of the Bible. The Bible is the truth. It sets our courses. And the Bible reminds us of our own spiritual pathologies. That we have to detect and combat. And the Bible reminds us we have the gospel. of grace, which we need every day. Because sometimes we think, you know what, salvation is by works. Not true, right? Sometimes we think I can be good enough for God to accept me. Not true Sometimes we think I'm sufficient and capable without God in my life. It's not true, is it? Sometimes we can think, I don't need the church. It's not true, is it? Sometimes we think I'm always right. It's not true, is it? The truth will set us free, though. Truth will set us free. Leaders care about wholesome teaching. Leaders also care about money. Paul transitions here in verse six, seven, eight, and then he goes on. But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into the world and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmless harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. It's through the craving, it's through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pains. It's interesting how Paul keeps coming back to this wandering, shipwrecking faith thing. There's a lot of different ways to shipwreck your faith, and money is the next one he talks about. Greed Troublemakers are connected also, not just to bad teaching, but to wealth, godliness, contentment, and the lack of those things Greed, one of the seven deadly sins, and probably the most promoted one. All around us every day. Not just money, popularity, success, achievement, spending, but money can be trouble. Looking up songs about trouble. Elvis sang one, but it's one of the spelling songs. T-R-O-U-B-L-E. I always like spelling songs. Um Travis Tritt also sang that in 1992. Taylor Swift has one, Coldplay has one, Kat Stevens has one, Eminem has one. Bob Dylan has one. Spelling songs G-R-E-E-D It's all around us, isn't it? All these ads. You know, ads are informational and formational. Ads form our minds, our thinking, sadly. Because we are always told all day long, you need this. You've got to have this. Your phone is old. You need a new phone, bad I always I still get tickled when somebody pulls out a flip phone. There's some people in the room who have the flip phone, right? But you remember when you got your first flip phone, it's like, oh, wow, I can push these buttons and make a word. Cool. And all of a sudden it's like, no way. I want every information on my hand. And this one has a crack in it And I'm the same way. But what about religious greed? That's big business, isn't it? And it's true in Ephesus in 60 A. D. It's true in church history for sure, right? This is one of the reasons we get the Reformation in the first place, is these indulgences. To pay for cathedrals, some of which we got to go see. And you know what? I love cathedrals. I'm all for them. I don't think we need to have everything as plain as possible. The question is how do we pay for them? With indulgences, with bribes, with titles We need a reformation. But now what do we have? Christian bookstores. Christian trinket shops. Jesus is profitable. We were just, you know, where I grew up in Ozark, Missouri is an hour away from the Precious Moments Cathedral, which is Crazy. You think a lot of words besides crazy, but I'll say crazy. Christian TV, Christian music, Christian movies, Christian witness wear, Christian clothes. All of it. What checks are greed Paul is saying it's not only tied to how much you have, it's tied to your heart, to where your treasure is To what we desire. And the line between what we want and what we need and what we desire and what is necessary can be very thin. And hard to see. Back when Julie and I got married, I used to order books through the Christian Book distributor. And remember this? You get this magazine. And there was like I don't even know if they're pictures. Maybe there were pictures. Sometimes so C B D now C B D stands for something very different, doesn't it? So get the C V D and and start making lists and like you know, you you wanted to get up to as many as you could to get free shipping. So you so it's like wait a while, wait a while, oh I need this one Need I need this one, you know, because I'm ministry, so I gotta have this book. I gotta have every RC sproll book there is, you know, no matter what. It was a process. Now, because of my phone, I don't wait a second. If I see a book that I need, boosh, it's at my house the next day. I think it's greed, honestly. All those books. An addiction, maybe? I don't know We all need the Bible and the church to help us. And the church should be helping us. The Bible should be helping us. Judge our needs. Evaluate them and give us new ones, new replacement needs You probably heard this little poem. It's called Mine. We just saw it a little bit, didn't we? If I like it, it's mine. If I can take it away from you, it's mine. If I had it a while ago, it's mine. If it looked like it if it looks like it's mine It's mine. If I say I saw it first, it's mine. If you're having fun with it, it's mine. If you lay it down It's for sure mine. And if it's broken, it's yours. I left a poem over there, Rob. Can you see look in those papers? Oh yeah that no that's not it. The bottom one is holding half anything, yeah. Unless you want to read it. He's talking about contentment, right? It was spring, but it was summer I wanted. The warm days and the great outdoors. It was summer, but it was fall I wanted, the colorful leaves and the cool, dry air. It was fall, but it was winter I wanted, the beautiful snow and the joy of the holidays. It was winter, but it was spring I wanted, the warmth and the blossoming of nature. I was I was a child and it was adulthood I wanted, the freedom and the respect I was twenty, but it was thirty I wanted. To be more mature and sophisticated. I was middle-aged, but it was twenty that I wanted. The youth and the free spirit I was retired, but it was middle age that I wanted, the presence of mind without the limitation. My life was over and I never got what I wanted. That's very convicting to me Pursuing contentment, right? What does the Bible have to say about money? A lot. There's a lot of stuff about money in the Bible. Having it isn't wrong. The Lord blesses. Money is a gift from God. It's a part of God's providence. Christians must be able and willing to part with money. The Lord gives and the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. People with money should not be given preferential treatment. Don't be proud of money or seek security from money. Money is not the highest goal. Money is to be used for eternal purposes, too. Money is not to be loved or hoarded or indulgently spent, and sacrificial generosity is a mark of believers, a following. Jesus and loving money is a snare. Plunges us, pierces us. Greed makes it a lot easier to turn a blind eye to ethical matters We never have enough. We get trapped like quitsand, a rip tied, plunged, pierced. The word for pierced is impaled. Money is not evil. It's neutral. Paul has been telling Timothy about money, marriage, sex, food, all God's gifts For contented people. We've already talked about that song, Give Me Jesus. You can have all the world, but give me Jesus. Greed turns love into lust. Greed turns leisure into sloth. Greed turns hunger into gluttony Greed turns honor into pride. And we've said this before too. We are all rich. If you have been in this world, I have been in Islam in Africa. Up in the mountains in Peru, Julie and we worked in this orphanage in Mexico. We have so much. People in this world would give anything to live in a dorm room. So we need to be so thankful, don't we? I think it was John Wesley that said, make as much money as you can, save as much money as you can, and give as much money as you can. Travel light. Paul says you can't take it with you. And one of the things that does help us mitigate against greed is sacrificial giving. It's one of the best helps there is against greediness. Jesus said that it's easier to go through an eye of a needle, for a camel to go through an eye of a needle than a rich man, wealthy man to enter heaven. Kingdom of God. That's saying something. But it's not impossible. But it's not easy to be a wealthy Christian Okay, so what hope do we have? Because I don't know, I've already convicted myself. Do I delete Amazon off my phone? No, that's too far. Do I go back to a flip phone like Mark? Maybe. I mean I'm on a first b first name basis with the Amazon delivery guy. What we need is sound teaching, biblical teaching, to hold ourselves to the word. To know who Jesus was and is, what he did and what he does, to know his stories, to know the doctrines in the Bible. We need to know who God is, we need to know who the Holy Spirit is. We need to know what the church is. We need to know the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed. I think we should know the Westminster Confession of Faith a lot better Catechisms, super hopeful, super hopeful. And we need to prevent greed by Giving. So we don't get pierced and plunged and snared. And who was pierced and plunged and snared? He took it all. Took it all. So we get reminded back to the gospel. The gospel saves us. I I know I know we think our bank accounts can save us. So tempting and difficult So we come back and say, no, Jesus saves. Only Jesus saves. And with God all things are possible. He loves our souls. Money does not love you. What do the Beatles say? You can't buy me love. We sure try. I'll end with this. From Philippians 2. Let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also the interest of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Who though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself By becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, not money To the glory of God the Father, amen? Amen. Let's take a few moments in silence as we confess