Good morning. Happy Reformation Sunday to you all. I I just want to mention that um Timonium Presbyterian Church this uh this evening is having a service at six o'clock. Um so if you would like to attend a Reformation Sunday, sing some great Reformation hymns and and hear God's Word uh from one of the professors at uh Westminster Theological Seminary. Um tonight would be a good opportunity. We're continuing our study in the book of Deuteronomy. We are in chapter 26 We're going to be reading the whole chapter this morning. So I invite all of you who are able to stand to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Let's read from Deuteronomy chapter 26, verse 1 to 19. Hear now the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance and have taken possession of it and live in it You shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground which you harvest from your land that the Lord your God has given you, and you shall put it in a basket, and you shall go to the place that the Lord your God will choose. To make his name to dwell there. And you shall go to the priest who is in office at the time and say to him, I declare today to the Lord your God that I have come into the land that the Lord swore to our fathers to give us Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the Lord your God. And you shall make response before the Lord your God. A wondering Aramean was my father. And he went down into Egypt and sojourned there, few in number, and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous. And the Egyptians treated us harshly and humiliated us and laid on us hard labor. And we cried to the Lord, the God of our fathers, and the Lord heard our voice and saw our affliction and our toil and our oppression. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and outstretched arm, and with great deeds of terror, with signs and wonders. And he brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And behold, now I bring the first fruit of the fruit of the ground, which you, O Lord, have given me, and you shall set it down before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God. And you shall rejoice in all the good that the Lord your God has given to you and to your house, you and the Meevite and the sojourner who is among you. When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce in the third year, which is the year of tithing, giving it to the Levite, the serjourn, and the fatherless and the widow, so that they may eat within your towns and be filled, then you shall say before the Lord your God. I have removed the sacred portion out of my house, and moreover, I have given it to the Levi, the sergeant, the fatherless, and the widow, according to your commandments that you have commanded me. I have not transgressed any of your commandments, nor have I forgotten them I have not eaten any of the tithe while I was mourning, or removed any of it while I was unclean, or offered any of it to the dead. I have obeyed the voice of the Lord my God. I have done according to all that you have commanded me. Look down from your holy habitation from heaven and bless your people, Israel, and the ground that you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey. This day the Lord your God commands you to do these statutes and rules. You shall therefore be careful to do them with all your heart and with all your soul You have declared today that the Lord is your God and that you will walk in his ways and keep his statutes and his commandments and his rules and will obey his voice. And the Lord has declared today that you are a people for his treasured possession, as he has promised you, and that you are to keep all his commandments And that he will set you in high in praise and in fame and in honor high above all nations that he has made. And that you shall be a holy, shall be a people holy to the Lord your God. as he promised. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you yet again and thank you that you are good to us. Thank you that you have given us your word that we can consider this morning. Your word that is holy, inerrant, inspired by you. Thank you that we have the Holy Spirit who enables us, who illumines our hearts and minds, so that we may understand it. Would we be transformed by your word this morning? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. I grew up in a culture that had something. Something called a basket. A basket that is, was, and still remains, very important. And as my mother would always tell me every day, you do not go to visit friends without your basket. And that basket cannot be empty. And so I will start that you do not go to visit your friends empty-handed. You always had to bring a basket with something inside of it. Now, the beauty of the basket in my culture is that it's a basket that never stops giving. And by that I mean you take with you a basket that is full of goodies and you bring it to your neighbor or to your friend and as as you visit and you marry and you you have a wonderful time having dinner as you turn around and go home, they hand you back a basket full of something. It was a way for your host to express the immense gratitude that you not only came to visit with them, but that you also brought something to share with them. And so they returned the favor. They risk reciprocated the favor that you gave to them By giving you back your basket with something inside of it. Now, allow me to use that analogy of a basket this morning as we look at this passage and talk about worship. And the question that I want to ask all of us to have in our hearts and minds as we think about this text is this: what is in your basket? What is in your basket? When you approach God in worship, do you come empty-handed? When you approach God in worship Do you come before the presence of the Lord, our God, who has called us to worship Him, knowing that He has done so much for you? And the question becomes: how then do you express your immense gratitude? To God because He has been good to you. Now, before we delve into this whole passage, I want you to take a look at chapter 26 and verse 1. I want you to realize what's going on here in this chapter. I want you to realize that Moses is speaking to his people, and Moses is actually calling the nation of Israel to a time of imagination. Moses is telling the people to come with me and imagine. Imagine that which has not happened yet. Moses is telling his people that do not know anything about agriculture, and he's saying, listen, when you possess the land that God is about to give you, this are in the the instructions, this is how you're supposed to bring your offering, your first fruits to the Lord. Did you hear what I just said? The Israelites have never done agriculture before. They don't know what this is all about. They have no clue. And yet Moses is here inviting them and telling them to believe that it's actually possible for people that were wandering in Egypt, for people that had no home, for people that were slaves. For people that were in the wilderness not knowing anything about agriculture, God, Moses is inviting his people to just imagine Isn't that what we do in worship? I invite you in this worship service to a match Imagine where God has taken you from. Imagine where you are, but also don't stop there. Imagine the possibilities of where the Lord is able to lead his people. And one of the things that we do in worship is, might sound simple, but it is actually an amazing thing, which is what God's people are doing here, they bring their first fruit. To the priest is to acknowledge. Acknowledge the goodness of the Lord your God. And that's what we do in worship. Acknowledge God's goodness. Now, you will notice in verse 1 when it says, when you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. And I emphasize that language because We're going to see throughout this chapter that the idea of the land and the harvest, they are both here seen as gifts from God The land that the Lord your God is giving you. And this language of giving, this the Hebrew word then the ton, it's it's repeated in verse 1 And verse 2, and verse 3, and verse 9, and 10, and then going on and on. He keeps on talking about a land that the Lord is giving you or has been given to you Now we know how God's people are going to inherit this land, right? They're gonna fight for it, right? They will fight. There will be an armed struggle We also know how they're going to get their first fruit or how they're going to get a harvest. They're gonna have to learn agriculture, they're gonna have to learn how to till the land. It's going to be hard labor But at the heart of it is God reminding his people that while you may use arms struggle, while you may have to work hard in the land That you must understand and acknowledge that everything that you have, the land and the fruit that you're going to bring to the Lord, is nevertheless a gift from God. And you cannot forget that. And so the idea of bringing the first fruit, the right uh grain fruit, if you will, of the harvest, uh in the place here we're told that you don't just bring it whatever you want, you bring it to the place that the Lord your God has chosen for you. It's not a one-time activity. It's not just the moment that you go there and possess the land on the first day or the first harvest, you're going to bring your first fruit and you're going to bring it to the priest, and he will bless you and say goodbye and never come back. It's an act of worship. It has to be done over and over again. And so the the the person who is bringing this basket to the priest is regarded as the worshiper. And whatever they bring That's their gift to the Lord. But we must not forget what's going on here. In fact, the reason why God is telling them to bring the particular fruit or basket to the priest and to bring it to the place that God is choosing is because There's a temptation. The all and wonder of God's blessings can be misplaced. The all and wonder of God's blessings can be a big can be misplaced. So that the people may start thinking about the Canaanites and looking at the shrines that the Canaanites had built and go there and say, well, the Canaanites had fertility gods. The Canaanites had these things that helped them in nature, so let's go to them as well. God's people must not misplace the source of their livelihood. And so the worshipper is here making two declarations, and I want us to look at them. Verse 3 and verse 5 and 10. The first one is in verse 3. That's a declaration that they're making, they're acknowledging that the people are coming before God, and acknowledging before God that they have come into the land not by their own choice. Look at verse 3. What does he say? I declare to you today, to the Lord your God, that I have come to the land the Lord swore to our ancestors to give. Us. We have come because you gave. We have come because you gave. See, these are people's words. It is the people declaring to the Lord, it is their response of faith to grace. Notice the people are not saying again we are coming to a land that we own. This is our deserved land that we were supposed to be here. It's alright. Notice the people are not saying we have come to the land that we've worked so hard because we we had an armed struggle and we fought for it. And here we are. We've we've made finally made it They have come because God gave. I'm not sure if you're familiar with one old gospel song, one of my favorite African-American Gospel songs, we've come this far by faith. Leaning on the Lord, trusting in his holy word. He never failed me yet. No turning around That's what these people are acknowledging here in this acknowledgement in verse 3. Look at verse 5 through 10. We don't have the time to read the whole section, but I will summarize it for us. It's a confession It's not just an acknowledgement. It's a confession. What are they confessing? What are God's people reflecting upon? History. Facts of history. They are looking back in redemptive history and saying, God has been good to us. He has shown us so much grace. He has done all these things to us And they were saying, we want our faith and our grace to be anchored not in the blessings that God gives to us, but rather in facts of history. In other words, in a personal and real experience with God They want their faith and their grace to be anchored, not in the blessings that they see, not in the land and the fruit and all these things, but to be anchored in a real personal experience with God. And so they begin outlining their history that is so beautifully outlined here in verse 5 through 10. beginning with their origins, beginning with the journeys of the patriarchs, the the wandering Arambian there's Jacob. That's him in verse five, the immediate father of the twelve tribes of Israel. He's the one who came and settled in Egypt He's the one who confesses and comes and asks for help and the Egyptians are uh helpful to him and the confession doesn't stop that, but the confession continues Verse 5 through 10. Through the time Egypt and the expansion in numbers were actually told we came as few, but we were blessed and we became numerous. And that leads to the enslavement. It doesn't stop there. It goes on into God's miraculous rescue. God's people were once homeless. Had no place. Yet by God's providence they found a home in Egypt. And when they were oppressed, that God did not just leave them there, that God heard their cries of oppression and delivered them so that they may possess. a place. They went from possessing nothing to possessing plenty. I actually see something beautiful here in verses five and ten. Again, we're not going to read all the verses here, but do you notice the corporate and the individual blending here. You read uh like in verse seven, then we cried to the Lord the God of our fathers and the Lord heard our voice and saw affliction And then we read, and you brought us into this land place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And behold, I bring the first fruit. It's changing. There's a corporate identity that God's people are crying the same. We we cried out to you, Lord, and you heard us. And then here we read, now I bring, now that's the individual. Now I bring this first fruit. To you. And I think it's beautiful. And I think it's important for us to hear this because that's exactly what happens when we gather before God in corporate worship. That while this is that while we gather corporately to worship the Lord, the the individual aspect of our worship is not diminished either. It's both ends. And and and you know what's more powerful with that? And as we think about Jacob, the wondering Aramean, as we think about people that struggle, as we think about people that are having a hard time and doubt their faith, this is what this means for us in terms of looking at the corporate and the individual identity of our worship. It is this that sometimes our personal lamp or faith may be flickery. But the fact that we gather together, we are surrounded and fortified in worship. by fellow believers, when you hear your brother confess confidence in God, that gives you confidence to trust in the Lord. That's why you come to church on Sunday. That's why you don't miss church on Sunday. That's why you should never miss church on Sunday. Because when you show up and you feel like, oh man, I was dragging this morning to get out of bed, and I and I'm not sure what's going on in my life. When you hear your your your friend, your brother, your sister raising their hand and saying, I trust in God. I believe that he's my provider. You go like four. That's a good thing. I want some of that too But the moment you try to isolate and be on yourself, you cry all alone. I love what Martin Luther says when he talks about the corporate and the individual identity. He says, listen, church. You don't kneel alone. You don't stand alone. When we gather before God's presence, we cry out to God together. And guess what? God cannot ignore us. The worshiper comes before God with his basket full of fresh fruit. But the worshiper comes to God with his basket, he must recognize the abundance goodness of the Lord. That unless the Lord had been good to him, he would have nothing to offer to the Lord. It's all because of him. But you know what's also beautiful here? Who is the initiator of worship here? Was it the worshiper that decided when I get into that land the first thing I'm gonna do is get my harvest and take it to the Lord? Was it God is the initiator of worship. It is God who says, This is how you must come to me and worship me and recognize who I am, recognize my goodness. In fact, going even before the first fruit are being offered, God is the one who chose to reveal himself to Israelites. God is the one who chose Abraham to be a recipient of his special blessings And what God's people are confessing is not some fairy tale that they don't know about It's a real personal testimony of how God has fulfilled that promise as He called His own. And this must be our confession and worship, right? That God initiates everything we do in worship. We don't. Friends, here's the truth. Before you ever thought about giving praise to God, Before you ever thought about giving or offering yourself to him, before you ever thought about loving God, he already loved you. He already thought of you and loved you. He loved us not because we loved him, not because we were nice or good or pretty or beautiful or clean. He loved us and showed his generosity to us out of his goodness. I just love how God's grace continues in this passage as we look at it that as they settle and Learn what it means to do agriculture. God sends rain from above and sunshine to grow the crop. It was all his doing, he's doing all along And when you think about worship and how much we ought to give praise and adoration to God. Isn't it sad that much of our modern worship sometimes is so painfully subjective? Isn't it sad that sometimes our worship so is so painfully subjective? And by that I mean We dwell so much on our personal and present experiences rather than the objective adoration of our God who is mighty and sovereign in the world. We sometimes don't focus on God who is our reliable provider, a mighty defender, a great redeemer, God who comes To rescue his people, not just here at Grace Reformed Presbyterian Church, but a God who is sovereign and mighty and who controls all things everywhere Church, we should never make our God be so small that he's confined in our local church, that he's all he's confined in our own little problems That is confined in our little homes and all. God is majestic. He is powerful. He is great. He is a transcendent God who rules the whole earth. With his power and might, then that's the God we worship, not just the God who's confined here. So worship must reflect that Worship must go beyond me and I into this transcendent God. We must thoughtfully look back to what He has done. And not just be simply obsessed with the present circumstances or be it be apprehensive about the future. We worship the God who shapes our destiny. And we're making this verbal confession of our indebtedness to God. And that's what sincere worship must recognize. I believe that means allowing both our emotions and our intellect to be at work when we come before God in worship. It's not just our emotions. They're God-given, they're good, but our intellect must also be at work in worship. And I think when you put those together, we're gonna be released from the sick preoccupation with our with ourselves A true worship that points us away from our petty achievements. We have done absolutely nothing, and we have absolutely nothing. But we come before God with empty hands, and He is the one who fills us. He is the source of all of our blessings. That really does help us to honor God, and we can cry with the psalmist: not to us, O God, right? Not to us, but your name be glory. I think the force of this confession is that, an acknowledgement that everything is due to God's goodness. We are here because he has given. We are here because God has been good to us. We're here because of God's saving grace. And I think by making that claim, we're also making the claim as God's people were, instead of going to the shrines, instead of going to the places that the Canaanite gods had established, but going to the Lord, their God, Yahweh. I think we're also making the claim to say that the God of this Bible is the only God who is worthy of all worship. And I think that's the antidote To the faceless gods of our time, secularism and materialism and wilderness Secondly, that confession or acknowledgement demands a response from us. We don't just acknowledge God's goodness. We don't just confess that he is good. We must respond to God. And that's verses 12 to the end. But before we go to verse 12, verse 11 reminds us that this worship is in fact meant to be a joyful, a happy experience. Yet there's a warning in there. That our joy and celebration of the good things that God has given to us are not meant to be enjoyed in selfish and greedy manner. But they're to be generously shared. You've heard me say it and I will remind us again, don't party alone. It's not recommended Verse 11 he says, And you shall rejoice in all the good that the Lord your God has given to you, you and your house, and you and the Levit and the Sergeon of who is among you. See the point here in verse uh t twelve to fifteen i is that the poor, the Levite, the alien, the sojourner, all these people were were not to be expected Excluded not just from the spiritual blessings, covenant blessing that God had given to his people, but they were also not to be excluded from the material blessing of covenant obedience. Going back to the analogy of the basket. These groups of people may not be able to fill up their basket to go to the priest in the sanctuary and present their gifts to the Lord. And so you gotta provide for them, you gotta help them. But notice that the subject has all has also changed. We're not talking about the first fruits in verse 12, we're talking about the tithe. Moses is now talking to his people and reminding them of the tithe that was supposed to be given once every year, but especially he's focusing on the tithe that was to be taken on the third year. And this we saw earlier on, it was a special tithe that was supposed to be given to those that were disadvantaged. And that's how you take care of those that are in need in the community And so the the whole idea of giving to the needy is not only a sacred duty to God, but here we see this is a defining point for any claim to have kept the law. The law is only kept. God's people can claim to have kept the law only if the poor have been cared for Notice it is only when the people respond to the needs of the of those in community that Israel can respond and say, verse 15: I have done everything that you commanded me. That's the basic point here. That God's people cannot say or cannot come to God and say, we have obeyed the law. And yet neglect the needs of those that are needy amongst them. And I think it's important to be reminded that loving your neighbor is the practical proof of any claimed love for God. We cannot claim to love the Lord our God. If we cannot love one another. Someone once said, sacred rights are no atonement for social wrongs. You don't have to stay in this particular passage to know what the prophets emphasize. And what the prophets call people to make sure that they understood that they cannot claim to be religious and zealous for God. And yet continue to neglect the needs of those that are poor. Jesus says it's even better in Matthew chapter 25: a very familiar passage. And he says, as you did it to one of these, to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it to me. We cannot divorce the two great commandments, loving the Lord our God with all our heart and mind and soul, and loving our neighbour as ourself. But notice while the people are called to obey God in this verses, the blessing that God is giving to his people is already written In the title deeds of the land that he is already giving them. In fact, it goes even before the possession of this land into the promise that God had given to his ancestors to uh to Abraham. And so reading verse fifteen can be a little tricky because it says uh look down from your holy habitation from heaven and bless your people. people Israel and the ground that you have given us as you swore to our father's land flowing with milk and honey. And it's so easy for us to read, We have obeyed, so you must bless us Right? I mean that that seems like that's how we would read it. We have obeyed the word, we we we're good. So please bless us. I think the best way to read that verse is: you have already blessed us in history and in the present, and we have responded in obedience. Obedience is a response to you. So graciously continue to bless. your people. So this text is really breathing into the challenging message of James chapter two, and we're gonna we're not gonna read the whole of it, but I just want to read uh verse three verses two to four. here regarding the social and economic demands of the cr of of Christian worship and fellowship. And and James writes in verse 2, he says, for if a man wearing a gold ring And a fine clothing comes into your assembly. And a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in. And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, you sit here in a good place. While you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judgments with evil thoughts? Every time I call some of you, when I say goodbye, you always tell me one thing. Keep looking up, Josiah. Have you guys heard that? Keep looking up. There's two culprits in here that love to say that. And I love them to death. So let me add to that. When we look up to God in worship, we must also be willing to look out to the world that God has made. So keep looking up and keep look, keep looking up and keep looking up. See, God is not only worshiped with our music, with our Bible reading, and with our words. God is also worshiped by the way we live our lives. The way we care for those who are disadvantaged. The way God transforms and changes our desires so that we can reflect His unique qualities of love and mercy and generosity. And as James reminds us, we don't just love those who are like us. We don't just love those who are lovable. We don't just love those who love us back. Jesus, who tells us we love even our enemies. You know, we gotta say something about the tithe because verse twelve through fifteen is talking about tithing, right? and giving to the Lord and I just a little word of of encouragement. You know, it's it's so funny sometimes that we hold so many things Right? Like the things that we we hold so dear, the precious things that we we wouldn't want to share, we wouldn't want to give, whether it's whether it's money, whether it's you know our cars, whatever it is that we hold on so dear, whether it's our time Isn't it interesting that we hold on dearly to those things and fail to recognize that if it wasn't for God giving us those things, We wouldn't have them. Wouldn't even hold them. You know, and so uh I think for us as modern Christians I think the whole idea of giving is this. It's a simple thing. That our giving it should not be set by standards of whether it's ten percent or fifteen percent or twenty percent or whatever it is. That that should never be a part of our conversation at all You know what should be a part of a conversation? How much more can I give? That ought to be us. Who cares whether it's 20 or 15 or 9? No, it should be. What opportunities is God giving me to give? Give of myself, give of what I have. And I think that's that's when we give, when we have our offering time, I think it's it's a time for us to be reminded to appreciate God's goodness to us But also to have an awareness of the needs of our church and of others, of our missionaries, of all the things that we support Verse 16 to 19 in just a summary is really the the bringing together of this chapter, including chapter twelve also, which by the way speaks of the same. And here God's people are being reminded that you are Yahweh's people. You are God's treasured possession. And the people respond to God by Coming to him and saying, Yes, Lord, we are your people and we walk in your ways and keep your decrees. And I really wanted to mention that because, again, we're talking about worship, right? Because that's important. Do you know what happens when we come here in worship as God calls us to worship? It's a wonderful thing. God comes down to us as his people. And you know what God reminds us? God reminds us of our unchanging status in Christ. Who we are in Christ. Your unchanging status. You are the adopted, treasured child of God, a God who delights in blessing. And verse 19, this idea of being said in praise and fame and honor is really not a matter of national pride. Israel was not chosen because of their anything. It's completely unmerited. In fact, their reputation is for Yahweh's own sake. As Paul would say, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. But I want to point you to that idea of obedience. See, sometimes we are tempted to Think it's obedience that keeps us in, right? I've been a good boy. So I'm okay, right I didn't do that. Someone else did that. So I'm good, right? We have to be very careful when we read obedience here. It's not Israel's obedience that kept them in. We all know how the story goes, right? Israel is gonna obey, right? They're gonna be they're gonna keep his laws and follow the Lord and Not. It is God's faithfulness and his grace that keeps them in. The ideal of obedience here has a missionary purpose I think most of the times we err on the side of being legalistic when we think it's the law that keeps us in, or we err on the side of being a synomi where we disregard obeying the Lord, which has to be our evidence that we are Christians and following the Lord. Because we forget two things, two very important things. The grace of God by which alone we stand, and the glory of God by which alone we exist So let's bring it all together. So what's in your basket? That was the question, right? What's in your basket? See, I I I don't believe that we're supposed to be here giving thanks to God for his goodness because he's given us stuff for us to enjoy. That's good. But I don't think that that's the whole story. Here's the story. In a nutshell. God's goodness to us is that God has given Himself to us That's the stuff we need to celebrate. God has given everything to you. He has given Himself gave his son, who died on the cross, for people that were wandering and homeless. You now can say you have a home. For people that had no identity, that's you and me. You can now say you are an adopted child of God, and that cannot be taken away from you. For people that were lost and with without forgiveness and no hope, you can now say, I am not a wandering Aramean. You can say, I am a child of God. Adopted and loved by him. Do you know what's even more special? It's the fact that Jesus doesn't just say that we are his brothers and sisters, he calls us co-heirs with him. And that's pretty special. So what's in your basket Is it adoration and thanksgiving? Is it a joy, a heart that is filled with gratitude to God that all you can say is, Lord, show me your law, show me your word that they may fall? All the days of my life. I love how the author of Hebrews chapter 13. Talks about bringing, offer offering or sacrifices as Things that are pleasing to the Lord in worship. But you know he doesn't stop there. He says, and let us not neglect Caring for one another, providing for one another. Why? Because that is a pleasing sacrifice to the Lord. So we're to your basket. Let us pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you this morning for your word that you've given to us. Help us to know that you've called us to worship you in spirit and in truth. And all worship. It's for us to honor you and to give you thanks, to adore you, to exalt you, to celebrate this gift of your grace that you've given to me. to us. Allow us to do that with grateful hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.