When we don't need it, we discard it. It's a story of Israelites that were involved with uh uh in sexual immorality with Moabite women, and what it was probably in a uh a ritual, sacrificial rite that they were performing I love James K. I wonder whether sometimes we've forgotten to go back to scripture and ask ourselves, what does the truth say? We're not supposed to remove from it, to supplement, to alter it in any way. Your greatness and heaven and how many carved images you have of your of your gods that you worship. uh of time when they start you know crying out and saying, well we want to go back to to Egypt, you know, where we we had cucumbers and leeks and all this awesome things. But he is here. He's supposed to make me say, oh, what a great God, what he has done for me, and how much more I should love him and obey him. And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the rules that I am teaching you, and do them, that you may live and go in and take possession of the land that the Lord the God of your fathers is giving you. so that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children so. But still no form. Now, if you're a nutritionist or dietitian, you may want to argue with me, but that's okay. Why you need to obey? It's an exhortation from from Moses to listen to God's commands, hear God and what he is saying. And just saying, well, I heard you like my son when I talked to him and said, Josiah, come here. and laws and and instruction of the Lord. And then he he's talking about the law here, which is the Ten Commandments, as we as we saw uh towards the end of of Pericopey this morning. They are God's special people through whom He's going to bring redemption to the nations. Here's a code that says, do not do this, obey God, and all these things, and you're just supposed to do it in a mechanical kind of way. What do I mean by that? He wanted them to be great, to be a great nation, but not great like the Egyptians, not great like the King Hammurabi of Babylonia. Supposed to be a distinction of wisdom and discernment. But we must be committed to holiness, to obedience, because Scripture says, if you love me, you'll obey my commands. He makes this statement about Jesus teaching us and he says, quote, Jesus is a teacher who doesn't just want to inform our intellect, but forms our very loves. You forget his laws, you forget his instruction, you forget what you've seen him, you forget that he just rescued you from from from Egypt and you remember And over and over again, God just seems to be reminding people, you remember what I did for you here and there, delivered you from this and this. Just take a moment. And you know how we fear God it actually expresses it itself here in our worship. spoken to us through his son. And all of these things. You can read from your pew Bible on page 188 or just follow along as I read God's Word this morning whenever we call upon him. Wrapped in darkness, cloud, and gloom. You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I commanded you Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Bel Pior. the of all this this statutes will say, surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and rules that you might do them in the land that you are going over to possess. And I ask questions like this, okay honey, you told me to get milk. And it is the story of God's people. Of our salvation. You need to realize as as we always as I always remind us when I'm when I'm preaching and talking about Hebrew that sometimes the English language is not really so good in expressing some of these things because the hearing that Moses is speaking about is not merely hearing a voice. And when we read this passage, you could hear Moses saying, keep God's commands and do what? He tells us in verse 1, right? Remember, the law of God was the basis of the covenant relationship with His people. The law that was given to his people and the prophets that came proclaiming who Christ was. As we as as as Steve prayed so well this morning about the the uh or told us the story about the faith with this family in West Africa, it's one thing for us to hear stories about faith. God's word is transformative. Or to do this is bad. to be built in their character. And the people of God are not supposed to forget these events. Israel from the other nations. God is the source of the Ten Commandments and all the statues that He gives people and that makes it righteous and perfect and holy Again, not that obedience is the merit for their salvation, for their belonging. We're not going to be obedient unless we're giving ourselves wholly to God. He isn't content to simply deposit new ideas into your mind. We're bombarded with with so much controversy regarding how we ought to live, morality and religion and all these things and and sometimes when I when I read Facebook and I hear and I hear people arguing and talking about different things And so we must never forget what God has done for us in Christ. And especially when we take communion. theologians call theophony. And the experience is profound. It is the only secret to uprightness and whole duty of man, the fear of God. Again, that's why I think we need to hear this. See, I have taught you statutes and rules, as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. Only take care and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest you depart from your heart all the days of your life. Those that truly hear your word and keep it. Overwhelmed with all the choices that stand before me and many times I kid you not, almost every day I go to the grocery store with my list that my wife sent me, I have to give her a call He's called by God and commanded to go to a place that God would lead him. But do not touch or eat the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. That your call, your covenant responsibility and obligation is to obey. Is that you follow me? One is because we tend to be people that have deaf ears. But he does not act upon it. Now we must remember that this is not a legalistic expression here that Moses is just telling people, okay, you just keep the law and you're good to go. But there's a warning to it. Teaching you so that you may do it. We know when we hear what God says, it's another thing for us to do it. God's word is meant to transform our thoughts and our desires, our emotions, or our actions, so that we no longer live for ourselves, but we live wholly for God. You want your child to decide what is good, not just because it is good, but because it is it is right, it is true, and so that they may make life decisions later Because you're required to be obedient to the covenant of the word. And God destroys them. We're called to greatness. that results in this wanting and hesitating obedience to his will. Moses begins, scripture tells us in verse 9, he says, Only take care and keep your soul diligent, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. That's a bad thing for you. By faith. No any other word. That's where we meet him. Present obedience, so to speak. See which ones I can put a check mark on. It wasn't simply about external observance of God's law and what he has called us to do. Help us to not just hear, but do his word. So help me. Keep them and do them. A man who is clueless as to what he is doing or what he is finding, a man who is frustrated, a man who is overwhelmed. Thankfully these choices that we make or I make at the grocery store are not really always it's debatable but I would argue not life and death kind of a choice that I have to make Because I really do think that we've as as a church, I'm not speaking of the world, I think as a church we've actually really forgotten what it means to be God's people. Now we as God's people are supposed to be recognized as a people of faith at all times. If you are able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's Word this morning On the day that you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, the Lord said to me, Gather the people to me, that I may let them hear my words Blessed are those who hear the word of the Lord and keep it. We have so many choices don't we? Or death. The covenant stipulations have obedience to it. Israel is the only nation that God calls my people. Disobedience means consequences, not good consequences. It is obedience. Because God is righteous and holy. We point them to the life, the message of Jesus Christ, His death and resurrection, His ascension and His return. To believe in this God when everybody else, the Egyptians and everybody else had their carved images and physical images of God, and yet God is saying, No, no, no, no, no, no. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. You know, one of the things that come to my mind is we tend to think of God's word, God's laws, his statutes, his instructions, as demanding, overbearing. Are we supposed to be getting organic or free range or just the normal stuff? And before she thinks I'm done, I'm like, okay, eight ounces, sixteen ounces, twenty-four ounces, the family size, what am I supposed to get? He has a relationship with us. You can say I have faith. The ones who survived were the ones that remained faithful to God and said that they would not take part in that sinful act. of their salvation. We must be committed to being holy, to to to to to obeying God. What do we point them to? That's what we do. But any effort that they would try to make a physical representation of God would be inadequate and misleading. It is only the fear of God that will make us revere Him so much that we hate evil and follow Him. How did God create the heavens and the earth and all that is there? Throughout Scripture, we're called when we read Psalm 34. Alright, why do you have to do that? And keep it. Reading on in Genesis, we realize there's another beautiful story, a story that we like so much in the Reformed Circles, because it tells us about the covenant that God has with his people, the man Abraham. When you teach your children, if you have children, to obey, do you just want your child to know the information that you tell him that to play with fire is dangerous? If our allegiance, as we sang this morning, is to God, then our cry must be to obey Him with our whole heart and soul and mind. You heard about the vision of Grace Reformed Presbyterian Church? And to us here as we as we sit before the presence of God where acts of God in Christ are absolutely fundamental for the church because they lie, they're at the basis of God's appeal to men to enter into a new relationship with Him, right? We obey the Great Commission, going out into all nations, making disciples and teaching them what God, what Christ has commanded us. You cannot create it. That's where we meet God. Fear God. I cannot do it. It is only because he perfectly obeyed God. He took upon the wrath that was supposed to be upon you and me because we disobeyed. In this relationship? Why do they need to be reminded? So verse 1 through 8, Moses is here telling God's people that you have deaf ears, and that's why you need to be reminded. Does he stop there? But you see God is not really after me following like a a goat on a or dog on a leash. And you know, we use this as a canonical formula, right? Bible, our Old and New Testament as given to us. It is obedience that is based on understanding. So hearing God's word is not merely just hearing it. That was Israel's pride because God's law is righteous. In a very dangerous place. That's what obedience is all about. But they have a responsibility not just to f not just to remember, but to continue passing that on to the next generation. That God is telling his people that he only meets them primarily by the means of his word. Supposed to make me realize and feel the presence, the activity of God right now But God is seeking to have a relationship with us. God might have they might not have seen him, but he was there. What? Only at the cross. No. But that they have character. Oh you need you people that are so prone to forget what God has done, actually forget God? And then God speaks. You can't touch me? What a great difficulty for God's to do. You know, friends, we we have a hard time sometimes. Church, I know just you like just like me, you tend to have deaf ears. I bet you would be having nightmares every night. Now the reason I hate the grocery store is because if you have ever met me or if you ever see me at the grocery store, you will see a a man who is confused. It is evidence that we believe we belong to Him. But a greatness that is seen in the way we live for God in all obedience Smith. And Moses tells them you cannot breach the agreement, the contract, agreement, which is this. And then he says, when you come to me, I give you the Holy Spirit that abides in you. But notice this is not blind obedience that Moses is calling God's people to. Or do what does this come into the mean? So if we truly claim to love God, we must be a people that obey him. We forget. We cannot. We are revering his name. Our memory is supposed to help us to produce, to cultivate Pray that he gives us the memory. Good morning. He's written a couple of books that really remind us of Christian teaching and education. Just think about it. Michael Card sings and says. How about we ask, what does God say about morality, about religion? It's the divine presence of God. Now that's a life decision. There was only a voice. We say, well, I don't need God's word now because I'm not going through this problem. And so it is with us and God. You will obey that which that whom you are loyal to Help me to obey. It is the story of Scripture. The chapter begins so beautifully as we shall see when we get to chapter six. Do you just want your your children to have information so that they know what is right and true? You play around with God and you don't accept his lordship over you as as the king and and and ruler of your life, then you stand See, we have short memories. Maybe because he doesn't know what that means. In fact, Moses is telling them your very existence as a nation, as God's people, depends fully on obedience. Don't tamper with it. That John captures so well in John 1. It is our story. That's the application of it. Think about verses 11 and 13. And God's people are never supposed to forget it. Why is it so important? So that you may take possession of the land that God is giving to you, your only survival is dependent upon if you're going to keep God's word, God's law, his statutes. God's word and his law is not mere information. Forgetting God's great acts of deliverance. Allow us to do so, Lord. God's grace is goodness. And what great nation is there that has statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I set before you today? Let me ask you a question. Is that you obey me? But what are God's people supposed to respond then? There was a moral and religious distinction between Israel and Egypt and Babylon and all these other nations. We are subject to his word. Secondly, we do need a reminder to obey God because we tend to have very short memories as God's people. We're very forgetful and sometimes it's actually intentional forgetfulness because we don't want to deal with it The only thing that we can do is use symbolic expressions. How then can we obey? Is it because God wants us to obey Him first and then He will say, Well, you are good with me now that you're obeying me, so come, you belong to me. So why do our deaf ears need reminder? It's not just meant to take us back, oh you know, two over two thousand years ago Christ did this for me. Why can't I just be whatever Because I think we've lost the fear of God. You are my friends if you do what I command you. You cannot make it. You think about what a great difficulty for us. Fear God. We're glorifying him for his sovereignty and his onlyness. See God's covenant with the people wasn't just about and sometimes we tend to fall in this manner. My salvation is not based on what I'm capable of obeying. And it's only by your power, your Holy Spirit, that I'm able to obey And then once we belong to him, he says, now your re your responsibility, the evidence, if you will, the evidence that you belong to me, that you are mine. It means Moses talks about here's the law that I am teaching you. It was supposed to be a distinction of a law that is good, of a law that is perfect, of a law that is righteous. In verses 11 through 13, Moses recounts the amazing uh experience that happened when God gave them the law For that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of all the peoples who when they hear of all And as we talked about, the way of wisdom is what? You shouldn't. Of course, that does not mean that God is not going to continue re uh r revealing himself through the prophets and teaching them more things. You can't see me. It is the only atoning sacrifice that Christ has made for you and for me Help us. For the Lord your God destroyed among all among you all the men who followed the Bell of Pyrrh. God calls us even in our sin and in our darkness in our in our disobedience, so to speak. How do we call people into a relationship with God? Then the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. So there's the education part of it, but there has to be an application of it. They're actually virtuous people. Then in verses 3 and 4, Moses reminds them that's what obedience looks like. Greatness because we have might and all those other things that the world seeks after. It is the story of us as God's people, isn't it? Don't touch it. So it is with the God with God's word, his statutes, his law that it teaches us to hear his word, to do it, so that we may walk the talk and not simply talk the talk. And when we gather here in worship, we're recounting, we're rehearsing, we're remembering every time we gather in worship what God has done to us through Christ. And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the ten commandments, and ye wrote them on the two tablets of stone It is evidence that we are God's people. In the both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, that God's word is clear as given to us in the canon and scriptures. That don't make no difference. They're executed. But why is the law so special? What do we point them to? Which of course never works, right? What do you want? If you read Psalm 119, a beautiful long chapter, you will realize you will just hear that the psalmist says he cries out about delighting in God's law, how good it is, how how awesome it is. Why do they need them? It is the living word of God. It is not simply just hearing it. I think it's I think it's a beautiful thing, actually. We read in Hebrews 1, right? Even my best tries are fruitless. You obey me, you are good. See, the way of wisdom for God's people was the way of obedience. He saw me and He called me and I belonged. The story that we just read this morning, it is again in chapter 4, is Moses, this mediator of God's word, is reminding his people. God revealing himself and speaking to them through this voice. So he he reminds them of a story that happened in in Numbers chapter 25, verses 1 through 5. It's the only nation that is he gives this this the stipulations of what the covenant looks like. That is your only response. The day you will do so, you shall surely die. Jesus in Matthew 5. He is after nothing less than your wants, your loves, and your longings. Only by your Spirit we pray. Help us to obey, O Lord, we pray this morning. We'll pick up that fight another day. 1. 11, we're encouraged to cultivate a fear of God and to walk in it We have so many choices, so many decisions to make every day. And he just looks at me and smiles. You cannot change it. God is after my heart. Fat-free? If we know what our responsibility is as God's people, then why do we need to be reminded? You know anything about it? He wants me. And I know that I tend to forget, intentionally forget. But they also should never dare make any physical representation of it. In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was That's a life and death decision. I'm sure I would. If you don't fear Him, if you don't revere His holiness and you don't see how holy and how great He is, why should you obey Him? That's why Jeremiah writes in Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34, right? I have a hard time obeying God So what is going to enable us to obey then? But do you realize how much faith God's people needed? The God's people are supposed to be recognized by their faith at all times. In Christ's name. Actually acts that are as we as we go through your they're repeated over We are in chapter four this morning of Deuteronomy. It is not some good counsel that we can use every time we feel like we're distorted or any time we feel like we need something to help us and then Why? Again, what is uprightness? I did not come to abolish the law. They were supposed to remember that every time you live in disobedience to God, know that you will not survive in the new land that God is about to give you. Now that sounds like a harsh punishment for their sin. Hence, it is because of him and through his word incarnate that God spoke his final word. Seeing this mountain that is on fire and God is speaking through his voice, what are they supposed to respond? And so Moses is telling God's people to hear, to act. Unless we're giving ourselves to the to the teaching of God's word in his scripture Memory that will help us to say, Lord, you have done so much for me Because if I do this what nothing is gonna happen You cannot supplement the law. It is our bread of life without which we cannot survive. The people are gathered at the foot of the mountain. One percent, two percent, five percent, whole It's a great Hebrew Shema which is here, O Israel. What is gonna be so important for them to keep the statutes? If you don't apply it. Because the God who calls us into a relationship with him is holy. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would make us to be those that are blessed. Moses was longing for God's people to be a people that were governed by a law that was perfect, a law that was righteous. Can you forget that if you saw it? He spoke creation into being. Obedience. What about the brand? So God calls us to obey him because it is evidence Right? It is hearing it and actually doing what we hear. No, it was not about to be that. We tell them, remember what God has done for you through Christ. But you see, our memory is not just to recount and remember what Christ has done for us on the cross. I'm like, Josiah, come here. His glory and might and justice and all these things that we When we come before him and and and sing and and hear his word and partake of communion. In the beginning and long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to us, to our fathers by the prophets. But if God's people know the covenant that He has with them, and they know what their responsibility is to obey God. You disobey, not good. The vision for this church, passing on our faith to the next generation? But what does God tell him? 17 actually does almost kind of use this passage, if you will, so to speak, as he as he talks about There's only one place we can go, church. Amen. From the very beginning. And do them. That God's law here that He's giving to them is not just simply a mere written code. It's not mere information. Fear God with reverence of His sovereignty and His holiness. In Christ's name. No, no, no, no. But it wasn't a mechanical obedience to God's law. It's about a relationship. And then in verses 2 he says, Well, I've given you a covenant. And in in one of the books, You Are What You Love, he You heard the sound of the words. But what about the choice that we must make every day, to obey or not to obey God? And secondly, we are people that tend to have short memories. You cannot reduce it. What do we tell people when we minister to them? It's theophany, it's what The way of wisdom is obedience. I wasn't saved because I obeyed God. There's like yellow ones and blue ones and what brand are we supposed to get and which is the best Why is the law so special? And then He said, now that you belong, here's what you do. We can hear what God tells us to do. It is that total love for God and for Jesus That your choice either to obey God or not to obey Him means life. Jesus says in John 15, you are my friends. That's all we don't have forms. And he will give you the strength to obey. But what is the purpose of this law that Moses is telling God's people to listen to the statutes and Please be seated. That's the way of wisdom for God's people. And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, while the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven It's one thing to say They value what they say they are doing. No no no no no no no no it wasn't about They amount to nothing. For what a great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us That was supposed to be the whole of Israelites. Oh that was awesome. What do we see in Genesis 1? And what happens in their story, they disobey, and from there on they are banished from the garden, and they die. But we must ask ourselves, why is this obedience so important then? It was Our deaf ears need reminder because There's no physical representation of God. Just like you've reminded us that blessed are those who truly hear your word. But Israel is the only nation that was given God's law. Well, that's part of it, but I think you want something much more than that, right? See your obedience, your obedience will show where your loyalty is. There's a reason why we talk about the fear of God when we're talking about obedience. Keep God's commands and do them. You cannot alter it. All the prophets, what did he come to do? And I think we can apply this in God's word. Because forgetfulness would be an offense to God. You are supposed to love me and obey me He kept the law perfectly for you, on your behalf. You forget his commands. Amen. And he said, it's done. It's like what really? I think we've forgotten God's law. That's what we tell them about. My favorite, really not my favorite, but my least favorite is the grocery store. As one commented that says, this is a presentation of the law in the context of education. But you're not just being taught for the sake of being taught. That's grace But invisibility does not mean absence. Okay You forget He has to be faithful to God. He hears my voice. It's like, really? Okay? But my prayer is that God would open our our ears. Because our words really cannot fully express the glory of God and this as old theologians used to call it his awful majesty. You are supposed to depend on me and listen to me and have faith in me because I have spoken to you. The laws were meant to be written on people's hearts. Like I said, this the law really was the basis of the covenant relationship with his people. If on my own I'm incapable of obeying. What do we tell them? We may not see him. It is evidence. It's supposed to lead me tomorrow to want to do the same thing. Leviticus 19 and 2, right? Verses 9 through 14. You you forgot where you were? Curses will follow you. And this thing is on fire. No. What happens when God creates Adam and Eve? But what does disobedience look like? We tend to think that it's just about, okay, here are the Ten Commandments, I'm gonna try to We remember. In a legalistic sense. I think we've we've forgotten the truth That's the reputation. You want your children See, I I really think that this is so important for us today. Eric is going to preach an awesome sermon next week about idolatry and and all of us. We have it. Yet God tells the people why he did so. That's what it's all about. Why? I came to fulfill them. Why? It was supposed to be obedient. Yes, but no. But you who held fast to the Lord your God are all alive today It's another thing to actually walk in faith I was gonna use a goat expression, I guess I don't have one. What is it that we say to them? Because Here's what the covenant looks like, and here are the laws that you are supposed to heed. That God's word and his law is not mere information. We're gonna argue about this? Because God was the source of the law The word of the Lord this morning. Two very simple things. I'm not going to read the story, but you can go back and read it Not any other nation. Of course, that doesn't mean that. That's God's people. Is that where it starts? Make them known to your children and your children's children. In life. The choices are innumerable, aren't they? Do, don't, do, don't, don't He's after me See the same principle applies in the New Testament, doesn't it? He needed But in these last days he has spoken to us through whom? Because they're actually connected. Why? You want to build character We don't forget You know why? Why? There's only one response, and Moses tells us here. So that we wouldn't lose the gospel. He commands them to go live in a garden and set and says what? Because they were in a covenant relationship with God. Simply means we have to In short, Moses is saying this. It distinguished I hate that place. So I'm not going to go there. That's it.