So first Christian suffering is spiritual in nature, second, Christian suffering is good. Johnson Hopkins this fall twenty twenty-four, so after six years, now there are over eight thousand international students at Johns Hopkins. uh we spill coffee on our ship. Hopkins. like in in a few months and I met many of you here so thank thankful I'm very thankful for you. who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and displeased God and opposed all mankind by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved. and became Christians, become believers. Do not run, come here and sit here. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God, and so we are children of God. And for training and righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. Christians. The prophets were persecuted by their own countrymen, and the Lord Jesus Christ was also persecuted by his own countrymen And for many Christians, our brothers and sisters in Christ who live in other countries, they are being persecuted physically, virtually verbally, or emotionally, or combinations of this by their own countrymen because For those who are called according to his purpose, if you are in union with Jesus Christ, if you are born again Christians and are God's children, all things including your suffering and struggles will ultimately work together for your own. And with great desire to see you face to face because we wanted to come to you. Enemies. Um we're going to look at this text closely, First Thessalonians chapter two, verse thirteen to twenty. And strawberries, what is the first thing that comes to your mind? So if you want to look younger, the secret is eat more fruit. this garden. So think about this. We must. Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Christ. Jesus said that the devil is the father of lies. That Jesus Christ put on while living in this world. 16 Paul said a few things about them. We become stronger and wiser. First, all the good things you have in your life, you will never lose it. at his coming. of Jesus Christ. many years and and I do remember uh when I moved here um in July and and I attended the missions conference here immediately so as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them at last. Uh fruit is is healthy, it's good. Uh, because they think I'm not I'm not much older than them, but my age is almost double than than theirs a fruitful garden in this community and the blessings to the people who come here. church. And we're going to look at three important characteristics in this page. but as what it really is the word of God which is at work in you believers The Word of God. And obey Him, acknowledging that we depend on God for all things in our life, and there is nothing we can do without His help and guidance. sons and daughters of God. God's word convicts us of our sins and brings us to repentance in Christ. Now what does that mean? God. Uh so don't spend too much time watching TV, playing video games, or checking social media on your phone. Psalm chapter 1, verse 1 to 3 tells us: Blessed is the man whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law, the word of God, he meditates day and night. And God will make you become a fruitful tree that yields its fruit in its season. Ministry Second characteristic fruitful Christians persevere in their suffering and struggles. In the oven, all kinds of things. The world is this corrupted and sinful world. They will persecute missionaries, church planters, and faithful church pastors, and soon it might come to us here. Their own destruction is coming. He will come and reign as the true King and Judge of the world. Our hope in Christ does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured out into our hearts. When Jesus said to us, I will never leave you nor forsake you, he really means what he said. Good. They see the Thessalonian Christians as their glory and joy. And just you imagine or envision your good meal before the meal is before you envisions that they will become Christians too. you that they will become followers of Jesus Christ who will one day share in the good the Lord's meal together with you. for us. Deeds of faith. Uh when I moved here to to Baltimore, this uh charming city, what people say, um in twenty eighteen, so that's six years ago, there were over five thousand international students at John. I will ask them questions, what do you study? This is what the Thessalonian Christians did. The Word of God. in verse fourteen to sixteen. And this sinful world, but also and mainly against the spiritual forces of evil. In verse 14 look at this Paul said, You suffer the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets. anti-Bible and Anti-Christ culture is growing. of the word of God to others, we might be soon persecuted, at least mentally or emotionally. If each of us is a fruitful tree, then this church will become an attractive garden and a blessing to the people in this community. Very easy, just easy to find. And one day, when Jesus Christ returns, He will renew this world for us. A fruitful church and a blessing to their community. If we have strong and healthy roots, we can be fruitful Christians and produce a lot of fruit in our lives for the glory of Jesus Christ. Why do I need to sit there? Are born again Christians and are children of God. In 2 Timothy 3:16, verse 17, Paul tells us that all scripture, the whole Bible, is read out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for corrections. The Thessalonian Christians suffer persecution. By their friends, neighbors, and the government authorities. In Christ. Endurance and endurance produces character and character produces hope and hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. It purifies us just like gold being purified by fire. And we know that for those full of God all things work together for what? Like maybe after church today. one another. Take your truth, plan it deep in us, shape and fashion us in your likeness, that the like of Christ may be seen today in our acts of love and our death. Word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but what it really is, the word of God which is at work in you believe. And as we become older, we want to make decisions for ourselves. In other words, we need to have a high view of the Bible, the Word of God. Every person, Christian and non-Christians, will experience suffering and struggle in this world Team of the devil. And Apostle Peter said that the devil prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Do you think we can overcome the devil's temptations and deceptions without God's help? So the big war has been won by Jesus, but we still have the smaller battles in our everyday lives. If we are faithful to the Word of God, if we apply our biblical worldview in our everyday life and speak the truth, Why is Christian suffering good? Fruitful Christians see the people whom they serve as their glory and joy. But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavor the more eagerly And imagining the good food we will eat. Help us study your word daily and apply your word in our lives. Thank you for having me today and and my wife and I we want to thank you for your prayers, for your support for our campus ministry, uh REF International at Johns Hopkins University. I think fruit is also good. Fruitful Christians have a high view of the Word of God. The Thessalonian Christians treated the Word of God preached by Paul not as the Word of man, but as what it really is, the Word of God. What does this mean? The words of the parents do not change, but the children change. We become God's adopted children by God's grace alone. The problem is we still have the remaining sin in us. The word of God sanctifies us from the inside out. He wants us to become fruitful Christians. It teaches, reproves, corrects, and trains us in righteousness so that we might be complete and equipped for every good work for the glory of God. Spiritual battles against the evil spirits are real in every day of our life. And he wants you to play with him. He was the commander of all God's angels. But our Savior Jesus Christ is Almighty, and in the power of Christ we can overcome the devil. If you talk about sin, repentance, and God's judgment, people may consider your speech is a hate speech and offensive. In the states where pastors who are faithful to biblical preaching will be persecuted. Christ will surely accomplish his great commission. Suffering produces endurance, endurance produces character, and character produces hope. God has sent Jesus Christ to die for us and has given His Holy Spirit to dwell in us. There is nothing that can separate us from the love of God in Jesus Christ. And then third, the best thing in your life is yet to come. Have a vision that we will need more rooms for Sunday school, for youth and children ministries. And the verse one of the lyrics says like this: speak, O Lord, as we come to you to receive the fruit of your holy word. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Bob. Because we wanted to come to you, I, Paul, again and again. Work of faith and labor of love. Thank you, Father, that you work through all things for our good. Our our events uh these four semester have been so crowded with students and we are very thankful for your prayers, for your support. But now imagine that this church Grace Reform is a garden in this community and each of you is a tree. He gave thanks to God for the fruitfulness of the church. God is the creator of the universe. Make us sorrow for our sins and make us turn away from our sins and turn our hearts to a loving Savior crucified on the cross. And no word of man can change someone's heart in this way. There is something very important here in verse 13. Jesus wants us to abide in him by consuming the word of God daily. What does he like? This broken world is full of troubles. Our battles are against the rulers of this darkness, of this world. When the Thessalonians left their former religion and decided to become followers of Jesus Christ, become Christians, they were persecuted verbally, emotionally, and physically. So since the Old Testament time, God's faithful people have been persecuted by their own countrymen. And they may say to you, keep your God, your Jesus, your Bible in your closet. In this sanctuary. Love them. For you brothers became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, for you suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews. The Bible begins with a story in the Garden of Eden. See them as the fruits of your ministry. To bear the punishment of all our sins, so that by believing in Christ we all can become God's sons and daughters. We don't listen to God our Heavenly Father as we should. So we need to have a proper respect and fear to our Heavenly Father as we should, and have a proper respect to His Word as we should. It spiritually feeds, nurtures us, it makes us healthy, producing strong roots and a lot of fruit. Do you know what happened to a child of God who spends much time with his Heavenly Father and read his word daily? We have three enemies. He is with us in every single moment of our life, including when we struggle and suffer. Can we not see them as our glory and joy? What is it that made Jesus kept walking and carrying our heavy cross to the hill? It is his love for us. And together we become a more and more fruitful church and an attractive congregation, a beautiful garden in this community for the glory of God. Help us persevere. the founder and perfecter of our faith. How can we learn from the Thessalonian Christians? It's beyond comparison. It has saving power, growing power, and equipping power in our life. Paul tells us that our Christian life is a battle. When was the last time you have so much eagerness and joy? Jesus said to us, Abide in me, I am the vine, you are the branches. A difficult form of suffering is persecution. Characteristic number three: fruitful Christians see the people whom they serve as their glory and joy. We were in his mind all the time while he was carrying our cross. Spend much time with our Heavenly Father in prayers and in reading and studying His Word. As you abide in him, he will make you strong and you will become more and more fruitful Christians. What is it that makes Jesus wanted to drink the cup of wrath and the judgment of God as our substitute? This kind of suffering is spiritual and good. Characteristic number one, fruitful Christians have a high view of the Word of God. When we were children, we used to obey the words or the commands of our parents. The Bible is the Word of God. It is our ultimate guide for truth and for right living as God's children. Let's pray, let's pray. Sometimes it is indeed very hard to serve people in this broken world. You can be an apple tree, a mango tree, a peach tree, or whatever fruit you like. Is it not you? The Bible is the Word of God and not the Word of Man. Meaning that some words in the Bible are not the Word of God, but the Words of Man. If we want to be fruitful Christians, we need to read and meditate the Bible day and night and build our lives on the truth of God's Word. Paul said to them in Romans five, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces what? See your friends, your neighbors, your co-workers as your glory and joy And just as Jesus see you as his glory and joy, see him as your glory and joy. Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking to us through your word this morning. What is the difference between treating the Word of God as the Word of Man and treating the Word of God as the Word of God? Speak, O Lord, and fulfill in us all your purposes for your glory. Spiritually speaking, suffering is good for us because it will make us stronger. Jesus died on the cross for us as our substitute. How can we be a fruitful church and an attractive congregation? He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season and its leaf does not wither. Even suffering is good for us because God is with us in our suffering This is what it means by treating the Word of God as the Word of God and not as the Word of Man. What does the word of God is at work in your life mean? Paul in his letter to the Ephesian church he said this in Ephesians six verse ten to twelve. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers of our this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. There is a modern hymn written by Keith Getty and Stuart Town End and the song title is Speak O Lord God works through all things for His people. And because the Bible is the Word of God, it has power. Help us serve the people around us with joy. I want to sit here. We have so much eagerness and joy, right? You know at the time our food is our glory and joy, isn't it? It makes me look younger. Treating the Word of God not as the Word of man, but as what it really is There are all kinds of suffering and struggles in this broken world. Jesus Christ is coming soon and he will judge and destroy all his and our enemies. First, they kill the Lord Jesus and the prophets. For you are our glory and joy. While at the same time keep looking at Jesus, the founder and perfecter of your faith. Um for my wife and I uh we eat fruit as part of our daily meals. And those who are faithful to Jesus Christ understand the hope that they have in him. They love their community and did many ministries to bless their community. So have a vision that our sanctuary will become full and that we and then you will need a bigger church. Sometimes there are students who ask the question back to me. He is our maker. The devil he uses our weaknesses and this sinful world to give us temptations, to deceive us, and to make us sin against God. They love the Bible, they love the Word of God, and they obeyed. When the Bible speaks to us, God speaks to us. Our flags get delayed or cancel. Fruitful Christians persevere in their suffering and struggles The flesh, the world, and the devil. To the Christians in Rome who suffer much persecutions because of their faithfulness There is so much eagerness to get a good meal. It is his love for you. When we understand who God is and have a proper respect to Him, we will also have a proper respect and have a high view of His world. We will come and sit where they told us to, right? Um we got sick. The Thessalonian Church was a fruitful church and an attractive congregation. The first one is the most important one because it's the foundation, it's the roots of the tree. Paul said that the word of God is what is at work in the believer's life. And persecution can be verbal, emotional, or physical, or combinations of these. What about us here? We are the gold and the fire is our suffering. He said that in Thessalonians, he said that the Thessalonian Christians were fruitful in their work of faith and labor of love. As our Heavenly Father, God wants us to listen to Him, just as young children listen to their parents. In chapter 1, verse 3, Paul tells us this that he prayed when he prayed for the Thessalonians. And the word of God has much more weight than the words of any presidents or leaders in the world. It makes us become more and more like Jesus Christ in holiness and righteousness. And with the whole armor of God, Jesus has defeated the devil. Paul said this in verse 13: when you receive the Word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the Word of man. We don't deserve this because we were rebellious sinners, condemned to death. So hold on to the truth and the word of God He will gather all his people from all nations, and no one can stop his mission. If we want to be a fruitful church, we need to see the people whom we serve, the people around us and those in our community as our glory and joy. Is it maybe mm yummy, I'm hungry and or I just ate uh but I want to eat some fruit It's a beautiful garden with a lot of fruit trees. Paul said that Christian suffering is not only spiritual in nature, but Christian suffering is also good Third, the Word of God has equipping power. There is eagerness and joy to serve the people of God. So Christian suffering is first spiritual and then second is good. Second, all the bad things you experience in your life, God will turn them all to be good for you I, Paul, again and again. While driving, we already start thinking about what we want to order. So in general the words or the commands of parents carry much more weight to their young children than to their grown-up children. Only the word of God. We are grown-up people, but we don't have a proper respect to God as we Um the sermon titled this morning is A Fruitful Church and an attractive congregation. First John chapter 3, verse 1. The devil is very powerful and smart. What are the characteristics of fruitful Christians? Paul tells us that our battle is not only against our own sin, our own weaknesses. Um when I meet new international students and these are graduate students at Johns Hopkins. Some people say that the Bible contains It was not his cross that he carried. This is how you become a fruitful Christian. And may people see us, experience our love for them, and be drawn to your saving grace. They grow up. This is good, right? Some of my students are easy to handle with, but some are very difficult to deal with He loved us and that is why he sacrificed himself. Grow us and equip us with your word. We have daily spiritual battles against our enemies, and we need to put on the armor of God to fight our battles. Paul also say in Romans eight verse twenty-eight Um if you have your Bible uh let's turn to First Thessalonians But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavoured the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face. We'll be living in a new world, heaven on earth, with beautiful gardens and a lot of fruit trees. Whoever abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. Our cars get problem that costs a lot of money to get it fixed. Oftentimes when we plan to go to our favorite restaurants Persecution toward God's people is also growing We are his glory and joy. It builds our character. Jonathan Edward, a great theologian and a pastor, explained that this verse tells us three things. God's word changes our hearts. The devil and his demons, the evil spirits. And we should take this seriously. This corrupted and sinful world is the devil's playground. Use us for the work of your kingdom and for your glory. And imagine that you produce a lot of fruit and make this church, this garden, an attractive garden As we grow up and become teenagers, we start to question the words of our parents. Jesus said in Matthew 18, verse 3 He wants us to sin against God. And once we have the food before us, we smile, hmm, and then we cannot wait to eat it. But as we grow older and older, somehow the words or of our parents lose their weight This is how the Bible, the inspired scripture, the Word of God, makes us become fruitful Christians. Read it daily, apply and obey it in our lives. And in all that you do, for the glory of God, you prosper. First, the Word of God has saving power. Paul told them that they suffered the same kind of suffering just as other Christians have been Through the Holy Spirit has been given to us. God has a purpose for every single thing that happened to us in this world When you think about fruit like apples, mangoes And the answer is by spending much time with the Word of God. Um we burn cookies Have a vision and see that. If our parents say When we endure suffering, we are purified and become more shunning. He wants us to spiritually He wants to spiritually nourish us by His And this is particularly what Paul talked about in verse 14 and 16. This is good news. Paul is saying that he and his ministry team were so eager to visit the Thessalonian Christians. What about you? The Bible is the most pre precious possessions we have in our temporary life in this world The flesh is the sin in us. No. If he did not abandon you when you when he carried your cross We thank you that you have made us to be your children. But can we not do that to the people whom we serve Um if it is hard to find it where First Thessalonians is, it's just right before Second Thessalonians. But there is a kind of suffering that only Christians experience because of their faithfulness in Jesus Christ. So God is always with us. In our present day society we're anti-God, anti-God's Second, they try to prevent the gospel to be preached to all people from all nations, all Christ's people. Second, Christian suffering is good For good. But Satan hinder us, for what is our hope or joy or crown or boasting before our Lord Jesus Christ? Assure us of this. The Thessalonian church was like this The word of God has saving power. Jesus will return to make all things new, all things right, and we will be with him in the new heaven. He is the father and the master of lies. Three, they displease God by what they do. And the Bible tells us that all of us who have repented from our sins and put our faith in Jesus Christ alone. They had a proper respect to God's word. God's Word is the only spiritual fruit for us. What is it that made Jesus wanted to die for us, bearing the punishment of all our sins as our Therefore, we must put on the whole armor of God. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might, put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to sin against the skin. There is no way we can defeat Him. Now what does Paul say about those who persecute God's people in verse 14 and Let us pray. What do you study? It helps our spiritual growth and sanctification. What is it? And God gave Adam and Eve all kinds of fruit for their fruit Jesus wants us to be like young children who listen to the words of their heavenly daddy. Therefore, the Bible is the only source of authority for Christians' faith, life, and practice. It means that as we read and study the Word of God, it it does something there in us It was our And his victory is also a victory for all of us, all his people. The Bible is full of good news, isn't it? In verse 17 to 20, Paul said to the Thessalonian Christians These things will not make us bear much fruit, but less fruit. So as a result, people came to their church. This is in verse thirteen. This is how we become a fruitful church and an attractive congregation. It can bring us to the knowledge of God's truth and equip us for life and man This is in verse seventeen to twenty. The devil is the real enemy. That is why we need to keep looking at Jesus. And see the people whom you serve as your glory and joy. The Bible does not contain the Word of God. Otherwise, we won't be able to grow and be fruitful Christians Help us face our daily spiritual battles against our enemies. The Son of God came to this world so He can make us like Him. Who is the devil? If you grow weary, Jesus will nourish and strengthen you with His will. See the people whom you serve as your glory and joy. Every day we do that Emmanuel, this is the love of the triune God for us. But God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. We are weak people God's word has growing power in our lives. Now what does that mean? In all that he does, he prospers He uses all kinds of temptations to allure us into sin. Second, the word of God has growing power in our lives. It is the same armor What is the difference And we pray this in Jesus' name our Savior. Do not run, come here and sit here. And then four The Bible is a hundred percent the Word of God. Why? First, Christian suffering is spiritual in nature. For apart from me you can do nothing. Because it is the word of God. We say to So it's Amen.