And he's leading by example by showing how believers ought to relate with one another with a welcoming spirit of grace. And as we pray for things that are happening in Middle East and Africa and Asia and everywhere you can imagine that God's presence is in our midst, that we are united together in fellowship as one And all these people are getting to hear Paul as he sits in his prison, as he's praying for this church and saying, I long to see the church in Philippi. By his grace. through this words. the spiritual relationship that exists between him and the body of Christ. the Emperor Nero. As we gather together and join thousands upon thousands all over the world, and we offer our prayers in our corporate time of prayer which I love so dearly He recognizes them and he says, All these guys, all these believers, they all send their greetings to you. So the saying goes. We're still having the same thing. It was the new humanity of Christianity. that was put between Gentile and Jew, Barbarian and Greek. A saving grace that you can experience suffering and sacrifice and all these things, but yet you are with me as you suffer for the gospel of Jesus Christ. And now they are eternally bound in fellowship with one another, but above all, in fellowship with Christ Himself. Christ. Because the church is one. theology and the whole of this letter. Because the only other place that Paul ends a benediction by saying spirit is in Galatians. It is Christ from whom are all things, and to miss this would be to completely misunderstand and miss the point in Paulin's. You cannot have the gifts unless you have the giver. Sustain us, so sustains us, is summarized. He says, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce on godliness and worldly passions. And that the only way we can do so is by being sustained and gathered together by God's grace. Christ of Calvary, the one who's borne all of our sins, and he is the author of our righteousness. The returning Savior who shall come back one day in a glorious day. And seeing the riches of God Himself that are stored up in Christ Jesus, the one that he had begun to experience. For the day when God will be praised and all honor shall be given to him when every knee shall bow and proclaim him as God and Lord of all. of redemption, that his kingship is praised as the heir of David's throne forever. you strengthen us, that you guide us and lead us by your grace. And he says, greet every saint in Christ Jesus. If you're able, would you please stand with me as we read and hear God's word this morning? But they were asked to stand up and introduce themselves. He starts and ends the same way. But as a church, that's what we're called to. so much. And the jailer and others, he knew them by name. For the believers in Philip. through the mystical body of Jesus Christ himself. in Christ. Probably he is referring here, but Paul is also referring to any other man that might have showed up in prison in his house arrest and cared for him But this is also including everybody, the people who worked in the Imperial Court, the slaves, the civil servants, the cooks. happening here as Paul's supporters are asking him to send greetings to their fellow Christians and Philippi to people they had no idea who they were And they hear the good news of this little church and they they must have felt, my goodness, how much we want to one day meet Paul's crown and joy. How much we want to see them and meet this little church that he cares and loves so deeply. Who is gathered every Sunday morning when we come before the presence of God? Because it's not just Grace, Presbyterian Church, that's gathered. The Jews scorned the Gentiles, and the benefits of the Roman civilization were conferred along with the crosses on which national freedom fighters took their lives to an end. That's why we sing all these songs that are almost every other church is singing, because we are singing to one Savior, one God and Father of us all. It's a divided church. With. And then in chapters 4 and verses 14 and 5, he describes their fellowship in sharing. with of being in Christ, being people of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But we're bound together by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. That Christianity, that the gospel that our lives as believers starts with God and ends with God That your salvation begins with Him and it's complete in God alone. Because if you've been listening to anything on this study of the book of Philippians, you know one thing is for sure that Paul's message has been one thing In all their thoughts and desires, they must continually share and experience the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the work of salvation for us. And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for a blessed hope, the appearing of our glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. And to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. And his gift comes when we possess him. More of his likeness to display and more of his will to learn and do. And this glorious hope in Christ Jesus is being sustained by his grace. Every man and women, every people from nations and tongue will gather together before his presence and proclaim him. I think it's possible for us to resolve to be like-minded, as he said, as believers, to resolve to always rejoice, as Paul reminds us to be A conclusion that should ring in our ears like the book of Revelation, as John sees a vision in chapters four and five, as God is being praised as the author and agent This blessing and this wish that He has for us to have grace and we bring it before the Lord and understand that pursuing these things is not just because they are good, but because God demands them and that he gives us grace. To work together. As we seek you in our daily walk with you, that you would remind us that you brought us together and that you don't leave us to ourselves. But the one thing that stuck with me was the things that they would say about where they were coming from. They would share their experience about their church and what was going on. And so we got to know how we could pray for them. Greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. To the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. That they have heard about you, the church in Philippi, and they send their greetings to you. But he gives this fourfold, if you will, salutation or greeting, which is a sign of a of fellowship and goodwill and his love for this little church that he cares for. them. people because the gospel had made its way into the employees of Nero's family. Regardless of the languages, the many languages that we bring together, it is the church of Christ gathered Paul cares. That went beyond all those divisions and cultural divisions, the boundaries that separated the Greek and the Jew and the and the barbarian and brought the people of God together. Resurrecting on the third day and ascending and sitting on the Father's right hand. Is it our family backgrounds? with one another. To see the proclamation of the gospel. The gospel. Isn't that a reason for us to celebrate and be joyful and to fellowship with one another? Be with your spirit. They know grace and the Lord from whom our blessings flow. I think it's this, that Paul means here that their whole life is governed and dependent on God for guidance To know and to hear and to rejoice in this grace. For self-keeping, for strength, for sanctification. And I think we see something beautiful here in this benediction from Paul. But as we wait for this glorious hope, that God is calling us to obedience to His word as saints, saved by grace, to be a witness, to be a shining light to the world. What else would we want other than to know Christ and be found in him? To think holy thoughts, to learn the secret of contentment, and all these wonderful things. That makes all the difference. Which would turn out to be a a a a mini sermon, if you will, that would take about twenty, maybe sometimes thirty minutes, you know, preaching Everybody who worked in there, they got to hear the gospel. Then Paul says in in chapter three, verses ten, that great passage that he wants to know who Christ and the power of his resurrection, that he may share in his suffering. It is from Him that all blessings, all grace flows from. Our need to be right with God is found in this gift of righteousness that is freely given in Christ. I feel like it's Paul looking up and seeing the reigning Lord Jesus. A greeting and a benediction. Our guest did it for us. See, things are not as different as they used to be back in the day when Paul was preaching and writing this letter. But a new humanity had been birthed. Do we see ourselves as this one humanity that has been founded on the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for our sins? And so, in these words of final blessing, Paul is revealing to us and to you a people that have actually accepted this grace, a people that really understand what this grace is all about. Isn't that what he said in chapters 1 verses 6 when he says, the good work that he's began in you, he will be faithful to complete it. But Paul, even in reminding us that we are not home yet, as we just read, that we're just pilgrims. As we come to the end of this book for us to hear and to learn all this great thing that He's been teaching us through this book It is our Christian hope, isn't it? A longing for a child, financial problems, plans that haven't worked together, and goals that you have in life that just don't seem to Let us pray. And I remember so many things about the little church where I grew up. They do not even know them, and yet they are saying we want you to greet them. By their spiritual maturity. To do them, it makes all the difference. But Jesus. The remedy is this. And your grace to sustain us through all things. All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. Not about the gospel that everybody who came in contact with them he always share the gospel with them But it's determined by the spiritual family that they are united together. This concept of fellowship and of partnership is such a huge concept in Paul's letter to the Philippians Remember in chapter 1, verses 5, where Paul is celebrating their fellowship and partnership in the spread of the gospel, a cohesion and bond that went beyond human relationships. Even though they had nothing to give yet, they are partnering with him in the proclamation of the gospel. I don't know what you're going through this morning. If you have heard anything that I've said to you, if you have understood anything that I've said to you, this is all I want you to go with. I have God's words for you. Amen. I grew up in a uh a small village church, as you might know or you've heard several times as I've mentioned. from where they were coming from. But our guests that morning would bring greetings to us, and because of that, we felt the connection that existed between us and the distant church that was far away that we did not know. And by him saying greet every saint, he's in fact saying I want you to greet every single one of them individually. Who is gathered here this morning? But it is only in God's grace that we find sufficient strength and heavenly reaches to meet our every need. It is the church in Rome that he was he said some not so good things about them because they were not showing as much care as the church in Philippi. I think it's very possible for us to pursue those things as ends in themselves. What is where do we find our identity as believers, as a church, as brothers and sisters? A job situation as John shared with us this morning. And then secondly he says, the brothers who are with me greet you. That he may share, he may fellowship, he may partner with Christ in his sufferings, becoming more like him in his death, a model for every Christian believer. Yes, the doxology. What a fitting blessing for this church. Planted deep into our hearts, we pray. Whatever you do, whatever you learn, whatever you hear, whenever you're walking, whatever God is teaching you this morning Again in chapters 1, verses 7, he calls them this little church. I have good news for you this morning. But it is it is even more when the blood which binds us together is the precious blood of Jesus Christ Himself. Um but we remember we read about the the Praetorian Guard that was taking care of Paul and the fact that they most of them got to her to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. You see, when Paul was writing this letter, there were divisions that existed in the church or in the community, if you will. Their fellowship goes beyond that. Father, we come before you this morning and we ask that you would bless your word as we gather together in your presence to hear you as you speak to us. Finally he makes a reference to the Caesar's household. Remember the the story of Eodi and Syntheci. He wants the church of Christ to rejoice and be together. He loves and longs and prays for this little church. Good morning. And then he says, But I just don't want you to greet them. There is no better way for Paul to end his letter. Is it our skin color? Fit in your life there whenever you want. And so he begins with a greeting. Paul is giving us the remedy, is finishing by giving the church the remedy for every human need. He he's wishing for this church and for us, God's grace to be with his spirit, which is kind of odd Father, we thank you for your word this morning that encourages us that you are freely given to us yourself. And so Paul, what is in a greeting again? And it's no different here in this book, in this small book of Philippians. I love where Paul summarizes elsewhere the miss this message of grace. It is ours by faith that salvation is all of God and all in Christ. That as we gather together as a family of believers, our fellowship is not determined by the fact that I'm only going to relate with the person who is mature, like I am, or someone who is up where I think I am. I don't know where you are this morning. You know, God's glory as we come together and rejoice in this glory that it is God. So what do we do in the meantime? So if there was a new face, we would ask them to stand up and tell us who they were, to bring greetings. So he says, I want you to greet each and everyone by name. It was the church of God. Other than the book of Titus, chapter two, verses eleven, a passage I love to go to We got to know how we we we we can we can you know connect in terms of the thing that we had in common with, our suffering that was common between our churches. When we resolve to pursue everything that Paul has been teaching us and accepting And as they would always go, they were asked to share, you know, something small like a testimony. So much, so much has happened, so much has been said in these four brief, yet dense and theologically rich chapters in Philippians. Who is gathered in this little church here at Grace? And it is this union, this being in Christ that makes them all saints. And the giver is the Lord Jesus Christ. See, this is how Paul ends all of his letters with a greeting and a benediction. What is it that we identify ourselves? What a fitting benediction for us. A new group of people had come together. I wish you God's blessings. What's in a greeting? It's the church of Christ, one body, one family of God that is gathered, regardless of the time difference. He says, I greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The ones who got to believe in Jesus Christ and accepted this grace, they're sending their greetings to you all, especially those people. Brothers and sisters, it is not just you and I that are gathered here. I want you to greet them in Christ. One of the things that has always stuck with me is every time we had a guest speaker coming into a congregation, especially if they were believers It is tied in being in Christ, in gathering all their resources. I wish you God's blessings to be with your spirit. And so we almost felt connected to that church that they were coming from, even though we had no clue who they were. That the central focus on this letter for Paul is this. And then he looks into his own heart and he finds perfect satisfaction in the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, he ends the same way he started by commending the church in Philippi In Christ's name. There's only one way, and the way is Jesus Christ Himself. He gives this amazing, wonderful benediction in verses 23. That is one uh one commentator, Graydana, says, in their whole being And yet Paul is able to send greetings to every to each and every one of them, even though he knows they're having problems. You know why? Why? Who is he referring to? We have come to the end of our study in the book of Philippians. What does the saying go? It was the gospel, the message of God, of God sending his Son, Jesus Christ, to die for our sins. Paul wants us to hear this. May God's blessings, may His grace be with your spirit. They would tell us about their church, their pastor, their struggles, someone that was sick, someone that was having a hard time It is the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ that broke every barrier. Because you know who receives the glory? That he and the members of this church and live together into one communion, into one fellowship. We see God's work of salvation through Christ Jesus. That he wants nothing, absolutely nothing, but a daily deepening experience with Jesus Christ, satisfying and unsearchable. He says, You guys are partakers of grace with me, both in my imprisonment and in the gospel. I don't know what kind of broken relationships you might have this morning, or difficult people you have to deal with that you don't want a fellowship with. Would you guide us as we walk through life? Maybe here or hereafter. I love it when the when our worship every morning just kind of works together. I feel it's like Paul looking back and seeing A broken ankle that needs healing. Amen. That it is God's grace, His unmerited favor to us, and that the only way for us to experience That Paul longs as he wishes disgrace to his people, a yearning And then thirdly, he says, all the saints Because they have one thing in common. It is for me. Remember the church in Philippi was struggling with three main things. But he's a man who is also aware of what's going on in this church. He says that this church is one that cares for me in my troubles. The Lord is at the center. In the meantime, we understand that the only way to have this yearning and this longing The rest of places he doesn't say that. I wish you God's grace. We know Timothy was with him. There are no better words that he could give to the church in Philippi than to wish them God's grace. What's in a blessing? That blood is thicker than water, right? We pray all this in your holy name. You may be seated. Paul writes the final statements to this little church that he so loves. A third world, if you will. Remember, Paul never kept quiet. They're not. And he says, more of Christ to know and gain, more of his fellowship to enjoy Remember, Paul's message all along has been: I am in Christ, I am united with Christ. Excuse me. I feel like he's for looking forward and seeing We know historically that this is the family of Isn't there something special? That's what Christians identify themselves with. Do we identify ourselves with being in Christ Jesus? The brothers who are with me greet you. They were not so different. He wishes God's grace to sustain you. He wants the saints of Jesus Christ to be one, as the church is one. Their fellowship church is deeper than just sharing a cup of tea. That the gift is inseparable from the giver of that gift. I think it's But I think it's possible for us to do those things and pursue them as little gods to be coveted. Is it on nationalistic causes? He's not being specific of the greeting or who it it is that is sending the greetings for obvious reasons. The brothers that are with me greet you, all the saints. And then secondly, Paul says that it's not just because we are bound together in fellowship. I cannot find anywhere else that the message of grace that's That is, this grace fills us with hope. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit It's a grace that encompasses their whole life. We know Epiphroditus who was sent to deliver and bring back the letter Is it just us that are gathered here? Remember he knew these guys, he knew Lydia You see, you will say something like, Be with you all, but not your spirit. He's the central figure in salvation. That Paul is setting for us an example. How and what is it that you identif that you and I identify ourselves with? That they have one Lord and one Savior, Jesus Christ. The Greeks hated the barbarians. It is the Church of Christ Universal But when everything is cheerfully offered up to God No, you. That's what's going on as Paul is connecting all these believers together. What an expression of personal affection He would never keep his mouth shut. I love to see these brothers and sisters who are in Christ Jesus. But yet Amen. He says, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ I need grace every day, and so do you. But be sustained. Our citizenship is not here, it's in heaven Remember we've talked about it. Is it our political parties? Amen. We we just sang the benediction. You get Christ, you get His grace. They were poverty-stricken, they were a divided church, and they were being persecuted. Sinclair Ferguson makes that point. Something special that you would think is We anticipate the day when he will return because you know what? And this morning we're looking at three verses. They will give out of their poverty to care for my needs. See, we realize very early on that this message That word share is the same as fellowship. He's connecting the family of God together. This is the impression I want to leave with you. Is it on denominational affiliations? What a glorious benediction! See, I think it's possible And so be it. But even more it is for looking at Christ in the present. Why? He wants the saints of Christ to welcome one another. Why? Because Paul's love for them is not determined. I belong to Him. The church and Philippi do not know. He's acknowledging.