And you know their sins and shortcomings, I'm sure of it. The greatest need they had, these are people who are already saved, they already have faith in Christ, they already have love for the saints, and yet their greatest need is to know God in a still deeper way. And we've been talking about how all these people throughout the day are leaving their long shift at the hospital and getting in this shuttle to go back and doesn't really seem like this gets wiped down and cleaned throughout all the day and we're saying, well hopefully they clean it at night, right? And he goes on and says it's it's his power toward us. And for the work that you want God to do in your life is not limited by your imagination or your power. And we're going to continue reading on there with Ephesians chapter one, verses fifteen through nineteen. Is that we need to constantly rethink our own lives and our own schedules and ask, where do we need to change the way our lives are set up? Because you know, ministry and being a ministry wife can be lonely and difficult. the circumstances of our lives, that no matter what happens, we're under his fatherly care and we take whatever he gives us with contentment. Christian life, what I might call a holy discontentment. And give thanks for what God has done. Paul talks about this in Romans seven. From this body of death. because my wife got a new job. that Paul could possibly ask for more. He says in verses fifteen and sixteen, For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. You might even go a step further and believe that if you put the parachute on and jumped out of the plane, that it would save you. Saving faith is putting the parachute on and jumping out of the plane, resting all your hopes, trusting that it's going to save you with no plan B. Our our faith is in Christ. And many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles, and all who believed were together and had all things in common. Christians, faith in Christ, love for the saints. Friends, pause and give thanks to God for the work that He is doing. He would choose to save, meaning he loved them beforehand. He's talking about how reformed theology has has often placed great emphasis on doctrine and knowledge, and and of course rightly so. But the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. The sufferings of this present life are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. How would it make you more willing to sacrifice your time, your money, your energy in his service because you have that hope that Christ will more than repay whatever it costs you to follow him? Possessing riches beyond measure. Give me Jesus. Certainly we don't do it perfectly, but increasing growth as the Lord works by his power in our lives. I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him See and hear the things you would say to us this morning from your word. It's a the book he wrote based on Philippians four eleven where Paul says, I've learned in whatever situation I am to be content. Paul also discusses this this idea that that Christians are to be marked by a certain dissatisfaction, a certain uh unsettledness or or uncomfortable reality about our lives that should mark the So how do we live with this holy discontentment? You can't have one without the other. and he prays for their continued growth. We need to understand what what is saving faith in Christ. been kindled by God, who sets a flame in our hearts. So that even when our grip is weak, we can reach out to Christ knowing He's never going to let us go. And it's important to see that when Paul's here talking about their love for the saints, he's he's not talking about some naive, idealistic love. That's really important for us at at Grace Church, I think, to to think through because it's it's really easy for you and I to put on a smile and be polite to one another for ninety minutes on on the Lord's Day morning. Friends, this is a love that's rooted in Christ, and it's a love that's strengthened by both deep fellowship and a common mission to be united together. He said it it's loving by faith. So that you can help one another. And we should be thankful. And of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. We always look forward. And now he prays for their experience. And that's your greatest need as well, friends, to know God in a still deeper way. to faith in Christ. And so Paul asked that the Father would give the Holy Spirit the spirit of wisdom in the revelation and knowledge of him, so that they might understand the Scripture, giving them the the illumination to open their eyes and their ears to see and hear what God says to them. Having the eyes of their hearts enlightened. Unless he opens our eyes and our ears, we will never see and hear as we ought. It's certainty. Because the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. But that's just wishful thinking. It's kind of two sides of the same coin. that that Christ is the pearl of great price. In life, no matter what suffering or hardship comes your way, knowing the riches of his glorious inheritance is to be able to say, hang in there, Jesus is worth it. And finally, he says, we need to know God's power at work in our lives. of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might. His power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might. Our Father, we thank you for your word. And worship you and live in fellowship with you. in this life. Think for a moment of how miserable it would be if where you are today in your spiritual life is the furthest you would grow for the rest of your life. That we must always long for even more growth in the Christian life. and 16. It's not to it's not to be ungrateful to God, it's just to recognize that we're incomplete. Right? God's been at work in our lives. And just as Paul has rehearsed all these spiritual blessings that are ours in Christ, he's used this glorious, exalted language in the first fourteen verses of this letter. He gives thanks for two things, their faith in Christ and their love for the saints. Richard Sibbs in his his book The Bruised Reed describes faith as as a fire. Faith might be weak, but it's still genuine, because Christ promises that if you come to Him, He will never let you go. Every flame is mixed with smoke, and so all faith is mixed with unbelief. Your faith might not be as strong as you wish it was, and yet if it's genuine faith, Christ will save. 1 John picks up on this idea that love for other Christians is a sign of genuine saving faith in Christ. Think of the the picture that that were given in Acts of the early church. Are we allowed to say that? And he starts off in verses 17 identifying where this growth comes from, from the Holy Spirit. It's knowing in an experiential way. The history of reformed Christianity is also the story of the highest order of spiritual experience. For we have heard for ourselves that this indeed is the Savior of the world. with Christ, felt fellowship and and deep intimacy with Christ. Specifically, it's the work of the Spirit. and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might. If the hope of your salvation was so real that you could say with Paul, I consider these momentary afflictions as they prepare an eternal weight of glory beyond comparison. The immediate question it raises is whose inheritance? We we've already touched on this inheritance last week, so we can be a little more brief, but Paul wants us to understand the riches of this inheritance. No, friends, what does the psalmist say? Lord, you are more precious than silver. That's what gets you out of bed in the morning. It's God's unfathomable power directed towards us. But the one thing God will never, ever, ever do is come to you and say, you know, I wish I could, but that's just a little too hard for me. Your desire for growth, your hunger and thirst for righteousness will never exceed God's immeasurably great power. So so often you and I strive to be so strong on our own. To be able to say with John the Baptist, I am not the Christ. We are going to be continuing on our series in the letter to the Ephesians this morning. The furthest you would grow in holiness. These are people who have been changed. We're saved by the one we put our faith in. Think about it in your own life. But if that's the extent of your interaction with fellow church members, how can we expect to know one another well enough or to be known by one another well enough to truly love one another? And day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. If Jesus was pleased to dwell in them by the same spirit in which he's pleased to dwell in me, then I can love them. in our lives. growing in some fruit of the Spirit recently? In your lives. To those who are spiritual. specific things that he he hopes they're going to grow to know. He says there in the second half of verse eighteen and of verse nineteen, he says that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. Just like Paul says in Romans 8, those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. share in the inheritance of the saints in light. Uh they they brought in a a speaker to talk about the challenges that that pastors' wives can face in the church that because Well good morning everyone. We we don't have the sense of closeness with him that we might desire. God is able to do more than we can ask or imagine, and any time he answers our prayers, that should stretch our faith and our imagination for what he might be able to do next time. Paul's saying this is this kind of experience in your life is something that only the Holy Spirit gives. Think about it for your own lives. He wants them to grow to understand the hope that they've been called to. It's the power that makes Paul say a little later in Ephesians, now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. It will never exceed God's power or ability to work in your life. That's not what we're stopping though, right? Future hope influences present actions. We are God's treasured possession. Based on our text, that means that whatever God works has all God has already enabled you to do, you can ask and expect that He will continue His good work in you, enabling you to do more and more throughout your life. Do you do you know this power in your Christian experience? Friends, th this idea of saving faith being in Christ, and that our our faith is genuine even when it's weak reminds us don't despise the day of small things. There's a closeness implied to the relationship that's going to make you aware of your own sins against other people and their sins against you. Friends, that's not a superficial love. When we grow, we should desire even more growth. And the reason this hope is certain is because it's the hope to which God has called them. Calculating God's power is like counting the grains of sand at the beach. Palperays that they would grow in all of these areas, not to be content with where they are, but to press on for even more growth. And it's true that every Christian should be marked by this spirit of contentment, this quiet rest in God's fatherly care. It's a a receiving and a resting upon Christ freely as he's offered to us in the gospel. I don't know about you friends, but I need that hope. Starting in verse 15. Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you, what are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of the world. You're going to have to try and see beyond their sin so that you can see Christ in them. It's not just some wishful thinking that they have. No matter what difficulty there is, hang in there because Jesus is worth it. Because knowing that you are precious in God's sight, and knowing by experience that if you have Christ, you have more than enough. No, he will never ever come with without a power to work in our lives. True Christians are marked by a change that takes place in our vertical relationship with God and our horizontal relationship with other believers. God doesn't always give us what we want. Maybe to put it another way, if you haven't been offended by someone or you haven't caused offense to someone, then you might not be close enough to truly love them the way Paul has envisioned here. We're not finished yet, so she doesn't want the work to stop. I remember having a conversation with with Matt Bowling. Only later they came to hear from Jesus himself. Knowing and living in this deep sense of hope is so important because I'm sure you've experienced in your own life there's there's no surer way to discourage someone than to take away their hope. She's going to work from home. We need to know our hope. It it's assurance of this hope that they have. You and I are to regularly look back with thanks to God for the work that He's done in our lives. This side of heaven we will never arrive. Thank God through Christ Jesus our Lord. And what about others? And then second he says, look forward and pray for God to continue to work. The people that you love the most, the people that you are the closest to, maybe your family or close friends, they're they're the people that you have the closest relationship with. He says, I don't do what I want to do. We're always to be resting in this holy discontentment, desiring greater growth. Hear now God's word from Ephesians chapter one. Yes, you're forgiven, and that's a wonderful blessing, but not sanctified any further than you are right now. You might have nothing in common. But we don't stop there. I have no reason for confidence that they clean it at night. If you're able, I'd like you to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. They go hand in hand together. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. Right? Love for the saints, friends. It's to say like the Samaritan woman that Jesus met at the well, you know, he talked to her and told her all about her life, and she went into the town saying, Come and see the man who told me everything I've ever done. We look back and give thanks for what God has done. How would your life be different if you were marked by an even deeper sense of the hope of your salvation? In his presence is fullness of joy. We pray that the Spirit would work on us in the same way in this time, that you would open the eyes of our heart, open our eyes, open our ears that we might see She's very excited because she's getting a she shed, if you've heard that term. You can't just learn this on your own because apart from the Spirit, it will all seem foolish. Because you think about the heart of the covenant promise, what is it? We thank you that you've spoken to us. She's really excited to see the progress we've made, but she'd be really disappointed if we stop now, because it's not anywhere close to done. This love implies a closeness and a an amount of time that we spend together. Praise him for that work. Jesus is always the object of our faith. This is the Spirit's ongoing ministry to us in our lives, guiding us into all truth. We've seen that in the context of verse eleven already, right? You're more costly than gold, and nothing I desire compares with you. I was at a listening to an online conference this week. Maybe you've been praying for someone to grow in Christ. You see, Paul's saying, if you want to truly know God, that knowledge is only given by God Himself. He wants us to understand that just because we're called to have treasure stored up in heaven and not on earth does not mean that you and I are settling for lesser things. We need to know the riches of this glorious inheritance that we have in Christ so that we can press on. And yet that's exactly what he does as he goes in this prayer. The Ephesians are now new creations in Christ, and that's shown by their faith and their love. Faith is merely the hand we use to reach out to Christ, and the the good news for us is that Christ is the strong Savior who grabs a hold of us. He prays that all the things which are objectively true about them in verses 3 through 14 would become an experiential reality in their Christian lives as they grow. We might not have these in the measure that we wish we had them. Have you been putting sin to death? That that's what keeps you pressing on for yet another day, another day where you're called to deny yourself, to serve Christ, to fight for to fight against sin, to pursue holiness, to love others, even when it Good to be with you all this morning. It it's easy to do that, especially when most of our time together is you listening to me talk. We are his inheritance, and he is our chosen portion. He's the one we should sell all that we have to gain him. We might wonder how how it's possible after rehearsing all those wonderful blessings of verses 3 through 14 Because if you've been around the church long enough, you'll know that sometimes you meet people in church, and if we're honest with ourselves, if it weren't for Jesus, we wouldn't be friends. It's the way we're told Adam knew Eve and she bore a son. He's speaking of the illumination that the Holy Spirit gives. And that only comes as we know you through your word, as your spirit applies your word to our hearts. You know those who are closest to you. God's heart went out to them. I need to grow in my knowledge of this hope and live more and more experiencing this hope as a daily reality in my life. Well, Jeremiah Burroughs, one of the great Puritan writers, has a well-known little book called The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. It's not used arbitrarily, it's exercised towards us who believe. He he has reasons for withholding things from us at times. I think Paul directs us to two things in this passage. And yet she's still grateful for the work that's already been started. Maybe you get on each other's nerves and and maybe you have different personalities. Even if it's a small flickering fire, it's there because God has set it in our hearts. Let them know that you see God at work in their lives and encourage them. And so Paul prays, he said he was thankful for their character because it gave them gave him clear evidence of their salvation. God's inheritance or our inheritance? And she was encouraging wives and uh with with all kinds of things. But he's not done yet. Many of you know Matt, he's the one that's been helping us with a lot of the stuff we're doing. We we long to know you. We pray this, Lord, asking that you would speak, for your servants are listening. But he starts by saying that knowledge is only given by the Holy Spirit himself. He starts by talking about their faith in Christ. We need to look forward and we pray for God to continue his work. He wants them to know this certain hope that they have in Christ. It means being able to say if Jesus could die for them Where where do you need to spend some time this afternoon giving thanks to God? Our hope is not a wish, friends, but a future promise. There's three components. And what did they tell the woman? Because this side of heaven, you and I still struggle with sin. To truly love the saints, you're gonna have to work really hard. It's just wishful thinking. It means that we that He is able to work all things for the good of those who love Him, who are called according to His purpose. He's the one our faith is directed towards. Has he been teaching you things in your suffering? Not my God can supply every need, my God will supply every need of yours. The power that helps you break the power of reigning sin. At his right hand are pleasures forevermore. Even weak faith is saving faith because Christ promises that He will never put out the smoking wick. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, the breaking of bread, and the prayers, and all came upon every soul. Maybe it's your child, your friend, a spouse, or a co-worker who's beginning now to show interest in spiritual things, growing in grace, having victory over the sin. We need the eyes of our hearts enlightened. Second, he wants them to know the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. To say God is God, I am not, and that's okay. And so the point of this is to live with this holy discontentment. And this idea of knowing God, it's not just knowing facts about God. I've been talking with Lee. Notice he doesn't just say that God's power is great. We're always still long for even more growth in the Christian life. That's part of the normal Christian life, friends. And he says, if there's any fire at all, it's there because it's To have this experiential knowledge of Christ is to be able to say that not only have I heard of God's goodness, but I have tasted and seen Paul says later in Ephesians 2, he says, We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. The inheritance that he's talking about is ours. I will be your God and you will be my people. He says it in verse 19. You can't even make a dent before you lose count. He's strong enough to hold us. Friends, this experiential knowledge is a first-hand knowledge, and it comes to the Spirit. That's very different from the hope that Paul talks about here. The love, friends, that Paul mentions here, the love for the saints, it implies closeness. Notice that both of those things are related to their character. When you experience this hope, you will live differently. It's not just being aware of the reality of the gospel. If that's you this morning, by the way, j welcome to the club. And so we start by recognizing what he's already done and giving thanks to him We might not see other people making the progress that we desire them to make in their own lives, but wherever these are found, God is at work It's no longer because of what you said that we believe. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints. Thinking about if you have work done in your house, you know, we're we're having our our shed converted into an office. We look back and we look forward. And we impart this in words, not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths If you're visiting with us, my name is Eric. We stay up late, we wake up early, trying to be everything to everyone. You've created us that we might know you and But if that's where you stop, neither of those things is saving faith. The word of the Lord this morning. He says he prays that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the Spirit of wisdom. It was uh directed at pastors, and there was a section talking about pastors and pastors' wives and And he begins by giving thanks for the Ephesians. And we've talked about faith several times in this letter so far. Not not new revelation like he gave to the apostles, but the the opening of our eyes so we might understand what's written in his word. She she parks at her new work in a a satellite lot and has to take a shuttle back and forth from the hospital. Do you believe his promise when he says, My grace is sufficient for you? Where do we need to choose differently in order to make time for Christian fellowship with one another in the church? By the effective working of his Holy Spirit as he called them to themselves. That would be a terrible thing to hear. And that means you're going to have to know one another well enough that you can be honest about your own sin and you can lovingly and confront them in their sin. Because having him means possess He starts by saying, look back. How would it give you freedom to begin to take even more risks for God? And he we were talking about this reality that that in the church it can be hard to love one another at times. And in this passage in Ephesians, Paul's going to list three Friends, the sky's not even the limit. We're not even talking to one another for most of our time together. If you're honest, it can be grating to be around one another. He is our inheritance. Friends, that's not just true for pastors and their wives. Right? So she's really excited as we're doing this work on our house. They were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to the poor as any had need. Paul rejoices in what he's heard of the Ephesians, and yet that only motivates him to pray for more. He talks about their faith in Christ. That's what Paul picks up on in verses 17 through 19. He says it in the past tense. And he writes that book to help us understand that as believers we're to to trust in God who orders Every one of us as believers are unfinished products. You may have heard me use it before. And then he goes on to say, but Calvinism, at least in its consistent forms, has never been merely cerebral. I think probably he's saying it it's our inheritance that we have in God. We spent the last several weeks looking at those those first fourteen verses of Ephesians chapter one where Paul talks about all the glorious things. And the point of this passage that Paul wants us to see is that you and I are never done growing. That's what it means to rest in Christ. Sives goes on and talks about the fact that faith is always imperfect. To put it another way, he says: if you love God, you will love God's people. What is the immeasurable greatness He knows what's good for us and what's not good for us. We ask this in Christ's name. That's such good news for us because it reminds us that we're saved not by the quality or the strength of our faith. I think one of the things that that loving the saints means It's similar to what he says in in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, where he says, Now we have received not the spirit of the world. It's the same thing he says in Colossians one, where Paul talks about giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to But her final words really struck me. Friends, isn't it isn't it good news that your desire for spiritual growth That that in in the way that he writes it, contentment is a a grace that's given to us by the Holy Spirit. Because we must always remember to begin by looking back and giving thanks for what God has already been doing. This holy discontentment is not to be ungrateful. Friends, don't despise the day of small things. Because union with Christ that Paul's been talking about in the first fourteen verses always should lead to deeper and more intimate communion. Let's go to God together in prayer again. He wants us to be able to say, as the the other hymn goes, give me Jesus. He says God's power is immeasurably great. That means even weak faith, friends, is saving faith when it's faith in Christ. Because the gospel is the power of God for salvation for all who believe. I'm one of the pastors here. He gives these three request requests. The heart there is not not your literal heart, but it's it's not merely the seat of your affections, it's your whole being. We know it will come to pass. The power that helps you to love Christ and love others. So let's look at at first we look back, giving thanks for what God has already done for us. He starts off first praying that the Ephesians would know the hope they've been called to. It's not wishful thinking. By saying he wants us to understand these riches of our inheritance, he wants every Christian to be able to say He wants us to understand And yet We still endure suffering. And so Paul wants us to see that Christians must live in a state of holy discontentment. I like to use the the illustration of a parachute. That that's part of the Christian life, that to not sense the closeness with God all the time that we might desire to have. Paul wants us to never settle with where you are now. Their faith in Christ and their love for the saints. The love that he's talking about is not not blissful ignorance or blind optimism or rose-colored glasses. It's so certain he can speak about it as if it's already happened. Faith in Christ, love for the saints. We're glad to have you with us. It's not even just being uh convinced to the point where in your mind you believe it He's thankful for that, and then he goes on and talks about their love for the saints. You can't even come close to wrapping your mind around the immeasurable greatness of his power. Amen. Where do you need to reflect on his work that he's been doing in your life? She said, Jesus is worshiping. It's what brings him to the point where he says, Who's going to deliver me from It's the hope of their salvation. It's it's That's true for every single one of us. Friends, having that truth sink down deep into your heart. And if you're joining us with the live stream, we're glad that you're able to join us this morning. He knows that something might be bad for us now, but okay later. This faith is the gift of God, it's the work of the Holy Spirit. You know you're supposed to love them, but you're not sure you like them Please be seated. We don't love God the way we ought to love him. He then turns to prayer to give thanks for the Ephesians. He wants them to grow in three areas of Christian experience. Pause and reflect and give thanks for the work that he has already been doing. Friends, true Christians are marked by both things. No matter what difficulty you go through It's the hope of their inheritance that we've been talking about in recent weeks. And he gave me this phrase. You can have all this world. And then he came to Have you been We see that in verses fifteen I don't remember where he heard it, but The way he helps us understand We're saved by the object of our faith.