Uh please stand for the scripture. From Luke eighteen, nine through fourteen. Can you hear me? Are we okay? Okay. He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and treated others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple. to pray. One a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus, God, I thank you. Then I am not like the other men. extortioners, unjust, undulter adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but be his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, who for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted Well, we almost missed it. It was close. We moved here in 2020, and I have preached at this church every October since then. It's October 29th. We almost missed our annual tradition I keep track of the sermons that I preach at each church, uh, and it just so happened that um Uh I so I noticed, I looked, I went to write in the one that I was preaching, I was like, oh, whoa, that was close. We gotta keep this going. As long as I'm a UMBC every October, I'm gonna be here Uh and now that Doug's here, um he might not know it, but I'm just gonna show up if I don't get invited, I'm just gonna show up so I can sit down, Doug, I'm preaching today. Um No, thank you. Uh I this church is precious to us and we're just really grateful for the partnership we have. Um In the beginning of the Gospel of Luke, Luke says he's he's writing to Theophilus, right? And we don't know if Theophilus was a real person or just kind of something he set up so that he could write this. letter to somebody kind of telling what he's learned about Jesus and about the church and keeping record of things or was Theophilus a real person. It doesn't really matter. He says, I write to you, Theophilus, so that you may be encouraged in what you know. The Gospel of Luke is intended for the Christian To hear again what they already know and be encouraged in that idea. But at the same time, it is a great book for someone who is skeptical. So if you're if you're uh here this morning and maybe you're a little skeptical about this whole Jesus thing, I'd encourage you to uh not turn off, but to but to pay attention. In chapter 17, Jesus is speaking to Pharisees about the kingdom of God, and as he finishes his explanation, he launches into a series of parables, of which the one we're looking at is the first. Excuse me. There's no indication of a change in location or a change in audience. And so we have to understand that these parables that follow, the one we're looking at this morning, are verbal snapshots. to help us understand what the kingdom of God is like. One more piece of background we need before we jump in is that Pharisees are a group of religious leaders of Jesus Christ. Jesus' day, and they're portrayed in the New Testament, especially in Luke, as the group of people that have all the knowledge and no heart. They know all of the law, they know all of what God says, and yet they haven't quite been able to apply it to themselves. They they understand the stuff, but they don't know how to practice following Yahweh. The other group is the tax collectors Some translations call it the toll collector. And the tax collectors work for the Romans, but they're Hebrews, they're Jews. And so they're seen as traitorous. Uh the tax collectors, they work for the Romans and and they go and they tech they they take the Romans' taxes. And then they tack on some for themselves. And so they make themselves richer by making their countrymen poorer. Uh and they're not real popular people, as you can imagine. What I want you to hear as we jump into this message is that Jesus is helping us understand that the kingdom of God is made up of people that find their righteousness not in themselves. But in the mercy of a faithful God. Would you pray with me? Lord God, I think if we stop and think We wouldn't even have to think very hard, and we would find that uh we are a people who find our goodness, our worth, our value, our righteousness. in what we do. And we actually really struggle to find righteousness as a gift of the Creator. And so would you soften our hearts this morning that we would hear this message? Would would we understand what you're trying to to communicate that you died for us, that you lived for us, that you died for us, that you rose for us, and that is our worth, our value, our significance, our righteousness. And we can ease our grip a little bit on the things that we do. They don't define us. Thank you, Lord, for your mercy and grace. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Pray. Amen. So right off the bat, see you know, sometimes when Jesus tells parables, he's kind of vague, right? Like, what exactly is this parable about? Not in this one Right off the bat, he tells us that this is a parable about righteousness. But what is righteousness? Righteousness is merely the state of being right or having right conduct. We can judge righteousness by God's standards or by human standards, and those are different. But righteousness has to do with merit and performance. Always. It always has to do with merit and performance. And one cannot be righteous without righteous action. Hypothetical or theoretical righteousness, it isn't a thing. It doesn't exist. Abstract righteousness is not real. Well, abstract. Of course it's not real. But it doesn't work. There must be performance connected to a righteous person. We try to get a picture of this righteousness. came to my mind. Uh I have a my illustration here is of Superman, uh Superman comics and and and movies. Um I'm a big comic book fan. But recently my youngest daughter is Kaya and she is um she's a really, really, really good soccer player Like, I know I'm dad, I know, but I'm a soccer coach, I was a college player, I wasn't a very good college player, but I was um I think Kaya's division one material. She's a little on the small side to be a central midfielder in Division I ball, but but legitimately that talent is there So we've spent the last we spent about eight months last year into this year trying to get her into Division I schools, George Washington, Longwood University. University, um High Point University were all schools that we attended. And the way it works, the way it works is that A player goes to they call them ID camps and they play for the coach. And the way it should work is that when you're about 15, which is way too early, 14, 15, fifteen. It's way too early to be thinking about college. You should start going to these ID camps. By the way, they charge you for every one and it's really expensive. But you should go to these ID camps, I don't know, half a dozen, ten school You should find half a dozen ten schools that you might be interested in going to and go multiple times a year for multiple years The move was hard on Kaya and she wasn't in a place when she was fifteen to be able to make any of these decisions. And so we took the last few months of her junior year actually Actually, most of her junior year, and we went to these ID camps. But she only went to all of these schools once. Her day, her day at George Washington was amazing She was unbelievable. In fact it was you listened to them scrimmage at the end of the day, all you heard was the opposing team, the one that Kaya was playing against Yelling out, Kai is open, Kai is open, Kai is open, like they did not want her to be open. Her performance, her righteousness was impeccable. Unbelievable. The coach called and said, We don't have a spot for you. It wasn't enough. She had similar issues with um division three schools. I saw some of her best play ever, far outweighing any of the other people there And she didn't get opportunities. Good news, unrelated to righteousness. Uh she's gonna play at McDaniel next year. McDaniel's a top Division III school Um they beat Johns Hopkins last week and Johns Hopkins has Division One players, former Division One players playing for them. What I need you to understand is that we have this picture of human righteousness and we like to apply ourselves to it. uh apply that to us all the time. Yeah, I speed a little, but that guy was an idiot. I mean, yeah, I don't do everything I'm supposed to do at work, but there's people who do so much less than what I do. And we make this our righteousness. We say, I'm good enough because And maybe a bigger a bigger identifier of us looking for our own righteousness is our failure. And when we fail to love people, to work the way we're supposed to, to to do what we're supposed to do. It can be devastating. I am so tied up in what people think of me all the time And when I think that you don't think that I'm good enough, there's a there's a ache in the center of my chest and a sickness in my stomach, and I think, oh How do I fix this? This is this is this is people Righteousness. This is human righteousness. And we apply it to ourselves, desperately hoping that we can somehow make ourselves good enough. That we are acceptable to the people that are around us, and we are acceptable to God. And that that God thing may not be overt. It might be kind of we'd have to really think about it to realize that we're actually trying to earn God's favor and God's love. But I'm trying to make myself something. And I can't. Our passage this morning isn't about human righteousness. It's about kingdom righteousness. And Psalm fifteen gives us this great picture of kingdom righteousness. Lord, who may dwell in your sacred tent? Who may live on your holy mountain? The one whose walk is blameless. Who does what is righteous, who speaks the truth from their heart, whose tongue utters no slander, who does no wrong to a neighbor, and casts no slur on others Who despises a vile person, but honors those who fear the Lord, who keeps an oath even when it hurts, and does not change their mind, who lends money with the poor to the poor without interest. Who does not accept a bribe against the innocent, whoever does these things will never be shaken. This is kingdom righteousness. Kingdom righteousness is blameless. It speaks the truth from the heart. It doesn't slander, doesn't hurt their neighbor, doesn't slur others, keeps an oath when it's hard. This is so much bigger. So much bigger than the petty stuff we do trying to determine our own righteousness. The brilliance of Jesus' parable is that it takes human righteousness and kingdom righteousness and it puts them right up against each other, and you can see it at work. And then we can compare and contrast and get a good understanding of what's going on. The Pharisee really comes off looking good, doesn't he? I mean, at least, in a sense, all the commentators point out that the beginning of the Pharisees, uh the beginning of what the Pharisee says is the beginning of a psalm of praise. A psalm? Wow. This is good stuff. God, I thank you. It's a psalm of praise. In fact, in all the religious activity, he comes off as far as he can. Far superior. He starts his prayer with a psalm of praise. He fasts twice a week, which is once more than typical Jewish tradition. He gives a tenth of all that he gets as tithe. He's given away money left and right. But in the process of praying, he compares himself to the people at the temple. He's grateful that he isn't like the other people there. He's mostly saying he's glad he isn't a sinner. He isn't an extortioner. He isn't unjust. He doesn't cheat on his wife. And he definitely isn't like that tax collector. This Pharisee has taken his outward activity and compared it to the outward activity of the other people around him, and the Pharisee has found himself to be righteous. In fact, the prayer has this sense of the Pharisee praising God for how good, how righteous the Pharisee has made himself. Darryl Bach comments on this passage and he says this. This prayer is actually a distortion of a praise psalm. Because when the Pharisee is done, his prayer is in effect, I thank you, God, that I am so great. In fact, one gets the impression that God should be honored to have this faithful Pharisee on his team. Does this parable make you uncomfortable? It the audacity of the Pharisee to speak publicly about others that way, especially the tax collector, that seems to be an earshot And the way the Pharisee talks to God, I find this terribly uncomfortable. But I'm also concerned that we find it terribly relatable. I keep thinking about the description in Psalm fifteen. Kingdom righteousness is blameless. Speaks the truth in the heart, doesn't slander, doesn't hurt their neighbor, doesn't slur others, keeps an oath when it's hard. The trap that the Pharisee and we can fall into is that we compare our execution of these things to other people and their execution of these things. And we find that we compare better than others. We also minimize the places where we fail in kingdom righteousness. I don't think that many of us stand in church and pray audibly comparing our actions to the actions of others. I haven't heard anybody during their confession of sin Thank God that they aren't like somebody else in the room. I'm not even sure we actually pray these types of prayers. But um, you know, when I wrote this sermon, I wrote, I wrote, I'm not even sure we pray these types of comparisons. Well, that makes us better than the Pharisee. See what I did? As I'm writing the sermon. Friends, I have a problem. I think you do too. I'm concerned about our internal dialogue, the conversations that go on in our head. We can justify our sin because others are more sinful. We can be okay with what we do because I mean look there are people screwing up much worse than me We minimize our failures and shortcomings before God and other people because there is far more damaging things that have been done in the world, in our church. In our household. We posture before God, negotiating our failure and our sin, and trying to argue for our righteousness, the one we earn. And while this may be good enough to justify ourselves, it just isn't good enough for God to justify us. It's not enough. The good news is that Jesus doesn't stop the story with the Pharisee. If he stopped the parable with the Pharisee, it would be as if to say, you can't earn your righteousness, and now what are you going to do? Instead, he paints an additional picture of a tax collector. The tax collector's Jesus' description of the tax collector's prayer is very short The posture of the tax collector is not looking up as if he can't even look God in the face. He beats his chest, owning his sin and physically expressing his heartbreak. The tax collector knows that righteousness comes with action, and frankly, he just doesn't have enough The tax collector certainly isn't as righteous as God. He may not have even mat he may not even match up against my daughter's performance on the soccer field. Or yours at work, or the spotless kitchen that you keep. Or not. We all have those places where where we think, oh man, I do that really well and that makes me really good. The tax collector may even may not even match up against your righteousness. The tax collector comes before God humbly asking for mercy. You see, the tax collector has looked at his heart behind his best deeds He knows that the best things he does are at the very least laced with selfishness and self-reliance. He knows that his only shot at righteousness is because God will have mercy on him. Thinking about righteousness through God's mercy reframes Psalm 15 for us. The thing we know that all the people in our text didn't know yet, except Jesus, is that Psalm 15 describes Jesus much more clearly than it describes you and me. God has shown us mercy like the tax collector asked, by offering us Jesus' perfect execution of kingdom righteousness, to be our own through Christ's life and death and resurrection. Remember how I said that all righteousness has to do with performance or merit? The righteousness we receive through God's mercy is merit-based too. It's just not yours. It's Jesus' Jesus' merit, his righteousness, is then the theological word is imputed. It's given to you. It doesn't make your righteousness, you know, it doesn't put you at zero and give you a chance to earn your righteousness. His righteousness is given to you. That is your record. No matter what you do at work or at home, or his righteousness is yours through faith. Because he died and rose for you. Now we can live out kingdom righteousness to the best of our ability. We can try to be blameless, speak the truth from our heart, resist slander, avoid hurting our neighbor Not slur others, keep an oath, even when we know it's going to be hard. But like the tax collector, we surrender all hope of being good on our own and and fully lean into the righteousness. There's one final point that I think probably goes missed sometimes when people look at this text, but we have to notice it. We are justified through Jesus' righteousness, and that kind of righteousness gets celebrated. So the one who humbles himself before God will be lifted up. That's what the passage says. This doesn't have to be like some future thing. In fact, I would encourage you for it not to be a future thing When you see yourself acting on Christ's righteousness, not your own, have a party. Go out to dinner. Glass of wine. What if you see someone else do it, celebrate them. Seriously. The way that we're going to change is not through the work of the Holy Spirit in us, right? But part of change is reinforced activity. If you see your kid, your friend, your spouse acting out Christ's like righteousness in front of you, celebrate it. It needs to be done. This should keep us from moping around saying, Oh no good by myself. Jesus had to die for me, it's so awful. Somehow Christians can do that. I'm not sure how. Well, I do, because we keep thinking it's about us. And it's about him Christian, beat your chest, repent of your sin, and lean into Jesus' righteousness. And then when you see that working out in your life, celebrate it because He celebrates you. You should celebrate you. Let's pray. Lord, this is such a hopeful picture, and yet we struggle so badly to live it out. We are so desperate to have someone approve of us or have us approve of us, to somehow make ourselves worthy And have value. Would you help us to lean into your life and death and resurrection? Would you help us to notice when it's happening in us or around us so that we can celebrate it? At the very least, say thank you. And at the very most, have a great time. Lord, we look forward to the ways that you will continue to show us That you have imputed your righteousness to us. And we look forward to the day when there's no question it was your righteousness. All along. And as you are lifted up, we will be lifted up with you. And we will be celebrating you, and you will be celebrating us. And it is a glorious picture. We pray all this in Christ's name.