So to use the southern language, it's Yol, walk in the manner worthy of God who calls you Yol together into his own kingdom and glory But humility is God given strength as born-again Christians and God's children. Persecution, not promotion. Maybe we want good food or intimacy. By becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Magnificent. Pretext or greed. ourselves because you had become very dear to us. Proclaim to you the gospel of God. Kingdom and glory. But Moses. And they become more and more humble, shaped by the gospel that they are sinners saved by God's grace alone. may not like you to follow Jesus. So their community is blessed and the lost keep coming to their church and they are drawn to the beauty of Christ. Bringing the gospel to the end of the earth. area of our life. and a crown of glory by Aslan, who is the picture of Christ. On the cross. We can reflect his goodness and glory in this broken world. to you was not in vain. You believers. And Moses' humility was what made him a great servant of God. Proud. Congregations and a blessing to the community. God. significantly changed their life. themselves in Jesus Christ, who has sacrificed Himself on the cross as their substitute, and in the Holy Spirit who dwells and guides their life. mean weak. humble and are bold in God. Because God has our hearts. We we say nice things to our bosses, our spouses or friends, and they may not see the reasons why we are being nice to them, but God knows. knows our hearts. Right. She cherishes them. Tower of refugee, my salvation, my everything. Night to bring the gospel and to plant churches. With God. This in verse ten A humble Christian is holy, righteous, and blameless in his or her conduct reproach that no one can accuse us of being wrong. Nothing should be excluded. To 100%. that we need to work on and devote entirely to God. This is in verse eleven and twelve. And what? Churches, through the works of Christians, through the works of the church members. In the new heaven and the new earth. So, in light of this calling, Paul exhorts, encourages, and charges us to walk in the manner worthy of God. and encourage one another to walk in the manner worthy of God means that we have to follow Jesus Christ's example. It is in Philippians chapter 2, verse 3 to 11. Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. Uh maybe you have seen this movie. And a crown of glory. of Christ. If you cannot find First Thessalonians it's right before Second Thessalonians. And the book of Numbers, chapter 12, verse 3 tells us that Moses was a very humble man, more than anyone on the face of the earth. And because of Moses' humility, God would let Moses speak with him closely. Seventy years old when he died, yet his eyes were not weak, nor his strength gone. Now these seven characteristics are woven to one another, so each one is connected to the others. Daily. Him and they study the Word of God, the Bible, consistently. gospel. Jesus will guide your life and help you to solve your life problems. love for us. And my Redeemer. And so attractive. Spirit, God will see that our conducts are holy, righteous, and blameless in His eyes. Uh uh perhaps our job, hobby, relationship with a particular person, how we use our time, money, or perhaps what we watch in the internet or T V You in all of us as a church, as his church, will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. His humility and together with him will be exalted and be given a great name and a crown of glory when he reaches To be humble, we can look at Him, fixing our eyes on Him, who is the author and perfecter of our faith. His glory so that when people see you, they see Christ in you. And I pray that God will give us wisdom and eyes to see where we can improve together as a church. four through six. And help casting the vision to the church members. Already here, but not yet completed. And glory. From whom we can learn about humility. They were a joyful congregation. This is verse 2. Christians. We like people to give praise or glory to us. And glory to God. Verse 12 tells us that Paul said we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charge you to walk in the manner worthy of God who calls you into where You will have a shining face. and community of Christ. New person and be transformed from within into his image. So we speak, not to please men, but to please God who tests our hearts. So this is not a humble behavior but a demonstration of pride. And this brings us to characteristic number three. A humble Christian is gentle and affectionate. And some of us can ask our mothers about their experience nursing us, how gentle and affectionate they were. And we can see in chapter 1 verse 3 where Paul praising them for their work of faith, ministry works, and their labor of love. In Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. And they care about the loss because they understand that they were once lost too. And is in his second coming he will complete the kingdom of God. But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother, taking care of our own children. And when he came down from the mountain, his face was shining because the glory of God was with him. The Thessalonian Christians learn from Paul and his mission team about these godly characteristics of humility. And this is what we call prosperity gospel, which is not a gospel at all. We need to love one another like a nursing mother loves her baby. And then to the end of the earth. That's not the biblical definitions, but in the Bible a saint is someone who is set apart for a holy purpose, set apart by God alone and for God alone. The just to the radiant southern sun, I give you Queen Susan the Gentle, and to the clear northern sky I give you King Peter the magnificent And the Greek word for the word power is dynamis, from which we get the word dynamite. May people see us, experience our love for them, and be drawn to your saving grace. Please stand for the reading of God's Word. Someone said that a proud man can learn humility, but he will be proud of it. So they immerse themselves in the awe and wonder of the triune God. But a certainty. But in humility count others more significant than yourself. Thank you for your love and grace for us. So come quickly, Lord, in your name we pray, Amen And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast We will not be humble if we say to others, Hey, I have a great humility. And and you will see that as a church we have developed these seven characteristics. The book of Revelation describes it as heaven on earth. We bear the spiritual glory of Christ on our face. God hates lying lips, but he loves all those who tell the truth and are honest In Psalm 19 verse 4, David said to God, Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rod. So a mark of a good church is that the church is on mission with God. A humble Christian is on mission with God. Characteristic number six a humble Christian is holy, righteous, and blameless in his or her conduct. We are holy people of God set apart for a holy purpose. And glory. So this means all of us, all born-again Christians as a covenant community of Christ, have been invited to God's kingdom and glory. Aslan said to the audience, To the glistening Eastern Sea I give you Queen Lucy the Valiant. As Paul said that God Himself, who has begun a good work in us, will bring it to completion at the day of Christ, when each of us will receive a new great name and a crown of They immerge themselves in the God who has created and continue to rule the universe and who has given, who has forgiven their sins in Christ. They live in the fullness of the gospel and they are bold in God. Paul explains to the Thessalonian Christian that his appeal to them does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. They will say that following Jesus will make us prosper. Um when some single guys say a nice thing to single girls, God knows they want to have a date with the girls. This is why he came. For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive, but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel There are seven characteristics of a humble Christian that we can learn from this passage. Being righteous means that we have right dealings with other people, and being blameless means that we are above Now where do we find in the Bible about Christ's example of humility? Being bold in God means we understand that as we live the gospel-centered life, God will empower us and will use us to draw peace. What does God's kingdom and glory mean? Once you are a king and a queen of Narnia, you are always a king and a queen of Narnia. So when a nursing mother taking care of her own children, she does it with much gentleness and affection. And our church needs to be a warm and caring place that many many people desperately need. And God will do this for us. He has given us the best example of humility from whom we can learn so that we can follow in his steps. Let's turn your Bible to First Thessalonians chapter two. If you have your Bible open, we're going to look at this text closely. God is witness. For you know how, like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charge you to walk in the manner worthy of God who calls you into his own children Biblical humility means boldness in God. Their homes are not warm. Rather like each of us should be. Jesus came, humbled himself, and was obedient to the point of death, so that if we believe and put our faith in Him alone, God will impute Jesus' righteousness and humility Jesus humbled himself and died for us, so that one day each of us may receive a new name, a great name. And in general we need to always speak the truth and be honest. It means that once you are a child of God, the King of heaven, you are always a child of God. But Paul was stressful when he wrote letters to other churches that he had planted. Some Christians may fall into temptation of being bold in themselves. So go and share the gospel to your friends and people around you, and you will see and taste the power of God working in you and through you. Characteristic number two a humble Christian speaks with honesty. So honesty in sharing the gospel is very important. So we cannot tell someone, become a Christian sin, everything in your life will be okay. God wants us to be holy, righteous, and blameless. Christians are literally called saints. Verse 4 tells us that Paul speaks not to please men but to please God who tests our hearts. This is the word of the Lord. People will come to this church and fill up the sanctuary. His own kingdom and glory. And because Moses had the glory of God, the book of Deuteronomy, chapter thirty-four, tells us that Moses was a hundred and twenty Adore Him every day for a good reason which is because we love Him who will love us first So warm, so loving, so gentle and affectionate. And as we develop humility, we will become a joyful congregation for the glory of Christ in our community and even beyond But we need to be obedient to the guidance of the Holy Spirit who sanctifies us. The Son of God left his heavenly glory and came to this broken world and became a human being. But empty himself by taking the form of a serpent, being born in the likeness of man, and being found in human form. And be exalted with him before all the angels. A humble Christian lives a gospel centered life and is bold in God. And unlike Jesus' humility, our humility is stained by our sins. If Jesus can humble Himself for us, we can humble ourselves for Him. But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict He knows the reasons why we say certain things. Everything in our life is for the glory of God alone. Maybe when we say nice things to our bosses to make them feel good, God knows that we are looking for a pay increase So we can learn from David to daily adore God in our prayers by telling him, God, you are my rock, my redeemer, my shepherd, my Paul said in 2 Timothy chapter 3 that all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be, not may be, persecuted We will be able to physically gaze as at His glory, and His glory will be upon us. Why? A humble Christian speaks to please God alone and not men. You are witnesses and God also how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward A humble Christian walks in a manner worthy of God. What does this mean? This calling is is a corporate calling. He came to us to redeem us from the penalty of our sins, so that we can be made into a new These are born-again Christians whose life have been changed by the gospel. So if we can say nice things to others, why don't we say nice things to our God and Savior? And they become a blessing to their community and the people around them. Surely that none of us is perfect. Number seven, a humble Christian walks in a manner worthy of God. Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ. Because the Thessalonian Christians were humble. The church shines the glory of God and becomes the like of God in their community and even beyond. Number three, a humble Christian speaks to please God alone and not man. You may be seated. So we need to tell the truth and be honest. Why? I restart again the movie The Chronicles of Narnia, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe He will hold me fast. Number four, a humble Christian is gentle and affectionate. The Thessalonian Church followed the example of Paul and the church was very much focused on mission In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said that, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses. This is not a maybe thing, but it's a certainty. So when church members live their life with humility, God blesses their life and their church become a joyful congregation We have we have a tendency to please people. This is what we will be when we are glorified by Christ, having been completely and perfectly sanctified. Help us to be humble and obedient to you. For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. Because God is the one who is doing it. And every time confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Yes, others Christians in the church will love you, but people in the world, including your family and friends, But remember Ephesians chapter 2, remind us for by grace you have been saved through faith. And the church members are on mission with God. Philippians chapter 2, verse 3 to 11, Paul says, Do nothing from selfish ambitions or concerns. And what people need today, perhaps even more than any other times, is that a caring place that marks a loving home Jesus humbled himself so that he can create a new people who will be united with him and be transformed into his image. Perhaps there are some areas of our life that we have not completely surrendered to God We may not have a shining face like Moses now, but we are the lights Number five, a humble Christian is on mission with It means that we keep a good reputation as a Christian and as a church in all our conducts. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestow on him the name that is above every name. This is in verse 9. Let us please God with all our words and let everything we say be Christ-centered and bring honor And this verse is referring to that future consummations of God's kingdom. That's a beautiful song. In the Old Testament we can learn from Moses So first this calling is for the church together as a covenant. When Jesus came to this world 2000 years ago, he brought in the kingdom of God. And when Jesus returns, he will complete his kingdom. So a good church is always on mission with God. We make mistakes all the time. So this is a good reminder of our Christian calling. The kingdom of God is here in the present time and its works are seen through the visible local For you yourself know, brothers, that our coming They will feel love by coming to this church. And Moses would go to the top of the mountain to speak with God. The church has mission programs, reaching out to the people in the neighborhood and participating in He wants us to shine his glory to the people around us. It is for us as a church. He became like us in order that we might become like him This is in verse three. The spiritual kingdom and the physical kingdom will be united, and we will be able to physically live with Christ. And when we develop one, we develop the others. Paul said to the Thessalonian Christians, We were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. And we are to be holy as God is holy. And and some of you really understand this because you have been a nursing mother As Christians, wherever you go, you bring the light of Christ and you reflect For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with app I'm very proud of my humility. You know we cannot be right-hearted and wrong-headed. Perhaps they rely on their intellectual knowledge or communication skills. So humble Christians are those who are bold in God. Christians will live well, will get better and better promotion in career and become richer and richer. At the end of the movie, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy, each of them was given a new name. Now what is the result of this? Paul said in Romans chapter 1 verse 16 that the gospel is the power of God for salvation. What is the difference between being bold in God and being bold in ourselves? And Lord Jesus, we look forward to your return and to be with you in the new heaven and the new earth. And their minds and their hearts are shaped and saturated by the gospel. You know, sometimes we like people to recognize how good we are. At the coronation, which is the picture of heaven with all the angels So we need to explain to the person, yes, following and trusting your life to Jesus will bring joy to your life And my wife and I use that song, it's one of the songs in our wedding. But there is always room for improvement, isn't it? And in contrast, Paul honestly told Christians that following Jesus will result in person. Because God said in Proverbs chapter twelve, verse twenty-two Let each one of you look not only to his own interest but also to the interest First Thessalonians chapter two, verse one to twelve. It's very easy to find. So being bold in God means trusting in God's power and sovereignty. And if everyone in this church is doing this, our church will be so warm. Now what is a saint? We must be holy, righteous, and blameless in all our conducts. Because like unlike other churches, the Thessalonian church gave They have regular prayers for missions. Philippians chapter 1, verse 6 tells us that God who has begun a good word in you And because Jesus humbled himself, God the Father has highly exalted him and bestowed So being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own So our pride is our weakness. And Jesus Christ has called us into his own kingdom. First Thessalonians chapter two verse one to twelve. We work night and day that we may not be a burden to any of you. They have truly repented from their sins and put their faith in Christ alone, trusting and surrendering their life to Our sanctification is somewhere between one percent There are many preachers who are being dishonest when they share the gospel. We like to say things in order to make people like us Now the word you here is plural. Transform us into the image of your Son. So let us walk in the manner worthy of God who has called us into his And when we look at the Thessalonian church, Paul was very happy when he wrote his letter to And these characteristics are demonstrated by Paul and his mission team. A humble Christian speaks with honesty. So the gospel is the dynamite of God, it is very powerful and can change people's hearts And they become a vibrant church impacting their community with the gospel. Humility is one of those things that we cannot really brag about having Characteristic number one: a humble Christian lives a gospel-centered life and is bold in God. And as we submit and try to be obedient to the Holy Spirit. Do you know what that means This is in verse 7 and 8. And they know how important it is to bring the gospel to their community, to their own Jerusalem So, likewise, as Christians, we need to be gentle and affectionate to one another You are a joint heir with Christ, and no one can Other than Jesus Christ, our Savior, there are several people And they immerse themselves in the all-powerful and all sufficient God The result is they live a gospel centered life. Of course we will make mistakes because we are not perfect like him. We see in verse 9 that Paul and his mission team work day and night. So God loved Moses because of his humility And they develop this in their life as a church together. People will be drawn to Christ and worship our God because Christian hope is not a I hope so type Jesus humbled himself and he was obedient to the point of death. Our sins have corrupted our entire being. The church has a mission team who regularly discuss about missions And because this calling is a corporate calling as a church, we are asked to help. Humility is the opposite of When we say a nice thing to our spouses, God knows why we say those things. So a last takeaway for us to think through in what areas of our life So in his first coming, he brought in or ushered in the kingdom of God. No other persons in the Bible have a shining face And it means that we are to devote all areas of our life to God. They are always on fire. A saint is a football player who plays in New Orleans, Louisiana, right? Humble Christians have a deep understanding of the gospel that has sickness. For some people their homes are not places where they are lost So as His people who has been redeemed by His blood God has called us into his own kingdom This is in verse We need to be both right-hearted and right-headed We speak the truth in order to please God and not man. God knows all the reasons why we say certain things. She lays them in her bosom, she hugs them in her arms We like to get the credit. Why don't we praise him every day for his grace and his Became like us. To the great Western wood I give you King Ed So then at the name of Jesus Christ And they immerse So the kingdom of God is This is a paradox. He humbled himself And Lord Jesus, help us to be your likes in this broken world. So like Moses Always get excited to do missions with God. Humble does not While we But when we fail