To two, one through twelve, chapter three, seven through eleven, and five, six through fourteen. So all right. The word of the Lord Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this ye rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And though you do not see him now, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith. the salvation of your souls. Concerning the salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. things into which angels long to look. Okay, second section. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander Like newborn infants, long for pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. As you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Ex section. Likewise husbands live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel. since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil, or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. Last section. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be dominion for ever and ever. Amen. By Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it. She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son. Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all of you who are in Christ. Please be seated. Thanks, Barney. Um how was John's song last week? Good? Great. I like him a lot. He's he's doing a great job too. I had a good time at City of Hope and then we got June and I got to have l lunch afterwards with a couple of the elders and their family, so that was great. We don't normally read that much. So that was a lot of standing. Thank you for standing. You get a prize. Um but since we're only doing two sermons in First Peter, wanted to cover some of it and it's good to hear the scripture. I think I've mentioned to you about my office in Oklahoma City. It was up on the third floor, sort of on a turret. And um During COVID, I have spent a lot of time in that office, which is not normal. And one of the things that happened a lot I never could figure out how it happened was there would be wasps up in there. One at a time, two at a time. They were all very sedated and sleepy. They were slow moving. They were never aggressive. I never saw a wasp nest anywhere on the property. So I would just sort of leave them alone to their slow death because there was no way they were ever going to find their way down the stairs. And I felt a lot like those wasps up there trapped Never knowing where I was going to get out. Who do you think my favorite New Testament person is? Besides Jesus, of course. Any guesses? Peter! Exactly right. Peter is by far my favorite character, person. Um someday we'll do a whole sermon series based on the life of Peter. But I always am glad to get to talk to him and and to get to read from the letters that he wrote. So let's just remind ourselves of this whole story. One day Peter and Andrew are fishing. That's what they do. Normal gots. Not looking for any trouble. Right? Maybe they're like scaling them. There's something going on. They're doing fisherman stuff. A dude walks up. They're minding their own business, right? He says, Hey, gotz, let's go fish for men. Now Peter has a lot of things that he says, right? He's very talkative. He speaks his mind. But I think there's some things got left out, like, what are you talking about, yo? Fish for men. That seems weird. But he says, okay, on the spot. Like no debating. This is a very influential person. uh people move. He gets stuff done. And it's has somewhat to do because they could sense this guy could get them out of the office with the wasps. Because they had been trapped in their own city, in their own country. Now, think of all the times that they had been conquered, Jerusalem, from the Assyrians, the Babylonians. The Persians, the Greeks, and now the Romans. Sometimes they've been dragged off and carted away, but they've gotten back, but they're now occupied by the Romans. Completely humiliated, trapped. And this guy says, I can set you free. And they think to themselves, maybe this is the Messiah we've been looking for. Wow. This is the rabbi we want. We need a leader. We need a king. This guy is completely powerful. I don't know what fishing for men means, but let's do it. So they go Follow him. They become his disciples, his followers. And they see a lot of crazy stuff, don't they? They see miracles that they cannot believe. The feeding of five thousand. Peter walks on water. Yo They see Moses and Elijah on the top of the mountain. They see people raised from the dead. Now they also hear really weird, baffling teachings. that they don't understand. And there's a lot of opposition to this guy. Not everybody likes him. So they see all that. And at the high moment, high moment. Jesus asks Peter, who do you think I am? And what does Peter say? You are the Christ, the Son of God, Messiah. And Jesus says, on that right there, I will build my church. Not on Peter as the Pope or anything like that. On confessions like this, I will build my church. This is how my church will grow. The gates of hell will not defeat it. This is the kingdom of God on earth. Israel is going to be restored to his glory. God's enemies are going to be defeated and crushed. There are plot twists along the way, Peter finds out. He's very loved by very questionable people. He doesn't play well with the establishment. He he talks in riddles Let's go back to he doesn't play at the establishment. If you want to change the world, maybe go to Rome or Egypt. Jerusalem, people really don't care about Jerusalem too much. That's why these disciples are going, he's for us. He could do so many things, but he wants to save Israel, to save Jerusalem. He talks in these widows, right? The stuff on the bottom's gonna go to the top, the stuff on the top's gonna go to the bottom, the first is last, the last is first, right is left, left is right Jesus also says he should be worshipped. He himself is God, not just a Messiah. He talks sometimes about suffering and death and pain. And the disciples have to be thinking like, you just said you're God. What's the deal with the suffering and death part? These don't go together. So I I tend to think they just sort of like left that out Uh didn't pay attention when they got together for a little team meeting, they're like, Well, you remember he said these three days and Jonah is like, yeah, just forget that. That's not what's gonna happen. They have their own idea. And so they arrive in Jerusalem as what? Heroes, victors Like this guy is the guy, but we're behind this guy. We're his entourage. We're coming with him. So we are famous People are saying, Hosanna, Hosanna, glory to God in the highest. And they're saying, Jesus, forget the haters, man. Look at you got you got these people. So the Thursday night of the Passover, Jesus hosts a dinner, a Passover dinner. And we know that his inner circle, his main three guys are Peter, James, and John. And so I you know, we're supposed to use our biblical imaginations. I imagine they're late to the dinner a little, um, because they're walking in talking about the beautiful Jewish women they had just talked to. They had just gotten cool tattoos, sons of thunder tattoos, you know. Uh and so they sit down well they come in, say, Hey Thaddeus, you know, other disciples, we can't remember your names, people And Jesus said, I'm going to wash your feet. So we need our feet washed, that's good, but no way you're not going to wash my feet, Jesus. That is so beneath you. Who says this? Peter. That doesn't work. They get their feet washed by Jesus. He's a servant to them. And he talks about his service to them and love and denial and betrayal. And Peter, what does he say? No way, not me. I got you. I will never betray you ever in a million years. It's not going to happen. And Jesus says. Eh just wait. Just wait. It doesn't stop him, doesn't say you better not do it So in short order, doesn't take long, does it? Judas betrays Jesus that very night. Peter, a fisherman, tries to fight. He's probably not that great with a sword. And he slices a guy's ear off. That's bad aim. I think he's probably going for a little more damage than that. And Jesus puts the ear back on, allows himself to be arrested They know he doesn't have to be arrested. So they're like, the wheels are turning. What's the plan? He may go into these uh courts and wipe everyone out. That's the plan. He's trying to get on the inside, right? They know how much power he has. He doesn't do it. That very night, Peter denies Jesus three times. As the cock crows, just like Jesus had said. This is Peter's darkest hour, the dark night of his soul, and Peter's emotional life crumbles. We sort of go on two different tracks at this point. Jesus and Peter. Except there's no Peter track. He just disappears. Jesus is arrested, tried, convicted. The Jews and the Romans actually agree on something that Jesus must die. He's paraded around, stripped, mocked, lashed, crown of thorns on his head, strapped to a crossbeam. Carries it. An actual guilty man, Barabbas, is let go He's walking around, a known criminal. Jesus is destroyed, humiliated, crucified at Gogotha, the place of the soul taken out to be An example of what happens to people that do stuff like this, who say stuff like this. Jesus suffered an excruciating pain on the cross. And suffered the wrath of God on that tree. He said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. He said, Why have you forsaken me? He said, I'm thirsty. He didn't say, Where's Peter? Which I think could have been a valid question. He breathed his last. They stabbed him in the heart to make sure they didn't break his legs. They took him down, they wrapped him up, they buried him, and where's Peter all this time? He he's a rat. He knows what he did. He's he's gone. I think they're uh go like Peter, come on. I know it's rough, but those girls are here. Hey Peter, we gotta go. We gotta walk around. You know, this is not how you handle depression. You gotta eat. Peter's like, get out of here. I am done I have failed. I am so ashamed of my whole life. Not to mention everything that I thought was going to happen I failed the most important person that in my life. And I even said like a dummy that I wouldn't do it Okay. Pause. Sin breaks relationships, right? We it's what we do, it's what we leave undone. If we break a commandment or any part of God's law, sin can be physical, verbal, mental, emotional, financial, sexual, anything really. It it's it's breaking the right rules and following the wrong rules. Sin. Idolatry counts as sin, putting anything above God, and that's a lot of stuff in our lives, no matter what we say. Idolatry can be we've talked about this a lot. Money, safety, significance, marriage, kids, status, freedom, democracy, environment, any of these can be idols. Sin can be big and huge huge topics. Sin can be granular, so small. Sin breaks our relationship with to God. It breaks our relationship with other people. It breaks our relationship even in ourselves, we rip ourselves apart. We break relationship to this earth, to this world. And the wages of sin is death. There are big final deaths, and there are little deaths along the way. Trust, friendship, reputation, kids, spouses. And Peter talks about this in this book. We've read some of it, but there's more. He talks about malice, deceit, envy, slander, rejection, stumbling, fiery trials, suffering, insults, murder, stealing, evildoing, shame, judgment There's uh even stuff about sins of omission, like not showing hospitality So this is what Peter talks about. All these things. But he also talks about, we talked about this two weeks ago. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable unto Undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary you've been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuine of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes that it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory. And honor the revelation of Jesus Christ. Amen. All of this is ours. All of this is ours. All of God's power, all of God's mercy. And Peter is reminding us, yes, you will have trials 100%. There will be tests by fire. Yes, we talked about this two weeks ago. There's a real devil seeking to devour you. Watch out. No joke. But there is joy and peace and grace and mercy And faith and salvation and the good news of the Holy Spirit because of the existence, incarnation, life, ministry, teaching, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Including his eventual return. Amen. That's our hope. That's our real hope. That's our salvation, our rescue. We are dead in our trespasses, but Jesus pays the debt. He doesn't just fix our guilt. Yes, he takes it, but he heals our shame. Peter's shame He gives us dignity and honor and restoration. He gives us his resurrection eventually. He gives us and places us into the family of God. He was a living stone who was rejected. But he was chosen by God, and that cornerstone is precious. And Peter brings it all together in telling us, you, me, the people he wrote to You are the chosen race. You are the royal priesthood. The holy nation. The elect people A royal priesthood? That is position and honor, isn't it? You were not God's people. Now you are his people. You once had no mercy. Now I have shown you great mercy. And we have to remember and rest in this. I think it's totally fine for us to cheer for USA, USA, USA. And remind ourselves our citizenship is in heaven. Peter calls us to obey the emperor, much more to worship and obey God. Peter calls us to be sober-minded, self-controlled, loving, generous, hospitable, forgiving, suffering, in a different way than the world, and as the royal peace priesthood to speak The Word of God and minister to people to represent Him. And we humble ourselves under His mighty hand. We cast our anxieties onto Him because He cares for us. We're watchful because there's evil around us. We resist that. But we expect it and we enter into suffering. Because we serve a God of grace who calls us to eternal glory, who restores, confirms, strengthens, and establishes us, his people. Okay, I'll tell you another Olympic story. I don't think you know this one. I'd be surprised if you do. There's a guy, so this is in the 70s. Shavarsh Karapetchyan. He was Armenian. Not Armenian, Armenian. So he taught himself to swim, and he won gold medals for the Soviet Union in the 1970s. He was 21 in 1974, and he was on a bus through a mountain passage And the driver got out of the bus to do something or fix something, and the bus went into drive and was about to drive over a cliff. And this guy, our guy Shavarsh, broke down the door between the driver and the passengers and saved everyone. Stopped the bus, he saved 30 people that did Two years later, in the winter, he and his brother are running on their regular running route through the mountains. And he his brother is also a swimmer. And he sees another trolley bus. You might want to stay away from these. Go into the water. Go into the water. Plunges in. 92 people on this bus. Most of them lost consciousness on impact. The bus sank 30 feet in the water. So our guy, Shavarj, starts diving in, swimming down. He has to break the glass. He makes 30 dives, bringing people up to give to his brother, goes down again, thirty times. 30 feet each time. He saved 20 people that day. He pulled out 37. Nine escaped on the own. The rest died. Shavarsh went unconscious on his 30th dive. He was in the hospital for 46 days. He had glass shards all over his body, pneumonia, inflammation of the lungs, blood poisoning, and trauma for sure, trauma. He finally got healed. He said, I want to compete one more time in the Olympics. Everyone thought he was insane. He is sort of insane. And he won the golden medal. Later, he won another medal from his country that was called For the Salvation of the Drowning. The salvation of the drowning. Somebody later on named an asteroid for him. That's pretty cool. Um the experts say this man Shabarsh was the only human alive on the planet that could have done this. And he gave his career and nearly his life to rescue people. Amen, Chabarsh. You're a good example of our Savior Jesus Christ. An imperfect one, of course. Every other one is. Changing gears a little bit. I think it's interesting how different people and their life experiences Have a different understanding of who God is a little bit than others. So if you're a father, you have a little bit, I'm not saying completely different, the love of a father for his son. Makes sense. Not that mothers can't do that. If you're adopted or have adopted a child, then you sort of understand what adoption means in a different way. You have a a lived experience with that, right? If if you're married, a married woman, then when you're the bride of Christ, I mean I can understand what that means somewhat, but maybe it's a little different. And I know we have church, people in this church. So I want to be sensitive, of course. But losing a child is a different experience. You know a little bit more about how God felt when his son died. Before I left Oklahoma City The last time my wood delivery guy came to deliver wood, his name's Mark. We didn't know each other. I just called Mark up. Hey, need wood. Okay, it'll be there. Leave the check. That was that was it. That was the extent of our relationship But this time, I don't know why, I don't know how in the world he would know I'm a pastor or nothing. There's no precipitating events of this He said, hey, can I tell you something while I got you on the phone? Okay, sure. Um I'm having a rough time. My son died four years ago. I'm upset, I'm mad at God, I can't go to church, I'm stuck. Do you know like why where is this coming from man? It's coming from his heart, right? He needs to talk to somebody right I'm just a guy who needs wood. So he said he said, but I want to tell you something's been shifting in me, maybe because of COVID, because I've been thinking about dying, and if I die, I will get to see him. Because Easter is real. Dude, man, you just preach me a sermon in two minutes. That's amazing. You are so right. That is the reason for the hope that you have Right? That's the reason for the hope that you have. We're going to get to be with Jesus and our loved ones in heaven forever? With everything fixed When Jesus was born, the angels said, Behold, fear not, this is good news. Great joy. Jesus was born in the city of David, a Savior, Christ the Lord. When John saw Jesus the first time, he said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Even a Roman soldier, see, this is God For the angels say at the tomb to the women, Behold, the Son of Man must be delivered in the hands of sinful men crucified, and on the third day arise. And Peter, the rock, the rooster, testifies to the same stuff. Behold, behold, if we can see Jesus. Even in our suffering and fiery trials, that gives us hope. And Jesus, when he saw Peter Deny him. Jesus says, Peter, I love you Your shame is taken away. I'll take it. I'm proud of you. Thankful for you. I like you. I'm not mad at you. I know you sacrificed everything for you. Happily, willingly, determinedly, painfully, but lovingly, Peter So Peter can write this out of a true place in his heart. Came out of that Jerusalem apartment. I you gotta imagine the first time you saw Jesus, it's like I don't know what I'm gonna get. How's this gonna go down? He's seen Jesus be mad at people, right? Jesus is not all lovey-dovey in any sense. I mean he's called people the devil. So he walks up. Loved, probably hugged and kissed, and commissioned to go out and tell the good news. Jesus is saying, I'm not calling people that don't do anything wrong. And you did a pretty wrong thing. Also you weren't around. But dude, I love you so much, Peter. That's our story, isn't it? Amen. Let's see