It's filled with a lot of backstories. Stories that we don't completely know or don't really read about but we just know they're there and we see sort of tops of them. It was besides the brokenness, it was deep tragedy. People who weren't there. People who wanted to be there. People who didn't want to be there. And the brokenness and the tragedy was a part of what Nehemiah looked at, heard about, and talked about. It was the We're going to read today the third chapter. If you've been reading ahead in the book of Nehemiah, you're probably asking yourself, what in the world does Pastor Carl mean reading this chapter? But it's the word of the Lord. And believe me, it has a lot of detail for us to learn. Let's stand as we read it. Nehemiah chapter three. The theme of this chapter is that God guides his people To work together on rebuilding their lives as well as the wall Then Eliashab the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests, and they built the sheepgate. They consecrated it and they set its doors. They consecrated it as far as the tower. And next to him the men of Jericho built. Next to them Zakhur, the son of Imre. The sons of Hasana built the fish gate, and they laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts and its bars. repaired. Next to them Meshelem the son of Berekiah and the son of Meshebel, he also repaired. And next to them Zadok, the son of Banah, repaired. Next to them the Tekkowites repaired. But their nobles would not stoop to serve the Lord. Jida, the son of Paseah, and Mesholim, the son of Mesoedah, repaired the gate of Yeshana And they laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars. And next to them repaired the Meltea the Gibeonite and Jadon the Maronathite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizbah, the seat of the governor of the province. Next to them Uzil, the son of Harhiah, the goldsmiths, they repaired, and next to him Hananiah, one of the perfumers repaired. And they restored Jerusalem as far as the broad wall. Next to them, Raphael the son of Kur, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, he repaired. And next to them Jediah, the son of Harumpha, repaired, opposite his house. And next to him Hatush, the son of Hashanibah, he also repaired. The son of Harim and Hashub the son of Payhath Mahab repaired another section and the Tower of the Ovens. And next to him Shalom the son of Halosha, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoa repaired the valley gate. They built it and set its doors, its bolts, its bars, and repaired a thousand Mokaijah, the son of Rahab, ruler of the district of Beth Hakar, repeated And Shalom the son of Okol Haz, the ruler of the district of Mizpah, the ruler of the Repaired the fountain gate. He rebuilt it and covered it and set its doors and its bars and its bars. And he built the wall of the pool of uh Shela of the s of the king's garden. After him, Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, ruler of half the district of Bethzor. repaired to a point opposite the tombs of David, as far as the artificial pool, as far as the house of the mighty men. After him the Levites repaired, and Rehum, the son of Boni, next to him Hashbaiah, the ruler of half the district of Kiliah, repaired for his district, and after him their brothers repaired, Bahavi, the son of Henad, the ruler of half the district of Kiliah Next to him, Ezra, the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section opposite to the ascent to the armory at the Batras. After him Baruch, the son of Zabai, repaired another section from the buttress to the door of the house of Eliasheb the high priest. And after him, Merrima, the son of Uriah, the son of Hakaz, repaired another section. It keeps going. He repaired a section from the door of the house of Eliasheb to the end of the house of Eliasheb, after him the priest. And after them Benjamin and Hashab repaired the opposite their house. After them Azariah the son of Masiah, son of Ananiah, repaired beside his own house. And after him Binwi, the son of Henadad, repaired another section from the house of Azariah to the buttress and to the corner. And the temple servants living in Ophel repaired to a point opposite the water gate on the east, and projecting tower. After him the Tekawites repaired another section opposite the great projecting tower as far as the wall of the And above the horse gate the priests repaired, each one opposite his own house. the keeper of the East Gate, he repaired, and after him Hanani the son of Shelmiah, and Hanan the sixth son of Zalaf, repaired another section, and after him Meshalom, the son of Barakai, repaired opposite his chamber. After him, Melchijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired as far as the house of the temple servant. And of the merchants opposite the Mustra gate, and to the upper chamber of the corner, and between the upper chamber of the corner and the sheep gate, the coldsmiths and the merchants. Prepared. It's the word of the Lord. That's good. Thanks. Father, we receive your word. Sometimes it falls on our ears strangely. Would you allow us to enter in to the fullness of what you've done in the midst of your people from generation to generation. And recognize that you alone can take tragic tragedy, brokenness, and build us into your people. Open our ears, Lord, that we might hear in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. At this point you may be thinking, I'm glad I didn't have to read all those names. Um I would have been happy for you to. And you may also indeed wonder why is this chapter in Scripture? I wondered that a lot myself until I read it a few times, and then I realized there's some incredible backstory in this particular chapter And I want you to think it and read it and believe it with me. Because God's at work guiding his people. And what he's doing in the midst of the brokenness, in the midst of the rubble, is to raise them up. As strange as all these names are to our ears, as hard as they are to pronounce, and I'll tell you it's particularly hard to pronounce it in as we read the English because I But our English letters sort of get all over the place. But I've been in parts of the world where I can't pronounce a single name. And uh I've had people in other parts of the world can't pronounce my name either. But I'm a real person and you're a real person and someday your name's going to be unpronounceable So it's not about the unpronounceability of the names. What it's about is that God uses individuals. And he uses us families, and he puts us together in his purposes So I want you to think through this, and we're going to walk through it. It's building with diversity. It's building with unity. It's building for others. It's building for your own household. It's building with family support. It's building without any support. Think about all these dimensions that are happening as indeed this building takes place. First was the diversity. Think about the diversity of gift and calling. The kids all chose a uh even a that they couldn't find their own calling, their own thing that they would like to do. Think about the diversity that went into this building team. It's pretty Amazing. The diversity of gifts. There were goldsmiths, there were perfumers. I really Uh Nehemiah actually asked perfumers and goldsmiths to take up a trowel and push the walls into existence Like. But Nehemiah, I don't do that. I don't like to do that kind of work. Yeah, I get that. I mean you you can sort of feel the dialogue and the conversations. Uh I have other things to do, I have to feed my family I have to figure out how we're gonna live. I don't have time to work on the wall. Priests. Oh, I I need to be doing my priestly duty. They were there. There was a diversity of gender. Well This isn't woman's work. So the daughter said, No, we'll be there. We'll carry the raw the the the rods, we'll carry the walls, we'll carry the rocks, we'll haul the whatever it is, we'll do it. God built through Nehemiah's call using every individual gift. And they were were diverse. It was a diversity of location. Look at verse two. The men of Jericho. Remember that the walls of Jericho went tumbling down. Nobody built those back up. But now Jerusalem, those walls went tumbling down, and the men of Jericho come and build it. They had to travel some distance. Just to build it. Look at verse five. The Tecowites repaired. Well, some of them did. The nobles wouldn't put their hands to it. So we're recognizing that God brings people from a distance. It's really no different. today. So God uses you. You're gathered here. There are some that worship with us online. There's some from grace that have gone to other Places that also have a place in the building of God's kingdom here. So part of what this does, part of what this chapter does Is it recalibrates our ability to understand how does God use people to build his kingdom? How does God use the diversity of people to build grace? Who are they? Where are they? We're a part of a presbytery. Why is it that we have to only think about people that sit in our pew? Why is it that God can't also say, hey, there are other gifts, there are other people who can contribute to the building of the wall in this place? So the first thing that we learned when we looked at this chapter is that God used incredible diversity. And in that diversity, there was a binding together. So there was unity in that diversity. Look at verse seven with me. Next to them repaired Meltih the Gibeonite and Jadon the Maronathite, men of Gibeon and Mizbah. They weren't Israelites. Not the way Israelites saw themselves. So, in a sense, God was taking people that didn't belong, that they wouldn't have thought belonged. In the New Testament, we look at that as the Jew and the Gentile. Those that are gathered, if you were to go through the land of Israel today, you'd recognize it's still there. the fighting has increased this week, has it not? Between the Palestinians and those that call themselves the Jews Why can't we build together? It happened in Scripture. Why doesn't it happen today? Well, because we divide ourselves. We don't have this Well, I'm this person, I'm that person. Oh, those people left. Oh, we stayed. And that was what was going on in Jerusalem. People had gone there, they had gone there, some had been dragged off, some have been pushed out, some have been just fled. And they began to look at each other and say, well. You don't belong. You don't belong. Well, who belongs? And when Nehemiah came, God used Nehemiah to draw people together and say, we have a single Task. Yes, we're broken, but we have a single task, and the single task is to rebuild the wall. So what we find in our communities today, and we are deeply divided, politically we're divided, uh we're divided uh even in our our philosophy of understanding each other. And so, you know, we we have this, you know, nationalism, we have ethnocentrism. uh Israel has Zionism. We uh everything's an ism. And and somehow we divide ourselves along all of these little isms What Nehemiah does, and God uses Nehemiah, is to say, no, we are the people of God. Let us rise and build. So the unity that we find here comes from the common activity. And that's the thread that goes through it. And if you had trouble and maybe a map would have helped, but I don't think it would have helped very much because you would think that uh in this third chapter we were sort of systematically going around the wall. This person built this and Then from here to here built this. But actually it's more like a ping pong ball. Did this one, over here we did this, over here we did this, over here we did this, over here Here we did that over the gates were done over here, and these gates were done over, and these gates were done over here. So there's this um uh you know sort of a sixty thousand foot picture of the building that was going on What was going on was the building of the wall. It was a unified purpose. It was a unified activity. It was a common outcome. And so there was this threading of it to say, well the the gates were built here. And remember the reason that they had to build the gates was to create a point of defense to draw the people together. Probably the part of Jerusalem that was being built was not the whole city. It was probably the city of David, what was known then as the city of David, sort of the center of center. And that's why people From far out would come. They could say, well, it's not really my business. Our common denominator today is our denominator in Christ Jesus. It's fundamentally not about bricks and mortar. It's not about the stuff that we worship. It's not about this room. It's not about this building. It's not about the sign in front of this building. It's about Christ Himself. And when we lose that sense that what God has called me to do is to build His kingdom. And Christ is walking with me. If I lose that, I have lost what God calls me to. And I have lost the sense of unity We build for others. That comes out of this again and again. We build for others. Those that came from afar, they came inside It wasn't opposite their house. That's not my problem, they might have said, but it was their problem. So, well, who lives in the gate? Nobody lives in the gate. But the gate was important for everybody. We do things as a congregation, not because they necessarily serve us, but because they're important for all of us. It's right there. It's always been there. We see it. We find others, some of these we're building for others households So they would build up next to this person who was living here. I'm going to build up to your house. Well, why don't you build it yourself? Because I'm serving you. You remember this year we began with a series Of one anothering. Here in Nehemiah, we have that one anothering. I'm going to build for you. What are some of the reasons why that might have happened? And that's what the book of Nehemiah doesn't tell us about. It doesn't tell us about the human tragedies. It doesn't tell us about the families that were broken. It doesn't tell us about the ones where there was nobody, where there had been death, where there had been sickness, where there had been disease, where there had been a deep falling away. It doesn't tell us about any of that. It just gives us names. I could go through this congregation and there are names I still don't know. And even if I can put a name with a face, I I don't begin to understand the depth of need of those names that are there. That doesn't change the need. It simply means I don't know the need. And so we're reading this in the third chapter. Of Nehemiah, and we have all these names, and all of those names had particular needs, and some of them knew others, and so they would build for each other. Next to their house. Philippians 2 tells us that we seek the interest of others first. And that was the way that the building happened. And that's the way God tells us we're going to build now. As we seek the interests of others, we seek our own interest first. The building doesn't happen. The body doesn't come together. The church doesn't grow. It doesn't it stands strong. And so God says, listen, consider the needs of others as more important. Than your own. And if we do that, then it means all needs are met. You look for my needs, I look for your needs, we look for each other's needs, and all of our needs are met. But we have to To ask the question, what is needed? What does that person need? How can I meet that need? And not ask the question. How is that person going to meet my need? So Scripture turns this whole thing upside down and says, and we go together to the need provider, and the need provider is Christ Himself. I ultimately can't be Jesus to you. And you can't be Jesus to me. We have one Lord and one Savior. And we draw each other to that place. We meet those needs. So God chose us the place on the wall. And He shows us the unoccupied place. We couldn't have quite done that. Imagine if I had if I had all these kids and said, well, which of these jobs are unimportant? There were some of them nobody wanted to do. Nobody wanted to be a firefighter. Um some wanted to squirt other people. Who wanted to squirt other people? other people. But not squirt the fire, right? So what happens in our world, in our church, when we decide I don't want to do that job There's a vacancy. There's an empty spot on the wall. But we need that spot. So part of this is God calling us to look at the empty places And move into those empty places. Did you feel that happening as we read the text? People were moving where there was need. People were moving where there was empty spot and building there. But they were also building for their own household. And we have that very clearly there as well. Well, uh sometimes next to their own house, and sometimes uh across from their house. So we had this deep sense that it was a household gathered together. And when that happens and you're building a city wall, you say, well maybe the weakest link in this is my household You ever thought about that? We wonder sometimes why the church isn't greater, why the church isn't stronger, why the church doesn't do more. Sometimes the weak link is our link. And we've got to ask the question, why is my link why is my link weak? What is it that needs to be changed in my in my link. What do I do differently? And that's what the people in Nehemiah's time did. They looked out for that spot that was failing. We're going to read Read later and learn later. Uh that when they were overwhelmed and they did become overwhelmed, and we become overwhelmed in the building of God's church. When they were overwhelmed, Nehemiah said, Sound the horn, we will all come, we will gather around you. So being overwhelmed is a part of the natural process. That we're seeing that. But the fact is, I can't afford to ignore my household. I have to build with others, and I have to build my family So that the Church of Jesus Christ is built. people of God. It's still God's glory that we're building. And who you are as a family, who you are as an individual is a truth. So there were some who built with their family support, and that's the that's the majority sense of this particular text. whole chapter. The people went it wasn't just individuals, but uh you know, again and again it was the family, the son of, the son of, the son of. And they built this part. And over here the son of and the son of and They say, well, where are all the women? Unless they be left out, the text also said, and the daughters. So Everybody was there. It was a place for everyone. They built with family support. Verses 24 and 27 speak of that. After him, Benui, the son of Of Hanadad repaired another section, from the house of Azurai to the buttress into the corner. And then we have the son of Uzziah repairing it the buttresses and and after him the Tekawites repaired another section of the wall. They came back and did a second section. Remember it was the Tekawites that didn't have support of their of their nobles They did two sections. It's an amazing account of people stepping up so the job could be done And when people step up, the job is done by God's grace. It's not that God simply says, Well listen, we have these phenomenal builders. No. We have perfumers. We have people from out of town. We have people without the support of their nobles. We have people from broken families. And God says, I will build my people. I will build my church. Jesus looked at Peter, denying Peter, bragging Peter, Peter who fell into the water because he couldn't trust Jesus, Peter And Jesus looks at Peter and he says, And upon you I will build my church. Wow, that's a pretty lousy foundation. Unbelief, weakness, brokenness. Well what Jesus was saying was Peter, your brokenness comes back to me. I will build my church on my forgiveness, on my empowerment, on my presence. Trust me. Walk with me. And that's all he's asking you to do. Trust him. Walk with him. Yes, you will feel and you have felt the heaviness, the burden, the disappointments. They're there. Trust. We can't change those brokennesses. We can't change the disappointments. We can't change the tragedies. Accept that we reach out to the presence of Christ and there we find him and he finds us. So whether we have support, whether we don't have support. We have the support of Christ. So the gates of our lives, church, or to let others in. The beings, they're not us. God doesn't put anything on us. The beams are the beams of the cross itself. The plan and the strength is not ours. We might have a vision. God may give you a vision. He may give to the pastor that you call a vision. And he may transmit that vision to you another That's my prayer. But ultimately it's God's vision, it's God's plan for this congregation that He says, I will build my church. So that you can build together, you can forgive together, you can teach together, you can learn together, you can rejoice together, you can defend together, you can win Walk together. So I simply want to ask you a simple question. Where are you on the wall of grace? Where are you? Uh are you ready to be a fireman? Or only to squirt people? It's a pretty serious question, isn't it, actually? Are you a perfumer? And you want to put the glory of the perfume round about? What is your faith promise commitment? That's a place in a wall. What's your place in the community around grace? What are you building? You might feel exhausted, ready to stand back. But the honor of grace, the honor of Christ Christ. The glory of God working in us is what God calls us to work together towards. So here it is. Supposing I reread this and put it in Carl's contemporary Version and said and the Appletons were working on this section of the wall. And the Daniela family was shutting the bolts in the bars and the beams of the gate. And the Drell family was over there working on another section. And the Haywoods were working on the priest section. And the Janey's and the Larsons and the Lane's. They were working on sections over there. And then there was Magna, and there was The priors and the rules and the worships. And I haven't mentioned everybody, have I? I left people out. You know why? I can't include everybody. And neither did the book of Nehemiah. But God built his church. And yes, there will be some that will say, I don't want to do it. And there will be times where you will say, I'm exhausted. I can't do anything else. And God will give you strength. And here's the real deal. You are living stones. Just like I told the kids, you're each a living stone. And the problem with living stones is that they walk off the job. But you know if you're just a deadstone, then all you have to be is scooped up. I think Gus had the right idea. You just get some sort of a you know But we're living stones. We walk into place. We set ourselves into place by the grace of Christ And we adhere towards each other because the love of Christ surrounds us and sticks us to one another. This is an incredible imagery. God has purposed to use you Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you that you love us enough to establish your honor and your glory in Our midst. And we confess to you that we feel the pain of tragedy. We feel the pain of loss. We feel the pain of exhaustion. We feel the pain of brokenness. And we come to This morning, simply asking that you would turn our eyes again to Jesus Christ That you would lay hold of us and allow us to lay hold of you. For you have called us all to particular tasks. A singular task is that we might labor together to build your church. It gives glory to you, it gives honor to you. Father, I want to thank you for each one that you have brought to this congregation. Thank you for those from afar. Thank you for those That are near. Would you stir up yet others that they might step in amongst us and build your church? Together with us. Thank you, Lord Jesus. In your name we pray. Amen.