Before I um read our text this morning, I want to say thank you. And as a congregation you uh have uh graciously given to Debbie and to myself uh wonderful Christmas gifts generously. Thank you. Thank you for your stretching and reaching to us. We we feel your love, we do. Uh and it's a uh it's a dear place uh to be next to the the hearts of God's people. Thank you. Nehemiah. We're going to read him again. And I want you to stand and uh listen to the next part of it. Uh it actually is the plan that Nehemiah gives for the next generation. It's this uh it's this chapter that uh really just kicks it off, chapter two And we're going to start at verse 9. Then I came to the governors of the province beyond the river and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent with me officers of the army and horsemen. But when Sanbalat the Haranite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard this, it displeased them greatly. that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people of Israel. So I went to Jerusalem and I was there three days, and I arose in the night, I and a few men with me. And I told no one what God had put into my heart to do for Jerusalem. There was no animal with me but the one which I rode. So I went out by night by the Falley Gate to the Dragon Spring and to the Dungate. And I inspected the valley gate or inspected the walls of Jerusalem that were broken down, and its gates that had been destroyed by fire. Then I went on to the fountain gate, to the king's pool, but there was no room for the animal that was under me to pass. Then I went up in the night by the valley and inspected the wall, and I turned back and entered the valley gate. And so I returned. And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing. I had not yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, and the rest who were to do the work. Then I said to them, You see the trouble we are in. How Jerusalem lies in ruins, with its gates burned. Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem that we might no longer suffer derision. And I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also of the words that the king had spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. And so they strengthened their hands for the good work. But when Sanbalhot the Haranite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant and Gashem the Arab heard, they jeered at us. And despised us and said, What is this thing that you're doing? Are you rebelling against the king? And I replied, And we his servants will arise and build a few years ago. But you have no portion or right or claim in Jerusalem. It's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we are your servants, your people. And we look around and we feel around and we sense that there is much in our lives. It's upside down. Spilled out. Broken down. We assemble before you this morning. Asking that you would take this your word, pour it into our hearts, enable us to see Jesus And rise and build. In Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated I don't know about you, but I often feel like my life is a little bit like the toy box we uh poured out this morning. You know, too many pieces that go back in. Uh and everything that you recognized and the kids started to recognize, uh, actually belong together, one inside of the other. They all get, you know, spread apart. But I'll tell you what, it's gonna be a challenge for a grandmother and a mother to put all that stuff back together in the right order. Because they all look alike. The two basket sets look alike. The two cups look alike. Uh they don't all fit inside, they're not interchangeable. How in the world are we gonna get all back together? And sometimes our lives feel that way. Like they're toy boxes. They're just all upside down all over the floor. And it may have been a long time since you've had to clean up a uh floor full of toys. Some of you it's not been so long. You're gonna go back to it. But it's our lives. And our lives are a lot harder to pick up than nested baskets. The stones and the rubble are harder. And yet the principles that are here in the Amaya have not just to do with plastic toys They have to do with the weighty things of our lives, and I want you to look at them and rejoice in them with me There are different parts of this chapter that this this section of this chapter that I want you to see I'm going to start by looking at the detractors because they're a significant part of this. As you read through it, you realize that these detractors are scattered both in the beginning and in the ending, or towards the ending, of the test. They were the ones that discouraged the people from building. And they were always there. And then I want you to focus with me on the destruction. The destruction was so profound that it was enough to discourage anybody and keep anybody from doing anything. And the result of that discouragement was a or that destruction was a dismay, it was a discouragement. Like, it's not possible. We can't get it back together again. So maybe we just need a bigger basket, right? Uh that'll surely solve it. No, it actually won't solve it. We can take it away, but it doesn't solve it. But the final point of this text is really the determination that is focused on what God does. That's where I want you to go with me. Let's look first at the detractors. Verses 9 and 10. I came to the governors of the province beyond the river. That's what it was known as. You know, the province beyond the river. So remember Nehemiah is leaving from uh the palace in Persia and he's going to the province beyond the river a long way away, and it was simply known as the province beyond And he came to the governors and he gave them the king's letters. So you remember he'd gone with the king's letters of for permission. So there was a lot that Nehemiah done, but he didn't really know what it was that he had to do. He knew that the people were in dis He knew that the people's lives were broken down. He knew the wall was broken down, but he didn't really know what it looked like. Had he been there? Yes. Could he have remembered it from his youth? Probably. Well, whatever it was that he remembered was not what it was going to be that he found. The king had sent me with officers of the army and horsemen, so it is a significant entourage that arrives in Jerusalem at the time. And uh you can imagine that if you were there, if you were one of the governors of the province, and you see this important person coming from the the king in in the center of Persia, that all of a sudden there is uh there's a a band, not a few, but there are horses, there are chariots, there are soldiers that are now coming. It almost feels like like a second Takeover. If nothing else, it was just a reminder: there is a king in Persia. And he came with that the blessing of the king. And so there were these people, these men, Sanbalad verse 10, the Horanite, and Tobiah the Ammonite, they heard and they watched him come. And it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the of the people of Israel. Notice that the detractors didn't belong to Jerusalem. They didn't belong to Israel. And so they were in some way profiting. They were profiting from the dismay of the lives of the people, the discouragement. There are always detractors in the kingdom of God. Always. And there are often people that sometimes lived, once lived, with the joys and the blessings of the kingdom of God These are people who lived in and around Jerusalem. And they felt somehow that they had a right to what it was that was there. But they did not want to see God's next generation. They did not want to see the rebuilding of the city. They didn't want to see people worshiping God again. They didn't want to see a new generation. They some of them seemed to walk with a king. And we will, as the book of Nehemiah unfolds, will see that. That some actually lived in the temple. Like there was, you know, God was to be worshipped. That was their home, their house. But secretly they were aligned With the outsiders. And so Tobias is mentioned again in chapter 13, verses 6 and 7. He was related to the priest. That's why he could live in the temple. Because the priest said, hey, I got a room for you. Come stay with me. He invited the enemy right into the center. Sometimes we fail to recognize who the detractors are. They are so much a part of us that we don't even understand what it is that they are. they will do. It might be an attitude, an attitude of entitlement. That's what we see in these three men. It's ours. It's our right. It's our right to govern. It's our right to live here. It's our right to choose. It's our right to tell you broken down people what to do. It might be a lack of vision. Somebody says, I'll listen. The kingdom of God. Forget it. Grace Church, forget it. Detractors can't see a vision because they can't see God. They can't understand what it is that God is about. Unfortunately, fundamentally, the opposition to God's next generation, God's new work, is a seed that lies in all of us It's unbelief. It's discouragement. It's a sense of God can't do this. It's a sense of I got all of the pieces together, but I can't get them back in the bag. It's hopeless. There is that seed that lies in all of us. And it is the seed of opposition. And it might have a face. But I want to suggest to you, it's not just the face of somebody who may discourage you. It's not even the face that you see in the mirror in the morning or at night. It's her heart. That's actually the detractor. And the detraction keeps the destruction from being built back. Look at verse 11. Nehemiah writes, I went to Jerusalem and I was there three days. And then I rose in the night. It took him three days to know the people's brokenness. Not that he didn't intellectually understand it. He did. He knew that. That's why he started the trip. But there was a sense of a visceral participation in the brokenness of God's people. He walked with them. He listened to them. He saw their brokenness. He he didn't know these people. So he came to know them. And he experienced that brokenness. For three days. I don't know if it strikes you or not that our Lord spent three days in the grave. Do you wonder why? I sometimes wonder why why three days? Wasn't one day enough? Wasn't death enough? Why stay for three days? Why not four? Why not six? Three days. The three days that Nehemiah spent in Jerusalem before he did anything. were sufficient to deeply understand the people. It was not fundamentally about the stones, it was about the people He was going to come to find out about the stones and the gates and the building and all of that. But he had first to understand the people, the heart. the soul. And he stayed there. And then verse 12 says, I arose in the night. Well it's a funny time to get up, isn't it? Why didn't it do it by day? It's a lot easier to see the rubble by day than it is by night. Maybe the moonlight somehow doesn't make it look as bad. Uh that's sometimes true, isn't it? Sort of this mysterious, romantic kind of thing. You don't see all the rubble, you don't see all the problems, you just see the stars and say, well I'll get around this little spot. I don't think it had to do with romance. I think it had to do with a a deep sense of he needed to bear the full weight of it. He needed to understand it fully. He had come to understand the people. Now he needed to understand it. the wall, that which was a barrier to people pulling things back together again. It was all spread out. And so he walks. The text says, I rose in the night and a few men with me. I told no one what my God had put into my heart to do for Jerusalem. To this point, Nehemiah arrives and he's simply seen as another detachment or attachment to the king. He arrives with his soldiers, he arrives on his horses, he arrives and says, I am your new governor. Whoopee So one day you're gonna have somebody new in this pulpit. And he'll arrive probably not with soldiers. He might come on a modern horse. And he'll say, I'm your new pastor. And you might do exactly that. Just sit there and look at him. Oh. So where are we going? What's gonna happen? And it'll probably take him more than three days to know you. But talk. Open your heart. Let him know what's I called right. Let him know the brokenness. Let him know how God has built you. Let him know what God has done in your life. That he might get to know you. Because this is about the next generation. It's not about you. Does that bother you? That I should say it's not about you? You are the means for God to reach the next generation. And Nehemiah comes and he says, this is not fundamentally about you, but the next generation isn't going to happen if not for you. And so he gets down and he walks around the wall and he sees the broken walls. He sees the stones. He sees the result of the fire. He sees the rubble. He sees the empty places where there is no longer a gate. And if you put it together, it's pretty clear that what Nehemiah understood. There had not been any maintenance that had happened. When the wall had fallen down, nobody put it back together again. No maintenance. It just stopped. It showed, in fact, an intentional destruction. The city walls around Jerusalem didn't just fall down. It wasn't that, you know, well they're too old, and so this brick fell off of that stone, and That's just what happened. It didn't. Somebody had dismantled the walls. Somebody had taken the gates out of their pockets and had burned them There had been an intentional destruction of the city. And in fact, some of the things had been hauled off. I was impressed again when we were in Italy a few months ago, seems like a year ago already, that the original Colosseum That was shining in all of its splendor with marble, actually was standing when we got there with no marble. It just had bricks. That's what it was mostly constructed of was bricks. And that's what you see. But as you go through Rome, you would see all kinds of incredible churches with amazing marble. Guess where the marble came from? It was taken off of one place and put into another place. Why should we go mine it in some distant part of Italy? One, we've got it down the street. And so they took it from one place to another place. They repurposed it. That's our modern technology and our modern uh terminology. So there had been this intentional carrying away of the various pieces. Probably some of them were in homes. uh where people were somehow living. Uh we don't really know what where all of that uh rubble was, but what we do know is that there was so much rubble, so much destruction, that even a donkey couldn't get through. And I have a reason to believe that few of you have ever ridden a donkey. But I tell you what, there's nothing that a donkey can't get over or around. They're amazing beasts. And his donkey couldn't support him. He had to get off and lead the animal. There was so much rubble, such big stones. On top of other big stones with little stones, just like the lives that he had seen in three days. Big problems. And big problems cause little problems. And the little problems cause another big problem to fall down. And so it is in our lives. And he looked at their lives and he saw that their lives were as broken down as the wall was. So that how in the world, if his animal couldn't get around the walls, was he going to somehow put the pieces of people's lives back together again In conflict, there is both internal and external conflict. We have family conflict, we have societal conflict, and we have in all of these conflicts the same elements that Nehemai was looking at the walls. We don't maintain our relationships, the walls. We don't maintain them. But it's more than that. We actually destroy The very things that ought to keep us together. That ought to keep our marriages together. That ought to keep our relationships together inside the church and outside the church. We actually destroy those things. Are we thinking about it? No, not usually. We just do it. And we remove the support structures. You know, the things that keep us in and keep us out and keep us comfortable and keep relationships flowing. We actually remove those. Things, so that the next generation is cut off. Philippians 2 tells us: have the mind of Christ in you. Consider others more important than yourself, their interests as more important than your interests. And if you're wondering how it is that we flip the script, that's how we do it. All we have to do is say, my interests are more important than your interests. And we have taken a building block of relationships and gone psh and we find something else. Well, I would rather this than that. We tear down the walls that ought to build us together. What's the result of that destruction? Well the result of the destruction was pretty clear for Nehemiah. The result of the destruction was dismay. Look at verses 17 and 18. I said to them, You see the trouble we are in. Nehemiah did not say, You're a mess. You guys really screwed up. He said, You see the trouble we are in. And he recognized himself in his people. He recognized, even though he didn't have Philippians 2, that he hadn't done Philippians 2. He had not sought the interest of others, really. This was the first time he'd come. And now he was recognizing: I don't begin to understand. Or what has caused so much dismay? The trouble we are in He said, You see the ruins around us. It's the rubble of our lives. Yes. Jerusalem lies in ruins. Its gates are burned. There's a shared sense of trouble, the shared sense of rubble, the shared sense of loss. We, he says, are in But the dismay, the dismay is here repentance And understand that that's all the difference in the world. We may be discouraged. In our lives, in our church, in our society, there's a lot of reasons to be discouraged. And that discouragement can just send us into an absolute pit of despair. But what happens when Nehemiah brings this to the people, brings it to the leaders, brings it to those who were going to do the building according to the text, and they didn't even know they were going to do the building? He brings it to them, and that dismay, that despair, is turned to repentance. We don't stop with feeling bad about the results. God calls us to change. When he calls us to change, we recognize that that change is only going to happen in our dependence upon And so he says, verse 18: I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also of the words that the king had spoken to me. We have a king of kings, and he speaks his words to us. And he says, be not dismayed But change. I give you this opportunity. Change. Do something new. Do something different. Rise and build. Do you hear it? Is God speaking in your life now? I pray that He is. This is the future. This is the next generation of grace. This is God's next step. And none of us know all of the steps in between. All we know is the step that's in front of us That's the only one God gives us the privilege to know. And that's when Nehemiah came and he he simply says that. He says, yes. God gave me a letter. He did, because he asked the king, and God moved in the king's heart. God gives me a letter. Look what God has done for us, for me. The leaders might have looked at it and said, well, that's a big deal, isn't it? Well, it was a big deal. Until the detractors came again. And we will read this. They started to move among the people. Ps, ps, ps, ps, Ps, ps, ps. No, it's not going to happen. No, you'll never make it. You'll never be successful. We will dart among you and make sure that there's bitterness, there's anger, there's distrust, there's unbelief. All the things that brought the destruction to start, well we'll we'll make sure it continues on. That was the role of the detractors. Nehemiah looked at his leaders and he said, Come, let us build. Turn your dismay. telling you this morning. Turn your dismay into kingdom building. You're going to make some choices. You've got to make some decisions. Some of them are financial decisions. That's why we have the faith promise. But it's not just the financial decisions. It's to look and to say, Lord, what do I have to offer? I've offered my children, but they're not here. They're God. I I offered my faithfulness, but I it doesn't seem like it was enough. Well, these broken pieces that I have to give back to God. God says, Come. Let us build. And out of the dismay there comes a determination. Look at it. Verse Verse 18. I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also of the words that the king had spoken to me, and they said, Let us rise and Build. So it was the blessing of God. It was the hope from the king. And as we continue to read on, it It says verse 19, but just after they said, We will rise, we will build, but when Sanbalhot the Haranite, Tobi the Ammonite servant, and Geshem the Arab heard about it, they jeered at us. And despised us. And said, What is this thing that you're doing? Are you rebelling against the king? They called us names. You bunch of idiots. Who do you think you are? That was the impact that it had on God's people. Just after Nehemiah said, listen, this is what God's done for us. Can you believe it? I want you to lay hold of it. Christ was mocked for us. He was mocked for you. There is no mockery that the people of God can hear or receive that Christ Jesus Himself has not already received. Look, he saved others. Why can't he save himself? Look, you people of God, you've reached out What happened? Does that pain bite inside of you? Bites inside of me. It's mockery. Was snuffed out. He died for us. That we might have life. He responded to the thief: today you will be with me. In death. In paradise. Which was it? It was another generation. In the garden, Jesus cried out to the Father, He said, Not my will! But Lord yours be done. And on the cross he cried out, Into your hands I commit my sin Spirit Christ for us. I cannot tell you rise and build as if any one of you Any more than myself are able to do what God calls us to do. I Cannot fill the seats in these views. I cannot give to you resources to put in the offering box. I cannot give to you an impact in this community. I cannot pull together the pieces of your home, of your life, of your marriage. I can't do it. But Christ can. And that's simply what He calls us to give ourselves back. So this week, next week we're going to be collecting our faith promise. Over the next two weeks, if you haven't already put it in, we're going to be moving towards that particular conclusion. But ask yourself some questions. How will you build? When will you build? Who will you seek to build with? Who will you invite? Who will you in your community and your relationships encourage? Who will you serve? How will you serve them? You see, Nehemiah is standing with the leaders. In the midst of a broken down wall, in the midst of destroyed families and homes and lives. And he simply says, Come, let's build. You know what's gonna happen. And we're gonna get to that next week. But the plan is simply put before the people. And the plan was rise, make the choice, rise and build. You make the choice today, you make the choice next week, you're going to make the choice over the next week. By God's grace there's going to be uh some opportunity at some point in time, I don't know when that is, to decide on it on a on a possible new pastor. All that's gonna happen. And you're going to make choices along the way. But the fundamental choice is: Lord, I want to rise and build for the next generation. Some of us have white hair and we've lived some years. Not everybody. Some of us don't have here. It doesn't matter. We are all building for the next generation. Each in our own Way. Yes, with the stones of our lives. Yes, but the detractors of our lives. Yes, with the dismay sometimes in our hearts. But because you have stones, because you have doubt, because you have discouragement, because you have dismay, doesn't mean God doesn't use you. It means you turn your eyes to Jesus and say, Lord Jesus, I am yours. Use me. Father, gather us now as your people. Remind us that we are yours. That the gracious hand of God Almighty, of your hand, Father, the gracious presence of the Lord Jesus has been given to us. And we may not know where we're going. We may not have a clue how to take these pieces of our lives, put them back together again. They're scattered. We can't get them back into the bag. Lord, we need you. We need you. But our children need you. The next generation needs you. Our community needs you. Father, stir our hearts when we trust you and rise And build in Jesus' name. Amen.