Good morning. Are you a bit warm this morning? Feels like the AC is not working, so I I beg that you stay awake as I labor up here and sweat. Uh please don't fall asleep. We are well we have come to the end of our studying the book of James. This is the very last few verses of the book of James. It's been a a wonderful journey of about ten sermons and And the Lord has been so gracious to us as we preach through this, and I hope you've been encouraged. So this morning we're reading the last few verses in chapter five. And uh last week we we talked about patience as James uh writes in chapter five verse seven through twelve and I read verses twelve but I did not make any reference to it. And if you recall I mentioned we're gonna come back to it This morning. So that's where we'll begin. We'll read from we'll go back to verses 12. If you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's Holy Word as we read from James chapter 5, verses 12 to the end. But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise the He will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering Will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you knowing that you know us well, better than we know ourselves. You know what each one of us needs this morning, and you're more than able to meet all of our needs and meet us at our point of need. And so as we consider your word, I do ask that you would help us this morning to not only understand it. But to truly hear it, to believe it, and to be transformed by it. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. So far as I mentioned as we come to the end of this this short epistle of James, James has said a whole lot. He's said a lot of things that we've considered. told us not to waste our lives. He's told us not to uh not to be impatient with one another. He's told us to to wait upon the Lord because he's coming back. He's told us So many things that we can consider in our lives. And I think so often we we can come to the book of James and and ask the question, even as we're coming to the end of our study, and say, well, James seems to be asking us to do the impossible, right? I mean I don't know if you felt that, but I've felt that as I prepare sermons in this in this letter. Every time I I go to the to this letter and and James is telling me to do these things to be this kind of a Christian And at the end of it, I realize how often I fail to meet the standards that James seems to be setting. And so we can make the argument and say, well, maybe James is asking us to do the impossible Is James asking us to do that which he did not even do? Because this is hard. To be this kind of a Christian is a is a difficult thing But it's so amazing as James ends his letter, not with the trials that we saw in the very beginning of chapter 1. But he ends his letter by calling Christians, by calling us as people of God to be a prayerful people. Now, the reason I mention that is because if we're ever tempted to think that James was asking us through the impossible, or that James was not doing that which he was really doing, we are wrong. Eusebius, the great church historian, once wrote about James. He said, James was the one man that was allowed to enter the holy of places. James was a man who wore not woolen garments but linen garments. And it is so that every time the Jains would enter into the holy places or frequently people would find him in the in the temple praying Praying for the forgiveness of people that were not walking with the Lord. And he would pray so much on his knees, such that his knees became like those of a camel. If you know the camel, it has hard, callous, bruised knees. Because that's how a camel goes down on its knees. And people would make the comment that James was praying so hard in worship of God, bending his knees before God and crying out to God every single day, asking for forgiveness. For people, you see, James is a man who walks the talk on his knees And so as we consider this passage this morning in chapter five begin by warning against the rich and then he talks about patience and that we saw that a couple last week That James was encouraging or is encouraging the church to wait patiently for the Lord because he is coming. And so the question I want to pose for us this morning is this. How then do we wait patiently for the Lord? Before he comes. If we're going to be a healthy church, if we're going to be a healthy people of God, Spiritually, emotionally, physically. I want to say that James is actually telling us a healthy church is a praying church. That if we want to be healthy, we have no other choice but to pray, to be a prayerful people. And I think in this verses, James tells us when to pray, how to pray, and why we ought to pray. Simple, right? So begins in verses twelve. Again, James is telling us actually verse 13 before I go back to twelve, um that we're called to pray at all times, and as was we've been singing this morning in good times and bad times God is calling us to pray But as I mentioned, verse twelve seems to connect either with the language of being patient in the Lord or in the language of prayer. Including remarks for for James, and it just seems to be a verse that's just right there out in the middle of nowhere, and we really don't know where to place it. As James is encouraging people not to take oaths again. James is prohibiting invoking God's name in vain or make or invoking God's name to guarantee that the reliability of what a person said So that when you speak the truth, you want to invoke God's name to make sure that people know that you're speaking the truth. Again, James is here not forbidding the taking of oaths in a in a court of law or anything like that. But he's he's saying, let your truthfulness be consistent. A simple yes, let it be yes, and a simple no, let it be a no. And so I really do think that that does connect in terms of being patient with one another and speaking the truth to one another, but also in terms of encouraging us to make sure that we we we say what we ought to say and and say uh the the truth that God has given to us, but to practice a devotion with our lips, even in our prayers, and not to be en engaged in things like gossip and and and all of that. And that that's how I think that verse kind of connects in terms of prayer. So he says, let us practice a devotion to the truth with our lips. Because the truth dwells in us. So instead of taking oaths, instead of trying to guarantee your truthfulness, how about you try praying? And then he points to specific in verses thirteen instances where we ought to pray. And the first one that he gives to us, he says, Is anyone suffering? Among you suffering, and he says, And you ought to pray. Do you notice that James is now basically telling us, if you're suffering, pray that your suffering may end. He simply says, if you're going through a difficult time, if you're going through a hard time, pray. Again, going back to chapter one where James is talking about trials and the and that trials are part of the Christian life, that we will endure suffering and and all kinds of trials in our lives. And there, James was encouraging us to persevere in our trials because there's a purpose to our trials, because God is maturing us, God is completing us. And here he's saying, Is anyone among you suffering? Pray. Pray for what? And I do think that James is pointing us to two things. One, we pray that our trials may end. Certainly, yes. God does want to Bring us relief as his people, right? He wants to end the trials that we endure. But I think James is also encouraging us to pray that we may endure with the spirit of perseverance or with the godly spirit. And we pray, God, not just to take away your pain, but we also pray for His will. If it's not your will that you will take my pain away, then help me to endure my trials with a godly spirit. But then our problem is when we face difficulties, who is the first person that we call? What's the first thing you do when you know you're going through a hard time? You look for a fixer, right? How can I fix this problem? Who can I call right now that can help me? What's the solution to this? You know, how much money can I make? We we we come up with our human solutions before we get down on our knees and ask the Lord for help. Notice how James is here combining In verse 13, combining both the prayers of when we struggle and suffer with the prayers of thanksgiving. He says, Is anyone cheerful? Is anyone happy? By the way, that that language of being cheerful or uh uh uh or being uh jubilant is really not a language that that would make us think that there is no trial, it's an absence of trials You can still be cheerful and going through a hard time. But that's only possible when the Lord has enabled you to do that And so he says, Is any one of you cheerful? If you are cheerful, he says, then it's about time you start singing songs of praise to God and giving thanks to him Because the reality is our trials can lead us to a place where we neglect or rebel against God because we feel like our struggle is so hard and so difficult, and God is taking so long to take it away from us. But during times of cheerfulness or jubilation, we can also be tempted to become complacent and lazy because we are going through a good time. I like what one pastor puts it. He says, there is no time in which God does not invite us to himself. We have a God of all seasons. A God who says, I am enough for you when you're going through a hard time. And He also says, I am enough for you when you're going through a horrible time. A God who says, You got to call on me when things are hard because I can help you. But you got to call on me when you're happy because I'm the one who's brought you to this place of joy and happiness. And then secondly he says we don't we don't only call on the name of the Lord in prayer when we're suffering, but we also call on him when we're sick. Now the language of being sick here sometimes is used to describe someone who's going through an emotional, mental, whatever, but I think the language here is really just Someone who is physically ill, someone who is really in need um of prayer. And he says in times when you are weakened by sickness, call upon your elders and let them come and uh pray for you and anoint you with oil. James is giving us a divine prescription for when we're sick and it is this. What is it? You can say it. It's called prayer. But those who are sick call your elders. Again, because elders are the spiritually mature men who are guided by the Spirit of God and they are called to protect and to care and to shepherd the flock. Now I wish we had about two hours to talk about this because this is a huge passage for us to consider. But notice who is calling the elders to pray? Notice it's not the elders that go to the person to pray. It's not the elders that go to the person to pray for that person. It's the sick person that calls on the elders to pray. And then And verse fifteen is kinda interesting because The English may may be a little confusing or not that clear, but actually the Greek is it's the faith of the eldest That is in question here. In terms of it is the elders that are called to be faithful, or rather to pray, and their faith will help heal the sick person. Elders, are you here? Pressure, right? I mean, God is putting so much responsibility and obligation on the elders to be the ones who actually it is your faith as you pray for this person That will bring healing. Elders, are you here? Um, Notice how while James is encouraging all Christians to pray. He puts this weight on elders. He's attaching the ministry of healing to prayer. An anointing to the local church leaders. What great privilege God has given to his church. That also means not just anybody can become an elder. That means elders must be spiritual men. Men that are walking with the Lord daily, that they are attuned or they're in tune with the Holy Spirit. They're listening to what the Holy Spirit is speaking to them every single day as they shepherd the flock. Elders, are you here? But they're not just to pray for the sick person, but also anoint them with oil. Again A whole lot that we can talk about and so much debate. Is there oil, you know, healing someone? Is it does it have some medicinal purposes or something People used to think that it you know, does it have some sacramental um ideas there as the the Lord's Supper kind of does? Absolutely no. Some people like to think that way, but I think the the the oil here is symbolic It is used in the Old Testament for consecrating, you know, kings were anointed in order to become kings that were set apart for God. And so the oil here is basically saying the elders as they apply that oil in the name of the Lord that they're setting apart this person. For God's special care and attention, whether that's for healing, whether that's for that person to endure their suffering. That's what the oil is being used here for. We're supposed to bring comfort and strength for those that are sick. There is no magic there I have oil in my office that I use when we pray for people. There is no magic in that. It's symbolic. It is God doing his work. work. And so the other question that we may ask when we get sick, since we when we get sick we're called to uh to call our elders. Then when do we call the elders? When you get sick, should you go to the hospital then? Or just call upon call upon your elders? If you're doing some work at home with your hammer and you hit your finger and boom, call the eldest. No. We're called to exercise wisdom as we do so. You can go to the hospital to get your finger fixed, as I did. But we need to understand that God is able to use any being that that's available to him to bring healing to his people, including medicine, including the hospital. But there is nothing in this world that is called non-spiritual healing. All healing is spiritual. That aspirin only works because God said so. So when you go to the hospital, you're not called to trust your doctor or the medicine. It can fail any moment Your trust must always remain in God and God alone who can heal. So how do we pray? I want to suggest that a praying church prays in the name of the Lord and by Faith. There is no any other way. But James is telling us that real healing does happen when when elders are called and the prayer of a faith will save the one who is sick, verse 15, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Real physical healing does happen when we pray. Okay? And God is able to raise them from sickness. But more important than The elders coming to you and anointing you with oil again is prayer. Now Then the question becomes, is James saying that if we have faith, if you really believe it, if you really have faith, you will definitely be healed. What happens when we pray for healing and it doesn't happen? We have no faith. The elders have no faith. Is it the fault of the eldest when they come to you, anoint you with oil, and pray for you and you're not healed? I want to suggest that James is not making any of those comments here. It would have been so easy if James said, When you are sick, call upon the elders and the prayer of faith which you know which Which is offered will save you or bring healing to you if the Lord wills. That would have made a whole lot more sense. If that was the Lord's will, oh yes, you'll be fine. But he simply says you will be healed. But I think what James is pointing us to here is understanding the sovereign will of God. That when we pray, we are trusting in the will of God, if it is His will, that God will heal that person. I mean sometimes God does help us to understand that God is really calling us to pray for someone and God is really going to heal this person. Sometimes that does happen, but it's rare that that happens. God's will for us is not always to be healed. Sometimes God wants to allow that trial to continue in our lives. I mean, think about Paul. A man who endured so much suffering in his whole life, shipwrecked and sick and beaten, left for death. And yet Paul had a thorn in the flesh, and he cried out to God and said, Lord, please remove this thorn in my flesh. And three times. He said, Absolutely no, because my grace is sufficient for you. When you are weak. And so we must exercise our faith in light of God's will, because God's will will always be supreme, regardless of what we need. And sometimes God says no. So prayer of faith means having faith in the sovereign God who does according to his will. He can heal anytime, at any moment he wishes. But a prayer of faith is really a spirit k that a spirit given conviction that the Lord will indeed do something. And it doesn't mean that when we come before the Lord we have to pray and say, Lord, just help me And then we say, I believe, I believe a million times, and then it happens. No, it's not something that we can conjure up. It's a gift from God. Faith is a gift from God. We can't make it, we can't create it But I also think as as much as we we say that we we we have to submit o ourselves to the will of God and And make sure that as we pray, we're really seeking the Lord's will in everything that we pray. I think sometimes we're actually so afraid of coming to the Lord in prayer and asking for stuff Sometimes we make the assumption, well I'm gonna I'm not gonna pray because well God is gonna do his will anyways, right? And that's wrong. And I think we miss out on so much power that is in prayer When we neglect prayer because we're just assuming that well, I don't know if things if this is according to the will of God. Well, why don't you pray and find out I also think that sometimes pride stands in our way. And by pride I mean we doubt if prayer is really gonna work. Secondly, I want to suggest that a praying church is united in its friend confession. Look at verse sixteen. It says, therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another. Because both prayer and confession have a broad application in the health, the spiritual health of the church. But notice the confession that James is talking is a mutual confession. It's not going to a priest to confess your sins. It's not going to to to someone to a to uh to you to your elders or to uh to someone who who is a spiritual elite to confess your sins to them It is confessing your sins, it is uh a mutual confession, but a Bible confessing our sins to God because it is whom we have sinned against. No man can forgive sins other than God. Bonhoeffer talks about why we need to confess our sins together. And if you remember uh Bonhoeffer the Christian in Nazi Germany And he says, sin seeks to isolate us. Sin wants to isolate each one of us and just put us in a corner where we are on our own. And he says, by confessing sins to one another, we are actually guarding ourselves against the powers of sin because it brings this healthy humiliation, as he calls it. You know that that sin when you confess sins with one another, it it strips us off of the sin's power when we share our sin with one another. Sin loses its power because we have come together as a people of God, confessing all of our sins together, and it promotes this the spirit of poverty, so to speak. Right? That's the right heart that God requires, a contrite heart, which is acceptable to God. But that it also enhances mutual prayer, sharing in one another's burdens. That's how you get to know people's needs as we pray for one another. Not to mention accountability that happens when people pray together, when the church prays together. And yes. Yes, there are abuses that can happen when there is that kind of confession. Some people take advantage of it, right? We start confessing of sins as if we're we were outdoing one another To show who's got the worst stuff that's going on in their life. And yes, sometimes we can excuse our behavior because we're just saying, oh, I did this and I did that, but you know, I'm still working hard, I'm still trying. It becomes a religious routine. I want to suggest that because there are people who can abuse this idea of mutual confession, does not mean that we ought not to confess our sins to one another. And maybe I should say a word there. We confess personally to God when we have committed secret sins. To God, because that's against him that we've sinned. But we also confess privately to one another. If you've sinned against someone, you go to them directly and confess your sins to them. Whether it's a group of people, you personally go to them, not to everybody. And then we confess publicly for those sins that we've publicly committed. Okay? So three things we've got to keep that in mind. There are sins that nobody needs to know about. And there are things that not everybody needs to know about, only the people that you've offended. Matthew 18. Again, we're encouraged to do so because God does desire to bring about the health of his people In a broader sense, and I think this is what happens when you confess our sins to one another, emotionally, spiritually, and and and otherwise. And so confessing sins to one another, I think, I believe, is one of the most com important components of the church. That if we want to be a healthy church, we must be a praying church that confesses sins to one another. Because it's going to help us to stand strong together in difficult times. We're able to withstand the devil's attacks, not to mention fighting sins of the tongue that can destroy our unity. It's when we pray together that walls of hostility and disunity and selfishness are broken that we become one body, serving one Christ and one purpose, which is the spread of the gospel. And again, the power of prayer is invested not in an individual, not in one person, not in a strong spiritual person, but in all of us, even the humblest of believers. That a confessing and praying church is packed with spiritual power. And sometimes we miss out on that. And that's why we pray. Because there is power in prayer, and because prayer is effective. That's verses fifteen to nineteen to eighteen That our praying church will experience the the results of what get of what God can do. I already mentioned it. I I uh you know we talked about healing and forgiveness that that happens. Again, we we pray for for true healing to happen, which God is able to bring. But again we ask it in the name of the Lord. We submit to the will of God that He is able to do it. But we also submit to His will when He says no, when He says wait This doesn't mean that we don't pray. It means we actually pray even more. But that there's real power. You know, prayer can seem to be so simple, right? Just Sitting in your room or kneeling down or driving your car or whatever it however you practice prayer, it can be it can seem so simple that we actually don't believe that prayer has power to do anything. Because it's just, I'm just telling the Lord, this is my need, or Lord, I need this, or God help me with this. It can seem so simple that we don't believe that there's foul in prayer. Another thing that happens when we pray is that there's forgiveness. It's interesting that James talks about healing and forgiveness At the same time in one line. And I think it makes sense because sometimes, as even Paul mentions this, is sometimes we suffer and we're sick because of our sin Not to say that James is saying all of our sins are because of or all of our troubles, all of our sicknesses are because of our sins. Sometimes God is testing us, but other times it's because we've sinned. So James is saying, when we pray, When we've sinned and committed sins before God, that He is also able to forgive us I think it's just a complete take that James is showing us of how we need to be right with God. Not just physically, that God wants us to be right physically, to be healed, but also to be right with Him. In terms of our sins, that nothing stands in our way. And then he points us to an example to show us that a praying church will experience the effectiveness of prayer. There is power when we pray. And the example that he gives to us is the example of one man that we know so well, the example of James. Uh I mean James is such a great giant of faith, right? I mean, you think about the miracles that James did. Think about all the the amazing things that James did, fighting and killing, you know, uh idols, you know, with Jezebel and just Amazing things that he was able to do. In fact, the Old Testament tells us that Elijah was one of this men that prepared the messianic age to come. And yet James does not focus on all these great things that James that Elijah did. What does he focus on? James points us to just one aspect Of Elijah, which is, she says, Elijah was a man just like you. Of all the achievements that Elijah had, James just wants us to understand that Elijah was a man just like you, and he prayed passionately, earnestly, fervently. And God delivered. James wants us to know that every believer has access to the kind of effective effectiveness that Elijah had. Men who prayed that it wouldn't rain. 1 Kings chapter 17, all the way to 18, tells us the wonderful story there. You know, James is telling us that we don't need to attain a sinless perfection in order to pray. Yes, we pursue righteousness. But get on your knees and pray. God desires to answer all of our prayers indeed who come to Him. But God wants to come to Him with passion, not some manufactured or frantic passion, but a genuine appeal. To the Lord to pray to him. It is Jacob, right? Wrestling with an angel. It is Hannah praying out and crying out to God until Eli thought that she was drunk. God wants us to come to Him with all personality. Sometimes I think we we have a hard time coming to God because we think, I I I can't pray with the passion of Mark I can't pray with the language of so-and-so because they're so eloquent. So I'm not going to come and pray. I don't know how to pray. And yet the way to come to God is to communicate to Him Open your mouth and speak to him, cry to him, appeal to him in prayer And then finally in verses 19 through 20, there's so much in there, but we can only make a mention of it. The James, the duo, wants us not only to focus on our sins and to pray about our relationship, but also the sins of others. That if we are praying church, a church that is filled with love for God and love for one another, we will not only pray for each other but also seek to draw one another to Christ. We will when we see one of our brothers or sisters going astray, we will Cry out to God and seek to encourage them, to admonish them, gently, to rebuke them, to correct them, so that we may not lose them James wants to see our faith in action, to encourage us to be a church that prays, but also a church that exercises Faith by seeking to draw those who may be lost. Again, as I said, there's so much that we can say about that. We don't have to be perfect We don't have to be perfect saints. We don't have to be eloquent. Actually, my encouragement to you is if you don't think that you know how to pray, go to the Psalms. Begin from chapter one and pray the Psalms. See friends Prayer is to the Christian life, what breath is to life. And yet, prayer is one of the most neglected parts Of the Christian life. We do not pray. I am guilty of that. We do not pray as we ought to pray. And yet James is telling us if we really want to be healthy, we've got to pray. Prayer is so unnatural to us when it's supposed to be natural. But the problem we know is because of our fallenness. that the fall, the effects of the fall have left us at a really bad place. A place of complacency. A place of laziness. A place of neglect. A place where we just don't want to talk to God. And so we need help. We gotta ask the Lord to help us so that our life will always be a life of prayer. And even when we do not know how to pray, or even when we do not know what to pray for, here's the great comfort that God gives to us. says or memory verse reminded us in Romans chapter 8 verse 26. Even when we do not know what to pray for We have one who intercedes for us before our Heavenly Father with groanings that our words cannot even express. Thanks be to God. That he has provided the Holy Spirit to not only convict us and pro us to pray, but he also prays for us when we are weak. So let us be like James. Let our knees be calloused and tired and bruised because of how many times we go on our knees. To pray. Father, we thank you this morning. Thank you that you're calling us to be a praying church. And though we know that it is hard for us to do so, we do ask that you would help us, strengthen us, convict us And allow us to be a praying church so that we may be healthy, so that we may wait upon you until you return. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.