It's the word that the translators are trying to tell you that underneath here is the one and only God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Jesus. And uh if you're growing a family, they can wear you down in a hurry. She can understand that it's hard, but this is my household, and you know what? Uh it it's difficult. Uh even uh young people here and and dads are who are sub doing our orphanage support and all the needs in Liberia. Uh some people choose to uh you know like accent uh positive and deaccent the negative however you do that on your face or wherever But if you're smiling, hey, you know, you're looking good. But uh he might know what it means. When you understand there's a real God and and you're like under his care and he created you, sustains you, and uh you'll have to give an account to him uh reverences uh the Lord. I think it's V um that talks about, you know, just the way her husband does not have to go into finding um dishonest gain for work, for instance, just to you know, to try and put out the fires that you know. Now, reminded of my own mother who I wish was sitting here as as we I'm preaching my first Mother's Day sermon, um just reminded of how she would wake up in the village growing up through the promised Messiah. uh on the book of proverbs is um derek kidna and he says this her charm and her success own nothing to chance because her outlook and her influence have the solid foundation of the deer and wisdom Let us pray. characteristics that this church and this community might more and more look like the beautiful uh Savior who loved us and gave himself for us. Yeah, smartly dressed. I tried to help you with that last one. Who would fit that description of this excellent woman? If you are men that God is working towards making us exemplary and excellent people. strong and then verses 25 says strength and dignity are her clothing and she laughs at the time to come physical strength to women. Myself with the strength of the Lord. the story of Ruth, uh this um Moabite widow who um out of her love for our Israelite mother-in-law Naomi she declares that your people shall be my people He fears the Lord. uh a reverence. And of course he's promised us some hope and a savior. uh is there a bible that actually exists that says uh you know fear Yahweh uh it's like about six thousand times God refers to his self that way. Oh Yahweh. that she started in the family. family. She makes bed coverings for herself. uh shopping for food. Some women are just so overwhelmed. I hope you never forget it. But uh this woman uh knew that it's important to look after orphans and widows, people in need. Uh I think it's six ten. Really true. But she will go out of her way to go bring food from afar to make sure that she provides for our family. and the poor and and and all of that. You know, one of the definitions of of diligence was she's not lazy, you know, and so she she does not waste time being idle. And um before anybody else woke up, you know, four a. You know. volumes. And 30. So uh but the point being in this and the what this text tells us though is that this woman understands that uh that beauty really starts down here Best you know that uh blessed are the poor in spirit. Because she fears the Lord. the the grace that God has given to us that we are striving to do good for the Lord and for one another. thirteen. With our words. We need it w it's a a tough road. uh and we ask your continued blessing upon the moms here who labor among us, uh that we would appreciate their efforts, and uh that each of us uh might realize the beauty that is ours through Jesus Jesus Christ, trusting in his death and resurrection on our behalf. us. you did but and then men w opening car doors for women well there's a few chivalry type guys out there but I think they may be hard to find. Well you know what? such a description of a woman who is so excellent in so many ways. I mean it really describes a woman who is exemplar in that she's a strong woman. uh Boaz and we know the story as it ends. And God works through her. You'll see uh that this excellent woman is a woman uh who fears the Lord. gonna go. in the highest regard. this part. Trust in the Lord. Cleaning with kids in the house is like trying to brush your teeth while eating Oreos. You want to go depressed, just read this. Unpolluted from the world, but the other thing it mentions is looking after orphans and widows. war. one of our own members heading the orphanage and direct the uh ministry there at uh and we have a huge need coming up and um I don't know if we're gonna be able to help them with their food need quote. provides food for a household and portions for maidens. It is careful attention, industry, and r and remitting application, persistent endeavor, and then it defines a di a diligent person already um prepared for us. what that means. Um, you know, I always felt that people always look good if they smile. Meditating on on the grace and favor that she'd receive from God. think about God's grace for us, how can we get looking good, feeling good about ourselves, looking good to others to others? morning that we need to acknowledge um this excellent woman and what she has been able to accomplish, not as we've seen, not on our own accord, not with our own strength, but because And all the more as you see the day drawing near. Faithful servant. Their deeds follow them. Um, but let us encourage one another, all of us, uh to do good and to love the Lord God as we've seen, to fear him above all things. uh doing the right things to trying to help people, reaching out and helping the poor, uh trying to be faithful and all those things we mentioned. so freely. She is like the ships of the merchant. She considers a field and buys it. She perceives that our merchandise is profitable. She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hand to the needy. And the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. But you surpass them all. But you kids your kids can probably do a lot better. Or just a wannabe? The Lord is robed. the God who has given us the privilege of having Mother's Day and and friends and family and all that. past but when you find all those capital letters they're there for a reason it's because this is the name uh uh in Hebrew is Yahweh It's the God of the Bible. To the one true God, and she's willing, like we all should be, to listen to what he has to say. How does that come out, right? Fortunately, that's not what our passage tells us this morning. you know, trusting his wife when he leaves home because he doesn't know what she's gonna do when when when when he goes and he leaves town or anything like that. She has the fear of the of the Lord. I don't know if you're trustworthy. if we fear the Lord. Yeah, I mean she actually is a woman uh in addition to being trustworthy, this this woman that hopefully we can be more and more liked. This excellent woman opens her hand to the poor. to all people, especially those who belong to the household of faith. I think there's two aspects of it that make a huge difference and you probably would agree with me. And reliability. Why do I say that? And then she rises up early in the morning before anyone else wakes up. But a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. I mean this woman understands the concept of beauty. And uh in fact uh uh somebody once said that it wouldn't it be nice if you could just like drink makeup because then you could look also beautiful on the inside And uh I believe this woman understood that uh her beauty really comes in her relationship with God. This is what it says. You realize that we are called, this passage is really calling us to affirm her, to appreciate her, to encourage her, to commend her for what she's done. Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all. So today's Mother's Day. That's a good thing. So that really is the foundation of excellence. of the Lord. I can commend my mother for um who she is and what she's done. returns to show us uh the most beautiful thing of all, life everlasting, right in our own hands. And uh they had a good perspective on that God. And I think there's more. Wow. uh trying to meet budget and all that it takes takes some time and energy. And uh it but the what the mot this woman here cares about her household and I like the way it says twenty-seven says, She looks well to the ways of her household. But there it is. is described as industrious, conscientious, thorough, not idle, not negligent And a lot of women out here right before us treasuring the God who sent us the Messiah. Strength and dignity are her clothing. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates. big view of what women were. Think of Psalm 91, 93, sorry. this beautiful woman, a Jewish woman living among the exiles in Persia. And so this is a strong woman. Are you depending upon what you can do or are you clothing yourself with God's strength? um in the welfare of of of the family. It's in the Lord God Almighty. She's a trusted companion to her husband. She also cares. about her household. Because she knows what she's doing. I do think there's more though. That whoever us is trusting in him, we're not going to perish. How would you summarize it for us, then, so that we don't let the river just keep flowing or we actually have ourselves being thirsty and wanting to, you know, keep those words in our heart and plant it Um I think it's an interesting thing because you know we sit here before before God and his word is there for us. I think the question for us this morning is are we thirsty to hear of God's word or are we just gonna let the word of God be there and we're just moving on because it's not waiting for anybody. Um and it it's even more odd because when you look at the ancient Near East culture when when this text is being written, that they did not have a very uh you know off running errands and all kinds of uh doctor's appointments. Um let's read together. You might say a priceless woman is like an Oreo cookie. So then I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Those words in our hearts so that we remember them all the days of our life. Are we powered up back there? For all her household are clothed in scarlet. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. of the Lord, not her own strength. as opposed to just someone in her heart who has a high respect for God. And then we had Ebola struck and uh it's just awful with the eighty f eighty five percent unemployment still over there and If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. I gave you the Kenyan proverb, right? Happiness for a year, inherit some money. But you know, my mom was always ready to to do so. And then the same book, verses, chapter 21, verse 5, I think really amplifies what diligence is all about. And I think that's really the purpose of this passage that we just read. Well it is Mother's Day and uh we're trying something here today. Thank you. Pretty pretty cool, huh? And we know how the story goes. to be that that treasured uh confident, you know, uh someone who is really trustworthy. And to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. Not lazy. She does not want the people who work for her to not have anything to do. So you're saying when we see that there's qualities in the the people out here and one of the right and it's it's like it's like the the book of Hebrews, chapter ten, one of my favorite passages verse twenty four and twenty five that tells us, not just for the excellent woman, but for one another. And you know the best affirmation that we're gonna receive? She does him good and not harm all the days of her life. I think it's only there for taxes. We talk about fearing the Lord. Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this, to look after orphans and widows in their distress. She does not ramble about what she's doing. Here, by faith, and an extremely qualitative life in the world to come, life everlasting. Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her works praise her in the gate. Talked about her being such a loving woman. And sometimes Waldo. And I think this I mean uh trust is such a huge concept that we can spend a lot of time talking about. I think it's a wonderful thing for us to ask the Lord to help us to be diligent, right? God so loved the world. So, a woman who fears the Lord, well, she's to be praised. You you you will know what do they say about what is behind every successful man. Have to be nice inside. Charms, you know, deceptive and uh beauty is you know it's superficial, it can be vain. And and physically sometimes it's just hard enough to care for 'em physic physically to get enough clothes on 'em or get any clothes on them. And then there's another aspect to it too. You know, I came across a proverb, uh k supposedly a Kenyan proverb. An excellent wife, who can find? The hope in us is that it actually does describe who we are in Christ. Lord, we thank you for this uh time to uh think about this uh message on Mother's Day. A woman who fears the Lord, as you've looked at this text and we've looked at it together, let's unfold that a little bit. We can appreciate them with our actions and with our emotions. And this morning we're reading from Proverbs chapter 31, verses 10 and 31. Penny candy. And uh and then you got the taxi service, right? And I believe this woman understood that she feared this Lord who has promised us the Messiah. Thank you for this time together, and may your rest, your grace rest upon our families now. This this woman and these exemplary women you mentioned in the Bible, they had an understanding that that there was a real God And you know, most of us know in this congregation that section in James chapter 1, verse 27. Absolutely. At least you're dressed more. I mean that's that's a big concept. And then you how about time for yourself just to remain sane. It emphasizes two things. Isn't it the foundation of excellence? Not that women are not strong, they are, but in general we do not attribute that to to women because of how God has made them. Her children rise up and call her blessed. And it seems like this woman has her deeds following her because it says Praise her in the gates, you know, for what that sh she has been able to do He has put on strength as his belt. He you know he he can look forward to hey our family is actually doing well. But above all, she does that with willing hands. So where does that leave us? Look at the fact that she brings food from afar. Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all. We keep encouraging one another. She fears the one true God. Well um I think we could we can begin by looking at it at the very beginning. I mean it's not just about you know being trustworthy. Okay, what do the following things have in common? It's not just uh God in general, Lord in general, but in fact we've even talked about So it's not just the aspect of her trust, you know, her husband trusting in her. Unless we do so, unless we place our trust in Him, we will not be able to do so. Uh to fear God really. So and then of course giving moral spiritual guidance, supporting your husband and uh all that if if you're fortunate enough to uh not be raising kids alone Thirteen and fifteen says, She seeks wool and flax and works with willing hands. But she's actually waking up early to provide for those who work for her, for her maidens. Let us not become weary in doing good. Now besides carry, trustworthy, there's other things. We're not done yet, right? That's about it right there. Uh it says uh the water of the river flows on. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. I like Proverbs uh twelve twenty-seven. We do want to have that at the very end of our life. The river's going to flow as we read from the Word of God, and if you're thirsty, well, drink What do we got there? Who can find? They actually had a very low view of of women, uh which is which is sad. And we we can look through scripture. And then she ends up leaving her own culture, her own people, her own country to follow Naomi where she's You know her strength, her dignity, her determination, her character um captures the attention of one uh man who would be uh her redeemer, kinsman redeemer. What is that about? I'm all I'm doing, God and mom and friends, is to survive raising this family. We're celebrating Mother's Day, celebrating women in our lives. I mean you have a penny in your pocket? And that and then of course Waldo. Uh a woman who rolls her eyes. Would you say that you are trustworthy in in the way you deal with with um with your family, with your work, with all things? We see that in a number of verses, but we'll draw this to attention. That's true. She she depends upon the Lord, and she was made for such a time as this, as God works through that to orchestrate his rescue mission. I mean a lot of times that's uh the mom's role in life. She seems to be an extremely responsible person with how she does her work, but she's also very, very reliable. Well yeah. And and they look pretty smart out there too, you guys. And in your translations you'll find it almost universally uh all in capitals. It's a wonderful thing to look good. That means God so loved me. You know what I mean? Charms is equal and beauty is vain. Unless you look at Christ in the gospel first, and then you're a little more energized. You know, but I do think that as much as that definition helps us to understand what being diligence is all about, being industrious and hardworking and all those great things. And how do you do that? Um and so this is really a call for us to lift lift each other. She brings a food from afar. Not just food but you know all the the seeds and everything else that we needed to go with my father who was sleeping with us With the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard. And because of that, it flows into how her children, her husband, and everyone else trust her. Now you're getting Chinese. But we when you have that understanding of fearing God, it's uh you reverence If you look at verses 27B, it talks about she does not eat the bread of idleness. Yeah we're getting close but we got a few more gems here that aren't ours. She does not depend on her own ability. Well, uh really the concept here of fear is I mean it can be a fear if you think about you're gonna go before the judge, you better worry about something wrong. And uh, you know, it it can get old, let's face it. And this woman, and a lot of us have a great reason to smile. What do we got? But then there's this thing in verse ten, this person, that's an excellent woman, a a priceless woman Yeah, that's a good question because I think when we when we read that passage, the first thing that comes to mind is She fears the Lord. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain. You know if if there's nothing else I have to say, you know, I might as well dress well so that, you know, at least people can She ends up being in the new lineage of Jesus Christ. Um could you help us understand what really fearing the Lord is all about? She he knows that someone is in charge, someone is gonna be doing well to care for all their domestic um you know stuff that's that's going on in the family. One is a pure life, maintaining the pure life that's ours in Christ. And once you realize that, what are you gonna do? Buy them gifts. I like the way that scripture you um referenced, you know. m. And so they they reverenced his opinion. And it's interesting if you study that phrase, uh of course in Proverbs it says that's really the beginning of learning what life is about. in the morning, three A. Her lamp does not go out at night. And she laughs at the time to come. You know, and so as we've as we said, this this chapter is really a call for us to to acknowledge this this excellence. It's the fear of the Lord, and that's why we need to commend her for fearing the Lord. What's that? Psalm 93 verse 1 says this. I mean I'm sure we can all come up with so many examples in Scripture. Uh we we've all heard stories about you know women going behind their husband's back and you know doing all kinds of things and you know um and a man is never Acknowledging the good things we're doing. It describes someone who is fully perfect. And we would hope that a woman who fears the Lord remains trustworthy and not um a woman who rolls her eyes behind her husband. Now I had to look up the meaning of diligence just to, you know, uh have a better view on what diligence is all about. You would think, yeah, she rises early to bring food for our family. Penny candy. Well, you know, Jesus said uh that we're all basically spiracy bankrupt Isn't that what the gospel does for us every day? We're not going to slip through his hands. And that this beautiful woman uh might take a uh grow in our own hearts in terms of her character. And you look at the world out there, and isn't the world beautiful, especially on a day like this? Um, throughout the book of Proverbs. But even before I continue, I have another question to ask you. I mean, you're off to the the ball games, you know, you're off to activities, you're off to school if you're in the uh school system at home and If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else She makes bed coverings for herself. I mean reality is there is only one God. Yes, the wall is established. M. God so loved the world that he gave us his one, his only son. Say thank you. She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. By golly, I'm gonna do my best to make a good household. She hasn't forgotten the poor. It says, and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and to do good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. Four leaf clover, I mean, I never found one of those. I don't know where your trust is this morning. in the morning. She is doing it with joy, with happiness It's the affirmation that Christ is gonna give to all of us. I think it's pretty simple. Happiness for a month, get married. You know, I thank God for many of you moms and others She is far more precious than jewels. Waldo. She looks well to the ways of her household. For at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we don't give up. If you read with me in verses 17 and 25, verse 17 says, She dresses herself with strength and makes our arms I mean this is probably the fact that, you know, she she doesn't grow. But a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. I can commend all the mothers in in this room and all the women who are gonna be mothers someday in this room. I found a lot of moms like the idea of being able to get out of the house for at least a half a day or something to for sanity restoration But I think even in terms of hard working and all of that, you know, when we read she seeks woe and flax, you know, that to me speaks volume The good stuff is inside. I mean don't always have to wear a tie and coat and all that stuff, but you know, it's nice to comb your hair and look orderly and neat and uh And if we look at verses 28 to 30 and um 30 B, 28 and 29, 30 B to the end. Can you hear us? And you know the story about um Haman, one of the officials who was trying to destroy um you know the the minority uh Israel community Her head's filled with God, but her life might may or may not be Uh here's a woman who uh understood uh that I don't want to I want to give you one more Sure they love that. We hope it works. So I'm gonna ask you a question. You know, I point you to verses eleven. Um do we find anything else in this passage that flesh this out? They're just basically one big taxi. It talks about diligence is man's precious possession. Well, I think this woman ran right to God, since she feared God and she dressed up real good in the morning inside She does not depend upon what she's able to do, but she clothed her Her husband also, and he praises her Chinese proverb. Well, uh you look like a pretty smart guy And uh it can be difficult uh raising uh a family. She rises while it is yet night, and provides food for the household, and portions for her maidens. You ever try to go out and try to buy something with it To be responsible, to be reliable, and to serve willingly. And by the time we woke up to go to the farm, she had everything So she's probably getting the wool and the flax to bring to them so that they can keep their hands busy and not stay idle. You know, again, go back to the cookie thing. Anybody my age, we can't find Waldo because we can't see that far Um I find this description a little bit odd and why do I say that? Uh uh cleaning the house and doing doing laundry, I mean somebody said this. The diligence has more than just the hard work and industry, but it's got a lot, especially with this woman, responsibility We're not doing everything right, but hey, you know, we see someone picking up and trying again and trying to raise their kids in a decent way, you know. I mean, a woman who fears the Lord to be praised, there's the bottom line. So I have a little question or three A man who opens a car door for women. She relies upon the strength of the Lord, not her own ability. Why? The Lord reigns, he is robed in majesty. What else do we see here? Well, hey, you put on the grace of God that He's freely given us through the promised Messiah. That's the question. She seeks wool and flax and works with willing hands. Even when you might didn't have time to do all you wanted to prepare to go out the door We're not going to come under condemnation. Verses 21 and 22. It's a gift from God. We're having fun. Now Dan I just mentioned one big concept there. I mean, if you grew up in a family, you can wear your parents down in a hurry Um I love what what John says in Revelation 14 Just the simple words of saying thank you, right? We're not sure if it is, but we're not sure if it is, but he's from Kenya, but She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong She makes linen garments and sells them. In Christ's name we pray. As God is working in our life that we hope that He's working towards making us to be this excellent. And that's where we're gonna start this morning, uh by looking at a few examples as well in scripture. Because this woman is a trustworthy woman Um, knowing that we're not perfect in in what we do, but because of the grace that as you've talked about, the grace that is upon us, the grace that It's really because of where her trust is. Really, I mean, it's like impossible Now I'm s I'm sure some of you got some some flowers this morning Uh but in here we see even following from verses eleven A that it talks about the husband simply having confidence So I think we've talked about quite a bit here And as we see women and others who are treasuring the living God, hey, you know what She opens her mouth with wisdom. We thank you for the moms you put in our lives. What about the story of Esther? But I but I think even more that the idea of fearing the Lord is really someone who puts their trust It says, the plans of the diligent lead surely to plenty. And therefore she looked good on the inside and was looking good on the outside by her behavior. We can afford them today. And I don't think that it describes any one of us in the sense that we perfectly fit the description Uh they held it uh in She's responsible Let's encourage one another toward love and good works and all the more as we get closer to the day when Christ It shall never be moved. One of my favorite is in the book of Ruth. Maybe you know this. I don't know who you trust. But uh this woman finds time to care for the needy, not just her own affairs She reaches out her hands to the needy. Just There's more. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain. You got uh paying bills often uh and managing the m household money and If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. She puts her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle Uh what does verse eleven tell us that she is trustworthy That's not the case with this woman. Uh it's been there for a long time because of the fourteen years of war The word of God may it rest deeply into your hearts this morning. You got it She's like the ships of the marchant. Four-leaf clover Um but I think this this two uh verses seventeen and twenty five are really being used metaphorically And I want to ask you this then, Josiah. To get 'em like looking okay and then get 'em out the door sometimes And yet sometimes I know many of your moms just feel like this. That is pure religion. The heart of a husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. And I think there's there's one part over there that actually in verses eleven Would you please stand with me as I read God's word this morning? Her clothing is fine linen and purple. And she knows that and she's connected. And I mean that. Blessed indeed says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours, for their deeds follow them. Amen. The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man But a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. As you know, this is really not the kind of way we talk in the 21st century But not only does she fear uh God, but notice it says uh this excellent woman is one who But she she does more. Uh if we read chapter one, verse seven, you know, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of all wisdom, isn't it? We've looked at this in the You might have a good answer. Many women have done excellently 27A. And then secondly, what's really impressive about this woman, and I know a lot of you women feel bad when you read this Supposed to be a joke. Diligent, hey you know Yeah. I mean I I I really think that this is this is the purpose of message this morning But look what it says here in the 20th verse. And it's all because of, if I may use my paraphrase of John 3. She is not afraid of snow for her household. Therefore, as we have opportunity, as we have opportunity, let us do good Um verses thirteen and fifteen tells us that she's actually a very diligent woman The way God made the world. Is this like some myth? A little different angle this time though But you know what? She's not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet. Well certainly it's in the text there. And uh so she understands it's more than just making yourself look nice, but you actually Well I think it leaves us to ask ourselves, so what are we supposed to do with this woman? We can commend them for who they are What does that look like in terms of the practice? She does not complain. One of the commentators that I really like who's in a great job in um in talking about or commenting That's commending them. All the power in the world is no good if you can't communicate in two ways. Allow me to be a little biased here, you know When we meet him on that final day, when he says, Well done, my friend I'm worried. That is true religion. And it's interesting, Galatians says uh In fact she goes beyond her husband's expectation There's a turn there. She looks well to the ways of her household. Uh caring for kids emotionally Maybe she doesn't need our farm. Like to her they they they're supposed to be serving her but she's like she's also providing for them. This is a woman who dresses herself with the strength. She delivers sashes to the merchant I I talked about um you know having strength in the Lord, but I also said that she Then we're on the path toward excellence. She brings a food from afar. Uh A woman who treasures the God of the Bible, who's promised us the Messiah. I mean normally we don't attribute Like we talked about her being so loving and merciful where she provides for the orphans. She looks well Maybe I don't think we prepared We have a quality life. This woman Okay. They said I actually don't raise kids. It's almost surprising that it's in here We can give them a hug, just embrace them and tell them how much you can That's why you're referring to it. I think that can only happen And uh means it's my turn, I suppose. She doesn't have some of the things that they have at their home. And the the Oxford um dictionary defines diligence as this. Because Please be seated. That this is not just the only pr place that we find What strength are you relying on this morning? Kind of summarizes how she cares. But it has a broader meaning and it really has to do with And how do I do that? That name is uh She rises while it is yet night and Is this a real person? If you look down at verse thirty, I believe it is. I am a taxi driver And uh It's the beginning of wisdom 16 So if you're here I hope you're thirsty this morning. If you're a woman, this excellent woman. I we can appreciate them I think that's