Well thank you for that reading and I think it's appropriate before we go any further just to stop and pray Will you pray with me? Father in heaven, thank you for giving us this beautiful morning, the beautiful time of year with the fall, the leaves changing colors and Uh yeah, the days are shorter and it's a bit more darkness, but it's a season. It's a an important season for us. Thank you. Thank you for how how wealthy we are in the gospel. And thank you, Father, for a reminder of what it means for us as your people. To realize that we belong to you. And we have so much for which to give you thanks, but also to realize that as you are working in our lives, that one of the things, one of the fruits of the Spirit, That's going to be there is a recognition that we belong to you and everything we have is from you. So we're praying that this morning That you would teach us about humility, that you would remind us of the importance of what this Psalm has to offer us. And we ask that your Holy Spirit now would be at work. Now I realize that all of us uh are coming from different weeks, so to speak, uh different lives, so uh if you want to think about it. Right? In other words, so for me, you know, I have uh involvement with my staff and people in in Washington DC. And I have uh of course my marriage, my wife, my children, my my grandchildren, my all that makes up my life And as I'm going through each of the days of the week and I'm interacting with etc. , all those relationships, all those responsibilities are going to have an impact upon my thinking and my life and my attitude, etc. And the same thing with you. Some of you have had maybe really great weeks. Maybe there are things that have happened that have been exciting for you. And you're celebrating. Others of you have found the week to be somewhat trying and difficult. Or maybe it's just kind of even Like it just you know, it was a normal week and when you think back on the things that have taken place, there's no real ups and downs, it's just kind of either. So when you listen to this psalm this morning that was well given to us, well spoken, what does it mean for you What do you focus on? Or does it just kind of maybe sort of blur in regards to what it says to your speech Well I'm hoping I'm hoping that the Holy Spirit would work in all of our lives, including me, in regards to what God is saying to us as His people I believe that the topic of humility is really significant for us, and this particular psalm helps us understand what I'll call this morning the The contours, the tapestry of humility. And as a Christian, that ought to be probably one of the most prominent things in our thinking In regards to how we view ourselves and the world around us. And David, the psalmist here, is providing for us some really important truths that we want to look at As we approach maybe those particular aspects of the Psalm that I think will provide some important instruction for us. We're reminded of of course of the fact that the Psalms uh tell us a lot of things about humility all throughout. We m we may not always think about it that way, but But that's what we find. And then we see that lead into the rest of the scriptures. We see it within the New Testament, of course. Jesus picks up a picks up on that theme in regards to the Sermon on the Mount when he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, or later on where he says, Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth The Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 12, verse 16, says, Do not be proud, but willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited. Then James, of course, in chapter four says, humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you In other words, the the theme of humility is all throughout the Psalms, really the Old Testament and the New Testament And so what does it mean for us to understand what this particular Psalm is teaching us in regards to the issue issue of humility. And there are three basic things that I think uh we ought to note. First of all is in regards to the issue of calling and the nature of calling And what humility has to say about that, secondly, I'll call it the consequence of humility, meaning that humility is going to bear fruit And then last of all, last of all, the confidence in regards to humility, where our hope is placed So let's first of all look at the dynamic of calling. Now again, depending on where you're coming from this morning, you may have a very different calling than the person sitting next to you. For some of you it's it's been a as a parent. And that has been a primary focus in terms of what God has been calling you to do, to use your life and your skills. Others you're you have um some particular skill that you've developed And that's been that has in essence defined the way in which you use your time and life. Maybe it's uh it's an IT, maybe it's a carpenter, maybe Maybe it's a teacher, maybe an attorney, or the list goes on and on. And you you have found that to be the substance of your calling. For some of you, you might be, and then you can fill in the blanks The nature of your calling, obviously, in terms of how you are stewarding your time, is really critical. And as you think about the way in which you steward your time, you begin to develop a bit of a plan. How you were going to execute it, how you're going to go about your your normal day in terms of servicing, and the list goes on. And as you think about those particular dynamics, do you see it from the perspective of A Psalm 12? 31. My heart is not proud, O Lord. Now just think about the psalm in regards to your personal life My eyes are not haughty. I do not concern myself with great matters or things too wonderful for me. Now again, each of you are gonna you're gonna define that, you're gonna take that in a different direction than maybe I would But I know that in my own life, that when I think about how Psalm 131 speaks to me, I realize it has lots of implications in terms of what it meant for me to enter into ministry, what it means for me And working with staff and people uh such as we do in places like Washington DC or in state capitals, and to at the end of the day say, Yeah, Psalm 131 is actually being applied to my life. Now if you think about David, for example And what it meant for him to be able to express this as part of his thinking. Here he is, the king of Israel. Now we don't know exactly when he penned the song under the under the direction of the Holy Spirit. Was it when he was maybe just uh wasn't he was was he thinking about this psalm when he was a shepherd When he was running away from Saul, when he was king of Israel, towards the end of his kingdom, I don't know. I don't know But I know that it has implications to all these different segments of his life. Before we think about David anymore, let's think about a king that came much further, much longer after David lived. Uzziah. If you think about King Uzziah, King of Judah, you'll recall that here was a guy, here was a king who was very successful He was the son of Amaziah. And as he was reigning during that period of time, God had given him an enormous amount of success in regards to his military buildup. The the the Department of Defense was really significant. In fact, it was uh almost off the charts compared to other eras within that part of of Israel, the southern kingdom And we find that as years go on, as God is blessing Uzziah, that something takes place within his heart. I don't know what it was, if it was one particular incident, if it was If it was a a combination of successes, but all of a sudden things changed in regards to his thinking and his posture before God, and he became incredibly proud. Now let's face it, if we're going to understand humility, true humility, as defined here in Psalm 131 We probably need to talk about a little bit about pride and conceit and arrogance. And for whatever reason, Uzziah was drifting in that direction And one of the ways that it shows that he demonstrated this arrogance and pride is that he decided that he wouldn't all he was not only going to be king of Israel He was going to enter into the office of priest. Now, only the priests were the ones who were allowed into the temple. Only the priests were allowed to minister inside the temple And Uzziah, the king, decides that he's going to do that, and he does. He enters the temple. And the priest is like, hey, this is wrong. And they exhort him and they correct him. And you know what he does? He says, I'm gonna do whatever I want because I'm king. And next thing you know, God places his judgment on Uzziah. He ends up with leprosy, and the rest of his life, the rest of his life, God teaches him about true humility. As he isn't even able to be king any longer because of the embarrassment of having leprosy Now I think about I I think about that particular passage, and if you uh sometime want to look there at 2 Chronicles chapter 26, you can read all the details that I've left out But I think about what it takes for me to have the absence of humility. In other words, what does it look like when pride starts to build up in my own heart, in my own life? Some of you maybe have stents, you know, in your arteries. I've got one. And uh, you know, you you realize that over the course of time bad stuff can build up in your own heart. I'm not speaking so much now of the need for the stent, but I'm I'm just simply saying that you know you have one d one uh era of of success and then you have another one and and something else takes place and before long you're really kind of independent and you're you're self-sufficient And you know, and you can see why people become that way, because success seems to breed more success and and more praise and and more You know, everything else that goes along with it, and the next thing you know, I'm the one in charge of life. I'm the one responsible for everything that I have. And there is no place for God. I think about David here, where again, my heart is not proud, O Lord, my eyes are not halty, I do not concern myself with great matters. Are things too wonderful for me? That's not really what's given me my life. And isn't that what David is saying here? What is it that's really given you your life And I'll be honest with you, there's all kinds of great things that are That are wonderful, that are pure, that that you ought to be desiring, and yet at the same time We can turn something really, really good and twist it just enough that it becomes in time an idol and it becomes our life and it becomes the thing that we really need. When I look at the way David brings this psalm to us, I think about the fact that you're looking at you're looking at a man of God who's examining his life. And I would say the important thing for all of us is that we have a life that is examined. Examine Not just by our own standards, but by the scriptures, by the Word of God, that puts everything in perspective I think David at this point in his life understood that everything in his life was a gift from God. Sure, he may have worked hard He may have applied himself. And by the way, this psalm doesn't say that you shouldn't be applying yourself. You shouldn't be working hard. You shouldn't be striving for good things. It's just simply saying that in the process of doing so, understand that it's not you, that everything we have is a gift from God And then I love the way that as I read the psalm, that there's this dynamic of a conversation that David is having with God. Do you have regular conversation with God In the middle of the day, in the middle of a time, maybe when you're really discouraged, you just stop and say, Lord I know that I belong to you. I know that through the blood of Christ I've been saved, but I'm really struggling And then I think the third thing here is that David accepts. I'm not concerned. I do not concern myself with great matters or things too wonderful for me. That's not going to be that is not going to be where my life comes from. And again Let me say this. You should be working hard and you should be striving for good things, but that should not be your idol. That should not be your life And I think that's what David is saying to us here. One of the things that impresses me about David is that you'll recall that David wanted to be the one who to build the temple Right? And he goes and through Nathan, the prophet, he goes to God, and he and he and he requests that he be the one to build the temple. And God says, no. I don't know about you. I don't like when people tell me no. Right? If I need something from you, if I want something from you and you're telling me no, you think that's gonna make me happy? Don't you want to make me happy? Well you don't say no. Right, you get it, right? You I mean But God said no to David, and so for the rest of his life He had to live with that disappointment. And what I love is that when you come to the end of David's life and you go into places like 1 Chronicles chapter 29 And David says, okay, I won't, I know I'm not going to build the temple, and I'm not stupid enough to think that I'm just going to go do it anyway Which is sometimes the way I work, right? And maybe you do at times. Oh you just oh I'm just gonna do it anyway, right? Even though you know God is saying no But David says, okay, what can I do to further God's will? I can Make sure that there are plans. I can make sure that there are the resources. And so he does that. He he has he has the plans drawn, he and then he gathers all these resources. It's an enormous amount of wealth. And then towards the end of his life, he brings together the leadership of Israel and the people. And he says, it's time to celebrate To celebrate what God is doing. And here's what he says in 1 Chronicles chapter 29. In verse 11, he says, Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power. Again, this is a king who could often, as many political, many people in politics do, point to themselves, but instead he's pointing to God. Yours O Lord Is the greatness and the power and the glory and the majesty and the splendor for everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, Lord, is the kingdom. You are exalted as head overall, not me. Wealth and honor come not from me, from you You are the ruler of all things. In your hands are strength and power to exalt and give strength to all. Isn't it beautiful? He took the no and he turned it into an opportunity to focus on God. and to praise God. That that, my friends, is a picture of true humility. Now secondly, and I know our time has gone by really quick. True humility is not only an understanding of calling, but there are consequences The psalmist goes on. David goes on. In verse 2, he says, But I have calmed and quieted myself. I've calmed and quieted myself. And then he gives us a picture of what that looks like. A child, a young child, a very, very young child With his or her mother. Let me share with you a quick story, if I may, to help illustrate this Now I'm I'm 70, I've turned 70. Uh Debbie and I have uh we're celebrating our both 70 turning 70 and 50 years of marriage We have four children, seven grandkids. God has greatly blessed us in so many ways So with that in the background, I mentioned this book to you. The book is written as a way of helping people in Washington, D. C. understand humility. And I was thinking about the book in the West Coast at a church in Santa Barbara And I went back to the airport and I got on a plane. It's a five-hour flight from LAX to DC I do fly a bit. I fly a lot actually. I might be on a plane a number of times a month, traveling, meetings, etc. And I'll be honest with you, I have a very, very definite A very, very selfish view of flying. And so when I get on a plane, I want to sit on the aisle I don't want to sit in the middle and I really don't want to sit at on at the window. I want to sit at the aisle. And it would make me quite happy if for some reason that middle seat wasn't taken, right? And I plan out my thinking. I'm like, okay, when I get on the plane, you know, I'm gonna be able to do this kind of reading and this kind of work. I I often work on the plane and And uh you know, and so I would appreciate it if you do sit in that middle seat that you don't talk to me a lot, okay? Just You know, so I got all this going on and I get on the plane and I'm I'm uh I notice that there's nobody in either the other seats, I'm on the aisle, and eventually this lady comes and she goes to the window, that's perfectly fine. And the plane is is is is filling up. Now it's full. And I know that oh I'm thinking, great, there's nobody next to me. I've got this wonderful Five-hour flight, and I can maybe even get a little sleep and a little more work. Next thing I know, just before they closed the door, this lady, this young lady, And the baby. It's standing there, like right there, as like, this is my seat. And she says, this is my seat And I'm like, okay. This is a different definition of what this five next five hours is going to be like. And I'm counting. Now, again, I told you, I you have a little bit of background here. He knows That this is a mom with maybe a four-month-old, not a wean child, a four-month-old. How many of you have flown next to an infant, right? You know that the pressure when they go up and down it it bothers their ears and they're crying and and uh a a three or four month old has a lot of needs, etc. And so all in my mind all these things Things are mixing up and I'm thinking, Lord, what are you doing? You know, I w I you gave me the gift of a five hour flight with no one in the seat and now it's being taken away, you know, and what have I done? You know, did I not have my quiet time and You know, you're just thinking about all these kinds of things, right? And so, you know, and then of course, why why am I not praying for this young mother and child and and and looking for ways of serving them and etcetera. You know, I mean I like I am so full of selfishness, it's really bad. Of course all this is just you're just quietly sitting there in your seat. She doesn't know what's going on in your mind. So anyway, so with all that said, eventually the plane takes off and five hours later it lands in Washington. And I got off that play. And I said, Lord, you you have taught me a lot through this This mom and child. First of all, you clearly have shown me my selfishness and my my self centeredness of wanting arride uh my way and not really being other oriented and concerned and thinking of ways how can I serve I'm telling you if it was Debbie, if she had been sitting there it would have been a very different mindset. She would have said, Oh, this is so wonderful. There's this young mother with a young child. I could probably spend some time holding this young child and you know, it would have just been a different experience. I'm I'm very much the opposite But what I witnessed was this. Now I've been on many planes. In fact, even a couple days ago I got off a plane and behind me was a child and the child really s just was uncomfortable a lot and screamed and yelled and cried etc. I know what that's like. For five hours, people That child sat on her mother's lap and they laughed and they played and it was a most beautiful thing you've ever seen. And I and never, never, ever, in that five hours, I don't I don't know how this is possible, that the child And I thought about just the incredible dynamic of a mother and her baby And the the relationship and the the dynamic of a child being comfortable Because she is in the arms and the presence of her mother. And she's comfortable. And she knows she's safe She knows that she that every part of life is okay because she's in the presence of her mother Now, I know what I just said to you is not a ween child. A ween child is one who has gone through that stage and then and after being breastfed now is eating food from the table, right And David says, that's what I want to be like. I want to be like that child, in this case a wean child, who has enjoyed The privilege and the security and the contentment of being in the arms of my parent of my mom and And and being fed, etc. And now I don't need to be fed from the breast of my mother, I can be fed from the table. But as I sit on my mother's lap, I do it with just an incredible amount of Joy and comfort, etc. , and total contentment. And the question is Are we that way with God? But I have calmed and quiet up myself, and I'm like a weaned child with its mother. The wing child, I am content. I know, again, all of us are in different seasons of life, different circumstances of life, different pressures etc. But regardless, are you like that weaned child? Because that's what humility looks like. Being content Totally in the presence of your Lord, who has died for you, who has pursued you Who has loved you? Now look, let's just think about it. Let's cut this congregation in half. Let's say there's only half of us here today Think about the fact that there would be this many, 2,000 plus years after the death and resurrection and ascension of our Savior, that we would believe in God, that we would believe in Jesus, in his suffering That the Holy Spirit has worked on our lives and has drawn us to Him. That is an amazing thing that 2,000 years later, that even a few of us today would believe. But no, look, all of us. Ah, maybe I don't maybe again, maybe I'm making a mistake. Maybe you're a visitor and there's no profession yet, but you're curious about it Really? Something that's that old that's been around that long? No, the reason is because God is working in the lives of people today And he's transforming them. And they are realizing the reality of the spiritual world and of our sin and of our need for the gospel. And we're responding. And so we come and we worship. And we have every reason to be totally content in Christ. And the third thing is this, and it kind of goes along with all this, and that is in regards to to our focus, our confidence. Where is our co where is our confidence? Our confidence is not in ourselves, is not in me. I think one of the things That we learn the older we are in Christ is our sin I mean I wish I could tell you that the longer I know the Lord, the less I sin, but I don't think that's true. I think that the longer I I'm in the Lord there I'm more creative in my sin I mean I I I I just want to be honest with you. The writer of Hebrews says in regards to this issue of confidence in terms of our the focus of our hope He says, therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race set before us, looking to Jesus, the author or in some translations, the founder of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despised the shame And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. When you go through this coming week, whether it's a health issue, a financial issue Financial issue, an issue with your children or your grandchildren, will your hope be not in yourself and not in your own ability, but in In your suffering, in your failures, in your success, your celebrations, vocation, career path, school, marriage, family, whatever, will your focus be? Upon Christ. There was a pastor, hymn writer by the name of Edward Moore In 1834, this is in England, after most of his life being a carpenter, a cabinet maker He thought God was calling him in his fifties and back in eighteen thirties. Fifties is pretty old. In his fifties He felt God was calling him to the pastorate. So he he went. He went to the pastorate. And he wrote about a hundred hymns The one hymn is quite popular, My Hope, it begins. You'll know this hymn. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name Pray with me. Father, thank you for giving us this morning to be together, to come into your presence And to seek your wisdom, your help, your guidance, your direction. And we thank you so much that we belong to Jesus That we can worship you. And I pray, Father, that you would enable us to have the kind of humility that is represented in Psalm 131 My heart is not proud, O Lord, my eyes are not haughty. I do not concern myself with great matters or things too wonderful for me. I have quiet and calmed my life. Only because of the gospel. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.