Well good morning. If you have a Bible with you, I'd encourage you to open up to John chapter twelve. We're going to be continuing on in our study of the Gospel according to John, reading from verses 37 through 50. If you don't have your own Bible, there's the Pew Bibles there that you can find. It'll be page 1144 there in your Pew Bibles. We've been seeing as we've been going through John's Gospel that that chapter twelve is is really a hinge chapter. It's really a transition chapter that uh moves from the the early section of Jesus ministry, the the first couple years, and and really slows down after chapter twelve to focus just on the last week of Jesus' life. Chapters 1 through 11 are really focused on the many signs that Jesus does. And then chapters 13 through the end are really focused on Jesus heading towards Jerusalem to go to the cross. And so there's a there's a big change that happens in this this passage. And a lot of it has to do with these verses that we're going to read this And as we look through this passage this morning, you're going to notice those themes of unbelief coming out a lot in these verses. The the sermon probably more than most sermons is going to be focused on the those who don't believe in Christ. And yet I think it's important for us to hear those sermons. Um though the reality is going through the Bible the way we do, book by book, chapter by chapter, verse by verse means we we don't skip the uncomfortable or difficult passages we have to address whatever the Lord puts in front of us. It's also true that there's people in our midst that may not know the Lord. The church is always a mixed group on this side of heaven And so there's always a reason to preach these types of sermons. But even if you're sitting here this morning thinking, I know Christ. What do I need? I would encourage you to take this sermon to heart because it's a reminder that every single one of us has that cry of our heart, I believe, help my unbelief. We all struggle with the temptation not to believe in Christ, have doubts and questions. And beyond that, it's always important to be reminded of where we were when Christ found us. And that's always an important thing. So with all that in mind, I'd invite you to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning. Hear now God's word, beginning in John 12, 37. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. So that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore, they could not believe For again, Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it. So that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me, sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as a light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has Himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that His commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say, as the Father has told me. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, holy, holy, holy are you, the Lord of hosts. All the earth is filled with your glory. And Lord, as we come now to the reading of your word, we ask, oh Lord, show us your glory. We call out like Moses. Show us your glory. Help us to know you and love you. We want to be like those who stand in the position of Isaiah in this passage that we read, who saw your glory and speak of you. Oh God, would you meet us in this place? And we we pray that you would give us eyes to see, that you would give us ears to hear, that you would give us hearts to understand, that whether we don't know you or whether we're struggling, that we might turn And find healing in you. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful promise that you attach to your word, that it never goes out and returns to you voice. That when your word is read, when your word is proclaimed, it always does something and accomplishes the purposes for which you sent it. And so we pray, O Lord, that that would be true now in this time. We pray, God, that you would speak, for your servants are listening. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. How do we explain the reality of unbelief? I mean think if you're anything like me, sometimes it y you might just find yourself wondering if if God is real and exists as he does, and if the gospel is true as it is, why don't more people believe it? If the preaching of the gospel is supposed to be so powerfully attached with God's promises to bring people to salvation, if if the Holy Spirit works and none can resist his will, why don't more people embrace Christ? What's actually amazing here in this passage that we see is it's not just now that Jesus is gone that there's the reality of unbelief. The ministry of the very Son of God Himself while he was on earth Had an overwhelming response of unbelief in the midst of his earthly ministry. How do we explain unbelief? Well, that's what this passage really seeks to do for us this morning. And in explaining unbelief, John gives us what we might call a theology of unbelief. And he walks us through this theology of unbelief and drives them to the point that God is sovereign even over unbelief. And so I just want to walk through the passage together this morning and look at two things. I want us to see first what leads to unbelief, and I want us second to see where unbelief leads. So let's look first at verses 37 to 43 and see what leads to unbelief. Jesus is winding down his public ministry. Right, the first twelve chapters of John's gospel, the first twelve chapters there are heavily focused on Jesus' public ministry, reaching out to the crowds, doing signs and wonders and miracles and And proclaiming the kingdom of God that has come. And yet, the very last section of this passage that we read this morning, the end of chapter 12, when Jesus cries out and gives this last sermon, it will be Christ's last public sermon. From here until the cross, the remainder of the book is focused on his private ministry among his disciples. We even saw that last week towards the end of Pastor Sand's passage where Verse 36 tells us that when Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. So this really is a transition point as we move. From Christ's public ministry to his private ministry. And in verses 37 and following, John summarizes and explains the response that Christ has gotten in his ministry, and he responds, the response has been primarily one of unbelief. Notice again how John states it there in verse 37. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe. Christ had done so many signs. Think even just limiting it to John's gospel. He turned water into wine. He had healed the sick and the lame. He had given sight to the blind. He had fed 5,000. Then again later, he fed 4,000. He had walked on water, and then most amazing of all, he raised Lazarus to the dead after he had been in the grave for four days. See, he had not just done many different signs, but the signs that he did were amazing displays of power. It's not for lack of evidence or experience. Remember, even there in in The end of chapter 11, no one denies that Jesus has done these things. Not for lack of evidence, not for lack of experience. They had seen the power of God at work in an undeniable way, and they still do not believe. Without excuse. The Son of God Himself came and he preached and He taught and He performed signs, and the overwhelming response was unbelief. Why is that? How can that be? Well, John begins to answer that for us there in verse 38. The answer is that it happened in order that Scripture should be fulfilled. Right? It's not just that it happened to take place and in passing scripture was fulfilled. No, it happened so that Scripture would be fulfilled. It was determined to happen. Verse 38 tells us, he quotes Isaiah 53:1: Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? That passage there in Isaiah 53 is one of the most famous chapters in all of the Old Testament. The famous suffering servant passage Right, there's the context there is that this servant is one who would be despised and rejected, who would suffer for the sins of his people, and then later who would be exalted by God Himself. But Isaiah 53:1 makes the point that he will not be believed by the people he came to save. Because the arm of the Lord had not been revealed. God had displayed his power and his strength through Christ's signs. But he has not fully revealed himself in the significance of all that he has done to his people. He has not given them eyes to see. John explains it further, even going on, that says that the Jews that are rejecting They're not just rejecting Christ because they don't believe. He says they're rejecting Christ because they can't believe Verse 39, he makes that clear. Therefore they could not believe. Again, he quotes from Isaiah. This time coming from Isaiah 6, the passage where we read in our preparations for worship this morning, the the scene of the heavenly throne room where Isaiah sees a vision of the Lord sitting on his throne and all the angels are around him Praising God, saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is filled with his glory, and smoke fills the temple, and emphasizing God's holiness and his justice. And it's the passage that leads to Isaiah's call and commissioning as a prophet. And we see that in verses 8 through 10 of Isaiah 6. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who shall go for us? Then I said, Here I am, send me And he said, Go and say this to the people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes. And hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. Think about what's happening there to Isaiah. God says, Isaiah, I have a A vitally important message for you to take to my chosen people. Warn them that they're going to be judged for their sins, that exile is coming because of their unfaithfulness and idolatry. But oh, by the way, They're not going to listen to a word that you've said. In fact, your message is going to have the opposite effect. Instead of softening their hearts to me and returning them, it's actually going to further harden them and send them into exile. Jesus cites this very passage in the other gospel accounts to emphasize the purpose of his parables. Right? So often we think the parables are are helpful illustrations that make a point clear when it would have been difficult to understand. In reality, Jesus says he speaks in parables so that only certain people will understand, while others will be hardened by his teaching. And John says here in our passage that the same thing that happens in Isaiah's ministry is true of Christ's ministry. God has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts so that they cannot believe. It's the same thing that Paul explains as he goes through Romans 11. It says that Israel rejects Christ because God has hardened their hearts to do so. And yet he says: don't worry, God's not unfaithful to his promises. Right, Paul himself is an example that some Jews do come to faith, and yet the vast majority have been hardened, and that's why so often the gospel message is rejected. There's really no way around it. This is a difficult teaching. The question is, how are we to understand it? How are we to make sense of what God's Word says to us here? I think the first thing we need to step back and remind ourselves of is that there is no conflict between God's sovereignty and human responsibility. Right, the the the reality is when when an infinite God reveals himself to limited finite people, there's going to be points of tension that we know, I know A is true and I know B is true, but I'm not really sure how they fit together. Right? Think about some of the core doctrines of our faith. I know that God is one God, one being of God who eternally exists in three distinct persons. Both are true, but I'm not entirely sure how they fit together. The Lord Jesus Christ. One person with two natures, fully God, fully man, in a way that's not confused or mixed or mingled in any way, and yet I know they're both true, but I'm not entirely sure how they fit together. The same is true here. God is in control. There is not one single thing that happens in all of our existence that is not under the sovereign rule of God. And yet, we're responsible for the choices that we make. Because we always choose what we want. And scripture is clear, God never forces anyone to sin. You see, the problem is not that we can't do what we want. It's that we can't want what we should. Our will is bound in sin. It's a moral inability that makes us incapable of loving and serving and trusting in God by nature. So when God hardens the heart, he's simply giving natural sinners what they want by nature. The classic example that we're given in Scripture is the example of Pharaoh. Think about the plagues that come in Egypt. We're told Pharaoh's heart was hardened. We're told Pharaoh hardened his own heart, and we're told that God hardened Pharaoh's heart. Alright, it's not like Pharaoh was forced against his will. It's not like he says, Moses, Aaron, come here. I really want to let the people go, but God won't let me. No. He chose to rebel against God. He didn't want any parts of letting the people go. He willfully hardened his own heart. And at the same time, God hardened his own heart. He was unable to want anything else. It's kind of how we understand sin, right? Calvin has has famously said that sin is involuntary servitude. But by nature, you're a slave to your sin, and yet you also love it if you're honest. It's only the grace of God in Christ that comes and frees us from that. Really, the way to understand this, I'm convinced, is to understand it in light of what Paul says there in Romans 1. Where he goes on in verses 18 and following, he says, The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God, or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of God, of the immortal God, for images, resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping Things. Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, through the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worship and serve the creature. rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions. He goes on In verse 28 says, Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They persisted in rejecting God, so God simply gave them what they want. When we reject God, there's the warning that God may give us over to our sins. And and notice there everyone is without excuse. Though he had done so many signs, they still did not believe. Though the reality that God exists and ought to be worshipped is clear from the world he's made and from the way he governs it. And yet, many persist in unbelief and are given over to it. There's no tension in the mind of Scripture between God's sovereignty and human responsibility. Both are true. That's the first thing. The second thing I think we need to see is this this judicial hardening actually serves God's purposes in the history of salvation and in the unfolding of his plan. We've already seen in John this emphasis on Gentiles coming to faith in Christ. John 10, Jesus famously teaches, I'm the good shepherd. I've come to lay down my life for the sheep, but I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I'm going to go and gather them also, so there'll be one flock and one shepherd. The prophecy in John 11 is that Jesus would die for the nation, but not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. And even last week in John 12 we saw that there were many Greeks who were seeking Jesus. And Jesus attaches the promise that says, When he is lifted up, he will draw all people to himself. The question is, how does that happen? As we read the New Testament, it becomes clear that it happens because the Jews predominantly reject Christ, therefore the apostles go to the Gentiles. Right, Romans 11 makes it clear as Paul walks through that this is part of God's plan. The Jews would reject Christ. Making a way for the Gentiles. Many Gentiles come to faith, and it actually has the role of provoking some of the Jews to jealousy, so they come back into the faith. It's a wondrous mystery of God's plan of salvation, drawing all people to Himself. It's the same thing that happens, that's promised and prophesied by Hosea. Those who are my people will be called not my people. Those who are not my people will be called children of the living God. They could not believe because they were hardened. But it actually serves God's purposes to draw his people to himself from every tongue and tribe and nation and language. But I think it's also important to ask the question, what are they rejecting exactly? Right? Obviously they're they're rejecting Christ, but what's specifically about him? And so draw your attention to verse 41. Isaiah said these things Because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Isaiah there connects God's glory with Jesus. Jesus is the one who reveals God's glory, right? John has already said this in chapter 1. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory is of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. No one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him If you want to know what God is like, look to Christ. Jesus is the one who reveals God's glory, but also that Jesus is the one in whom we behold God's glory. And so the point that he's making Is that when Isaiah saw God's glory, he saw the glory of Christ, the eternal Son of God from the Father. And he cites that passage in Isaiah 6 of the throne room vision of God being high and lifted up and exalted. And also, curiously, Isaiah 53, the rejected suffering servant. You see, when Isaiah saw God's glory and spoke of Jesus, he's speaking of a suffering despised and rejected Savior who was lifted up on a cross, his shameful and disgraced form of death to die for his people, who was exalted but only after the cross. It's this wondrous mystery of a crucified Savior as the means by which God displays his glory that the people are rejecting. Right? Not because they didn't think That Christ was powerful, not because they didn't understand who he claimed to be, but because they didn't like what they saw. They despised a Savior who would die for his enemies rather than kill his enemies. Here's why this is all so important for us to understand. These verses show us clearly that unbelief is not an intellectual problem. And it's not an experiential problem. Right? Unbelief is not due to a lack of information or a lack of evidence, though both of those things are good. No, unbelief is sin. It's a suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. It's a rejecting the abundant information and evidence that God has already given. Given in his world through creation and providence, the world he's made and the world he preserves, and given in his word, where he reveals the promise of the gospel in Christ. And every one of us are without excuse for rejecting Christ. Just like we're slaves to sin by nature, so we are slaves to unbelief apart from Christ. Morally incapable of trusting Christ on our own. Unless the Spirit of God works in us to convince us of our sin and misery, to open our eyes and ears, to give us a new heart, taking out the heart of stone and giving us a heart of flesh, that to renew our wills and to give us the gift of faith. So that we can believe in him. Friends, here's the good news. That's the very thing that Christ loves to do, isn't it? To send his Spirit to bring dead sinners to life in Christ. To call us out of darkness into his marvelous light, to transfer us from the kingdom of darkness. to the kingdom of his son, to take out that heart of stone and give the heart of flesh and to give the gifts of faith. And he promises, if you ask, you will receive. If you seek him, you will find him. And if you knock, the door will be open. So if you're here this morning and you're not in Christ Put your trust in him. Ask him to give you faith, to help you see your sin and your need for a savior. Look to his death in your place. As the debt having been paid. That his resurrection is proof of your forgiveness and the promise of eternal life to all who trust in him. Turn from your sin and soften your heart, lest he harden it. If you are in Christ, if you're here this morning, knowing that you believe in Jesus, let this teaching make you humble as you remember where you would be without Christ. And how undeserving you and I are of the salvation that we've been given. And let it drive you to prayer For the salvation of unbelievers who you know and love. Because the same God who can harden sinners in unbelief is also the God who can soften hearts in faith and repentance. And the very reason that he's not come back yet, and that we're worshiping here on earth this Sunday morning instead of around the throne in heaven is because he still has people from every corner of the world to draw to himself whose hearts He wants to soften and guess what? He wants to use you to do it. Some of those people could be your friends and your co-workers, could be your parents, or your children, or your siblings. Keep praying for them. Keep proclaiming the gospel because faith comes by hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. Finally, if you're in Christ, let this give you a great assurance of your salvation. So many Christians struggle with a lack of assurance, wondering if they really possess the salvation they've been promised. But notice that this text says people could not believe because their hearts were hardened. See, faith is not the cause of a changed heart, it's the result of a changed heart. When you struggle, look to Christ. Who is he to you? Do you trust in him? Do you believe in him? If so, that means the Spirit has already regenerated you, has already changed your heart and given you the gift of faith. It's an encouragement to rest in the assurance of salvation. You didn't do anything to earn it. You just receive it passively. The first cause of unbelief is a hard heart. The second cause we see there in verses forty-two and forty-three. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him But for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. Here's the key. For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. Can't imagine a worse indictment to be said about us. You'll notice I say that's the second cause of unbelief. Some of these leaders believed but did not confess because they loved worldly glory. They love their position, they loved the praise from men, they loved their popularity, and they didn't want to be thrown out of the synagogue. There's some debate about whether this is weak faith or false faith. I tend to see it as false faith. See, John sometimes uses the word believe in his gospel. Even when he's talking about false faith. Right? We can think even back all the way to chapter 2, where people believed in Jesus because of his signs, and yet Jesus did not entrust himself to them because he knew what was in man. He knew that despite their profession to believe in him, that there was no genuine faith there. This passage does distinguish between uh open rejection of Christ in in the first few verses we looked at on the one hand and and this sort of belief that just isn't doesn't simply result in confessing Christ on the other hand, but I I think we need to see this faith is very, very questionable at best. And we would be right to be skeptical of the faith of anyone in such a situation. You would be right to question your own faith if this passage describes you. Because genuine faith leads to public profession Romans 10, Paul tells us: if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. Right? Confessing your trust in Christ is not some work that earns your salvation, but if you're not willing to confess it, you should ask if you really believe it. Jesus doesn't offer much hope for such a faith. He says in Matthew 10, verses 32 and 33, so everyone who acknowledges me before men, I will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father, who is in heaven. Jesus is saying there, if you aren't willing to confess me, don't expect me to be willing to confess you. They didn't want to lose their position or their popularity, and so they refused to confess Christ. I think it's important for us just to pause and ask, where am I tempted? Where are you tempted to do the same? I don't know all your stories or all the details of your life, but if you're anything like me, that is a common struggle. Every one of us every day faces the temptation to love the glory that comes from man. More than the glory comes from God. It's a glory we can see, it's a glory we can feel here and now. It's not off in the distance somewhere, hard to wrap our minds around, and it's so, so tempting. Friends, may Christ be more precious to us. than anything that we might lose by confessing him. May he be more precious than your reputation. May he be more precious than your friends. May he be more precious than your job or your families. May we be gripped by the glory of God. Be in awe of who he is, the one who is holy, holy, holy. Be in awe of what he's done. So in awe of him that we cannot imagine substituting any other glory in his place. Like Isaiah, willing to talk about that glory, even if we're rejected for it. What leads to unbelief. A little more briefly, look at verses 44 through 50 and see where unbelief leads. Last passage we said it it's Jesus' last public statement. And you'll notice so many of the themes we are things we've already discussed and seen over and over again in John's Gospel. It's almost as if John is kind of capturing a summary of Jesus' teaching to close out his public ministry. But here we see Jesus warning about the outcome of unbelief. First, he reminds everyone that he is one with the Father. To believe in him and to see him is to believe and see He is the one who makes the Father known because He's the one who from all eternity has dwelt at the right hand of the Father, God Himself in the flesh. And if to believe in him is to believe the Father, then the flip side is also true. To reject him is to reject the Father. He is the light of the world, the one who reveals God and makes him known. And he's the one who's come to carry out the mission that's been given to him by his father, a mission in his first coming to save sinners, not yet to execute judgment In his first coming, he's not there as a judge. He's there simply to come and live and die in the place of his people. But there will be a second coming. And on that day, all who reject him and disobey his word will be judged by the word that they rejected. Notice, it's the word that is the judge. What you believe about this book really, really matters. Do you view it the way Jesus does as the perfect word of God, free from error? Scripture itself, God speaking to you? Or is it simply just some collection of human books that offers thoughts about God? What you believe, how you answer that question, says a lot about where your faith is and the state of our souls. Because the word is what will judge us on the last day. The same gospel that is good news to those who repent and believe Also promises wrath and judgment on all who reject. See, Scripture is clear that every single one of us, you and I, are without excuse. But it's also clear through passages such as this that those with greater light will be judged with a greater strictness No one is without excuse whether you've heard the gospel or not, because God has revealed Himself in creation as the God who exists and deserves to be worshipped. And yet, those of us who come Members of a church sitting under the preaching of his word week in and week out. Friends, we will give account for what we've heard. You can't just listen to the preaching of God's word and expect not to give an account for it on the last day. You have to make a decision about the Christ that is preached to you week in and week out. Because Christ is coming back. And every one of us will be judged by how we live, and only those trusting in Christ through faith and repentance will be saved. And the rest, scripture is clear, will endure God's wrath. When Christ returns, all will know that He is God. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that He is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The question is, will we bow willingly or unwillingly? For those who believe and bow willingly, friends, you have the wonderful hope of looking forward to the promise of eternal life in Christ. Christ being vindicated on the day of judgment. Jesus will not hesitate to say, He is mine, she is mine, I died for them But unbelief, friends, leads nowhere good. See, passages like this are hard teachings. But they remind us that unbelief is a terrible thing. By giving us a theology of unbelief, this is a text It speaks to every single one of us, whether you do not believe in Christ or whether you're here this morning as a Christian struggling to believe and follow and trust in Christ and to love Him. And for each and every one of us, it reminds us that the solution is not more information or more evidence that Jesus is who he says he is. Those things are wonderful. But the only true solution is to be like Isaiah, to behold his glory, the glory of the only eternal Son of God, the one who is uncreated, unchanging. the one who dwells in unapproachable light. Friends, you can't see him and live. He is holy, holy, holy. Moses only saw his back. The angels And yet he is the image of the invisible God, the exact imprint of his nature, the one in whom the whole fullness of deity was pleased to dwell And yet, in spite of all that exalted glory, he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But he humbled himself and became a man. A servant, not just any servant, but a suffering servant who suffered and died in the place of sinners, who was crushed for our iniquities. My friends, by his wounds, we are healed. And now he has been highly exalted. Given the name that is above every name, the name of the King of kings and the Lord of Lords that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow. And every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Friends, if you are struggling with unbelief, if your faith is weak, If you don't know Christ, look to Him. Behold His glory. Believe in Him and confess Him and rest in the assurance of your salvation. Let's pray together. Oh God, we believe. But would you help our unbelief? Lord, our faith is so weak at times. And even for us who believe and our faith is weak, we also know there are many who do not know you, Lord. And God, how we long to see you glorified by bringing people to repentance and faith. We long, Lord Jesus, to see you have your inheritance of a people from every nation and tribe and language. Oh Lord God, may your kingdom come. May your will be done. On earth as it is in heaven. May your kingdom come in the hearts and lives of us and in our community and our family and our friends. People bowing their knees to Christ and confessing Him as Lord. And oh God, would you be pleased to use us in that wonderful mission? And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.