Um this is from Acts four thirty-two through five through eleven. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own. But they had everything in common. And with great power, the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. Jesus and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what they had sold. who was also called by the apostles Barnabas, which means son of encouragement, a Levite, a native of Cyprus, sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet Here comes a man named Anias and his wife Sophia Sapphira sold a piece of property And with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostles But Peter said, Anias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your When Aeneas heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came upon all who heard of the The young men who rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him. And Peter said to her, Tell me whether you sold the land for so much. And she said, Yes, for so much. But Peter said to her, How is it that you have agre agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out. Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last ye When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. Amen. Please be seated. Thank you. Um before I start two quick things. Uh I want to make sure I do this every once in a Bethany, you do such a great job of singing, not today. You don't have a voice, um, but picking out the songs it's are really thankful. Thank you for everyone who sings and plays, uh the sound team, even making slides. You know, it it doesn't just all just happen. People have to do these things. So thank you. We all agree. Thank you. Great. Uh the second quick thing is in two weeks it's Pentecost. Now I do Bob did mention, you know, that's also the Orioles game, so we have this like red-orange dilemma. But you could r wear red and orange, because it's like fire. But if you're gonna go to the game, I suggest you could change your clothes I know that's a brilliant idea. And also, I I mentioned this, so I want to say it out loud, that uh I would like if you can read in another language. So you don't have to know these words in your heart. You can stand up with your phone, whatever. And what I would like to do is we get to hear some of Acts 2. It's um verses thirty-eight and thirty-nine. It's Peter's response when after he preaches, people say, What shall we do? And he tells them. Repent. And believe this covenant is for you and for your children. It's a beautiful verse. And so I would like for us to maybe read it in different languages. I'm not going to over program this. So uh the way it'll happen is you'll decide that you're gonna do it, and we'll just all stand up and we'll go in a a circle. So you'll be able to see who's next, right? It'll probably take five minutes. This is only two verses. Okay? I will go first. Gives you a chance to learn a new language in the next two weeks That's right. Duolingo. Okay, Acts five and a little bit of Acts four. Last week we talked in the bulk of Acts 4 about Peter and John and the persecuted church, the beginning of the persecuted church. And this was ri that was really one of the lightest persecutions we're gonna get. They were sort of like detained, arrested for a little bit, and then let go. It gets worse than that for sure. And we talked about how they also were bold and they prayed for boldness. And now we're going to move into the end of Acts 4 and the end of Acts 5. Before that, I want to mention Julian. Julian was only six years old. One day in the car, he asked his father, What happens when a person stays underwater, Dad? The dad paused. He says, Well what do you think, Julian? And Julian answered, She becomes a mermaid. Hold that. Let's just get this out of the way first in Acts five. We can dispense with the notion And you've heard people say this: the God of the Old Testament is judgy and mean, but the God of the New Testament is nice and wonderful and gracious. That is not true, is it? We worship the same God. He is the same God all the way through. God judges sin and God gives grace. And the wages of sin is death. And most of the time you don't get it right away. But you could. We also talked about in the last few weeks that this act stuff, the church is not boring. Here's another place. The church is not boring. We talked about last week. What if the police came in and arrested us? That would be exciting. Terrible but exciting. What if people started dropping dead in church? That would be terrible and exciting. But mostly terrible, right? It's always y you remember you've been at weddings when uh one of the bridesmaids Falls, locks knees, and it's like, oh wow, this is exciting. I feel terrible for her, but I'm happy to watch it happen. What's gonna happen next, right? Okay, so we serve the same God as they did, and we have the same hero, Jesus. So point one, what we all want. What we all want is this beautiful, beautiful end of Acts 4. It's amazing, isn't it? this persecuted church, this bold church, and this unified church. They have everything in common. The things that belonged to him was their earth. They had everything in common. They had great power. There was no needy person. They brought the proceeds of what was sold and they distributed it. So we have this one heart, one soul church, this intimate This friendship. They're on mission together. They're genuine. They're authentic. 433, and with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. That sounds wonderful. Warren and I were talking before church that there's so many places in Acts where you see miracles. People You know, w they just healed this beggar. This is a miracle too, isn't it? This is a supernatural miracle. You do not see this. These are people like you and me So yeah, it's a miracle too. And that's powerful. Caring for each other spiritually, materially. Physically, emotionally, liquefying assets and giving them to where needed most. It's a wonderful church, isn't it? I was at St. Mary's this week. I'm taking classes up there sometimes. And I ran into somebody who I know, who you know, Galen Zook. Anyone remember Galen? He worked at UMBC and he and he was asking me how I was going. And he said, you know, I've been to Grace Several times. I I was one of the people they sponsored, so I stood there and I said, Oh that's great. How'd it go? And he said, Oh that's That church is wonderful. Everyone was so kind and so friendly and so genuine. And having been to lots of churches to raise money, that's not always True. And so I was proud for you. I was proud for us. It's wonderful to hear that. A real community, loving each other, talking to each other, greeting each other, helping each other. Real care, getting help and giving help. Giving help and getting help. If you need help, it's good to get help. Don't be embarrassed to ask. I know we all want to be doing everything on our own. That's not always true. That's not always possible. What we all want is to be in communities like that. Now, what we all fear, because keep reading. It does not last too long, does it? It it it it abruptly changes. Barnabas, Levi, Cyprus, sold the field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it up at the apostles' feet. But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphirah sold a piece of property, and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself. Now I did look up some Ananias and Sapphire's pictures. I got a couple here People like to draw this. It's very dramatic, right? So there's Anna Ananias, I guess. Uh what's the next one? Oh, ooh And then I found some cartoony ones. A little less scary. Well that still sort of scary. It makes them look mean and terrible, right? They deserved it. And then then there's this one Oh cute. There you go, that's what they look like. A mashup of all those things. In chapter four, we talked about Satan, really, persecuting the church from outsiders. In chapter five, we talk about Satan persecuting the church from insiders. Right? It's jarring to go from this beautiful picture of community and service to this picture. And we have every thought that these are believers There's no indication that they're not. We don't know how old they are, we don't know how healthy they are, but they seem fine. Ananias, that name means the Lord is gracious. Sapphira, her name means beautiful. And they do what this Barabbas guy, Barnabas guy, had just done, liquefy their assets. To bring to the apostles. But they don't bring all of it. Now, you know, I I think Think about this all week, and to me, I don't think this is super bad. There's way worse things going on than this, isn't there? And somehow Peter knows this. Somehow Peter knows. And he says what he confronts him, and when Ananias heard these words he fell down and breathed his last, and a great fear came above the early and the other thing. But from all who heared it. Boom! Ananias is out. Three hours later, same thing. Sapphira comes in not knowing what happened, she fesses up. Uh it is a odd a little odd though, right? Tell me whether you sold the land for so much. And she said yes for so much. I don't know how that conversation exactly went. Um, but she the same thing happens to her, right? Boom. This couple, they both die on the same day. And what happens to the church when they know about this? There's great fear. I bet. I bet. Um what is the wages of sin? Yeah. We most of the time, let's be honest, we would say we know this verse, but we would say the wages of sin is no big deal. No big deal. We brush it off, we blow it off, hey this didn't get on the news This won't count against me really. But God says the wages of all sinners is death. Now, let's I think it also means death to relationships. It hurts There's a lot of ways death can come out. In other words, it has effects. Sin has effects. Honesty has effects. Integrity has effects. Industry. Charity. Fidelity. These all matter, and none of us do it perfectly. And here we are seeing greed, keeping some back. We've talked before about how Satan whispers things to us and we listen. And here Satan's whispering, don't give it all. You need more than what they ask. What you have is not enough. Oh, okay. So we have greed, we have lying, and we have hypocrisy. It it sure seems like they want to be seen like Barnabas That had just happened in that paragraph that had just happened. And so they seeing that said, okay, well we can do that But but they don't do it the same way. Because we know in verse 3, but Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? And to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land. Satan. Satan talked to you. And you believed it. I I also think it didn't have to go down this way. Now what if they had come to Peter and said, you know, oh Peter I'm gonna give this much instead of this much. Let's if we're honest about our uh you know they can have a talk about it. Instead of posing, posing. And and it's hard to be honest sometimes, isn't it? It's not Not always easy to tell the truth. And we think no one will notice. But really, lying breaks relationships It breaks trust. It's at the core of trust. Deceit breaks relationship. Deceit is a distortion of reality. Deceit is trying to take a situation and bend it to our will. Our will. And we become people of the lie. It sears our conscience. God's given us all a conscience. And when we sear that conscience, start ignoring it, going the other way It's not like a car dummy light. That will always go off. It's like once you start ignoring it, it fades away. It stops beeping. And you don't even notice. So there's different types of war There's the the type of war we think of in the Civil War, which you know would happen for thousands of years, where you line up and you shoot each other. And then there's the type of war that's a war from the hidden There's a reason we know Benedict Arnold's name. He's a very minor character. But he got named It it's sort of like now what we're talking about are these tunnels that have been dug where you they can people can pop up and no one notice where they It's like filling a place with propaganda. So you think differently Another example would be cancer, where your body attacks you from the inside. And to get rid of it, you have to nuke yourself to the brink. That's how dangerous it is. And so we get attacked from the outside and then we hurt ourselves From the inside. And you've been around long enough to know church hurt is real and it hurts These betrayals, this abuse, the sin. But God knows And God sees, and God judges, and he will make it right. I'm not really talking about political reparations, but there will be reparations. in this world for all of this wrong. There will be restitutions. Sometimes that is slow and sometimes it's instant Now, this is what we fear. What would do we all need? Because honestly, right, we're in some trouble here There's no one who's a hundred percent holy, a hundred percent generous, a hundred percent obedient. Obedient, a hundred percent truth telling, I'd be the first to go. Boom. And we want to say, God, be tolerant with me. Take it out on him, take it out on her, but be be okay with me, right? But God doesn't ignore sin. All sin is an affront to God, isn't it? We often think God's ways are silly. And we often forget there is a Satan. And what is Satan doing? Lying. Lying. Enticing, crouching. Satan doesn't very often come straight at you around the bend. And we have discipline. Things happen sometimes in church. I'll never forget Julie and I have been married Um three, four years. And we had this sort of weird year. We had been in Stillwater doing ministry and we were going to seminary, but we had one year in Nebraska. And that was our first time we joined a PCH And not very long we had been there, so we didn't know what was going on. There was a church discipline case. And there had been a marriage, infidelity, and the husband was being excommunicated from the church. Declared not a Christian. Now, of course, he was not there. He didn't care what they said. He thought that was all crazy. I had never seen anything like this before, and it scared me to death These people are serious about marriage. I need to be nice to Julie all the time. I mean, I don't know how far this goes. Now of course that's not the reason to be nice to Julie. But it was in my mind And I have been on the end of disciplining and excommunicating pastors. It is awful. And it is necessary. To see consequences sometimes, to have accountability, to have discipline. It is not good if we get to do and say and eat And think whatever we want, with no consequences. It's sort of called death And people do it all the time. We're all somewhat of a narcissist. We all think very highly of ourselves, right? Now I'm not saying the solution is knuckle wrapping In class, because you did one little thing wrong. Somebody thinks it's terrible. Whack! Every single thing, every single thing you get. But God takes sin. Seriously. Okay, now here's the good news. And How does the verse really go? The wages of sin is death. Is that the end? No. How does it go? But The grace of God, the gift of God, is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Now to to make this point because we know this, I want to look at one little small thing in the rest of chapter five, because we're not going to cover all this. It's sort of similar to what happened in Chapter four. This time they get beaten, so it's getting worse, right? Look at verse 33. When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them. What does Peter say? Verse 29. We must obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree. This is very similar to chapter 4. God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witness to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. This is all very familiar territory, except Peter does say one unusual thing here. He says God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior. We've heard savior a lot. That's familiar. Savior. This word leader though It's Archagos. It's prince. It's trailbraiser. It's someone who's standing in the gap, in the breach, and fighting for us. It's somebody who says, I got this. That word is the word for hero. It's unusual. Hero. And they would have heard that word as hero. And there are lots of heroes, aren't they? Achilles, Hercules These Roman heroes. Maybe the Jewish people would have thought of Moses or David. They're probably thinking about Greek and Roman heroes. They're this in the culture. And Peter uses this imagery on purpose. And it is not true that we don't need another hero. You go to any movies and it's filled with heroes, right? I mean the Marvel Universe. How many heroes we need? I didn't know there were so many. Harry Potter is a hero, isn't he? Barbie is a hero. A weird one. We are desperate for heroes. We cannot get enough of heroes. And here Peter says, Jesus is the hero. Amen. He's the leader. He's the savior. He knows and he cares and he fights. And he's at war with Satan and he's at war with sin and he will win. He's the king of kings, the prince of priests, the Alpha Omega. He sits at God's right hand and he judges the living and the dead. This leader, hero, holds a sword, rides a horse. And forgives sins, it shows mercy to the repentant, to those he calls to himself, to his children, to his bride. This hero forgives greedy. People like me who hold back. We're all some sort of a hoarder I'm going back to visit my mom in Missouri and Julie's doing that too and um When we moved here we probably brought a third of our stuff, gave away or sold a third of our stuff, and a third of our stuff is in my mom's garage And she said, I'm gonna sort through it and throw some of it away. No I need those things I don't even know what's there. I can think of that probably about three things I know that are there that I would eventually bring here. And then there's Fifty tubs of books. I want those books It will hurt my soul to not have those books in that garage. Never looked at ever again. So I'm Jesus forgives greedy people like me. Jesus forgives liars like me. We all blunt the truth at least. It's like, okay, maybe not as an outright lie, but I'm gonna exaggerate how good that was, or I'm gonna exaggerate that wasn't that bad Jesus forgives hypocrites, imposers like me. We get all gussied up and we're polite Like we're going on a date, so we're on our best behavior. You're not gonna go on a date and say, Oh, you know the real me? I'm gonna tell you a first date. That doesn't work so good, does it? It may be actually good advice, honestly. Tell me your deal breaker right off the bat. Okay, we can make this work. Jesus forgives hurtful people like me when I've said things that cut to the core or I've left unsaid things I shouldn't have said. Jesus forgives people who nurse grudges and won't forgive like me I don't know the last time you made a big move. But if you haven't, one of the things that's nice about it is when you sort of realize you're leaving town in a month month and you say that on Facebook or whatever. If we have a problem with each other, let's meet up. So I can say I'm sorry And I had those meetings. Those are hard meetings. But it feels better to be right with each other than to leave town and never talk Talk about this ever again. I know I've hurt people. I know it. I would want to be forgiven and to ask for forgiveness So in some sense, we are Ananias and Sapphira, aren't we? And our hope is not in ourselves. We have a hero. We have a prince. We have a savior. And God put the wages of sin on him. So we could have no debts in life to be set free by his blood. Jesus paid it all. He got the wrath, he got the fury, he got the death, he got the loneliness, he got the abandonment. And there are times when we follow him in that. Same thing. It's not easy when it happens. Heroes give up stuff. Heroes sacrifice. Heroes use what they have to give to someone else. Remember Julian? What happens if someone stays underwater? His mom, Rihanna, she was a very spectacular athlete. And um perfect health. Never quit. Had a tattoo on her wrist that said, it's a new day, not a new fight. Go at it. She moved to Costa Rica with Julian before her husband, father, could come down. So they were getting things ready. She was going to teach So they didn't have a lot to do, so they ended up spending a lot of time at the beaches. She was a great athlete, he loved to swim, and one day they went out a little too far and got caught And they were in trouble. Two guys had been Planning on surfing, they saw this happen. Took them 30 minutes to get out there. And she is fighting and battling every second for 30 minutes. They get to get to Julian. He's being Bizoura out of the water because he's standing on her shoulders They grab him and she goes. Couldn't do any more. That's a hero, right? A sacrifice. Three months later in the car, in the same conversation Julian told his dad, I worked really hard to save mommy. And dad said you did your best. She wanted you to be safe That's a hero. It's a picture of our hero. We want to be loved By someone like that who will sacrifice for us. We are so afraid of being exposed as a fraud But we need a savior, a redeemer. She gave her life for her son. She could have saved herself, right? That's not what a hero does. Jesus, man. What a hero. Amen?