You know, uh Julie and I, and there's a few others of you, are Gen Xers. Not a ton I don't know if Gen X was in the church. Uh this church. Um so Gen X is really people born around 1965 to around 1980 It's a little loose. Sometimes uh you know it depend on your family. Like you could have been born in nineteen sixty-six but your parents were super boom And so you sort of slid over to the boomers, right? It could be that you were a little bit after that, but your pants were a little more genetic, so you Stay Gen X, or maybe you sort of became a millennial. So it's just a it's just a way to group people, right? And the Gen Xers have um reputation of being the forgotten generation, latchkey kids, have A reputation for being cynical and self-reliant. They're smaller in size than the boomers or the millennials. And Julie and I have picked up and been watching Stranger Things. Stranger Things. And Stranger Things is Gen X nostalgia big time. Um Some of you maybe didn't grow up in 1986 as a freshman high school. It's like exactly where we were. They're wearing the exact clothes we wore, all of it, listening to all the same music. So that may have not been you, but you might have had younger siblings were that way? Or You might have kids who are that way. So if you watch the show, and I'm not saying you should watch it, you'll think to yourself, oh yeah, those are my kids. Idiots. Running around unsupervised. Finding monsters, sure. I mean playing Dungeons and Dragons. Um one of the things in the show is cassette tapes. Oh and you know it's like in nineteen ninety nine you have a thousand cassette tapes in your garage and you think to yourself I can't bear to give these away. I remember I would look for people that still had a cassette tape player in their car and say Please take these five hundred Tim Keller sermons. And people like Nah. Are insane. No one wants to carry these around. So these songs that and they're all in the show, you know. Some of these I'm going to mention aren't in the show. Madonna, of course, Wham, Dire Streets, Guns N' Roses, Black Sabbath, and Petra Amy Grant, Michael W. Smith, Steve and Curtis Chapman, right? And one song came to my mind while I was working on this Came out in 1985 by simple minds. Will you stand above me, look my way, never love me? Will you recognize me, recognize me, call my name, or walk by? Don't Don't you forget about me. That's a good one. Uh another way to ask that question, Simple Minds, would be um, does anyone care? Are you gonna pass me by? I feel passed by all the time. I in some sense it's that moment when you when you realize you have an intat inattentive person and An innovative waiter? When is that what? I haven't seen this person in a while. Innovative accountant? All of a sudden I can't get a hold of you. In a tent of boyfriend? In a tent of church where maybe you can walk in and no one knows your name. That's not true here, right? But some people People want that. But then when you get that, you no one knows if you've gone missing. Um sometimes you walk into maybe a hotel and it's like you you know they're on break. Or someone's using the restaurant, but eventually like I always think I'm gonna take stuff. But I don't take stuff. Okay. Um so we're talking in this little series at the beginning of the year here about church stuff Okay. And if you have it nearby or you can grab it, we don't do this very often. I want you to grab a Trinity Hymnal. I've got more. I've put a bunch of them away because there were like a billion out there. And turn to page 845. Or or you can just look this up. You don't have to I mean this is Just work round. Okay. I mean I've just this is just an illustration. You don't have to do this, right? Page eight forty-five, though, is what? The Apostles' Creed. We've been saying the Apostles' Creed. Apostles Creed every week, haven't we? We should know this. This is like the core essentials of Christianity. Okay, turn the page. The nicing creed Ah! Amazing, a little more complex, a little bit a little more mysterious in some ways. And then page 847, dear to every Presbyterian's Heart, when you take John Calvin into your life, you know the Westminster Confession of Faith. But then look at that. Oh my. We've gone way past one page, and then there's a shorter catechism. This is how all the stuff you should know from that. And they didn't even include the larger catechism. And I just remind you the shorter catechism Catechism is for kids. Look at the larger catechism sometimes and just think about memorizing that. Now also think you didn't have an iPhone You didn't have anything else to do. So your attention span might have been a little higher. And the Westminster Confession of Faith is not required to be attention. Christian. I would say the Apostle Creed and the Nicene Creed, you're gonna have a hard time being a Christian if you're gonna not believe that stuff. But there's plenty of Christians in the world that don't believe the Westminster Confession of Faith. But I think it's a wonderful. I do believe it. 99. 9% of it. It was written in the 1640s, so yeah Okay, so when I'm talking about the church and church stuff, what I want to make very clear is I'm not talking about this. It's not because I don't think it's important. It's not because I don't think it's foundational. It's not because I don't think it's essential. I do. It is. Okay, I'm I'm starting with like, okay, yes, this is the baseline. Can't be a church without these first two. You can't be a PCA church without this next one. Okay, these are foundational documents. So I'm not really doing A series on the church about the divinity of Christ. I'm saying, yes, the virgin birth, yes, the inerrancy of the scriptures, a hundred percent. The bodily resurrection. And you know, to be honest, there are a lot of churches that don't believe those things, and I I would say they're not true churches. What I'm talking about in these weeks would be the characteristics or postures of the church. Because you can hold the Nicene Creed and you can hold the the Apostles' Creed and not care about people. You you can hold those and not care about outreach. You you can care about those and not ever read the Bible. Right? So I'm talking about the characteristics, postures, and outlooks of the church. And I'm also saying they're often very aspirational They're not just, yes, we got these down. So we talked about how the the church should tell stories of rescue. We should be looking for lost people, praying for lost people. And then admitting that we are and have been lost people. So we tell stories of rescue, right? We long to worship together. But not everybody does that. But as a church we should say, oh, I want to go to worship. Together. It's important for my life. We do humbly look for Jesus in the scripture. We don't just read the scripture as a history book or like cool little factoids. We look for Jesus. In the Old Testament. Talk about that. And we celebrate where God is at work and we lament at trouble. We're not flat stoics. We're not um theological brains that can pass a multiple choice test on naming the disciples. Well not bad to do. Okay, we're we're celebrating we're we're emotionally involved, including with the things that we know and experience, right? And so today we're talking about something that we don't always do well, but churches should talk about, try to, and that's caring. The church should care well. And there are many gaps, and there are many reasons, and there are many excuses why we don't. Acts six. Remember at the end of the Gospels Jesus Rose from the dead. It's pretty important. And then when you turn the page from the Gospels, Jesus is alive. Walking the earth. Doing miracles. People raised from the dead. People saw him. People touched him. Right? And then, so now we're talking about Acts 1. We we went through this a couple years ago. Acts one, he talks and he preaches. And then he ascends into heaven to return someday. And then the Holy Spirit comes Um the Holy Spirit's been around. This isn't the first appearance of the Holy Spirit, but it comes in a little fuller way, more uh a different Way, a more realized way. And um Peter preaches, right? And it was a couple amazing things and we're I'm gonna get to this in a second, but if you look at uh Acts 241, those who received the word were baptized, and they were added that day about three thousand souls. It's like a Billy Graham revival, right? So so so let's go to our pat passage, right? And I'm gonna gff The very end here in verse seven, Acts six, verse seven, it's in your bulletin. And the number of disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests, that means uh Jewish priests, Sadducees. Mostly probably became obedient to the faith. Awesome! Oh so many awesome things. The church is growing, people are sharing. Um there are converts and there are miracles and we're gonna go forward from here some in the fall and talk about some more of these But there were also arrests, disagreements, and even deaths It sounds like the church a big mix of a bunch of weird stuff. There were con Conversations, there were meetings, there were decisions, there were disappointments, there were good changes, and there were bad changes. And in our passage today, what we read is some people went overlooked. Right? Chapter six verse one. Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, that's awesome. A complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. Not awesome. So you got these Helenists. Apparently there are a lot of people named Helen. If we were to be in this situation we'd probably say The Janites we have Janises and Janets, a lot of Janises and Janits, right? So the Janites got math. They've been overlooked. No, that's Uh it's always nice to have a little bit of history because the Bible is rooted in history. When we take it out of history we we can think of it a little bit like a you know Star Wars Wars universe or Harry Potter World or Lord of the Rings world a and and you know, they have maps for all that. No, this is actually in the world, the real world. And in the real world, the reason why they're called Hellenists is because that's That's the word for Greece and Greek people in Greek. And the Greek um people or Pretty small, but they were very influential. If you just a little bit of history, uh Alexander the Great, amazing, amazing. He died in 323 BC. That's sort of the beginning of when the Greek states became more influential and powerful. Just remember, Cleopatra died in 30 BC. That sort of is a little bit of a bookend to when that was a very key part of history. history where where the Greek this Hellenistic influence spread. And the Greek Hellenistic influence was the arts, literature, theater. Architecture, music, math, philosophy, science, translations. It translated the Old Testament into Greek? No I don't think anyone else did that. And then so the Greek that Greek philosophy of life, that Greek um mindset about The world then got connected to the Romans, and the Romans went everywhere Now, two important things then. So the Hellenists, as Luke puts it, are Greek-speaking Jews. Um, that means they would be looked down on by the traditionalist. And if you're in Jerusalem, you're around a lot of traditionals. You're not far flung like we've talked about. We talked about uh Jews in Persia, but Many times. It's not like that. You're in the epicenter of Jewishness. And you're a Hellenist? It may be sort of like Um like really hardcore Amish. And then they're like, not super hardcore Amish Still sort of Amish. Moving toward Mennonite. Uh and then like the Amish people like, no. No electricity, no buggy. I'm only buggies, all that stuff. I don't know. I think that's probably Okay, so it's sort of like that, it's like a fusion a little bit. But Luke is making a big point in the book of Acts and this is a little tiny marker that's gonna get more done later. But he's he's made this point already because if you remember Acts one eight. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you eight And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. And a little bit of what Luke is saying is, you know, even in Jerusalem there's people that aren't like You. And chapter 8 is going to be super important. But this is a little precursor. So number one, these are Hellenist. Number two, they're widows. Hellenist widows. Oh, you know, I would say it's not easy to be the widow in twenty twenty-six in America. It's certainly not the easy to be the widow in other places in the world, but it's a whole different story in 3080 A whole different story in the Old Testament comes up time and time again. Tough, tough, tough. And so they've been neglected by the daily Distribution. Somehow they're being overlooked, and they go to the complaint department, the actual disciples. Don't don't don't you forget about me. And we don't know if this is our first complaint, hundredth complaint, thousandth complaint Complaint? You know, it's interesting to think then what it's like um if you're a Hellenistic widow in Jerusalem when all this is happening, if you're a What's it like to be a blank person in a blank situation? A single black mom in a church filled with white nuclear families. What's it like to be a a nerd in a school of jocks? Or the opposite? What's it like to be a person struggling With same-sex attraction in a very conservative church. What's it like I I spent a weekend as a white Presbyterian pastor and everyone else was a black Baptist pastor. That was a little interesting. And so so so they're processing this and you know um the the disciples, the people here they could say, like, yo, we're too busy and we're too important. Have you not read the Gospels? No, we haven't read the Gospels, you know. They don't exist. Um But no, they don't say that. They say this is important. They say this is important. You're important. And I'm not good at everything. I don't think they're saying I'm too busy exactly, but they're saying I'm not good at everything. And I don't I don't think what happens next is that difficult to understand. So verse two. And the twelve summoned the full number of disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching in the Word of God to serve tables. Well, it's not right that they should give up preaching in the Word of God the word of God at all. But there's a limited amount of time today, and I don't think they're saying it's more important. I don't think so. Therefore, brothers, pick out brothers and it's really brothers and sisters. Therefore, brothers and sisters, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the spirit and wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. But we'll devote ourselves to prayer and the ministry of the word. Okay, so so so now we're talking about deacons. And preachers. And what I'm my big point is these are overlapping roles. It's a Venn diagram that's not split apart. like this. They they are very they're not the same but they're overlapping roles, right? And so they pick out seven people Of good reputation, spirit-filled people, wise people and male people, servants. Okay, and this is the word that we have. Servants is the word because we're going to serve them right. Um this is where we get where we get the word deacon. So the classic text on deacons. Um there is a text in Roman that there is a woman named a deacon. Deacon means servant. It does seem like this these people were set apart in some way. But I don't think this is a passage that's really gonna get us into the book of church order. Order chapter I think nine on the office of deacons. It it's it's in that spot, but but I don't think that's what they were doing. The way we would think of it doing it right um and this isn't really a big lecture on chapter nine and the office of deacons um They're servants with overlapping roles. And you know, I say I say overlapping roles because who is the first person And they elect verse 5. And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith, and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus Canor, Timon, and Parminus, and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch. So they pick these dudes. And then what happens next? Well, Stephen Steve and Steve Stephen preaches. So Stephen just preaches right off the bat. So in our brains, sort of like our PCA brains, like, no, that's not a deacon. So I'm saying the overlapping roles. It it it and if you want a good um picture of overlapping roles of a deacon and an elder, how they're not like this Look at our church. But look at what art talks about. Art is an elder. a deacon. Tyson's a deacon. Tyson can teach. Right? He's got authority. John and Mark are elders. Now they sort of crazy. All the time. They don't say no oh sorry, that's our job. Boot Tyson. Now they do say, hey, let's call it Tyson. That is true, because we're not good at everything, but they're good at that stuff. They are servants, right? You have to be a servant because we're talking about shepherds and deacons, shepherds and servants. And And so then if we pull back, and I say it's not just about the ordination vows in the Book of Church Order, you all shepherd people. We know this. I've made this point many times. You go to ESL, that's shepherds and deacons right there. Teachers and servants. Sunday school class. Teachers and servants. And in so many ways, like art made a perfect illustration, bowing the knee to do something, to serve people is what Jesus did. And you care so many times in so many ways. Not at Um caring well, you know, whatever our roles are means loving God and loving people. It means uh sometimes calling or texting or emailing. It means uh thinking about and we don't all think about 'em all, um what it might be to care for men and women. Widows, singles, teenagers, kids, teens, college students, neighbors. And we don't all have to serve them all the same, and we don't have to serve them all the time. And sometimes we have a particular connection to somebody, so we we get it more and sometimes it's like it's weirdly the opposite connection where you get it. That just works in mysterious ways. And so so these are great. Now when we care about people, we also do need to have some policies and some procedures This is the reason why we have a child protection policy, right? It's not because we have a policy, it's because we want to care for people We want them to be safe and well protected. So how do you do that? You don't just think, wow, it'll be fine. What happened in the 80s. But but on the other hand, this also it's not a ordination lecture, it's also not a customer service speech. This gets me to my second point here. The first point is a caring church. Okay, the second point is we serve a caring Christ. Where to be at us caring church we need to know that we serve a caring Christ because there are so many times when we really ask are you there Is anybody around this location that can help me? When I pick up the phone, is it just blank? Um we asked this question at school, at home, at work, at jail. I had a member of my church, and this is a whole lot Long huge story, but um he he had been released from prison. He'd been in prison for two twenty-five years. He was only forty-two. Forty three. He went in prison when he was eighteen. He got out of prison and uh it's not easy to be out of prison. When you haven't driven a car in twenty five years and the high every changed and and he found himself back in prison it was a long story and he found himself back in prison right before COVID did You know what happened to my friend Philip? He sat in that jail for a long time because no one cared to get him out. They didn't have judges, they didn't have the processes, they didn't have the procedures. It sort of wasn't anyone's fault, but yeah, he was asking the question Let me know if I'm gonna be here or not. I'm just like in a holding pattern forever. Finally, someone from our church who who had been an attorney general at a deputy Or an assistant attorney finally was able to get through because he cared about Philip. And that's powerful. It's powerful when a lost person gets found. When a lost person gets cared for, when Joyce finds Hopper, when the lost sheep gets found and lost in Luke 15, when that lost coin gets found in Luke Luke 15. When that lost son gets found in Luke 15, right? Those are powerful stories. Because someone cared to look. Who cares about a sheep? I got ninety-nine more. Ah Coins find more. I'll make more. Sons, I got two. You know, we've lost in our, I was looking up these paintings we've lost, these treasures that we've lost. Um could you imagine if someone ever found the Ark of the Covenant? I don't think that's gonna happen. But could you imagine what would happen if we lost the Declaration of Independence? It's like the most precious document of our nation. What's the good news is we serve a God who lives And if you just want to remember you know Already did this, big dummy. Uh Philippians two. Wanna turn to Philippians two It's a whole it's a whole passage right about caring and it talks about stuff to do. Talks about stuff for us to do as a church, a people. Christian people. So if there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation of the Spirit, any affection and something, complete my joy by being in the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord in one mind And there's stuff not to do. Do nothing out of selfless ambition or conceit, but in humility, consider others more significant than yourself. Let not each of you look to your own interest, but also the interests of others Have this mind among yourselves which is which is yours in Christ who Though he was in the form of God, did not equate equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by Taking the form of a servant. And being born in the likeness of man and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. That's what you preached already. But I just this is important Remember I don't do Greek that often although I've done it a little more than I thought I would. So that word for uh servant, remember the word uh for servant is deconate. That's deaconus. That's where you do Straight. In our text here in Philippians 2. 7, but he emptied himself by taking the form of his servant. Oh, that's the Achanas. No, that's not the Achanas. That word right there is doolos. And do los is not a servant. Dulos If you want to be nice as a bond servant, what's a bond servant? Well, you can maybe say it's an indentured servant Someone who put himself or herself into servitude, but really its slave. Voluntary slavery. Um Dulos' word is a word that's used 125 times in the New Testament. Remember I told you that when I was in seminary I had this great plan um to minister to St. Louis Cardinals ticket holders season ticket holders 82 games at Cardinals Games. And the only way to administer to season Cardinals, season ticket holders is to be one yourself. I've made this point many times. Many times. Just think. I want to put myself into this position. I'll do it for the Orioles too. I'm happy to. I'm happy to. I can do a whole section. Whole section. I can move on to another section. Right during I can stand up during inning swaps. But but do you know Johan Leonhan Dober and David Nichman in the nineteen thirties, these are Moravian guys, German dudes, missionaries. And they sold themselves into slavery at St. Thomas. St. Troy. How can I minister to these people? I've got to become one of them. That's A whole nother thing. Jesus Christ, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, something to be grasped. So that er every so that the name of the Jesus every knee should bow in heaven on earth and under the earth and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus is not just our example of service. He's the Savior. He's the Redeemer. And our Redeemer lives. And there are many times w when you will feel like now let's talk about application, right? First application is Jesus is the reason he's the he's the Savior He's the reason we're here the second was we need to be a caring church right And it can be like you see that and you're like No way. I think a good example of this is the Olympics, right? The Olympics we last Olympics and you know. Um y I think to myself a lot of times, well I might get last place in the event but I know how to play basketball. You know? I mean I played basketball. I've played it's over the winter. I've skied many times. I've jumped a foot. Okay, that's a ski jump. I mean okay, I'd get a zero point one, fine. Um I've hi I've played hockey, I've shot guns, not shot guns on skis, but I think I could do that. Curling doesn't look that hard. I mean we could play I I I am unsure if I could stay on a bobsled to go down, but I would have a big huge thing and I just slow myself down. So I would go an inch at a time. I could make it down that bobsleds. We go you go to go scroll to summer, right? Okay. I already said I can go to basketball. I can wrestle I've run a marathon. I pole vaulted in high school for a week. I jumped high jump, I jumped triple jump, I can jump over a hurdle, I've ridden horses, um, I've played tennis, I played squash, my son bet me that I Couldn't sit on a row on a skull, you know, and they're like this wide for he thought I couldn't go for a minute. I went ten whole minutes sitting on a thing No, I did sit on a thing. Oh, but you know, there is one thing. When I watch gymnastics I I don't know that I could walk across that balance beam at all. I when I was in high school, I worked with the cheerleaders To learn how to do a flip, a backflip? I spent months. No way. I didn't even get close. They all would stop. They wouldn't help me anymore. Like we we We refuse. This is the biggest waste of our time. And that's saying something in Ozark High School. And so I do think that we uh we look at that stuff And we just like, I can't serve. Like if this is what we're talking about, if this is what Jesus does, it's just too far out there. My last one, so I get two illustrations at the end here. So that I'm sort of in on this Rubik's Cube thing, right? So you know I brought the my Rubik's Cube. And uh and I b played a joke where I had one undone, I had one done, and I pretended and I pulled it back out, you know. Like ah and they But some people could do this, right? And so like I I was like and I had a couple people say this is impossible. It is not Not impossible. It took me a week. So so I want to say for some of us, this is served. In some way In some place. You might say, I can't do it, it seems impossible. You can do this. Now I know people that could start from sc and learn how to do it in two hours. That type of brain is not my brain. Right? It's amazing. It's amazing. It's it's a Different categories, a different skill set, right? And some people are great at serving. They're just natural servants. Some people are great at math, some people are great physically, some people are great financially. But wherever you're talking about, start somewhere. I would love to just do this, but not what you Okay, this is very possible. Now, then I thought to myself, there's ones that have four. So If you can learn how to do this, can you learn how to do this? And can you learn how to Well I'll let you know. But in some sense it's the same concept, right? There's some people that it's gonna take a month or another. This is gonna take two hours. Some people are gonna know how to do this and instantly know how to do this. It's gonna it's the same it's the same idea. It's just harder. Five but I got a slide now look at this That's fifteen. And look at the pattern. Um you know I watched the guy. I do a video, it was a time lapse, and it took him two and a half hours. And that's because he knew how to do it. He probably practiced a million times. But he knew how to do it I don't think that's impossible. I'm not signing up for it. Right in and i okay, so so what my big Point is Jesus has the whole world in his hands. As complicated as that might be, it's easy. For him. They have two by tubes. And so, when you think about how Jesus has the whole world in the hands, I also want you to realize He's not a supercomputer just grinding out statistics and calculations. No, he's holding it all in his hands because he cares. And he loves. And he gives. And he arrives. And he saves us. And so when we Um enter into that however small, however slowly, however clumsily, however quickly We're connected to Him as a church. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments.