Sixteen through twenty five But I say, Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. But the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident sexual immorality, impurity Sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enity, strife, jealousy, bits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions Envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these, I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness. Self-control against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Christ Jesus Have been crucified with the flesh, with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Amen. Thank you. Okay, this is also not going to be a real Christmasy sermon either. For that, Christmas Eve is going to be perfect Okay? So come back on Christmas Eve, 7 o'clock. We'll have a great service. We're going to do uh like we did last year through the uh Jesus Storybook Bible and sing along the way. Have a read. It'll be great. We are also next week starting with the actual fruit of the Spirit. We've been talking around it a little bit. My point is going to be that there are other fruits of the Spirit. The Spirit isn't doing a lot of stuff and not just giving us uh character qualities to uh follow. Also next week I've been trying to figure out when we could do this grief and remembrance service Over the summer we did a sermon series on lamentations, and we this was a theme that we also found in Judges when the people cried out or the people didn't cry out. And so embedded in the service next week, we're gonna we are gonna have some prayers. Uh we'll say some things, uh do some things. It'll be a little different. It'll be the sort of the same structure, but it'll have a few different things. So we can remember whatever we've lost this year. And if you haven't lost anything, great. So we've talked about the fruit of resurrection, the fruit of unity. Last week we talked about the fruit of new birth. Jesus talked about being born again in John 3. Today we're going to be talking about the fruit of desire. I've got a friend named Thomas Fitzpatrick. He wrote a book called Driven by Desire about this whole topic. Do you want to Read way more. And he loves Thanksgiving. Favorite holiday, favorite foods. In fact, last night when we were making our um Graham cracker houses. Just so you you want to say gingerbread houses. Uh we made oh we also made pizzas and I made Thanksgiving dinner pizza. Gravy as the sauce, stuffing, um turkey, oh mashed potatoes, and cranberry sauce. And it was delicious, right? It was delicious Um so Thomas, his favorite thing about Thanksgiving is a cranberry parfait. Never had a cranberry parfait. I can imagine what it is. Um And he woke up as a kid one Thursday morning in a random November day, as far as he was concerned. And uh, you know, kid not paying attention, and he ate two heaping bowls of cocoa puffs Stuffed himself with cocoa puffs, right? And just then his mom came in and said, I made you a cranberry parfait. But he couldn't eat it. He was too full. Now there's nothing wrong with cocoa puffs. Not not probably your regular diet. Um but okay. And there's nothing wrong with Cranberry parfaits. But you can't have both at the same time if your tummy is full, right? That's what he learned. His desire for one thing overruled his desire for the other thing, so he couldn't have both. So the question today is, what are our desires? And what fruit do our desires bear? Here at Grace Church, we're trying to reflect and pass on the love of Christ, right? We're trying to share that with the world, with our community, with our family, with our friends, the grace that God offers us. And so that involves what we do, what we talk about, and who we are. What we do, what we talk about, and who we are as people. And so we've finally gotten to Galatians five, our text. Now what's going to happen in upcoming weeks is, you know You can't exactly do a sermon on one word. So we'll look at a different text that speaks to that. fruit. Okay, so we'll come off of this text and we'll we'll refer back to it, but we'll be in other texts that these uh attributes are m more uh fleshed out Um before we moved here, we decided to redo our deck came out of our uh our room upstairs. So we made a a big big much bigger one, much sturdier one, steps from outside, upstairs. And while we were doing that, I was thinking about all the other things we could do Do. So the uh the goal was to make sort of a man cave outside this is w my goal at least, I thought was the goal And we had a garage that was sort of leaning over. So it's like we need to replace this garage and put a a second story on it and have an apartment up there Well, but then if we have this deck on the second and that there's this we could make a a pathway Like a deck path that goes all the way to that deck. And then I was like, well, well if we're gonna make a whole path, we could line the whole backyard with a second story deck And it would be like it would be like we're playing wiffle ball and there's a a stand and people could watch us and eat popcorn. It was gonna be amazing, right? I had it all I had it all drawn as best as I could draw and I took it to my architect's friend and he said, This is a million dollar idea. I was like, that's a great idea, right? No, it was a million dollars I'm trying to tell you this is gonna cost a million dollars. Oh, I forgot I was gonna have a pool. You know those shipping container pools? Oh man, it was gonna be so awesome and then we probably would have sold it in two months. It's what I wanted. I thought about that a lot. It wasn't a fleeting moment, I promise you. I would dream about it. How can I make this happen? How can it be cheaper? It's what I desired. You know, Jim and Ann, when they were looking at houses, what did they want in a house to move into? What what were we looking for in an apartment to move into? What's on our Christmas list? What do we want? What's in our Amazon cart? And so what we want gets acted on, and then it can be realized. Doesn't always get realized, right? We're familiar with not getting what we want all the time. Paul's using this metaphor, though, about flesh. He's calling our sinful desires works of the flesh. Right? This is in 5, 19, and 20. Now the works of the flesh are evident. And then he goes through them Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. And things like these. There's way more. Do we want to keep going? How many we've got? I mean he's pretty extensive. But then and there's way more. Where you want me to stop? And we remember we we we'll te keep talking about this that God made things good When he made things, he made them good. And so your flesh is good. Your body Is good. So it's a metaphor, right? Wine is good, parties are good, animals are good, but we take what's good and we go our own way. That's what he's calling works of the flesh. We should want or desire what God wants and desires. We should hate what God hates We should divide where God divides. He does divide things, separates things. But we, in our selfish and ignorance and rebelliousness, our flesh takes things our own way. It's all about me. What we all love is some me. Give me some me. There's a cultural aspect to this as we live in this way. Paul speaking to the Galatians, and they had a cultural aspect. that that produces works of the flesh. Ours are slightly different. I mean imagine is somebody from 50 AD is watching us walk around and we're talking to this thing. This thing tells us what to do. Oh, I didn't take my pill. How do you know you didn't take your pill? My my phone told me. Look they're gonna go, what is this thing? It's rule it's ruling your life, this thing. He's writing to Galatians about these cultural sins, but they're also spiritual sins too, right? There's a spiritual dimension to it all. And the Galatian churches are young churches. Paul's writing to these young churches. And what's happened is people have come back around to these Christians and these churches and they have told them more of what they need to do. Right? They said, you guys have gotten off to a great start. You're doing wonderful. We're super commendable. It's all really good. But you got to get serious about the law. You've got to go back to Moses. You forgot your Bibles. There's ceremonial laws, there's moral laws, there are worship laws. And these are the keys to unlock godliness. To unlock true spirituality. You have to have these. You are not being a serious Christian. In other words, there's an in-group and there's an out group. And you're in the out group. You think you're in the in-group, but you're in the out group. And guess what? There's a checklist that you're not checking, and I check the checklist. It's no good to just have a checklist. Someone's got to check it, right? I gotta watch this. There's a spiritual chore chart. And you're not fing them all off. We've got to gauge your performance. Now, okay, it's okay to have checklists. We all know I'm not anti-checklist. Okay We have to accomplish tasks. We got jobs to do. We got groceries to buy. You gotta graduate, there's things you gotta do, right? There's things to set up and there's things to tear down. Think of the checklist that's you all know in your heads there isn't even a checklist for the living activity. You just all know what to do. Right? But you can also tell who's not doing it. One of the ways to lead things I've learned is the poll method, P O L E, plan, organize, lead, evaluate. Simple. Plan, organize, lead, evaluate. So there has to be an evaluation, a decider, and there's an implementer. And the law is good. God gave us a good law. Good law. But we twist it, don't we? We still twist it. Now, this is one of the best, maybe the only good thing that came out of COVID. The only good thing We learned all about this, didn't we? Someone told you what to do And some of you did it, and some of you didn't do it. And some of you hated the people that didn't do it, and some of you hated the people that did it. And we all argued about it. And we decided, is this a good rule? This is a bad rule. How long we gotta do this rule? Wash your hands for 20 seconds. Twenty-one? Nineteen? Wear this exact type of mask. No other mask. Wear it in these spaces. Don't wear it in these spaces. When we got here it was mar uh end of February. I think I've meant mentioned this And uh it was the very end of all the masks rules. So we got to the point where I had to wear a mask walking outside to get to the music venue that I got. to and I had to wear it to walk into the music venue, but I could take it off in the music venue where there were 150 people crammed into a room. Then it was okay to take the mask off. Which I was happy to do. So there are all these crazy rules, right? Demanded, instituted, monitored, ignored, and faithfully followed. And there was also a rule righteousness that happened I have followed the rules. Um another way to look at this When I'm sure you guys did you met outside, right, for a while? And did you meet outside in winter in the cold? Or was it only in the summer But we met outside in the cold. We had little space heaters and we only met for like twenty minutes, right? I think I told you this. We had a very short, stripped everything out, I did communion. And it was always a little amazing that anyone came. And I always thought to myself, it's super cool that these people are coming. It's also these are the weird people The don't skip church people. And so maybe it's not spirituality, maybe it's rule following. I don't know. Because it would seem like these are the most spiritual people ever. in the church because they're showing up in 25 degrees snow. But I wonder if they thought they were the most spiritual ones in the church. How do we measure people's spirituality? How do we know who loves Jesus? Check the stats. Check the stats. That's our instinct. Check the stats. And that's legalism. And that is not the Jesus way. It's not the Jesus way. Now what's the opposite of legalism? License. Talked about This uh a couple weeks ago. That's also not the Jesus way. It's not also the Jesus way of like, who cares? I'm gonna be a member of a church I never attend. Because I don't have to. I'm never gonna give a dollar. I'm not gonna participate. I'm not gonna forgive people. See these are two different dishes, right? Different ditches. Not the Jesus way. Following Jesus is not either one of those. Living by faith, following the Holy Spirit, or defining our relationship with Jesus on laws. Defining our relationship on Jesus with Jesus on laws is not Christianity. Paul is telling us this. But we still gotta do stuff and not do stuff. And that's based on our relationship with Jesus. Or who we're listening to, who we're following. Like, are we living according to the Spirit or are we living according to the flesh? Because living according to the flesh leads to what? Idolatry, envy, jealousy, sorcery? Sorcery and things like these, laws cannot change the heart But let's remember living according to the flesh isn't just this list. We twist and pervert anything we can get our hands on. Education, sports, family, kids, jobs, church, food, technology, God's good creation. We're breaking these things bad But laws don't change the heart. We have two heart stories. One of them is from my friend Ricky. He was given one And the son said, Dad, you gotta spank me harder. That's an unusual request. Enough to stop the spanking to clarify. Why, son? Cause I'm still bad. I can't stop being bad, Dad. Spank it out of me That's a good one. phone. One of my favorite Christmas songs of all time is You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch. Now I've told you lots of times I don't like non-Christian Christmas songs very much. But this one takes the cake, right? You're a mean one, you really are a heel. You're as cuddly as a cactus, you're as charming as an eel. Mr. Grinch, you're a bad banana with a greasy black peel. You're a vile one. You've got termites in your smile. You have all the tender sweetness of a seasick crocodile. Mr. Grinch, you're a foul one. Friends, you don't have none. I wouldn't touch you with a 39 and a half foot pole. You're a monster. Your heart says empty. Your heart's an empty hole. You're a goner. You've got garlic in your soul. Garlic in your soul. The works of the flesh, right? But the good news is that's not all there is. Even the currents changed. The Holy Spirit is at work The Holy Spirit can change, redeem, forgive, and incorporate us so that we're not only ruled by the flesh anymore, right? We're ruled by the Spirit. The Holy Spirit can help us against the flesh, the world, and the devil. Our adversaries, our corrupted instincts that we've gained from this cultural world Or the family we grew up in. Or whatever it is how we got to know what to do. The Holy Spirit helps us so we can love and follow and know and worship God. Amen. The Holy Spirit helps us we can see and understand and mourn our mistakes. Later, Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 7. But God who comforts The downcast comfort us by the coming of Titus, and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort which he was comforted by you As he told us of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, and so I rejoice the more. For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it Though I did regret it, for I see that that letter grieved you, though only for a while. As it is, I rejoice not because you were grieved, because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces Death. Godly grief. Godly grief that comes out of understanding the Holy Spirit. Seeing where you have fallen short. See, that's the Spirit's work. Non-Christians are not sad about their sin. They're sad about the consequences a lot of time. I wish that hadn't happened, but not the whole kit and caboodle of it all Martin Luther, famous Martin Luther, talked about this: that we're both saints and sinners. Right? So when we live by the Spirit, there's also the flesh. But who rules us? But we're still saints and sinners. There's a tattoo shop and I saints and sinners right by us. It'd be a great name for a church. That's why I mentioned it. At the beginning. Simil Eustace et Pecator. At the same time, saints and justified sinners Casey Musgraves, a country music singer who I like a lot, she has a song called Somebody to Love, not the Queen version. So she talks about the dichotomy of hope and hopelessness, thorns and roses being flawed and perfect. lost and looking. We're liars and legends. We're happy and we're hating. We're patiently impatient. We're bad but not devils. We're all pots. We're all kettles We're looking for somebody to love and be loved. We're complicated. So we've talked about sinless before, sinless in the Bible. One of my favorite ones, I'm sure I've mentioned it already, is in Proverbs 6. 16 through 19. That's Proverbs 4. So it's not going to be there. There are six things that the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes A lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that deviseth wicked seeing plans, fear that feet that make haste to run to evil, a false wish witness that pours out lies and one who sows discord among brothers. Okay. Haughty eyes, a lying tongue. Hands that shed innocent blood. Totally. Hundred percent. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste for an evil, a fault witness one who sows discord among brothers and sisters There's a lot of people in our d denomination, sadly, who are blogging a lot, tweeting a lot Facebooking a lot, as if they're the watchers who are making sure people are following the rules When we walk with Jesus and walk with the Spirit, this is a Interesting to think about. It can a lot of times actually feel like you're doing worse. It's because the Holy Spirit is showing you When you're living according to the flesh. And you never saw that before. Like, oh wait, this is a part of what I'm supposed to be doing? Huh As we walk with him, we become the old us less and the new us more. We have new desires, new things that we want, deeper things that we want. I was thinking about um not sure if this illustration exactly works, but going from records to cassette tapes to CDs, to Napster, for briefly, to iPods, and now everything on your phone. You can listen to any song ever you want. But then I was thinking, well, what's Go to Frank's upstairs. And he's just saying, we gotta go back to records. Records are awesome. And he's right Maybe progress isn't actually progress sometimes. You have to evaluate the desires. What do we want? Because all of these things have power to destroy. Remember the that's this Ivy League scandal where all these super wealthy people were getting their kids into Ivy League school and they they weren't able to get in by normal means, so they pretended to be athletes And so then they would work with the coach, and so then all of a sudden there were all these famous rowers who never rode. They took pictures of themselves rowing. Because there was a desire idolizing success, idols an Ivy League education. I've got to have it. I don't care what it takes to do it. This is a desire that I have for order, for counting things, for consistency, for cars, for calories, for kids. But see, God invites us not that way, but into the body of Christ. A whole different thing. And of course we know that Jesus gave up his body. Jesus gave up his flesh so we could partake of it Jesus gave up his power to give us the Holy Spirit's power. Jesus was killed by members of his kingdom. So we could see the kingdom, experience the kingdom. And as Thomas says in his book, Driven by Desire, desires aren't wrong. You cannot live without desires. We need to examine what they are and where they come from. And the Holy Spirit redeems these desires about beauty, about love, about power, about intimacy, about masculinity, about femininity, about sexuality. And it's sort of like he's planting these seeds. In the ground, back to fruit. Remember there has to be some food things in here. So you you you uh this little tiny garden in our deck in our apartment And um I'm not very good at it. I've planted tomatoes three times and I've basically never gotten a tomato I'm doing something wrong. So what's gonna happen next year, next May, so I'm not gonna plant them too early, learn that lesson. I'm gonna put these seeds in this dirt and I'm gonna think to myself Is this gonna work? I don't really know. I can buy tomatoes. It's a lot easier. But then something comes up and hopefully it bears fruit. And you know what? We work a lot with inner city kids, and um one of the parts of this ministry we do was called Restore OKC and it had a lot to do with food. And these kids had never seen plants They didn't know where carrots came from. They maybe hadn't never eaten a carrot. And so we would go and we would plant and then we come back, you know, a month later and see what happened, and they would they would be amazed. Wow. What's that? A green pepper. They were astounded at what could happen when the seeds were planted. It was you know, you sort of watch me like I forgot to be amazed by that. Thank you for helping me see that. Seeds can multiply, the kingdom can grow, and the Holy Spirit inside of us Restores our dignity, takes away our shame, invites us to the table. And so we can be led by the Spirit. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. And what's going to happen is we're going to go through this list, and you're going to think to yourself, I need more of that. I probably need more self-control. And you're gonna be right. You do need more self-control. You do need more love But what we want to ask is, where does the Holy Spirit want me to go? Right? Where does the Holy Spirit want me to go? Who does the Holy Spirit want me to be And how will I hear the Holy Spirit? What does the Holy Spirit sound like? Where do I hear the Holy Spirit? What words does the Holy Spirit say? Because ultimately when we x-ray our hearts, like Mr. Grinch, right, it's not looking for self-control Self-control is great. Is Jesus in there? Do we see Jesus' embrace In our lives. Do we understand Jesus' love and mercy and forgiveness and joy and freedom? And our goals are good. You can set a lot of goals for 2025 and knock them out. You can go for it. Perfect attendance would be fantastic. Ten percent tied. Amazing. Lose weight. Great. Work out. Perfect. Save money. Yes. Get married. Go for it. Lose all It's all doable. But that's not life with Jesus, is it? It's all fine, but you know, he says the last are first and the losers are winners, and he has this upside-down economy. Where he welcomes in the lost and the hurt, the broken. I'm sure I'd mentioned when I t turned forty I asked my dad to go on a trip with him. Just because I wanted to be with him. Didn't matter matter where we went. We went someplace super cool for sure. But uh when I was turning fifty, we were talking about doing that again and I wanted to take him this time to Italy and take cooking classes. We didn't get to do that. My ultimate desire was him, not the trip. While that Julie and I were in the car and we turned on the Black Gospel Pandora channel And there's this Anthony Brown song, right? It goes this way, You thought I was a life worth saving So you came and changed my life. You thought I was worth keeping, so you cleaned me up inside. You thought I was to die for, so you sacrificed your life. So I could be free, so I could be whole, so I could tell everyone I know What I'm trying to say, I hope I'm saying it so you can hear it, is the real desire is God's desire for you. That's the Holy Spirit's work in you. And for that, God sent Jesus for us. And if we are in Jesus, there is now no condemnation for those who are in him, right? If you are born of the Spirit and born of the water, You are born again by the Spirit, and the Spirit goes where the Spirit wants to go. And that is good news that God has desired you.