So Father, we lift them up to you. And the master said to the servant, Go out to the highways and the hedges and compel people to come in that my house may be filled, for I tell you none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet If you have walked with Christ for more than a few minutes, you know that the entire Christian life is a life of learning to trust Him, to follow Him, to delight in Him. Welcome everyone to Grace Reform Presbyterian Church here in Relay, Maryland. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. This is the word of the Lord this morning. and then he can go and carry out his wicked plan. This time we'll have our Advent reading. uh you can mail a check or you can uh drop one in the basket in the back. Let's take a moment to quietly in our hearts ask the Lord for forgiveness, and then collectively we will use this prayer that is before you. and was made man, was crucified also for us, under Ponctius Pilate. And we believe in one holy Catholic and apostolic Church. For us to get together and offer up prayers to the Lord. Um part of mission work is not uh we're not able to do that, but even through this technology that that we sometimes struggle through, we are finding new ways to serve you and to get the message out that That Jesus is in fact Lord. during the embalming process at times, signifying passion and death. And he tells us that Herod was not Jewish. If you read through the Old Testament, you'll know that's the descendants of Esau. And it's this this second temple that Herod had built that is um well known and uh is uh the one that features in in Jesus' ministry whenever he comes to the temple in in Jerusalem. that at the at his death to execute the recently imprisoned Jewish elders so that the people would be mourning during his death, and two, to execute his son Antipater And in addition to that, two of his sons executed because of rumors that they wanted to take the throne from him. throughout chapter one that Jesus is the rightful king. But the wise men come asking about Jesus, who was born king of the Jews. William Henderson in his commentary uh retranslates it this way to bring out the sense. We're told that the first thing he does is go to a synagogue. A prophecy of the Messiah. And j just as a side note, we we really don't know any details about the star. Others have thought it was an alignment of planets similar to what we're told is happening tomorrow for the first time in in many, many years. But we don't know any details beyond what the text tells us. She's responded rightly, anointing me for burial. as concerned about him, not because we have all the distractions vying for our attention. He seeks one thing. He won't snuff out a smoldering wick. He will never lose track of one of his sheep. And our glorious hope as his people is that one day you and I will spend eternity in his presence gazing upon his beauty. Is the God who was and is and is to come. Our friends, may your life be a life lived of pouring out all your treasures before Him in worship. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. Christmas Eve service is going to be on Zoom this Thursday night at 7 p. In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Would bring glory and honor to you, for you are worthy of all honor and praise. And praise repeat the sounding joy, repeat the sounding joy, repeat, repeat the sounding joy. Oh, for at the truth is lost, for as the three months, for a means one We have not loved you with our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We rightly fall under your curse and judgment. And of the third day he rose again according to the Scriptures, and ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of the Father. Who proceeds from the Father and the Son, who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped, glorified, who spoke by the prophets uh various people. And to die as a substitute on our behalf, so that we might inherit eternal life through Him. Sometimes like we're being picked on, but that's nothing that compared to to many who are are being persecuted in their lives or being threatened just simply for what they believe There are many that we support. Yeah, we can't. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. We need to see you. traveling afar to come and and see the Lord. He was well connected and he was influential with Rome. And so it's no surprise that Herod is troubled when he hears of the news of Christ's birth. Now I don't I don't know if you caught that, but Herod is pretty astute and knowledgeable of the Old Testament scriptures at this point and in the fact that he recognizes that this king of the Jews, this son of David, was also the promised Messiah, the Christ. Well he asked the scribes where he was to be born, and they say, in Bethlehem. From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. in being the place where Messiah is born. Old Testament prophets, he's doing so under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And we only find out what that plan is if we read on to the rest of chapter two, because in verses thirteen and following we're told that Herod's plan is to destroy the Christ. And among them are wise men who are brought in to interpret some of these dreams. Possibly from Persia or Babylon, but we can't really be much more specific than that. on them. But not all of them. And could have been very familiar with the prophecies concerning the Messiah. why they knew to follow a star and why they recognized in the star the significance that a king was born. There's a few passages in Isaiah that may have been on their minds. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government, and of peace there will be no end. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples, but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising There's not enough details given to know the nature of the star. And the whole city is stirred up and troubled. Uh less than two years in light of Herod's decision to to have two years old and younger be the cutoff age for the children that he was going to to have killed. I'd like to know, but the text just doesn't tell us, does it? Why are you wasting this precious gift? You see, these wise men stand as the opposite of the rich young ruler. relates to us. And the wise men stop everything they're doing, joyfully go to him to worship. And bring in the poor and the crippled and the blind and the lame. So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Everyone either willingly or unwillingly will bow and fall before him like these wise men. Yes, we come to him decisively in our conversion at the start of the Christian life, where we're decisively saved and enter into his kingdom. take it anymore. We thank you that you have made us for yourself. these symptoms pop up that like when it's just gotten really bad and um like where it's like a lot of stuff with like um nasal and like her throat knows how much they can uh to give to the various um the various missionaries. He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance that all I have said to you, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. And uh just a couple announcements this morning. If you'd like a candle, you want someone to drop one off at your house, we can do that. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. For his steadfast love endures forever. Well we're many of me the true. Together, O Lord our God, we confess that we have sinned against you. Cast all our sin behind your back, and remember them no more, and lead us by your Spirit in new obedience, that we might honor you with our thoughts, words, and deeds. We ask all this in the precious name of our great high priest, your Son, Jesus Christ. God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father by whom all things were made, who for us and for our salvation came from heaven, and was incarnate by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary. No, in all things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us, for I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor death He shall come again with glory to judge both the living and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end. Until we see my deal and dream and The wondrous gifts is kings, no God him right new in one, the blessing God is safe. All dear my That silence does no, yet I creating Oh Christ live on your memory and gather on my Now we may hear you told me, but you never When we don't will be in you Thank you, Father, for all your many, many blessings. We're not able to embrace these individuals and show them the love that they need so badly. cards and prayers and phone calls and text messages and whatever ways that we can serve in this way so that folks will know that they are loved not only by us but by you as well. Read God's Word together. They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. After listening to the king, they went on their way. When they saw the star they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. We have come to uh think of them as kings coming from different eastern nations, and many uh traditionally have seen significance in the gift, gold being a picture of kingly authority, uh frankincense, which is a Most of all the information we have about him comes from the Jewish historian Josephus, who wrote in his antiquities a history of the Jewish people. in in so many ways. a gum or a resin that was used in perfumes, really sweet smelling, uh signifying deity. Which is that the wise men are wise precisely because they respond appropriately to Jesus. Herod is maybe most famous for some of his building projects that he oversaw, not the least of which was the temple that features so prominently in the Gospels. He's worried about losing his position, so he built many fortresses. Here's the point of all this. It's not a conflict. To want to worship Christ. Herod knows the wise men are searching for Christ, and yet he wickedly determines to protect his position. The wise men alone respond appropriately, and they travel far and wide in order to honor Jesus. Different points in other passages of scripture where where people are called in to interpret dreams, whether when Pharaoh has a dream in Genesis or when Nebuchadnezzar has a dream in Daniel. That passage may explain why some people that throughout church history have thought that these were kings in fulfillment of that passage But again, the whole point to see here is that these are details that Matthew isn't concerned to record. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Bringing gifts, and they fall down and worship him. You see, that's what makes these men wise men. I think the whole point of this passage is for us to turn the question to ourselves and ask: what about you? Will your love of power, money, comfort, status, security, or whatever else it is, will it at the end of the day make you opposed to Christ? When he tells the story, a man once gave a great banquet, and invited many. The first said to him, I I bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Is it your kids' schedules? to take away all our excuses for being too busy for him. You cannot have two masters. Because this king demands your entire allegiance. Oh church, a day in his courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. Bow before him and kiss the Son, because one day, Paul tells us every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This is the core of who we are. To love, adore, and glorify Him. You ever thought about how the Bible tells us there's one thing that the Father seeks? Friends, that's why this time on the Lord's Day morning, this is the most important thing that you and I do in our lives because this is what we were created for. And yet those details would distract us from what's most important, seeing how these men responded to Christ in worship and showing us that they truly were wise men To spend eternity in your presence. Ramada Noy, Ramay, R Wash us from our iniquities, forgive our sins, and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Amen. Maker of heaven and earth, of all things visible and invisible, and in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of his Father before all worlds. And just a reminder, on Wednesday nights we typically have a prayer time. Again, we thank you for the Word of God that is just so living and active and sharper than any double-edged sword. And on Christmas Eve, Pastor Stan will bring us one more uh Christmas themed sermon and then we'll be jumping back into our study of First Timothy next Sunday. But for today, we are in Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way We ask that you would speak, Lord, for your servants are listening. First of all, nowhere in the scripture are we told that there were three wise men. And this passage is really set up as a contrast between a wicked king and the wise men. It's interesting to see the difference in the way that Matthew quotes that passage compared to the way it's written there in Micah 5. Micah says, you who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, and Matthew says of Bethlehem, you are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. In fact, the translation of wise men is probably pretty accurately captures the sense of who they were. And so there would have been pockets of Jewish communities, and these wise men may very well have had access to the Jewish scriptures. One who leads you beside still waters. Not been able to be done this year because of the pandemic, uh social distancing and so forth. We were born in sin and have continued to sin. Well Scripture gives us this words of assurance. Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. along with the saints throughout the world, in doing so this morning, as we anxiously await That that message would be given out to all those that we come in contact with through whatever means, whether it be at our workplace or in our families, in our neighborhoods, as we interact with Celebrate when we had you. Be with all Christians around the world that especially those that are being persecuted. To bless their ministry and help them to find ways to serve in these troubling times when the interaction that is normally That uh that that message might embrace, we might embrace it, and uh that we might put it into practice here this morning. Lord, you you know how weak and frail we are. weak and needy we are and how how desperately we need so many things. And frankly, it's surprising to see how little of the wise men tradition actually shows up in the scriptures. The wicked king. Aside from those accomplishments, though, Herod comes to us through history as one who is paranoid and egotistical. He connects those two together and immediately knows that this king and this messiah are the same person. Notice he's he's not at the stable anymore. Will you humble yourself before him and worship him? Just like David, as a shepherd boy, protected his sheep by fighting off bears and lions, he fights and defeats every single enemy that seeks to carry you off away from him, and he promises that no one can snatch you out of his hand. Have you ever thought about the fact that for all eternity we will be forever plumbing the depths of who He is, of His infinite goodness And glory, and that there will always be more to him than we can grasp. Beyond number, my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. All right, well let's sing our song of response, The Little Town of Bethlehem. the birth of our Savior Jesus Christ. with loneliness, with um depression, anxiety, especially during these times when Hear now God's word from Matthew chapter 2, starting in verse 1. Jesus receives their worship even though he's a young child. Maybe they were too busy. Friends, my prayer for you this Christmas is that you too would be wise. The Lord we prayer. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Well at this time I'd like to lead us in a time of prayer. In fact, it might not be too much of a stretch to say that of all the biblical Christmas stories, the story of the wise men in Matthew 2 is simultaneously the one that is most embellished and least understood. And at Christ's birth, it is an immediate threat to Herod's reign. But though this is his plan, he can't let on to the wise men what he's thinking. It's interesting to see how he contrasts and compares with others in the story. Did they know that Jesus was God in the flesh? Will you come to him in this way? Remember, friends, Herod acted like he wanted to worship God, like he wanted to worship Christ. I know for so many of us that that this pandemic has been a really difficult time, and some of you are busier than ever with certain things, but what if for some of us God gave us this pandemic in part? The passage in Micah 5, chapter 2, is this, but you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah. They laid costly gifts down at his feet. under whether she's dealing with it's like um she's like a chronic dust allergy and like sometimes like um it it just like um Father, we thank you for this privilege of being able to worship you this morning. Father, our hearts and minds are open to serving our community as you would lead. Lord, above all, we are like those Greeks who came to the disciples saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. He at this point the wise men have no reason not to believe him, right? There's all kinds of questions that we can ask when we find out who these wise men are. Another passage that may well have been in their minds is from Isaiah 60. Friends, he is indeed excellent, is he not? Oh God, you are all glorious and lovely, altogether beautiful and holy, Lord. Because in all of our curiosity about the number of the wise men, the significance of the gifts, the nature of the star, if we're not careful, friends, we can miss the point that Matthew wants us to see from this text. Because these men traveled long distances, far and wide, miles of desert, in order to come and worship this child who they recognized as the king of the Jews. Let's profess our faith by using the words of the creed. As they serve you there. Well the this story of the wise men, or as they're called in the the text the the magi, th these men have become Christmas icons. Herod told them to go to Bethlehem. We saw the wicked king see the wise man. Friends, what what is it that threatens to keep you from coming to Jesus in worship? Watch a watching law of these not together proclaim the only way. And like these wise men, we'll fall down and cast ourselves on the ground before him and say, holy, holy, holy Remember that towards the end of Old Testament times, the Jews, through their unfaithfulness, were exiled into the land of Babylon for 70 years. There's so much we don't know about the magi. There would have been pockets of Jewish communities all throughout the the region because of this exile. It really is a tale of two responses, isn't it? Joy to the earth and save your brain and all the And friends, this is why we preach the gospel to the lost. May we grow in our ability to worship you more faithfully, week after week, month after month, year after year, that we might more and more behold your glory and long. It's actually consistent because the point that Matthew is making is that while Bethlehem is a small city, right? Help us to always be willing to give a reason for the hope that's within us, but to do so with with just grace and and and um humility. Today we make the candle of peace, knowing that Jesus alone can bring peace to our hearts and also to our world. I see him, but not now. So Herod hears all this news and finds out where the Messiah is to be born, and so he immediately begins to devise a plan. See, we want to see people transferred into Christ's kingdom and transformed into Christ's likeness so that they can join us in proclaiming Christ's excellencies. Let's pray together. We need to have you feed us from your word to strengthen us and sustain us, to to fill us with a greater knowledge of you and greater love for you, that we might serve you more faithfully. We pray that you continue to protect them as you do. And once you find it, I invite you to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. The Father is seeking worshipers who will worship him in spirit and in truth. Who was Herod? And he sends them ahead of him to find Christ and report back to him, saying, Let me know when you find him so that I can come and worship him as well. It could have been sold and used a year's wages to give to the poor, and yet Jesus says But friends, make no mistake, regardless of how you respond, the truth remains he is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Join in the world and joy from Letri Let me bring on. Herod, we see, is not the legitimate Davidic king. And in order to do that, he has all the male children in Bethlehem, two years old or under, put to death in an effort to destroy Christ. Thank you so much. You will either love the one and hate the other, or hate the one and serve the other. Give us success. Is it your hobbies, your friends? Frank and Cindy are serving in West Africa through MTW. He is gentle and lowly in heart. Please remain standing. We pray all this in Christ's name. Well, good morning. Not as the world gives, do I give you. And there are others who are serving around the world and even in our own uh state. And then nature the nature thee and give that them nature. But this is the wicked king who is scheming and plotting all in order to preserve his own power and his position. And we thank you as we rejoice once again in His coming to live among us, to live a life that none of us are worthy of living And his name is the name above all other names. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose before them, until it came to rest over the place where the child was So the wise man at the manger, that that's kind of mixing two things together, that that we don't know how long it was. Maybe they had other things that were more important. They followed the star again and eventually found the house where Jesus was. Wherever this gospel is told, her story will be remembered. He was uh Edumian, uh coming from the the nation to the south of Judea and Jerusalem, the same area geographically that at one time was inhabited by uh the nation of Edom. The only reason a synagogue was there is because there were Jewish people there who had come to be scattered through the exile. This is why God made us to glorify him and to enjoy him forever. So these these are cousins of the Jews, but they are not the Jewish people. Our faith promise giving, we want to make sure to fill out, to prayerfully fill out the uh the form that's uh there on the website so that the uh missions committee Or will you end up despising him because at the end of it all you want to be in control of your life? But on top of that, Herod was a wicked king. And the servant said, Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, Go out quickly to the streets and the lanes of the city. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for He is good, for His steadfast love endures forever. There are a few different Herods that show up in the Gospels. And we know that our hearts are restless until we find our rest in you. Amen. I behold him, but not near, a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall arise out of Israel. Eventually Herod hears, and we saw that he was troubled. Friends, in other words, the call of the Christian life is a call to be a worshiper. Isaiah 9. This king is compassionate and patient. You are my God. Uh legend has given them names through through tradition, Balthazar, Melfiar, and Caspar. Because you are precious to him. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. So at this time, let's let's go to the Lord in prayer. Amen? Have mercy upon us, O Lord. And I would just uh remind you that the prayer matters are sent out each week uh via email and there are hard copies in the back for those who may not have email. All we're told is they knew that he was a king, and they humbly approach him as their superior. He doesn't want what's left over. Our call to confession comes from Psalm 40. Bethlehem is small and insignificant, yet has honor bestowed on it. You know that our days are but a a breath and the span of our life is but a vapor. The Holy Spirit is quoting himself, right? And that helps to explain why they would be so interested in in Jesus and his birth. Please have me excused. Joy for home before me to be. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They're called magi. On the throne of David, and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and for evermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. So in some way the star led them to Jerusalem, and they began to ask around when they come into the city, where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? The foolish and wicked king hears the news of Christ's birth and begins plotting to destroy him. Because this king is a tender shepherd, one who makes you lie down in green pastures. Let's let us know by by tomorrow. That's something we've assumed from the number of gifts that are given. In fact, and we we are told that at some point in his reign he had his favorite wife executed And they cite uh a passage from Micah 5, verse 2, which states that the Christ, the Messiah, is to be born in Bethlehem, just as David was. And so that kind of captures the sense of who these men were and what their interests may have been. All we know is that there was a star, that the wise men connected the dots and in some sense followed the star to find Christ. So many details that we wish we had that would satisfy our curiosity. And they did this because they responded rightly. Well, let's prepare our hearts for worship as we consider these words found in Philippians chapter 2. m. Yet you warn that whoever keeps the whole law and stumbles at one point is guilty of all. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus And so in around 37 B. Let's take a few moments and just think of how this The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Did they understand why he came, as we saw last week, to save his people from their sins? Giving him the most precious things that you have to give, right? Because as John Piper has so famously said, missions exist because worship doesn't. Um and just a reminder, uh a candlelight In your name we pray. Please be seated. And notice, friends, they weren't told to stop Amen. And I'd especially like to extend a warm welcome to any visitors that we may have, whether online or here in person. We acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins, and we look for the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come. And yet by gathering together this morning we we are confessing that the greatest thing we need, Lord, is you. We will never exhaust all that he is until we simply can't Father, we have gathered together at your calling into your presence now that we might worship you. Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared The scribes and the priests, they understand the prophecy that the Christ will be born in Bethlehem, and yet there's no indication that any of them make the travels to visit. There's all kinds of uh suggestions of what it could have been. And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is now ready. His throne is forever and ever. And notice it doesn't say born to become king of the Jews. So Herod doesn't feel the need to send any of his men along with them. There there's so many things that we've come to absorb about these wise men, and it's it's interesting to see that Matthew is the only gospel that mentions the wise men. It's as if Matthew said, Though you Bethlehem are but little, yet you are by no means least, for Israel's ruler shall come forth from you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name. What are the things that that fight for your affection so that you've hold them so precious that Jesus just happens to get whatever's left over? And even though many of our traditions have gone I will forward you. They're like the woman who anointed Christ with the precious ointment, and all those who saw it said, What a waste! That you would follow in the path of these wise men and worship the King. We are continuing on in our Christmas series in the early chapters of Matthew's Gospel. And so it's no surprise that he gathers the priests and the scribes, all the theological experts, to ask the question: where is the Christ to be born? Instead of holding back their wealth, they freely give it to Christ, knowing that He is more precious than anything else. Let's pray. We have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him The infinite, eternal, unchangeable God, the blessed God who is fully satisfied in himself, who who lacks nothing, who wants for nothing, who needs nothing. They are more than the hairs of my head. Lord, we know that you are worthy of all glory and honor and praise, and we seek to honor you with our worship. It's a painful thing to be faced with the fact that if we're not growing spiritually now, it might just be because we're not Together, we believe in one God, the Father Almighty. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah And another said, I I bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Um and it starts at 7. So if you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to open up so that you can follow along as we There's no symbolic significance mentioned to their gifts in the text. There's no evidence from the text that they were kings. But it is important to remember as we think about these wise men the influence that the exile would have had. It is an interesting question, isn't it? Friends, this passage holds out before us the reality that you cannot be neutral towards Christ. And so Matthew's not doing anything illegitimate with the text here. Oh friends, this king, he is the God beyond all praising. Friends, this king, when things get hard, he is with you. Let's stand and sing our closing hymn, O come all ye faithful. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born So that's really what we're going to look at. And we see that the way he acts in Matthew chapter 2 is consistent with this picture that we have of him. Men who were interested in religion, in the stars, maybe in dreams. Amen. And so he pretends And friends, if you are in Christ, you know that this is a daily call, isn't it? This is one tradition we want to try to keep. He suffered and was buried We don't even know what this means. Myrrh, which is also a sap-like substance that was used in perfume signifying um the fact that it was also used In fact, we see that play prominently in Paul's ministry in the book of Acts, right? In Jesus' name, blot out our transgressions. And Father, again, we thank you for that privilege. Father, we thank you once again for this. I was struck by the parable that Jesus tells in Luke 14. In contrast to all of them, Likely the city was troubled because Herod was troubled, because when Herod panicked, bad things happened. In fact, in his will, he left instructions. 2. He's a king who promised that he won't break a bruised reed Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. And if you're here and you want to take some candles with you, there's some in the back you can take. Father, we thank you for this privilege of being able to worship you this morning. We have broken your commandments. And the reason for that is found in verse 11. Won't you come and worship him? C. They could have recognized passages such as Numbers 2417. Others have thought it was a supernatural star. Oh Lord, would you help us to grow in our faith, in our love for you? Father, we pray for our missionaries. Help us to reach out to folks through In fact, there may have been three, but there could have been two, or as many as fourteen or fifteen, as some some have suggested. This Herod that was ruling at the time when Jesus was born is the one that is known as Herod the Great. We've seen already in Matthew's gospel that when he quotes And in verses two and three, we're told there that he had appointed Herod had appointed was appointed the king over the Jews. You either love him or you hate him. he would have been appointed king of Judea there to rule as the king. And yet it doesn't lead him to worship, but as we'll see, it leads him to plot in order to protect his his own power and position. We pray, Lord, that in this time that it's not merely that I would preach your word, Lord Jesus, but that you would preach yourself to your people. In spite of all that stood in their way, they came to worship Christ. We'll look first at the wicked king, and then we'll look at the wise men, and then we'll draw some applications for our lives today Let's all stand and sing our opening hymn, Joy to the World We thank you for this day that you have made You see, Matthew doesn't want the focus of this story to be on the wise men. 30 every Wednesday. We pray that your peace and strength Herod came from a political family, maybe much like we think of with the Kennedys or some other political dynasty in in our own nation. Because she responded rightly to Christ And the Israelites understood the prophecy, and yet none of them came. He is not in the line of David. Also, uh as usual, our tithes and offerings can be given in many different ways, whether online or Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for He is good. Remove our transgressions as far as the east is from the west. Amen. For we saw his star when it rose, and have come to worship him Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness on them has light shone. Gentiles from a foreign land coming, traveling far and wide to worship the King of Kings. You'll either gladly submit and hold nothing back, or you will end up hating him because you want to be the center of your life. Uh well I think uh don't actually Lord willing. Bless you from the house of the Lord. And we believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord and giver of life. My heart fails me. How will you respond to Jesus? Amen. Your gifts, your time, your reputation, your hopes, your dreams. And we pray that you would continue to bless their efforts as they How much did they really understand about who this child was? We praise you and we worship you. Is it your work? We feel He thinks he's deceived them sufficiently that they're going to go find the Messiah and report back. Let's pray. Some have thought it was a comet A life of learning to deny ourselves and pray, Not my will but yours be done You know how No, he was born king. You either serve him or you are opposed to him. We just sang oh little town of Bethlehem, the significance is found And we pray that you would continue The Lexem Bible Dictionary gives us some of these instructions that number one We have fallen short of your glory. And eventually many of them were brought back to Jerusalem. And friends, this king is altogether lovely. You can come whenever you want, you can leave whenever you want, but it's a great time And it also helps to explain why Maybe it was a few days, maybe a few months. Thank you for this time. He's not the legitimate one who rules on David's throne, as Matthew has been making the case We pray for those during the holidays who struggle We sing songs about them. For evils have encompassed me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. And during this time of year, we pray that We read from John 14, 25-27. And in fact we see that the point he's making is actually the same, even though he uses slightly different words. It shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Seth Uh but beyond that time frame, we don't really know how to narrow it down much more precisely. This is practice for eternity, friends. Please have me excused. Because no matter where he goes on his missionary journey At the end of the day And we don't know where they came from. We pray this morning as you we hear a message from your word. We think of We pray that all that we do He he's just revealing the wickedness that's in his heart. In Jesus' name. And these are all the announcements that I have We three kings of Orient are. He had the temple rebuilt. Let's pray together. We're glad that you're here And another said, I've married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. We know that what the text says is true. But they all alike began to make excuses. We acknowledge our guilt. We're just told they came from the east. The list can go on and on. O Lord, make haste to help me. Amen. He wants it to be on the one they came to see. Why Amen.