Golden Age of Something. You can ask me about the golden age of piracy and I'll talk about that for a while. Um the book golden age is sort of like the pinnacle of whatever You're talking about civilization normally. Uh the pinnacle of accomplishment or advancement or affluence, right? And in right around the turn of the eighteen hundreds, the end of the eighteen hundreds, before World War One, the Industrial Revolution is going on, things are getting Big and fast and tall and awesome. The US is growing its economy, its technology It's military. We have guys like Carnegie, Rockefeller, uh Steel is going up, railroads of course are getting spread out. So we have barons now, you know, steel barons and and train barons and robber barons, right? Um but Mark Twain in 1880 Wrote a novel calling it the Gilden Age, a golden veneer on the outside, on the inside. Brussels sprouts. But you didn't want Brussels sprouts. What's happening on the outside is not the same as At the hands of the rich. Amos is talking about something similar, a golden age of Israel calling it shallow in its day. And Amos lived 750 years before Jesus during a time of great extravagance. Things are going really well Amos was a shepherd, a lowly shepherd. We talk about shepherds sometime, a profession profession where one wanders around the hills Tending animals. And yet this man, this prophet, has a word for the church. People. And this man says the state of Israel is empty. Empty. Gilded But rest assured someday a golden age will arrive. There will be a booth of David. Emmanuel will come. God will Be with us, Amen. And that's one reason why this can be an Advent sermon, and it's going to sound a lot like Revelation. So as you have that in your background and you have that in your mind, you've been hearing Hearing this, if you've been coming with us, this will sound familiar for you. And of course, what's interesting is Amos is looking ahead to the first coming Now as we were studying Revelation, we had already had the first coming and we were looking ahead to the second coming. That's where we are still. Imagine though, being not ready, being wondering, being Being seven hundred and fifty years away from the very first coming, this is for sure a time of longing. Famous is a little raw, uncomfortable But it also gives us hope. And the hope is someday everything will be set right. This is what we've been talking about. Someday everything will be set right. So let's talk about our gilded age for Amos has two big issues that he are on his mind back in the day, injustice and the day of the Lord. So again the context Frames is Israel's doing great. They have relative peace, economic prosperity. It's not a unified kingdom. Israel and Judah are still split But things are okay, and there's social successes, and this is what people are wanting. But Amos points This is chapter two, verses four and five. says the Lord, for three transgressions of Judah for four I do will not revoke the punishment, because they have rejected the law of the Lord, and they have not kept his statutes, but their lies have led them astray. So I will send a fire upon Judah, and they shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem. The punisher, because they sell for the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals, those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth, and turn aside the way of the afflicted. A man and his father go in to the same girl, so that my holy name is profane. They lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken and pledge in the house of their God they drink The wine of those who have been fine. Crashing the needy. He talks about the cows of Bashan who oppress the Poor, who crush the needy, who say to your husbands, Bring that we may drink. God swears vengeance. He talks about over taxing the poor four in chapter five verses ten through thirteen they hate him who reproves in the gate. They abhor him who speaks the truth. Therefore because you trample the poor and you exact Taxes of grain from him, you have built houses of hewn stones. And how great are your sins. They turn justice even into poison. Chapter six, verse twelve, for example, do horses So again and again this sum Chapter six is a good summary of of what's happening is that this this the society is looking good on the outside but shallow on on the inside and and and Israel's prosperity comes at this tragic price, especially for people who cannot speak for themselves The context though of religion, um oppression and injustice handed out by The good guides, the worshipers, those in solemn assemblies, assembling on the feast days, giving offerings God is not impressed with these offerings. They're really offerings to themselves to make themselves feel better, aren't they? Right? They're not offerings out of love For God or for others. Um it's it's tithing and singing and worshiping and oppressing The Lord had said in Deuteronomy chapter fifteen if among you one of the brothers should become poor in any of your towns Within your land that the Lord your God is giving, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and send lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be Proverbs fourteen thirty-one Whosoever oppresses a poor man insults his maker, but he who is generous to the needy honors him. Over and over again. The Lord is talking about this justice has been become a injustice. The religion is just a noise, a a ganging, like a blinging gong clinging symbol. Not caring about pe not caring about the world. Um I had lunch with a freshman at Loyola. So I went to Charles Village and it was nice. He's from Oklahoma City. So he hadn't been around much. Doesn't have a car and but he had been down to Fells and I'm like, well down the fells and and we'll walk on the inner harbor and then we'll go to Christmas village. We didn't quite make it yesterday, but it's a good plan. It's beautiful and it's wonderful And then we could drive a mile and it becomes very unbeautiful and unwonderful. It doesn't take long. You can go get a a nice hot coco and ice skate for a while and ride the carousel and look around the churches, all these old churches, cool churches Um but of course we still live in crime and assault and homicides and human trafficking. Uh the Lord to do his work. Because because Amos is still relevant, isn't it? Um it still matters what's going on in our our society and And and I remind us that that Amos isn't critiquing pagans. He's talking about his people, our people And then the other part of this, along with the injustices, it is a little connected to then what we've been talking about revelation, is a wrong Wrong desire for the word of the Lord, the day of the Lord. A wrong desire for the day of the Lord. It's like a misunderstanding of what the day of the Lord means. And this comes in five Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. Why would you have the day of the Lord? Is it darkness and not light? Went into the house and leaned his hand against the wall, and a serpent did him. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light and gloom with no brightness in it This is that other side of the day of the Lord, right? If you want the day of the Lord, what do you want? Do you know what you're asking for? Because it is a day of glory Nonetheless, for sure, no doubt, but it is also a day of reckoning. A day of reckoning. When everything will be set right My people. And I don't think the Lord is saying this, I don't think you fully understand the way the equation works And again, we talked about our obsession. I was remembering this time as I was looking at this about um remember December twenty-first, twenty twenty Well, this is when the Mayan calculator ran out. The last day of the Mayan calculator, which, by the way, had five thousand one hundred Years on it. The last day of the calendar. That didn't mean the end of the world necessarily, but the last day of the calendar was December And people freaked out. People changed plans, changed their lives, moved there, all this stuff to see what's gonna happen when the day of the The Lord might come instead of living for him now, right? Thinking that maybe this is gonna be a a Sentimental, warm, fuzzy day. But there's also hope, right? Um the Lord is warning, he's warning his people, but but he's also warning them and saying, But I am gonna make everything right There is going to be a process in in here, Amos, but I have promises. And that big one is 911. In that day I will raise up the booth of David Declares the Lord who does this. I am coming. The booth. This this is a you know a promise of David Of a Messiah to come to us, right? And then we're reminded that God is a creating God. But after the fall, he's a redeeming God. And he's a restoring God. When everything will be made right yet. And because everything will be made right, this world still matters, right? And and and we're reminded over and over again that God entered the world not for the rich. The rich benefit so much from the gospel if they'll take it He did not come for the rich, he did not come for the wise, he did not come for the strong. He came and you can find him in Christ alone, right? And of course he came for many people in his life and in his ministry that weren't invited to feasts. They weren't invited They were, if anything, trampled and exploited. But he says, Your spot, the table is set. I have made a place for you One of the songs that comes on is this uh Yoko Oh no John Lemon Glenn and Happy Christmas song. Yeah, it's sort of it's nice Um so this is Christmas. A very Merry Christmas and a happy new year. Let's hope it's a good one without any fear. And so this is Christmas for weak and for strong For rich and for poor, the world is so wrong. Fair. Um fair But there's hope. Advent says that assessment me I hope things are nice this year as a beginning great, Christmas is gonna be nice, it's gonna be a new year, we're gonna restart, you know everything. But things are wrong Um it's not all war, it's not all evil, not at all. But but the Lord is telling us that He brings our peace because He is our peace. He brings our joy because he is our joy. He brings our love because he is our love. He brings our hope because he is our hope. And so history is headed to this day of the Lord Yes, and we need to know what it's like. And John has really helped us to have a way fuller picture than what Amos had. But this dead Lord is coming In this day the Lord is going to rebuild cities and rebuild trust and rebuild culture and show demonstrable love to people, right? This this age that we're coming to It really isn't even the golden age, it's the shalom age of all flourishing, all set rights. Because Jesus came to bring life and death. He came to bring restoration in the brokenness, hope and the confusion, grace and mercy from those who had been dismissed Over and over again. Advent is about crisis come, Christ is coming, come, Lord Jesus. Come thou long, expect the Jesus. Come again, manual. And O holy night, we sing truly truly he taught us to love one another His law is love, and his gift is peace. Chain shall he break, for the slave is our brother. And in his Well, um we already read this that two years after were Famous. Two years before the earthquake. So earthquake came to our years after He had this prophecy and destroyed the Gilded Age. All that they'd been working for was gone. And Israel actually was plunged into centuries of turmoil, exile and ruin. Was rebuilt and destroyed again as we know in seventy AD, temple destroyed by the Romans, desecrated by the Romans. And yet God's promise still stands. He's rebuilding a glorious city He's restoring all that's wrong and he's recalling us to all things new. And of course it is amazing that he he does talk to shepherds sometimes Amos was one and then he comes to people that don't get invited. And he sings the glory of song. I've been carrying this around. I'm a little hesitant to show you this. But I got one of these little um Pocket activity scenes. Look at this. Kings and um Okay, you you understand what this is, right? And so I've I've only had it for less than a week. And I've been getting it out like when I sit in public sometimes. And you know you you put 'em in here 'cause it's got a little hay. Um and um Yeah, I can get into the little dragon to me. I don't know what it just is like a little thing to like, you know, there could be hope. This could actually be true. I could carry this around not as a trinket, not as a a rosary, but as a re Reminder that if this is true, hope did come one time at least. In a very unexpected way If this is true, that happened. And if it's true, this changed a lot of things. This isn't the end of the story. This is not even the beginning of the story, really. It's a part of the story Of the story that has hope entering into our day and age, breaking through, claiming a promise. It is really unusual. But we can glide by over and over and over again. So maybe I'm really getting a out to remind myself. Right? Don't just go through the motions. Um let every heart repair him room. Amen. We have a few ways to respond, the Lord