Well good morning. Good to be with you all this morning. If you're joining us for the for the first time, uh my name's Eric. I'm one of the pastors here, and we're glad to have you with us this morning. We're going to be continuing on in our brief series in the early chapters of the Gospel of Matthew and seeing how Matthew introduces us to Jesus as we uh await this Christmas season with a time of longing and anticipation for uh remembering the birth of our Lord, looking forward to his return. And It's really helpful for us to ask these questions. How is it that Matthew answers the question, who is Jesus? So we're going to continue on where we left off last week. We're going to read from Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning? Here now the reading from God's Word, from the gospel according to Matthew. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit And her husband, Joseph, being a just man, and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfil what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus This is the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we we thank you for your word. How desperately we need you and we thank you that you have given us your word to tell us who you are, to tell us what you're like, to tell us how you feel about us and what you've done for us and how we might come to know you and walk with you. Lord, we we pray that you would feed us from your word during this time. We've been fasting all week, hungry, longing for more of you, and we come now to feast on your word together. Would you speak, Lord? Would you uh fill us with rich things from your word and help us to behold wondrous things from your Lord Well we pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, in the the famous play, Romeo and Juliet, Juliet famously asks, what's in a name And she has that famous line that that a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. She's she's in love with Romeo, he's from a different family and his his name, the the house he comes from, that's a problem for their relationship. And she's She's going on and on about how if if he just had a different name, it wouldn't mean anything about who he is and and a different name would solve all their problems because he wouldn't be from the the family that's off limits. And it as much as we we hear the inherent logic in what she's saying, and it's a beautiful soliloquy that she gives there, it struck me this week as I studied this passage that Matthew essentially is making the exact opposite point That what's in a name matters significantly. We see that names were important in the Old Testament because a name didn't just give you a way to call someone. It told you something about who they were. My famous name my favorite name in the Old Testament is the name of Nabal. If you have read through uh the Old Testament, you you may remember this name. He was married to a woman named Abigail, and King David was in the wilderness with some of his mighty men, and they took care of this man's sheep and his shepherds. They they watched over Nabal's flocks and protected them. Uh when David and his men needed some food, they came to Nabal and asked him for some food, and he turned them away and said no, and he was he was a foolish man. And his wife wisely came and made peace with David. And she says this famous line, she says, Nabal is his name and folly is with him. Because if you read through and see what the Hebrew says, Nabal is a word that means fool. It was his name, but it said something about who he is. And you see that all throughout the Old Testament. The names that show up are important. We're always told someone had a child and called their name this because of the circumstances surrounding their birth, because of promises about who they would be. Well Matthew is asking this question, who is Jesus? And last week we saw several things from the genealogy. about revealing who Jesus is, but now I just want to press in on some of them, and we'll see that that the names that are given to Christ in this passage feature prominently in our understanding of who Jesus is. So our outline for this morning, I'd just like us to zoom in on two names that come out in this passage, and then I'd like us to zoom out and just see the broader impact that Jesus has in this passage. So let's look at the first name that I want us to consider. We're going to go out of order. We're going to look at the name Emmanuel first. This story We see in verses 18 and 19, it's told mostly from Joseph's point of view. In Luke, the account that we're given there is told mostly from Mary's point of view. But here we get Joseph's perspective on things. And we're told that Mary was found to be with child. Uh all that he knows is that he's not the father. Um but that that creates a problem, right? Because she's betrothed to Joseph. Now We would miss something of the significance if we just thought betrothed meant engaged. That has some aspect of it, but it's much more significant from than that Mary would have been considered to be Joseph's wife at this point. And we see that come out in the fact that one of the options available to him was to divorce her. There was a legal contract, and yet It was not full full marriage at this point, because as we see, this happened before they came together, before he brought Mary into his house to live with him as his wife. and before they had been sleeping together in in any way. This was before that had taken place, and yet they were promised in a in an agreement to be married to one another, and would have been legally considered uh married in that sense. And Matthew tells us that this child is from the Holy Spirit, but again, Joseph doesn't know that. All he knows is it's not his. And he assumes, as pretty much any husband would have assumed at that point, that Mary has been unfaithful to him and has committed adultery. And we see this interesting statement come out in the passage that Joseph is a just man and unwilling to put her to shame. The the just side of it means that Joseph cared deeply about the law of God and was was in a position where he he felt like he could not proceed with this marriage based on the the circumstances that had taken place. God's justice demanded that something be done. And of course one of the options available to him in that point in time would have been to make a a public display of things. Uh likely at this point in history Mary was not in any risk of receiving the death penalty for adultery. But it would have been a profoundly shameful thing to have taken place. And Joseph was just, but he also loves Mary. And cares about her and is compassionate. And so he didn't want to expose her to that public shame. And so he he resolved that the best option was was the other option for him on the table was to divorce her quietly to just go with two witnesses and and divorce her privately and quietly so that she could keep her dignity but he could also uphold God's justice and and follow the law. And as he's thinking about these things, we get the sense from the text that he's he's decided that this is what he's going to do, but that he doesn't really like it because he loves Mary. And as he's thinking about these things, he has a dream, and the angel convinces him, as we'll see, to take Mary as his wife, and to take Jesus as his child, and to raise him. But the first thing that we see when this angel appears is what we're told in verse 20, the same thing that we're told in verse 18. Joseph finds out this child is from the Holy Spirit. was conceived by the Holy Spirit. This is one of the key places in Scripture where we get the doctrine of the virgin birth, or maybe more accurately, the virgin conception. It's the same truth that we confess in the Apostles' Creed, that Jesus was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary. The angel ties what's going on here in this virgin birth, this virgin conception of Jesus, he ties it to Old Testament prophecy, specifically to Isaiah 7, 14. And brings out this idea that the child shall be called by the name Emmanuel. The context in Isaiah 7. 14 is helpful for us to consider. If you've read through Isaiah, you might remember that this is a section where the king of Judah, King Ahaz, is is Distressed and overwhelmed because he's under threat from its the neighboring nations who are going to attack him, the nation of Syria and the northern kingdom of Israel. Israel and Judah had split at this time and at at different points in history, sometimes they would have been allies, sometimes they would have been enemies. At this point in history, Ahaz, the king of Judah, is under the threat of attack from Syria and Israel, and things are looking pretty grim. in this point in time. It seems as if what's going to happen here is that Syria and Israel are going to come and and overtake Judah and that it will bring an end to the covenant promises that God made to David that he would always have a man on the throne in Judah. And Isaiah the prophet is sent to essentially tell Ahaz, don't worry, the Lord is in control, the Lord is with you, he will protect you and establish you. And he tells Ahaz to ask for a sign, but Ahaz has this false humility and refuses to ask for the sign. He says, I will not ask, I will not put the Lord to the test. And Isaiah gives this sign anyway in verse 14. He says, Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and she shall call his name Emmanuel. As Matthew tells us, that means God with us. Now there's some some debate about how to understand that prophecy in its original context. Was it referring to a child in the time of Isaiah and then ultimately pointing to Christ, or was it only pointing to Christ? To some degree, it's an interesting question. It's not an unimportant question, but for our purposes, either way you go with that, the important thing to see is that either way, it ultimately points to Christ. And we see that because Matthew is quoting Isaiah here, but we have to remember that he's doing so under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, as the Spirit carries him along and helps him to know exactly what to write. And so while Matthew might be quoting Isaiah, the Holy Spirit's quoting himself. And the Holy Spirit understands that this Emmanuel in Isaiah chapter 7 is ultimately the Emmanuel in Matthew chapter 1, the Lord Jesus Christ. There are some other issues. If you were to study this passage from Isaiah or even the passage in Matthew chapter 1, you'd come across long discussions about the word virgin. in this passage. And that's no no surprise given the fact that the the virgin birth is something that's uh much disputed in in the world, as as the idea of this being a miracle that seems hard to believe and hard to embrace But the challenge comes from the the Hebrew word for virgin here, Alma, it doesn't literally translate to virgin. It probably more precisely would be something like young woman of marriageable age. And so some people would make the case that this is not saying that a virgin will conceive, but just that a young woman would conceive, and it's just talking about a child being born. The problem is that the Old Testament use of that word pretty consistently makes clear that always in view, almost exclusively, is someone who actually is a virgin. And when Matthew picks up on this passage, writing again, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he chooses a Greek word, Parthenos, that almost always does mean virgin. It seems pretty clear that Matthew is making the case, and that the whole New Testament is making the case that Mary was a virgin who conceived. That clearly comes out in Luke 1, 34, where the angel Gabriel comes to Mary. And her first question is, how is that going to be possible because I have not known a man? The point of of all this It's to drive home the point that regardless of any disputes that there might be, the clear teaching and testimony of the New Testament is that Christ was conceived by the Holy Spirit in the womb of the virgin. A miraculous virgin conception And see, maybe to step back and say it another way, you may find yourself in a place where you have trouble accepting I hope you don't, because uh in a a world where God is who he says he is, who can call things into existence that did not exist. This makes perfect sense in God's world if he is who he says he is. There's no reason that he couldn't perform this miraculous conception. But you might step back and say, I I don't believe what the Bible says, but you can't, in good conscience, you can't be intellectually honest and say the Bible doesn't teach the Virgin Conception of Christ. It is beyond doubt abundantly clear that this is what the Bible teaches. And we would, of course, stand on the truth of God's word that it is free from error and is true in all the things that it affirms. So that's a clear testimony of the New Testament. The Virgin Conception. What what what does that mean? It raises all kinds of questions because there are other miraculous births in the Bible, right? We we can think of of Isaac being born from Abraham and Sarah when they were in their Abraham was a hundred and Sarah was ninety years old. We can think of Hannah conceiving and giving birth to Samuel after she had been barren. We think even of Mary's cousin Elizabeth becoming pregnant with John the Baptist. There's several miraculous births in the Bible where a barren woman conceives and has a child. So in one sense, this miraculous birth is one in a long line of miraculous births, and yet it's drastically different. Because there was no human father involved. The Holy Spirit conceived Jesus in the womb of the Virgin. How we might ask ourselves, how did this happen? And the short answer is there there's a lot that we can't say about it because we don't know. uh in so many ways. It doesn't go into the kind of detail that we might like to see. Luke gives us maybe the clearest picture of what's meant by this in in Luke chapter 1, verse 26. In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her, and said, Greetings, O favoured one, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be, and the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary For you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. You see, we we we can't really say exactly how this happens. Often that the Spirit's work is a mystery, right? Jesus Teaches in in John chapter three that the spirit is like the wind. We can we can see its effects, but we don't always understand how and when and why he works. We see the spirit in Genesis 1 hovering over the waters at creation, somehow preparing the world for life to begin. We don't understand exactly what that means, and yet we see that reality coming to bear. The Holy Spirit brings new spiritual life to dead sinners and his work of regeneration and conversion, calling us out of darkness into life. We see the effects of it, we see the results of it, but we can't explain how he does it. We don't always know how he works. And this is the truth with the Virgin Conception. We can say a lot more about what it isn't than about what it is. It's one of those places where we have to embrace our creaturely limits of how much we're able to understand and how God has revealed many things yet not everything to us. And that's for our good. Why does it why does it matter that Jesus was born of a virgin? It's because i Jesus didn't have a human father. And that means that Jesus didn't inherit Adam's guilt and his corruption. Because we remember that Adam represented all people in this covenant of works before God, and when he fell, we sinned in him and fell with him. in his first transgression. Our our original sin is not not merely guilt, it's three things, right? It's the guilt of Adam's first sin, the corruption of our whole nature, and the lack of original righteousness. Friends, this is true about every one of us before we take our very first breath in this world. We stand guilty and condemned before God as covenant breakers. But we also stand as those who are corrupt. You see, we sin because we are sinners. It's out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. The problem is not with what we do, fundamentally In our nature, the problem is with who we are apart from Christ. And Jesus had to be free of this. He had to be perfect in every way, without sin. He had to be both truly God and truly man He had to be God in order to be perfect, and in order to endure the eternal wrath of God on the cross, to offer a sacrifice with enough worth to pay the infinite debt of our sin. But he had to be a man to share in our nature in order to redeem us. Because as one of the church fathers famously said, what was not assumed was not redeemed. A man had to obey and suffer and die in the place of men and women. It's the virgin conception that secures these truths. Of who Christ is as God and man. Frees him from any taint of Adam's sin and enables him to be the second Adam that can be the head of a new and better covenant, bringing more grace than Adam brought sin. Jesus, we're told, is Emmanuel, God with us. He is the one in whom God is with us. And that's really the point where we see that this is not This is not a problem to be solved. This is not a mystery to be exhaustively understood, friends. This is a truth to be believed and one that ought to lead us to God in worship. It's such good news that Jesus is God with us. Think about what that means for how God cares for you and the great lengths that he went to for your salvation. In the incarnation, the creator entered into creation to become a creature. That's astounding. In Christ, the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. He didn't count equality of thing to be grasped, but he humbled himself, taking the form of a servant. And not just coming as a man, but coming So humbly as an infant who is helpless and needy in every conceivable way, dependent on other people for everything. Friends, though he was rich, for your sake he became poor that you by his poverty might become rich He is, think about this, he is the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature, and yet for your sake, he became a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief. Instead of receiving the worship that was due his name, he became one as from whom men hide their faces. When you come to Jesus, you come to one who knows what it's like to suffer, who knows what it's like to be hungry, to be thirsty, to weep. You come to one who knows what it's like to be betrayed, to be despised. In the difficult road of life, you have a Savior who knows what it's like to walk by faith, because he walked by faith Even when it brought him to trouble deep in his soul and agony over the path that was set before him, he walked by faith so that you can walk by faith. You have a Savior who knows what it's like to die. Because he died in your place. Friends, he is like us in every way. Except for sin. He is utterly trustworthy and sympathetic, and yet he's able to help in a time of need Jesus is Emmanuel, God with us. And that situates Jesus in the broader story of the Bible and all that God's doing. Think about this. God God walked with Adam and Eve in the garden. He dwelled with them. And yet after sin, when they were excluded from the garden, God was still present with his people in the pillar of cloud and in the fire. He was present there dwelling in the tabernacle and in the temple. And all of this was pointing to the day when Christ would come, when the word would become flesh and dwell among us, would tabernacle among us. And even though he's ascended, he hasn't left us as orphans, but he's poured out his Holy Spirit. And in the New Testament, we're told that you and I, as the church, we are the temple of the Holy Spirit, the body of Christ. Christ is present with us and in us, and one day he will return and live with us forever. There will be no need for a temple, John says in Revelation, because God and the Lamb will be there dwelling with their people. God will be with us. Dwell with us, we will be his people, and he will be our God, and we will behold his glory in the face of Christ. It is good news for us that Jesus is God with us. But that's not the only name we're given. It's an important one, because it explains who Christ is. But we're given another name too. Joseph is told in verse twenty-one that she will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. Jesus is just the Greek way to write the name Joshua. And if you read through the the study of what it means, it it means essentially Yahweh saves, Yahweh being God's special covenant name. Essentially, we're told here, call him Yahweh saves because he will save his people from their sins. Think about that. Don't call him Yahweh saves because God will bring deliverance through him. Not because God will use him to save God's people from their sins. No, call him Yahweh saves, because he will save. Emphasizing that Jesus is Yahweh, the God of Israel. Highlights again affirming and reinforcing who he is, but it also highlights what he came to do to save his people from their sins. You see, friends, Jesus is many things. He is an example. He is a good teacher. He is a healer. But above all, he came to be a savior. He was born to die. He was laid in a manger that one day he might be nailed to a cross. I'm always struck by those hauntingly beautiful words in the hymn we just sang, What child is this? Nails Spear shall pierce him through, the cross be borne for me, for you. Hail, hail, the word made flesh The babe, the son of Mary, the cross that loomed large over Jesus' entire life from the moment he was born and laying in that major, knowing that one day nails and spears would pierce him through for your salvation. He came to save us from our sins. We said already that, friends, we are sinners. God made us for himself, and we have turned aside every one of us to go our own way. We reject him. We rebel against him because at the end of the day, our fundamental problem is that you and I want to be God instead of wanting to serve God. Everything that is wrong in this world is wrong because of a result of our sinful rejection of the God who made us. And friends, apart from Christ, we have made ourselves God's enemies. But think about what the gospel says. God loved you so dearly that he sent his son. To die for you and save you from your sins. This is what Jesus came to save us from. He came to be a substitute, one who would die in our place, as Isaiah says in Isaiah 53: Surely he bore our griefs. He carried our sorrows. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. With his wounds we are healed. It's such a beautiful thing to see that while Isaiah ends and says, all we like sheep have gone astray. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. We like sheep have gone astray, and the good shepherd came to lay down his life for the sheep. Jesus, in dying in our place, satisfied God's holy anger toward our sin and purchased salvation for his people. Reconciling us to God, restoring us to right relationship with Him. And friends, this is the promise that He holds out to you. If you're not in Christ, come to Him, become part of His people, and you will be saved. It's not something to wait on. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the time. This is the only moment in your life that is guaranteed to you because tomorrow is not a promise. that we have. Don't wait. Come to him and find life in his presence because he came to save us from our sins. And we have to acknowledge that while this includes the precious truth of our forgiveness, of what we call our justification, that in Christ His righteousness is counted to us. And our sin is counted to him, and we stand right before God, all because of what he has done for us, as we grab hold of him by faith. That is a wonderful, important truth of the gospel, but we can't limit it to that. He came to bring us forgiveness, to free us from sin's penalty, yes, but it goes so far beyond that, friends. He saves us from the burden of our sin. He saves us from the power of our sin. Friends, if you're in Christ, don't you hate sin? Don't you hate that you feel like Paul who says, I don't do the things I want to do, but the things I don't want to do I find myself still doing? Don't you long to be free of it? To not struggle with these unwanted desires? To be free from the pain that you've caused others and free from the pain that others have caused you? Oh, how miserable it would be if all Jesus did was forgive us and leave us as we are for the rest of our lives. But no, friends, the good news is he doesn't do that. He spends the rest of your life making you holy, making you more and more like himself, taking away sin's power bit by bit Yes, we'll struggle with it all throughout our lives to certain degrees, but he promises that one day sin and its effects will be gone forever. No longer will you struggle, no longer will you struggle with pride, with unbelief, with anger, with bitterness, with anxiety, with any of the other things that plague you in this life, because sin and all its effects will be gone. You will see him as he is, and friends, you will be like him. Perfect in holiness forever. Because, as the great Christmas hymn says, he came to make his blessings flow as far as the curse is found. And this friend means he's our advocate. Because as much as we don't want to sin, we do sin. And when we do, so often we can feel like, oh Lord, how many more times till you're just done with me? How long do you just give up on me and yet we're told that we have an advocate before the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous? That when we sin before the throne of God above, we have a strong and perfect plea, a great high priest. whose name is love, whoever lives and pleads for me. This is who he is Do you realize that it it brings Christ joy when sinners come to him in repentance? Because that is why he came. He doesn't look at our sin and just hold his nose and say, Oh, I'll forgive you, but don't get too close to me. No, friends, he is delighted to have sinners bring all their mess and all their burden to him and lay it down at his feet, saying, I can't fix this on my own. Would you please take it from me and give me yourself? That is why he came. He loves when sinners come to him in repentance. Whether you are coming for the first time in your life in conversion, or whether you've walked with him for 30, 40, 50 years and still struggle with the same junk that you did. When you first came to know him. He loves when you bring your sin to him and lay it at his feet and say, Father, forgive me. I've sinned again. Please, in your son, remember me. That's why he came. He is a perfect Savior, able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God through him. Friends, he's able to save you. He's willing and he's desiring to save you. When we say that Jesus is the one who came to save us for our sins, we also confess that there's nowhere else to go. He alone, as the disciples said, He alone has the words of eternal life. There is no other name given among men by which we must be saved. But to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. We're to call him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. I was thinking uh further about this this morning and and and twenty verse twenty-two just jumped out at me in a new way this morning. We're told that he will we will call his name Jesus, for he will save his people for their sins. And then before being told that he's Emmanuel, God with us, we're told all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. You see, he connects the idea of Jesus with Emmanuel, of cleansing us from our sins and saving us with the presence of God with us. The idea, friends, is is Jesus wants you. You realize that sometimes sometimes we can think about God and we acknowledge that He's merciful, but we think He's He's perfect and holy and I messed up and sinful and thank God for His mercy that He was willing to forgive me but I It's just that he was willing to forgive me. Not surely he can't desire me. Surely he can't desire me so dearly that he wouldn't spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. Friends, that is exactly what this says. The Father sent his son because he desired to know you and to love you and to live with you forever. Friends, your salvation, as precious as it is, it's a means to an end. The goal of your salvation is that you might be able to glorify and enjoy God forever, to live with Him in perfect glory, free from sin. The whole point of it is to bring you into closer, deep fellowship and communion with the God who made you and who, in spite of all your sin, still loves you and wants to have you around. What a precious truth that is. We see these two names, Emmanuel and Jesus. Just really briefly want to zoom out and look at the impact, the overall impact that Jesus has. In this passage, we said before this the whole story is told from Joseph's point of view. And it's interesting to see the movement that takes place in his life. He starts out moving from unbelief to faith. He starts out believing that that Mary must have cheated on him in some way. And at the end he he embraces the truth of who Christ is and it leads to obedience. He takes Mary as his wife, takes Jesus to be his son. After the angel appears to him in a dream, he takes Mary to be his wife. They abstain from sex until Jesus is born. As a side note, this doesn't require perpetual virginity on the part of Mary. We read throughout the Gospels that Jesus had other brothers and sisters. But Joseph adopts Jesus to be his son. And friends, don't don't miss the impact that this must have been. But these stories, if you grow up in the church, they're so familiar to us. We read them every year and and if we're not careful we can tend to sanitize them and forget what it must have been like to live through this. Think of how intrusive and disruptive this was Joseph's life is turned upside down in a moment. All his plans are disrupted. He entered into the scandal of Mary's pregnancy. Later, we find out that he had to move to Egypt for a period of time in order to preserve Jesus' life. And he committed to raise Jesus. This is not a small thing that he has agreed to do. And Jesus doesn't ask permission. Friends, Jesus is not afraid to intrude on your life. I was reminded this week of the the the story of of Rosaria Butterfield talking about her her conversion experience. If you're not familiar with her, she was a uh a lesbian and a a feminist scholar and came to faith through the influence of of knowing a pastor and his wife and spending time with them, but she makes it very clear in in one of her books that Her conversion was anything from anything but but pretty and gentle and anything anything but coming to Jesus and he'll solve all your problems. No, she says she talks about her train wreck conversion. Because it was a jarring change in her life as the Son of God intruded upon her and laid his claim to her life. See, friends, when Jesus enters into your life, he will turn your world upside down. He will shine a spotlight on your heart. He'll expose the sin you didn't even know was there, and he won't let up until he changes you. Because Jesus refuses to have only a part of you. It's all or nothing, friends. You either come and you kiss the son and submit your entire life to him, or you don't give him at all. He won't come on your terms. He will expose everything in your life that competes for his affection. And you will spend the rest of your life dying to yourself. To your agenda, to your desires, to your goal. You're going to learn to give it all to him with an open hand, praying just as he did, and then he'll teach you to mean it. Not my will, but yours be done. That's why he said, friends, count the cost. If you follow, if you would follow me, step one, deny yourself. Take up your cross and follow me, because he says a servant can't be expect to be treated better than his master. Friends, has Christ intruded on your life Do you know him? The question that this passage calls us to ask ourselves is that if Jesus has never made your life uncomfortable, it might be an indication that you haven't met him. And I pray that you experience the joy of having Him intrude on your life and turn your world upside down because as painful and difficult as it can be, it is also the most wonderful blessing there is. I've got we have we have our our daughter being born uh Lord willing a month from now and so I have uh babies on the mind. I've been thinking about it, thinking about how How there's so many parallels between having a baby and Jesus coming into your life because a baby is a wonderful blessing, and yet we all know babies are disruptive and intrusive. All your life begins to revolve around keeping this child alive and caring for them. Goodbye sleep and hello to feeding schedules and all of these things. A baby will turn your world upside down and yet it's a precious blessing from the Lord Jesus, friends, is even more so. He exposes your sin. He turns his life, turns your life upside down as he sanctifies you, but he gives you himself. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and learn from me, take my yoke upon you, for my yoke is easy, my burden is light, and you will find rest for your souls. I am gentle and lowly. If you are in Christ, friends, you know that as uncomfortable and painful and heartbreaking at times that the Christian life can be, you also know that for Jesus, he is the one who your soul loves. You delight to say, like the bride in the Song of Songs, My beloved is mine, and I am his. His love is better than wine. His name is like oil poured out. You say like the psalmist, the Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Oh friends, he is altogether lovely And he is worth giving up the whole world if it means that you get him. What's in a name? Turns out everything that matters tells you who Jesus is, what he has come to do. As I thought about this, I couldn't help but reflecting on the words from the hymn that we're about to sing. How sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer's ear. It soothes his sorrows, heals his wounds, and drives away his fear. It makes the wounded spirit whole. And calms the troubled breast, Tis manna to the hungry soul, and to the weary rest. Dear name, the rock on which I build my shield and hiding place, My never failing treasury filled with boundless stores of grace. Oh friends, may his name be precious to you. May he not just be the reason for the season, but may you remember that he is the only reason we ever have any cause. for rejoicing. Let's pray together. Oh Lord Jesus, how sweet your name is. What a precious thing it is to remember how desperately you love us, that you would come to save us from our sins, come to live with us, to draw us into fellowship with yourself, bringing us by your Spirit through yourself to the Father that we might be adopted as sons and daughters of God and share in the relationship that you have with your Father. Oh Lord, fill us with a great love for you. Fill us with a longing for you to return. Fill us with joy unspeakable as we think of the privilege of being yours. And Lord, would you sustain us? Because when you intrude on our lives, things can feel kind of rocky at times, and yet we know there's no safer place to be than under your loving care. Would you guide us? Would you be tender to us? Would you help us to see the truth that you are gentle and lowly, and that your yoke is easy and your burden is light? We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand in the