Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again as a living hope through the resurrection of the Lord Resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfailing, kept in heaven for you. who by God's power are being guarded against guarded through faith to a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Excuse me, I forgot my reading glasses. I can't see what I'm doing. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him you love him. Though you do not see him now you believe Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the great It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you, in the things that have now been announced to you, and through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. things into which angels long to look. First Peter one, three to thirteen. Please be seated. Um I was surprised when the woman who became my friend this is a a first meeting, um she asked me well she didn't ask me this question. I'd love to hear or make this statement, I'd love to hear what you think about these paintings Uh it's always intimidating to be asked by an artist what you think about his or her art. Um But she didn't ask me that question. My friend Erin Shaw, I guess, had found out a little bit about me. And she asked me, or she said this, I'd love to hear what you think about these paintings since you're born again. Well y my immediate reaction is born again? Is it like in the seventies Like this is not the way I'm used to talking about who I am and my faith. You know, I wanted to like say I'm a Reformed Presbyterian Like, I remember when I took Calvin into my heart, right? You calling me born again? That's like evangelical land. Um But born again is in the Bible. Right? Peter himself writes that we are born again to a living hope. Just mentioned I I talked about the Pope last week and we praying for a Pope and praying for a n whole new way to think about worldwide Christianity and I guess they picked one right. But man, the outfits these people wear are so awesome You just get to watch these crazy, crazy outfits, what the the police, you know, the Vatican is their own country, they have their own force, and they wear the wildest uniforms you've ever seen. Tyson told me that Leonardo da Vinci designed them. So they don't get to be changed and updated, right? And they're just wacko town and I think they're awesome. So I enjoyed watching all the costumes. They definitely do that right. We are talking about the anchor of hope. Because what we're saying is that Easter happened, but Easter continues. Okay, Easter spins out. And in Hebrews 6 Six nineteen we read and we have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place Behind the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, we have an anchor to hold ourselves to the hope that we have that we need. Hope, biblical hope, is the life-shaping certainty that you possess today about a future you know you will have, but you don't yet have. Peter is again calling us to hope in Jesus and be born again. I was thinking about what I want. I like being in the numb. I like being well read. I like being well travelled. I like being well dressed. I like being well spoken of. Peter's saying You need Jesus. Right? That's our Easter hope, our resurrection hope. So it's hope of the new birth. One, one through four of uh first Peter, after Peter makes his introductions. He gets to it. And he writes Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfailing, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the throws people off. Let's talk it say Americans. Because Easter is what? For most people, pastels Easter eggs, rabbits, candy, and okay, we might go to church. But people really don't know what to do with it. Like you walk into Safeway or Wherever and it's like this is Easter. It's so much more than that, right? And and you know I think it's amazing that the Catholic Church still exists and that people care about it to some degree. And the reason it exists and the reason we exist Catholic click in the big way is because people after that Easter Sunday went back to find each other again the next Sunday. It's like what's going to happen next? I don't know, but let's be together. That was amazing. And so they kept on coming back. And they kept on gathering year after year. And here we are, all these years later. They kept on gathering to what talk and sing Discuss, read, listen, eat, and drink. The resurrection changed people's patterns Like Sunday became something that it wasn't before. Because Jesus really raised from the dead. And he's our living hope, right? Our present hope and our future hope for all of us that all must be well. Someday all is going to be good. But to us for us to participate in that We must be born again. Now, where do you think Peter gets that language from? I would assume he knows about Jesus' interaction with Nicodemus. It I I also think Jesus doesn't use that um speech or discussion very often, but I I would imagine he said that more than once. Right? When he encounters somebody like Nicodemus He would say something like, you must be born again. And what does Nicodemus say? What are you talking about? Huh? That you can't do that. And so he uses this metaphor, right? No, the old you must die like a tulip bulb. There's no more tulip bulb anymore. It's become a tulip. It's not just a bigger bulb. The old you must die and the new you must come out. Faith in Jesus Is not just a new project or a new plan or a new outlook. It's a new creation. Right? The old is gone. The new has come by God's mercy. Like when all of us were conceived, some of that stuff was immediately fixed. Right, that DNA is there. You ain't changing DNA. But then you grow into what is in that DNA, right? And it comes out differently, even for twins. And there's a spiritual conception that's fixed, immediate, and then it grows into I came from a very Christian state of Oklahoma, right? 82% of people there claim to be Christians. There are one million Southern Baptists in a state that has three million people. Whoa! That's a lot of Baptists, right? In I looked back and there were around 1,500 Southern Baptist churches, and there were 10 when I started City Press, ten PCA churches in the city. State. I think we're up to twenty. We've doubled. I'd like to see them double. That would be tough. Um one thing about church planting, of course this was a church plant. Some of you were around. It's really a good way to do evangelism, surprisingly enough, because you have something to talk about, invite people to that didn't exist before. So someone who hasn't gone to a church may be reluctant to go into a a church that's always been there. Um my buddies applying to be at a church that I I think started the I think you told me seventeen twenty. You've been around the block, right? But when you start a new thing, it's someone who might say, Oh Okay, I don't know what it's gonna be like. And you would say, I don't know what it's gonna be like either. We all we're all starting fresh Going to church can also just be religion, right? It could be going through the motions. I knew a lot of people That were just good people. Or they were moral rule followers. That's not the same I know a lot of people that know a lot about Jesus, sure. Knowing about Jesus is great, but that's not a new creation Right? Nicodemus, man, you did all these great things. You're a nice man. You're a leader. You know a lot about the Bible. Um I'm sure you're nice to people, unlike your friends. You gotta be born again, man. Right? That's how it works. You have to become a new creation. And I and I think um it's not so I grew up in church. I had perfect attendance pens, right I knew a lot of stuff, but I think I became a Christian in college, my freshman year of college. I think something was different Right? And I didn't have to go, but I wanted to. Julie was the exact opposite. came to Christ, she hadn't been in church ever. She didn't know any of it. Right? And she has to be born again. That's the way it works. And we have different ways that God does it, right? And and both Julie and I are still growing and still changing But our hope is in the mercy and the grace that we found. That's our living hope, not in my performance. We talked about this a lot with fruit of the spirit. It's not my fruit of the spirit, it's the fruit of the Spirit. It comes out of me when I'm born again. Even though I deserve wrath and death, I've been given hope and grace. Mercy. And that changes the future, right? So the hope of new birth, but then there's also the future of new birth because that sets you forward on a trajectory that you don't even exactly know how it's all gonna work I would take Cal and Drew to hitting practice. Um and you know, it's like the chances of being an a a college baseball player aren't that great And so you don't know if it's worth it. Is it worth it? But we still hoped to get better, not knowing what the goal was. And it turned out they didn't do that much baseball. But Drew and Anna had the same, they didn't know what was going to happen, and they went to growing practice hoping to get better, and both of them got scholarships in college. So it works out sometimes. It's a fuel. It's a fuel. I love this 3030 um documentary about Hersha Walker. One summer, this is in the eighties or Late seventies. One summer he was the worst football player on his team. He's in eighth grade. And by the end of the summer he became the best football player in the state He had a hope, and that propelled him to change what he was doing. He started doing a thousand push-ups. A day and a thousand sit-ups a day and running all day. And guess what? That'll help. The hope became a fuel Uh most of the time our hope can be a trip coming up or a project to complete Or something to care for, a plant, a pet, or it could be getting healthy. These are all fine There's a famous book called The M Making of Meaning by Victor Frankel. And he uh after the Holocaust he he interviewed a whole bunch of people on what helped them survive and get through And what the difference was between people who then didn't get through because they didn't want to get through, and it was a hope outside It's not just I gotta get to Christmas, I gotta get to whatever, I gotta get through the changes of seasons. It's not just uh I I I gotta make m something happen here. It's I gotta get out because I have people out there who need me. I need to see them. The hope is outside of you And Peter says we need that. Because in verse six, in this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the test is a very good thing. Peter is saying, of course, there are going to be trials Born again doesn't mean no trials, right? There's going to be a testing, there's going to be stuff tough stuff that comes at us. There's going to be searching and inquiring and suffering. Concerning their salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace was searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicated Indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the s and the subsequent glories. There's gonna be winds and there's gonna be waves, and you need an anchor. A born again person still needs living hope, right? There's gonna be sadness and confusion and anguish and joy. Because if we're in Christ, what we have is imperishable, undefiled, unfading And we rejoice in that, right? It's not just our duty And it's amazing, uh he says that um you know because we're following someone we don't see. And that can be hard W even when I try to explain it to the kids like when when we follow Jesus, like what does it mean to follow Jesus? Where is he? Peter acknowledges that And then he says here to the ends long to look. We are a Netflix show. Let's tune in to see what's happening at Grace Church in Relay. Maryland. What's going on there today? Let's see. I want to look. I want to look. The angels want to look and see what's going on. Because they don't get to have salvation like we do They find it fascinating, I assume, as as they watch us grow into our new DNA. Because we're now born again. We're a changed person, and we have a future hope. Because we have this anchor of hope Right? We're realistic about suffering. We're not pretending like there's not suffering. But the the but all this changes us. If we go on to thir verse thirteen, therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded. Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, because we're born again, right? As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also will be holy Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. This this thing changes us, but it's not it's an anchor of hope, an anchor of joy. It's not the old ball and chain. I do people say that anymore. It's it's offensive. It's terrible, right? Oh the old ball and chain. It's more like Tetherball. Does anyone play Tetherball anymore? That sounds like a game from the past, right? Tetherball was so simple that it became so complicated. Like because like you can break the rules in Tetherball pretty easy. And then fights break out. How hard you gotta hit it, how soft you gotta hit, all that stuff. We are tethered to Jesus. Jesus, right? If we're in him, we're rooted in him, we're anchored in him, and that gives us joy Um back when we liked Kevin Durant. Um he won the MVP, highest award in basketball right, and he was thankful he had a sort of a normal speech uh but he thinks it's everybody as teammates, even Russell Westbrook who can be a pain, the owners, the coaches, the trainers, the staff. He he acknowledged God's role in his life, which I think was pretty cool. Um But he he then focused on his mom, which is a little more unusual. Single mom raised him and his brother, and he said, You know, my mom would go to bed hungry. So So we could eat. My mom worked so we could play. And he he said, um, I didn't know that any of this was gonna happen, right? He said, My highest basketball ambition was to be a rec league coach His mom didn't know it was gonna happen either, right? I want to give you a soccer update So I I I joined the soccer league last week with Art and um I'll give myself a C plus B minus. Uh I almost scored a couple of times, which was pretty Awesome. But I didn't know it's this turf, right? And I didn't know you what shoes you wear, so I wore tennis shoes. And those were bad for traction. And I probably fell on my face five or six times for sure. Um I also had not been uh that exercising like that with short bursts, and so well I could not play soccer very long. Um and I am still as sore as I've ever been in my entire life. But I'm hoping it's for. My main goal is don't get hurt and score. That's pretty good, right? Have a good time. Um but the reason I'm bringing this up is next to where we're playing There's like twenty guys going through basketball drills. And They were pretty big. I mean I I look like whoa this looks real. So not what we were doing in Ozark, Missouri in nineteen seventy nine, right? We don't look like that. This looks like legit athletes. Um and I don't know if they're gonna be good basketball players, right? No, they don't know. Sometimes you can tell they're not gonna be I I remember sitting with this five foot five normal white kid whose total ambition was to play in the NBA. Like dude, that's not gonna happen. Sorry to burst the bubble on this one, but I don't see it. Um but with these guys, right And so the Kevin Durant's talking about his mom, who's his anchor, who's his rock, who got him there. And it took a lot of tears. But there's also hope. And we have an anchor way better than Kevin Durant's monk. That gives us hope. We we boast in his death and resurrection. His effort effort on on our behalf. You know it's a pretty good question. What do you think about my painting since you're born again? I'll take it, right? Hope that's