Well, good morning. We're continuing on our Advent series this week, and we'll be reading from Luke chapter three, verses one to six. And this morning we'll be taking a look at John the Baptist, and we'll be just as a reminder of John the Baptist, he was the son of Elizabeth. Mary's cousin, and we we read in the early chapters of Luke of his miraculous birth and uh the prophecies concerning him, and we read that he's uh kind of an odd character in some of the other the gospels that he lives out in the desert, he dresses in camel's hair and and eats bugs. But we're gonna find that in in this passage we see that he has a very important message for us. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's word Hear now God's word from Luke chapter three. In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee And his brother Philip, Tetrarch of the region of Iteria and Trachonidas, and Lysanius, Tetrarch of Abilene, during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas The word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness. And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. This is God's word. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you that you have spoken, that your word is living and active and able to pierce us to the core and to change our lives, Lord. That your word will never fall away, will never wither, but it stands forever. But Lord, as we consider your word this morning, we know that we can't rightly understand it apart from your Holy Spirit. Spirit. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things from your law. And so as we consider your word now, Lord, we ask that you would speak, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen Well it's the second week of Advent And maybe like me, you're wondering where in the world this year has gone and how it can already be almost mid-December. It it just reminds us that that Christmas has a way of sneaking up on us, doesn't it? It didn't used to be that way for me When I was a kid, I was always ready for Christmas. I had one of those calendars every year I got my candy every day to mark how many days it was until Christmas. I remember when when my parents would would wrap presents and put them under the tree early, all I would do was just lay there and sit there and stare at these presents, trying to figure out was that box the right size to hold the thing that I had asked for just mesmerized by these things. And so when Christmas came, you could you could be sure I was ready for it. It didn't sneak up on me. But then as as I grew and became older and got more responsibilities. When when I got to college, I ever since then I just found that Christmas just has a way of sneaking up. I I it just seems like there's so much going on in life that we forget And I think that that gets to the heart as to why we take the month of December and set it aside to focus on uh Christ's incarnation and and remind ourselves Of what's going on at Christmas. Because with it with everything else going on in our lives and with all the Christmas celebrations that we prepare for, it can be really easy to forget to prepare our hearts for Christmas. And so this our passage this morning helps us to make sure that we're ready. Luke is trying to draw our attention to what should captivate us and what should have our greatest attention. And that's the coming of the Lord. And his point for us in this passage is that the Lord is coming, and so we must be ready to receive him. And we see two things essentially from this passage. The first we see is that God is the one who takes the initiative in preparing our hearts to receive him. And the second thing is that though God takes the initiative We must respond by preparing our own hearts to receive him. So first, let's look at verses 1 and 2. We'll see that God takes the initiative in preparing us for Christ's coming. In the first two verses, Luke sets the stage for what's going on when John's ministry starts by giving us the historical and political lay of the land at the time when John began his ministry. And he mentions six people to make it exactly clear when this happened. He says that first that this took place in the 15th year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar. Now there's some different ways to date things in the ancient world, so there's a little bit of confusion as exactly what year this was, but most scholars think that we're talking about the year AD 26. And we find based on when other kings were ruling and reigning that uh that Jesus was born near the end of the life of Herod the Great at 4 BC And Luke tells us later in this chapter that Jesus was about 30 when he started his public ministry. So this seems to fit with the year 26. And Luke goes on to tell us that Pontius Pilate was the governor of Judea. The whole area was under Roman rule, and so they had a Roman governor to be appointed to rule over them. And Pontius Pilate, of course, is well known to us as the governor who ordered Jesus to be crucified. We also see that Herod was Tetrarch of Galilee, which is the region where Jesus was from. And that Tetrarch essentially means The ruler of a fourth part. And the point here is not that all the kingdoms were always divided exactly in fourths, but that it's a lower level ruler. He's got some authority, but he's certainly no king. And this this Herod is Herod Antipas. He's the son of Herod the Great. Herod the Great left in his will a desire for his kingdom to be divided up amongst his sons. And Herod Antiphus ends up being the Tetrarch of Galilee. And Herod's brother Philip was the Tetrarch in the surrounding region. Paul, or Luke tells us it's it's Iterrea and Trachonidus. He's the one that Caesarea Philippi is named after, which is the town where Jesus is ministering when Peter confesses him as the Christ. So that's a significant turning point in the Gospels as we read through it. Luke points out another man, Lysanius. We don't know a whole lot about him, but he was the Tetrarch of Abilene, which is a region a little bit further to the north. And finally, Luke says all of this happens during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas. And that's an interesting thing that he says there because there's actually only ever one high priest at a time. And as we read through history, we can find that. Annas was actually removed from office several years before this happened. But it's a funny thing, Caiaphas was his son-in-law. And so while he's not officially in office, he's still pulling the strings. in many ways. So Luke's actually talking about the the practical situation that both of them were really acting as high priests. And we actually see this as the the end of John's Gospel. We find that when Jesus is arrested, he's taken first to Anis. And then to Caiaphas. So Annas still had a lot of authority, even though he wasn't holding office at the time. So Luke sets the stage for us when John begins his ministry by highlighting all of these different rulers and telling us what's going on in the region at the time. But what are we supposed to learn from all this? We said that the first point that we're seeing from these verses is that God is the one who takes the initiative in preparing us. And so I think there's a few things that we're meant to see from these verses. The first is that we're meant to see that God acts in history. The Christian faith is a historical faith. These things really happened. There was a definite point in time when Christ was born of a virgin and when he entered into history. And John's ministry of preparing the way for Christ started at a distinct point in time. We can look back on the exact year when John began preaching and see how God was acting in history. And that's the point that Luke's showing us here. Isn't that such a comfort for you? That so often as we look around the world and even as we look at our our own daily lives, it can seem just completely overwhelming. Like things are spinning out of control. It can feel like we're drowning, and instead of trying to help us, someone starts handing us things to juggle. But we're reminded in these moments that our great comfort is that we serve a God who is in control of all things, who determines and who governs all that comes to pass. But that he's not just all powerful, but that he's good and loving and involved in the world that he made. Sometimes we think that God is distant and disengaged from the world, as if he just wound everything up and stepped back to let it go. But history doesn't just happen. We serve a God who's intimately involved in history, that He's appointed all that comes to pass. He is active in history because He's taking it somewhere. Somewhere good and glorious where everything wrong will be made right. And he was he's always active, whether we know it or not, but there are certain significant moments where his actions in history can't be Missed. The incarnation is one of those moments, and the ministry of John the Baptist is one of those moments. And so as we reflect on this Advent season, on what God has done in sending his son We need to remember that God has not stopped acting. He's involved every day, whether we notice it or not. So God acts in history, but we should also see in these verses that God acts through his word. We see this in in verse 2. The word of the Lord came to John, the son of Zechariah. That's an important phrase, and it's actually it's pretty interesting. That's the only time that phrase shows up in the entire New Testament. But you'll notice as you read through the Old Testament, that language is all over the place. The word of the Lord came to so-and-so. But we read that the word of the Lord came to Samuel. The word of the Lord came to Elijah. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. You see, that's the classic way that God uses to set apart a prophet for their ministry. And to acknowledge that the prophet is the one that he's going to set. speak through. And Luke wants us to see that John the Baptist is a prophet every bit as much as the Old Testament prophets were. And in that way John marks the end of an easy He was the last, and Jesus tells us he was the greatest of all the prophets to come under the old covenant. Because after John came preaching and baptizing, Jesus came on the scene. This is what the writer of Hebrews makes in the very first verse of his letter when he says, Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son. God raised up the prophets by bringing his word to them and telling them what to say. But ultimately he has spoken in sending his son. Son, the Word who was with God and who was God, the Word who became flesh, our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who entered into our world, who became human like us in every way except for sin, and who died for sinners on the cross to satisfy God's wrath for our sin. And he's the one who who rose again from the dead, who's now seated at the right hand of the Father, but he's also coming back. He will return once again, he will come again in glory, as we confessed in the Creed, to judge both the living and the dead. But there's another sense that God also speaks through his word, and that God's revelation to the prophets was recorded in the Old Testament. And his revelation in Christ was recorded by the apostles in the New Testament. And so when we say that God acts through his word, we're also saying that God acts through scripture. As we read through the scriptures, we see all kinds of statements that point to the fact that God acts through his word. We we read that Scripture is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, able to pierce to the division of soul and spirit, of joint and of marrow. Jesus prays that we would be sanctified in the truth. And says that God's word is truth. Paul writes to Timothy and says it's God's word which is able to make us wise unto salvation in Christ. We see that God acts through his word, taking the initiative to reveal himself and using his word as an effective means of convincing us of our sin, of converting us, and of building us up in holiness. unto salvation. God acts through his word, and that's so important to remember because we always want something more flashy and spectacular, don't we? We want something that promises seven steps to a better life or three ways to solve your greatest problems. But God tells us that we should expect Him to act through His Word. That's the place where he's promised to meet you. It's through the word that the Spirit is able to transform you and to make you more like Christ. So I think it's important for us to pause and ask ourselves, what role does God's word play in your life? Do you read it? Not just in church, but do you read it on your own? Do you read it with your family? Do you read it when things in your life are going well and when things in your life are going difficult? We must be full of the book. Because that is where we hear from our Lord. It's where we learn what He's like, where He tells us what we are like and what we need. And it's where he changes us to love him as we should, and to love others for his sake. We do not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Because he has the words of life. And so as we make time to feed our bodies every day, let us not starve our souls. Because when we do that, it's no wonder why we don't grow and why our faith makes no difference in our daily lives. God acts through his word, and that's where we must seek him And then the third thing we need to see from these first couple of verses is that the God acts through people we might not expect. I think it's so interesting that as you think about the people It's the the who's who of political and and social power in the day. You have the leader of the known world in Tiberius Caesar. You have all the major political players and the governors and the tetrarchs, and you even have the key religious leaders and the high priests. I mean, certainly if if God was going to act or speak Surely it would come through one of them, right? Wrong. After listening all these figures, Luke says that the word of the Lord came. To John. And in case you're not sure who that is, he's the son of Zechariah, the guy who lives out in the desert eating bugs. He's not the guy that most people were looking to for guidance when it comes to the things of God. And yet God chose to use him in a mighty way, and we consider him to be the greatest of all the prophets. And God has a habit of doing things like that, doesn't he? Using people that we don't expect in order to accomplish amazing things. Right? We look at someone and say, they're just too sinful. And yet God can convert them just like he did with Paul. We look at someone and think, yeah, they don't they don't speak that well. They could never speak for God, and yet God can use them just like he did with Moses. We we might look at someone and think that they're they're young like Timothy or just a little kid like David. But God is not limited by our weaknesses, and he loves to use crooked sticks to draw straight lines. God takes the initiative to act, and he often does that in ordinary ways through ordinary people. that we don't expect. And that's good news because that means he can use you, and then he can use me to accomplish his mighty purposes. And that should be an encouragement for us to seek out opportunities to serve and to minister to other people, to share the gospel with our non-Christian friends and neighbors. And it should be a reminder that that even with the people that we don't particularly like, the the people who have personalities that clash with us and that we just find it It's so difficult to love for whatever reason that God can use them too. And if you're willing, He might actually use them to bless you. Because God has ways of using people that we may not expect. Our God is active in the world that He made, taking the initiative to prepare us for Christ's coming. And most importantly, He's the one who takes this initiative by sending John as the forerunner to prepare the way for Christ's ministry. God is the one who called him. God is always the one who makes the first move in our relationship with him. We're dead in our sins, unable to respond to the gospel, but God is the one who raises us. To spiritual life in Christ. He takes out our heart of stones and gives us a heart of flesh. He puts his spirit within us and draws us to himself and applies his salvation to us. Jesus is clear in his teaching that no one can come to the Father unless they are drawn by him. The only reason a sinner is able to pass from spiritual death into spiritual life is because God has chosen his people in Christ from the foundation of the world. In love, he predestined us for adoption as his sons and daughters to the praise of his glorious grace. We love, as John says, because he first loved us. He is the one who takes the initiative to prepare us for his coming. But the second thing that Luke wants us to see is that the fact that God takes initiative to prepare us doesn't mean that we're passionate. Or that we don't have any responsibility to do anything. Far from it. And that's the point we see in verses 3 through 6: that while God takes the initiative, we must respond by preparing our hearts to receive Him. And that comes out clearly in John's message. John was sent as the prophet to prepare the people. We said in our preparation for worship this morning that Following the one who would prepare the way, the Lord would suddenly come. God didn't want his people to be unprepared for his sudden arrival on the scene, and so he sent John to preach a baptism of repentance. And it's important for us to remember too, right? Because Christ didn't just come once. He's coming again. And he's going to come like a thief in the night, suddenly, without warning, unless we pay attention to the warnings he gives us. And so John, through this ministry, travels through the whole region around the Jordan River, which is on the the eastern side of Israel's territory. And as he goes, he's proclaiming, or or we might say he's preaching, a baptism of repentance. For the forgiveness of sins. Now, John's not need to be baptized in order to earn their forgiveness. He's not saying that baptism somehow saves them, as if it automatically grants forgiveness to those who receive it. We we can't discuss a full theology of baptism now, but at its core, baptism is a sign and a seal. It's a symbolic action that both pictures and guarantees God's promises and blessings for his people. But the only way to receive those promises and blessings is when we receive them by faith. So John is calling on the people first to repent and then to be baptized as an expression of that repentance. Baptism pictured their repentance, but it's repentance, not baptism, that led to their forgiveness. And that's an important point for us to consider. consider I think because we live in a time when repentance isn't all that popular. Even in the the church We love to talk about faith, that we're saved by faith alone, that unless God gives us faith to believe in Christ, we cannot be saved. But we're not that comfortable speaking about repentance in the same way, are we? But the Bible is pretty clear. Repentance and faith are two sides of the same coin. Genuine faith always shows itself in repentance. And because of that, unless you repent of your sins, you cannot be saved. Repentance is what we call a saving grace. It's grace because God it's a gift of God. You don't have the ability or the power to repent on your own. And it doesn't earn your salvation. But it's a saving grace because you can't be saved without it And the core of John's message is repent of your sins and be forgiven. That's the same message that Jesus goes around preaching when he starts his public ministry. He goes around preaching the gospel saying, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. So if repentance is so essential to salvation, what is it? It's not merely feeling bad about what we've done. Right? True repentance is not just concerned with avoiding the consequences for our sins. It involves a true sense of our sins. Knowing what we've done and realizing and seeing how evil it is and how offensive it is to God. But combined with that sense of our sin, we need to have the recognition that God offers mercy to us in Christ. So that with grief and hatred for our sin, we turn away from it back to God. And we do all this with the full commitment to live in new obedience. That doesn't mean we we never fail. We're all going to fall short every day, but it means that the pattern of our lives is that we're always running away from sin instead of running towards it. This true repentance is a saving grace. There is no salvation without repentance. So if you're if you're here this morning and realize that you've never repented of your I urge you to do so. The Lord stands ready to forgive. There is no sin, no matter how evil or shameful you might think it is, there is no sin that Christ is not ready to forgive. But it's important to remember we're not guaranteed tomorrow. Today is the day of salvation, so don't put it off any longer. You must repent. But it's also important to remember that repentance is not something that we just do once and then forget. Repentance is a lifestyle. You know, Martin Luther, when he wrote the 95 Theses, the document that started the Protestant Reformation, the very first one of his 95 Theses was about repentance Here's what he said. When our Lord and Master Jesus Christ said repent, he willed that the entire life of believers to be one of repentance. We see this in verses 4 and 5. It says that John's preaching was a fulfillment of the prophecy in Isaiah 40. And if you think about the context of Isaiah, the first 39 chapters are heavily focused on warning and condemnation. warning the people of their impending judgment that will come through the exile because they've been disobedient. And then when we get to verse 40, we we fast forward a number of years to when the exile is about to be over and God speaks tenderly to his people. And it's in this context that John is the prophecy of a voice of one crying in the wilderness to provide Prepare the way for the Lord's coming to his people. And it's clear from Isaiah that when it mentions the Lord, it's referring to Yahweh. It's Lord at capital L-O-R-D. Right, it's clear from the prophecy that if John is the voice, then the one who comes after John is God himself. And so when Jesus comes on the scene, Luke could not be more clear or more explicit in his argument than Jesus is Yahweh. He is the one true God. And so the people are being urged to prepare the way for His coming. They're called to make his path straight. Isaiah urges them to remove every obstacle that might get in the way of his coming. The valleys are to be filled in, the mountains are to be leveled, the winding, crooked paths are to be filled. straightened out and made smooth and level. And some see in this a symbolic interpretation, right? So that the The mountains being leveled out would be our pride being brought down. The crooked paths made straight is a call to put away all deceitfulness and live honest lives. Whether you agree with that precise symbolic interpretation or not, the key point is that we are called to remove every obstacle that stands in the way of Christ entering into our hearts and lives. It's a call to fight our sin and to put it to death. And it's important to remember, that's a picture of the normal Christian life. That Jesus bore our sins in his body on the tree so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Our entire lives must be one of constantly turning away from sin and turning towards Christ. We're called to take every thought captive in obedience to Christ. How are you doing in that fight against sin? It can be exhausting, can't it? And discouraging. Sometimes it feels like we take one step forward and maybe six or seven steps back. Paul talks about this in in Romans seven where he says, I don't do the things that I want to do, but all the things that I don't want to do, they're the things I find myself doing. He says, my life feels like it's a a battle being waged between my desire to serve God on the one hand and my my sinful desires on the other hand. So never forget, he's describing the normal Christian life. You might feel like you're you're losing the battle and you're fighting a losing fight, but be encouraged because fighting is a sign of life. And God promised that ultimately you will have victory over your sins. The Spirit helps us gain some measure of victory now, right? It's always imperfect in this life. But we have the certain promise that one day our sin will be gone forever. That we'll be made perfectly able to enjoy God for all eternity. And so as long as we're fighting, be encouraged. But if we find ourselves in a place where we're not fighting, if we're living in sin and not resisting it, we need to be aware that that's a dangerous sign. It's a sign that something is seriously wrong in our lives. And so if you find yourself in that place, that is a call to turn away from sin and repentance and to commit to fighting against it with all the strength that God gives you. But as you come to him in repentance and faith, and as you fight against sin, the last line of Isaiah's prophecy reminds us to do so in with the confident expectation that we will be saved. God is faithful to keep his promises. Verse 6 tells us that all flesh will see the salvation of God. Christ has come to save people from all walks of life, every tribe, every tongue, and every nation, and he will be faithful to save every last one of his people. So if you trust in Christ, you can be sure that He is able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God in Him. He is the way and the truth and the life. No one can come to the Father except through Him. but have confidence that if you do come, you will never be cast out. Christmas has a way of sneaking up on us. There's so many things to prepare and to focus on. So Luke wants us to remember that as we prepare for everything else. We need to make sure to give our greatest attention to preparing for the right thing. The Lord is coming. He's come once to accomplish our salvation In his incarnation, in his life, in his death, in his resurrection, in his ascension. And he will come again. But he's not coming as savior, he's coming as judge. to judge the living and the dead. And he will punish those who reject him, but he will reward those who love him. His coming will be will be sudden and unexpected to many. But the time until he comes is the time when we're called to prepare our hearts for his return. Time when we're called to make sure that we've received the forgiveness of sins, which only comes through repentance and faith in Christ. And when we're called to live out that faith, by constantly turning away from our sin, by fighting it and putting it to death, taking every thought captive in obedience to Christ. We do this only by grace, through the work of the Holy Spirit, but but no make no mistake, we're called to do it. We're called to work actively and work tirelessly at it. So as we fight for let us lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely and every love for the things of this world. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the author and inspector of our faith. Let us be captivated by Him. The one who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and who is seated at the right hand of the Father, and the one who has promised to come back for you. So as we prepare for Christmas, let us reflect on the coming of Christ to save us. Let us remember that He's coming again and ask ourselves: Am I ready? Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you so much for the gospel. We thank you that though we are so sinful, you have sent your Son to die in our place, to rise again. That even now he's at your right hand interceding for us. And we thank you for the hope that he will come again. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would keep us from falling away, keep us close to you, preserve us in our faith, and Lord, may you Always give us the strength to fight against sin with all that we have and to be ready for Christ's return. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.