Yeah, you don't want me to sing. I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath. He has driven and brought me into darkness without any light. Surely against me he turns his hand Again and again, the whole day long. He has made my flesh and my skin waste away. He has broken my bones. He has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation. He has walled me about so that I cannot escape. He has made my chains heavy. Though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my Prayer. He has blocked my ways with blocks of stone. He has made my paths crooked. He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding. has made me desolate. He bent his bow and set me as a target for his arrow. He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver. I have become the laughing stock of all peoples, the object of their taunts all day long He has filled me with bitterness, he has sated me with wormwood, he has made my teeth grind on gravel and made me cower in ashes. I have forgotten what happiness is. So I say, my endurance has perished. So has my hope from the Lord. Remember my affliction and my wanderings, the wormwood and the gulf. But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope. The steadfast Lord of the Lord steadfast love of the Lord The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him. For the Lord will not cast off forever. But though he will cause he caused grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his Who has spoken and it came to pass unless the Lord has commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? Why should a living man complain, a man about the punishment of his sins? Let us test and examine our ways and return I called on your name, O Lord, from the depths of the pit. You heard my plea. Do not close your ear to my cry for help. Not fear. You have taken up my cause. O Lord, you have redeemed my life. Lamentations three. So we're on week three of Lamentations. Is it making some sense? Lamentations, right? So we have two more weeks, and then um it'll be Palm Sunday, and then it'll be Easter Sunday. And what do we wear on Easter Sunday? White! Of course we wear wear white, right? And what do we wear on Palm Sunday? You can go the donkey route or you can go the the the floral route. Now we're gonna have palm branches and wave our palm branches and say Hosanna and sing Hosanna and do it up big, remembering what a important day Palm Sunday is as well. Um today we're talking about struggle. The struggle is real. Back in 2017, eighteen, nineteen, somewhere in there, uh the state of Oklahoma had like something like a thousand earthquakes. Little tiny ones, all mostly due to fracking. And probably ninety percent of them you couldn't feel, but we could feel some of them sometimes. Just you know that little trembling? Have you ever been in an earthquake? It's weird. Uh what what's going on? And but these were minor, minor ones, and so people created these memes, you know. It's like we will rebuild and it had a lawn chair tipped over. The struggle is real. I was thinking about my my week, my first world problems week. I I mentioned last week that I was doing this yoga challenge thirty times to go to yoga in the month of February, right? So I had it all mapped out. I I don't go on Sundays, so I had to like double up a couple times. I mean it's yoga, but still it's not that easy. Um and then so I get up on Monday morning um and it got canceled. So that means I had I would have to go twice on Wednesday. Twice on Wednesday. I hadn't planned on that. So I get up on Wednesday early and my Corvette won't start And it's raining. And the next canc class was canceled too. Like the world is out to get me on this yoga challenge, guys, right? I'm not competitive or anything, but still I showed up on Thursday I'm like I'm not happy But then I got told we got to count Friday, March first, so It was like a salvation moment for me. A story of rescue happened. First world problems, right? That's not the biggest struggle. But then there are real ones. There's an important book called From Slavery to Freedom by John Hope Franklin. He talks about Africans being stolen, sent to the colonies, enslaved. Dehumanized. And then, as you just keep going, finally freed, but to do what? To be sharecroppers. And then there's segregation and and and reconstruction and Jim Crow laws. You can't vote, can't get home loads, and we get to civil rights and voting rights and marches And protests, because when people are unjust, when society sin, there are societal consequences We are not just individuals. And so these consequences come with a struggle. And we have real struggles. With our identity, with our job, with our family, with our sexuality, money, weight, image, status, addiction, and where do we go for help? YouTube Lamentations three is a window into struggle It's a window into desperation and pain and hurt and hope. And hope. We're not just left only to struggle. So let's talk about Israel's struggle. We've been using this little paradigm: Israel's struggle, our struggle, and then what Jesus has to say about it. About it. Israel stuff struggle. Verse 1 of chapter 3. I am the man who has seen affliction. I am the man, I am the woman, I am the person who has seen affliction. This is the prophet in the midst of the community. This is the poet in solidarity with the afflicted, not from out there, from inside. And how does he describe this problem he laments? This is a deep, passionate sorrow. The city's issues are his issues. When Jerusalem breaks, he breaks. And he just describes it, right, starting in verse four. He has made my sin and my my flesh and my skin waste away. He has broken my bones. He has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation. He has made me dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago. He has walked me about so I cannot escape. He has made my chains heavy. Though I call and cry for help, he shuts up my prayer. He has blocked my ways with blocks of stones. He has made my paths crooked. He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding. He drove into my kidneys the arrow of his quiver. I have become the laughing stock of all peoples, and the object of their taunts all day long. He has filled me with bitterness, say to me with wormwood, has made my teeth grind on gravel, made me cower in ashes. And on and on. Israel has forsaken their God They didn't love God or their neighbor. They exploited the poor. You can read about that in Jeremiah. There's a corrupt priesthood. They've denigrated worship. They've made tragic alliances, and God has allowed Assyria and then Babylon to wreak havoc on them. Judah. Jerusalem is called the city of Zion, and it is destroyed The city of Zion is destroyed. The everlasting kingship of David is gone. The priests are scattered. The temple, God's residence In rubble. The Ark of the Covenant that has the Ten Commandments disappears. The Babylonians are in charge. There's poverty, they're ruled by others, there's shame, there's sorrow, and that's struggle, isn't it? And the prophet doesn't go, mm-mm, I told you so He's the man who has seen affliction. Think of it like a Western, like a spaghetti western. There's a desolate desolate wasteland like the Dust Bowl, right? There's scared people, starving children, corrupt outsiders, vices, brothels, guns, violence. It's a fistful of dollars. And the prophet enters into speak. He assesses And then there's this surprise. This is the verse you know in Lamentations, right? Which is exciting. In the middle of this Desolate ruin, he also says, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope in him. Wow. It that makes a lot more when you understand lamentations, right? When you rip that out and put it on a coffee mug. You just leave make sure the coffee mug is in a whole pile of dirt and waste in the garbage bin, like okay, great is thy faithfulness, yeah. It means something. It's remarkable. The prophet, the poet, this liturgist says don't ignore all of the bad stuff, right? Lamentations isn't those three verses The prophet, the poet, the liturgist doesn't say, you should do better, although that is true, isn't it? There's not just like moral superiority. He calls them to the Lord's reckoning He describes it in amazing language. It's not just a factoid, right? He feels it, he expresses it. And then he calls them to the Lord Himself. In the middle of all this ruin, you can cast your struggles on the Lord because He is faithful. Even in struggle, in the midst of our struggles, you know, I it's a death thing, we gotta sing some of these sad songs. In the midst of the struggle, there is still hope because God knows and he will work it out. In his timetable, right? But that hope is powerful He is our answer. He is faithful. You've got to take the long view. Sometimes he'll do a miracle right away. I mean he could set the whole temple up or it's gonna take a long time brick by brick by brick to eventually get it done and then it gets torn down again in seventy AD Israel's struggle. What about our struggles? As a pastor, I hear struggles. Debt struggles, food struggles, kids' struggles, parent struggles, porn struggles, sleep Roommates, marriages, dating, singleness, divorce, widowhood, health, time management, holding a job, focus, anger And in our struggles, in these troubles, we so often feel isolated Trapped, certainly discouraged, but also afraid, and we say, Where is God in this? Where is God in this marriage? Where is God in this singleness? Where is God in my infertility? Why are you afflicting me, Lord? You could take away this depression, this anxiety, this shame, this addiction I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath, and I am tired of it. So we need the prophet to come in and assess and then also say great is the faithfulness. When I was an interim at City of Hope, they had been through the ringer just like Like you guys had and they had really one main elder who had borne the weight for years. You know, considering like should we keep going? No one really knew how much he carried, and so when I came, one of my big jobs was to just sit with him and meet with him and say, like, dude, I get it You've done a good job. It's really hard. It's okay to be tired. It's okay. not been easy. And just sitting there with him that much, it wasn't like I was like saying a lot, but he was like, thank you so much. I have been a man who seems affliction. I said, I know, me too. Thank you. We have to enter in and see and listen and care and speak. And I struggle with you and we struggle together, right? But but also your struggle is is my struggle. Our our struggles are with each other because we're a body. You know, if you're a body and you got a sore throat, the whole body is in bed. I think sometimes there's like a conference, like the hair says down to the toes and they get the elbow and it's like, hey, why are we in bed? We're not sick But is the throat can just rule will run over all of us? Let's like break away. We have our own rights. No, that's not the way a body works, right? The throat says, I'm sorry, but that's not how it works. The brain eventually kicks in. But toes don't know that stuff. So we are together and we see and know and care and act. We pray and sacrifice and text and call. And show up. And it's not just pull yourself up by your your bootstraps. That's a lie. We need each other. We need to reach out to good friends, pastors, counselors, tutors, mentors, support groups. And we respond when someone else struggles We don't just walk by and ignore and say, you got what you deserved. That's your problem. Not my problem. Not my circus. Not my monkeys. We say that sometimes, but also like, no, this is our circus. These are our monkeys. Not my circus, not my monkeys. Okay, well, so then let's talk about politics for a minute. Yeah. Now churches are not supposed to be political organ organizations advocating for candidates. Some do. But you're not going to get voting cards. Not here. However, that hands-off stance can also mean we don't talk about anything. Not my circus, not my monkeys. Right? So we're not going to speak up or we're not going to fight for people The church is silence on slavery, on segregation, on these Jim Crow laws, on child labor laws, on workplace safety, on exploit exploitation. Is something. It's not nothing. Because political issues are huge. Human issues. Now, the way you solve those human issues is certainly debatable, right? But but that's just an example of hands off, hands off, always hands off, always hands off, always hands off. But we're called to enter in, at least to offer hope. At least to see like, yo, this is bad. Lamentations gives us a lot of words for that. My soul is quaking. I feel like I got pierced in the liver And so we can enter in, help, offer hope, and be humbly compassionate. Where can we do that? Remember the cards, the person you put on a card they're thinking of with that person With each other here, which I see all the time. But in this town, in this county, in Greater Baltimore, in your neighborhood with the poor and the outcasts and the different classes and the different races. And you know, um, people that are doing okay also aren't okay I mean the thing on in wealthy neighborhoods is mind-blowing. When you have all the money you want to do whatever you want, guess what you do? Bad stuff. It's just easier to hide it all. I don't think there's less addiction in wealthy communities. Honestly, it's just different. So we come in and we say, I have seen great affliction And great is his faithfulness Those two things together are amazing. I have seen great affliction, and great is his faithfulness. Why can we say that? Because Jesus overcomes struggle, doesn't he? How does he do that? Number one example He comes. His incarnation is the big clue for this, right? So just think about how Israel is way past its glory dates. Whoa. I was sometimes thinking just today, it was like, what if Jesus had come during David's rule? It's like that would have been super awesome. But like they didn't think they needed the Messiah then, did they? Like, we're killing it We got all this stuff and we're about to build this temple and we have the greatest king ever of all time. Jesus shows up then like Oh he shows up when it's bad There is a new temple, but they're occupied by Rome. The people feel forsaken. They are crying out for a messiah. Please, someone, save us from the Romans. They really want a political Messiah. They really want a king back to David so they can get back there again. It's been a long time since they were that awesome. But Jesus moves in, doesn't he? He comes all the way. He enters a mess. A mess. And who takes notice? The mess. The messy people, the downtrodden, those who are suffering, the poor, the voiceless, the children, the women, the widows. He feeds the crowds, he heals the lepers, he spends time with the forsaken, he eats with sinners. So Julie and I, Tuesday, thirty years anniversary. I'm planning on keep going. So uh last on uh Friday night we went to the fancy do French restaurant in Old Electron City. Turkis It it it was delightful. It's always nice to be snooty on purpose, you know. Our waiter, bartender guy, we sort of had a private room almost. That first room w with has the bar in it, is only one table, we got that one. And he's been there thirty-seven years and so you know they come out and introduce the food, which I love, you know, the uses of of venison on a smear of carrot pate and you can taste the tarragon and a hint of nutmeg and like oh mm mm so it was it was wonderful. Um But the day before, I I'm doing a project with this guy, Douglas, and he's come once, and so we're working on the scene together. He said, let's meet at Sherry's. Sherry's is in Little Mexico in Baltimore And so I you know, walk up to Sherry's, I've got I look sort of like this, right, with a jacket, with a scarf, 'cause I know I'm going the next day and I'm trying to like be a little fancier, but Sherry's is the opposite of fancy So you know I walk up, the door is not clear, there's a handle. You've you're not sure if you're going in the right place, although it does she say shears in the top People smoking outside, which is fine. And I walk in and the the bartender lady can't hear. Right? The the nicest beverage is a Bud Light. That's about the top shelf right there. Trash around really dark. Pool table in the back. Which is all fine with me. I like places like Cherries. But you know what Jesus Like Sherries, not fancy restaurant at all. I can only think of one time. It's probably the wedding feast. John 2 is the only time I can think where he was any fancy. And he saved that party. Right? He saved it He's hanging out at Sherri's. For sure he's hanging out at Sherry's. You want to find Jesus in Baltimore? He's at Sherry's He's not in Catonsville. He's not in old El Cott City. I mean he is, but metaphorically I mean Jesus is a Sherry's guy And he gives up his reputation by going in there. And he gives them his reputation. He suddenly makes Sherries an awesome place to be. So Jesus incarnates himself, and he also struggles too, doesn't he? It's important when you're struggling to think, I wonder how Jesus struggled this way. He He maybe didn't struggle with the exact same thing you're struggling with, you know, like in your marriage. But he is married to the church. That ain't easy. He's a man of sorrows. He's stricken, smitten, and afflicted. Poor, suffering, rejected. It's a very Lenten thing, right? It's very lamentational. The things that happened to him. First of all, he became a person, so he limited himself big time That means he also hurt and he wept, got hungry, was forsaken, was falsely accused. was beaten, was hated, was bled, was murdered, took the gall We read about gall here, 19. Remembering my afflictions and my wanderings, the wormwood and the gall. You know, gall is a little uh it's it it's grows on a plant. It's like sort of like a wart, but it's on a plant. Um we don't use the word very much. We use it for gallbladder and like I he had the gall Which is sort of weird when you think about it. It's the nerve, the effrontery. Gaula's bitterness and poisonous It's also a word for bile, because the gallbladder holds bile. And bile, what does bile come from? It comes from Latin word for anger. And when Jesus was on the cross, what did they give him on that sponge? Vinegar and gall Painful, forsaken, rejected, alone, afflicted, struggle, the wormwood and the gall. Lent, Good Friday But great is his faithfulness, isn't it? Great is his faithfulness. Jesus is our faithfulness He gives us hope in our struggle because he struggled and he was faithful. So he gives us faithfulness. He was faithful. We're so not. So we get his faithfulness. And he told us Takes the gall and the wormwood. He's steadfast. His love endures forever. He died and rose again, and our God reigns. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good to be a man that he that he bear the yoke of his youth 31 through 33, for the Lord will not cast off forever, but though he cause grief, he will have compassion, according to his abundance of his steadfast love. Look at verse 45, because you know what? That's awesome, but it still stinks. I'll take no affliction, would be better Look at verse forty-five. You have made us scum and garbage among the peoples. Whoa! Still stinks. There's sixty-six verses in Lamentations three But why should a living man complain a man about the punishment of his sins? There's a reason why some of these things happen, isn't there? God invites us, Jesus invites us, all who labor, all who are heavy and laden, which is all of us, to take his 55. I called on your name, O Lord, from the depths of my pit. You heard my plea. Do not close your ear to my cry for help. You came near when I called on you. You said, do not fear. You have taken up my cause, O Lord. You have redeemed my life You have seen the wrong done to me, O Lord, judge my cause. You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me. Do not fear But I'm afraid. Do not fear, I'm afraid What if the Koopa Chabra is real and he's gonna come in and get me? What if there really is a boogeyman? Because it feels like it. Every day it feels like the boogeyman is so close to me. I mean that's a story, but maybe that feels real. What if I don't get better? What if they find out? What if it doesn't work? Do not fear So uh I've been uh sailing ten weeks and I would think ninety-nine percent of the time it everything is fine. Like your worst day out in the bur British islands is a best day. Whatever bad happens is not really that bad. Sometimes my job as a skipper is to not let everyone else know how bad something really is. It's like it's gonna be fine, it's gonna be fine. And then sometimes, rarely, I have to say, this is bad. I want everyone to know we're all on the same page. I'm not pretending this isn't bad. This is bad. We are in trouble. And I gotta say it out loud so we're all on the same same page all of a sudden. When he says it's bad, it must be bad Lamentations is sort of that one, right? This is bad. You also have people that think things are bad. the Karen's on the trip. Um, well we need to call because this light bulb is and I want a refund. Come on. That's not bad. Stop. But sometimes it is Do not fear. And when what what Lamentations helps us say is do not fear. I am here. Do not fear I am here. Do not fear someone is here. Do not fear underdog is here. There's no need to fear. Underdog is here. From the great era of cartoons, right? They don't make them like this anymore. We don't have Hong Kong Fooie anymore, or the Jetsons, or the Flintstones, or the Schmoo, or Captain Caveman. Like, you know, you wake up and it's you had to watch it from seven to noon. That's all you got. You had to park yourself there. I put I was this far away from the TV because I couldn't have glasses yet. We didn't have BCRs. I remember I would be so mad when we had to do something on a Saturday morning. So I would at least get out my cassette recorder and get You just get forty-five minutes of volume. I'll go home and listen to forty-five minutes of the Jetsons, right? As if it would never come on again Underdog, underdog, underdog. You know, he's the alter ego of the shoeshine boy. And uh underdog shows up when when somebody's in trouble. Sweet poly purebred is in trouble. She's being harassed by Simon Barr Sinister or Riff Raff. And she always keeps to get in trouble. That's why we need an underdog. And no show if that doesn't happen. Everything's just fine. No underdog Someone will save the day. So obviously, Jesus is better than underdog. But we get in trouble, so we need somebody. Never fear, Jesus. is here. Right? In our pain, death, failure, shame, regret, rejection, our disappointments, we have an emmanual Someone who's with us, someone who comes near, someone who enters the suffering, someone who enters the struggle as one of us God became a person. God became our Redeemer. Suffered physically, emotionally, spiritually, like us. He died and he came back. And he's coming again. Great is his faithfulness. His mercies are new every single morning. When that rooster crows, great is his faithfulness because there's a new day coming. You're not stuck in darkness forever He is victorious, he is redeeming, he is making all things new, taking our suffering, giving us his victory, giving us hope, taking up our causes, redeeming our lives, hearing our pleas. So do not fear. He is near. Amen? Amen. Take a few moments and respond in some silent prayer to the Holy Spirit.