Well, good morning. We will be in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 this morning, and we'll be reading from verses 1 through 11. And if you notice, we're actually moving around a little bit and going out of order. You'll notice that Pastor Josiah is not with us today. He's out of town at a wedding. And I was scheduled to preach on chapter fifteen, so he allowed me to not have to rewrite a new sermon and we'll just do it a little out of order and next week he'll he'll finish up the end of chapter fourteen. And as we come to chapter 15, this is a turning point in the letter. From chapters 12 through 14, Paul's been talking about orderly worship and and what it means when we we gather together to worship God and and principles for that and all the ways that spiritual gifts apply And now he turns to a new issue, the issue of the resurrection of Christ and of the resurrection of the dead. We learn in 15 verse 12 that there are some people in Corinth who are denying the resurrection of the dead. And so Paul starts in chapter 15 to address these issues. So if you would, would you please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word? Hear God's word from 1 Corinthians 15. Now, I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you. Which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you. Unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures. That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them. Though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believed. This is God's word. Would you pray with me? Our Father, we we cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our Lord stands forever. Lord, your word is truth, and we pray now that as we hear your word, That you would sanctify us in that truth. That we would not only come to understand your word, but we would come to love you through your word. And so Lord, as we as we turn to your word now, we ask that you would speak, for your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. John Wooden is regarded as one of the greatest college basketball coaches in history. In his time at UCLA, he led the team to ten national championships, which included four undefeated seasons. And in spite of all this success, Coach Wooden didn't take anything for granted. He started every season with the most basic of lessons, teaching his players how to tie their shoes and socks. Listen to how Coach Wooden describes this. He says, I think it's the little things that really count. The first thing I would show our players at our first meeting was how to take a little extra time putting on their shoes and socks properly. The most important part of your equipment is your shoes and socks. You play on a hard floor, so you must have shoes that fit right And you must not permit your socks to have wrinkles around the little toe where you generally get blisters or around the heels. It took just a few minutes, but I did show my players how I wanted them to do it. Hold up the sock, work it around the little toe area and the heel area so that there are no wrinkles. Smooth it out good. Then hold the sock up while you put the shoe on. And the shoe must be spread apart, not just pulled at the top laces. You tighten it up snugly by each eyelet. Then you tie it. And then you double tie it because I don't want uh because I don't want shoes to come untied during practice or during the game. I don't want that to happen. That's just a little detail that coaches must make take advantage of, because it's the little details that make the big things come about. Another coach for known for bringing his players back to basics was Vince Lombardi, the coach after whom the NFL named the trophy given to the team that wins the Super Bowl every year. Coach Lombardi is known for the way he started the first day of training camp every year. He would walk up to the front of the room and he would hold it up as if they'd never seen it before, and he would say, gentlemen, this is a football. You see, these coaches understood that the basics are essential. They lay the foundation for everything you do. And if you get the basics wrong, then everything else you do is done in vain And if we think about it, that's true for the Christian life as well. The gospel, the good news about Jesus Christ, about who he is and what he's done, is the basic element of the Christian faith. Sometimes we're tempted to want to move past the gospel or to overlook it. Other times we're tempted to doubt it and to ask, is it really true? Can it really save me? Does it really have the power to fix the problems that I see in the world? We're often tempted to move away from the gospel, and we need to be reminded and encouraged to hold fast to it. And that's the main point that Paul wants us to see here. He wants us to encourage us to hold fast to the gospel with confidence. Because it's in the gospel that we're being saved. He starts by reminding them of the importance of the gospel, and then he gives them two reasons to have confidence in this message. So let's first look at how Paul highlights the importance of the gospel in verses 1 and 2. He says there that for the Christian, the gospel is everything. And so we must hold fast to it. Like I said, Paul's introducing a new topic here, focusing on the resurrection. And it is kind of difficult to tell exactly what the problem was. in the church there, but verse 12 tells us that it relates to their denying some of them the resurrection of the dead. And so Paul starts out here by talking about the resurrection of Christ. Because as Pastor Josiah will tell us in a couple weeks, our hope of a future resurrection is directly connected to our belief that Christ really and truly rose from the dead. But I think there's also another reason why Paul talks about these things and why he does it here at the end of the letter. I think Paul is being a good pastor. If you've been paying attention throughout this series, or if you're familiar with the book of 1 Corinthians, you'll know that Paul's had to say some pretty harsh things to this church. And These criticisms and rebukes that he's given to them, they've covered just about every area of the church's life. No one could say that Paul's criticisms didn't apply to them. And Paul knows that this can be hard to hear. In fact, if you go on and read 2 Corinthians, you'll see that his relationship with this church was pretty rocky there for a while. And so Paul he he does want to correct their errors in theology, but he also wants to teach them how to live as Christians, and he wants to encourage them. And so he says, I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you. Now, as a side note, I think it's really encouraging. It's no small thing that he calls them brothers. In spite of all their sin and messiness and division, he's affirming that they're still Christians Isn't that such a comfort for you and I? And so he says, I remind you of the gospel. Remember what Christ has done and the new identity that you have in him. In pointing them to the gospel, he highlights the way they responded to it. He says they received it, they currently stand in it, and they're being saved by it. Right? So not only did they believe the gospel when Paul came and preached it to them at first. They're still standing firm in their faith. And then he says it's in the gospel that they're being saved. I want us to notice the way he says that. He doesn't say that they were saved. Instead, he says they are being saved. I think that's really important for us to remember. A lot of times when we think about salvation, we think of it only in terms of what we call justification. Justification is the doctrine that refers to the fact that we are declared right or justified in God's sight. He doesn't do this because of anything good in us when he accepts us as righteous and pardons our sin. But it's because Christ's righteousness is counted to us. And Christ takes the punishment for our sin. So, to be justified is to be declared free from the penalty of our sin. And this justification is received by faith in Christ alone. And I want to affirm that that is an essential element of the gospel. But it's not the only part of the gospel. If it was, we could only say that we were saved at the moment we placed our trust in Christ But Paul says that if we believe in the gospel, we are being saved. That's because God's plan was never just to deliver us from the penalty of sin. Christ came to deliver us from the power of sin and ultimately from the presence of sin. That's the great hope and promise that we have in the gospel. That one day we'll be free from all the suffering and evil that we see in this world and that we endure in our lives. That that every wrong will be made right, that every tear will be wiped away, that you and I Will dwell in the presence of God forever, seeing him face to face, and that we will be unable to sin. But it's not just limited to the future. Here and now, by the work of the Holy Spirit, Christ is breaking the power of sin in the lives of his people. We're being sanctified and conformed to the image of Christ. We're being enabled more and more to die to our sin and to live in a way that honors Christ. Of course, we still struggle with sin and we're gonna continue to struggle until the day we die. But for every Christian here, I know that you can look over your life and look back and see how the Spirit has been at work. For some of you, he's completely For others it's slow and painful, and if we're honest, someday it it doesn't feel like we're making any progress at all. But we can look back and know that he's at work You are being saved by the gospel. And so Paul's reminding them of the gospel because he wants them to hold fast to it. As we just saw, the gospel is not just the truth for the start of the Christian life. We never get beyond the gospel. It's the foundation of all that we do. And so Paul stresses this importance by warning them about the danger of believing in vain. What does he mean by that? I think he's saying this. I think he's saying there is only one gospel. And if you abandon it or change it, then you believe in vain and have no hope for salvation He gives a similar warning to the Galatians when he says in Galatians chapter 1, I'm astonished that you're so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you Let him be accursed. So, church, what is the gospel that you believe in? Many people today say they believe in God, and many will even say they love Jesus. But if the Jesus that we are trusting in is not the Jesus of the Bible, then we're trusting in a Jesus that doesn't save. There are many distortions of the gospel proclaimed today, and so we need to be careful that we hold fast to the one true gospel, because it's our only hope. So that raises the question for us, what is the true gospel? And how can we be sure? Well, that's what we're going to explore as we go through the rest of this passage. So Paul doesn't he doesn't tell us just to hold fast to the gospel. He tells us what the gospel is, and then he gives us reasons for having confidence in that message. So in talking about the gospel, he says that he delivered to them as of first importance what he also received. This message is the most important thing in Paul's ministry. He didn't make any of this up. This is what Christ revealed to him, and it's the same gospel that was entrusted to the other apostles. Paul's ministry was all about delivering to others the same gospel that he also received. And he defines the gospel in verses 3 through 5. He says that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. In explaining the gospel this way, he wants us to see that we can have confidence in the gospel because the gospel facts are objectively true. And he highlights this by emphasizing the importance of Christ's death and resurrection. Take a look at the way he words those verses there. He repeats that phrase in accordance with the scriptures. He says it this way because he wants us to see that That the focus is on Christ's death and resurrection, and the other two is his burial, it's confirmation that Christ really died. And his appearances are confirmation that he really rose from the dead. Christ's death and resurrection are the two Two great gospel events upon which our faith stands or falls. Christ lived a perfect, sinless life, and he died for our sins. He died in our place as a substitute, paying the penalty that our sins deserved. Sometimes we're tempted to stop there and say that the gospel is that Jesus died on the cross for our sins But Paul's point is that while that's a wonderful truth, the gospel is only good news for us if Christ really rose from the dead. Paul expresses this very idea in Romans 4 when he says that Christ was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Paul's stressing the resurrection in these verses because he wants us to see that Jesus didn't just die for us. He rose again for us. And we have a Savior who lives. Sometimes we're tempted or even encouraged to doubt the reality of these events. But we can have a full confidence that these events, including the physical, real resurrection of Christ from the dead, are true. And there's two ways that he gives us. First, he points us to Scripture. He says, you can be sure of Christ's death and resurrection because it all happened according to Scripture. That's what Jesus himself constantly told his disciples, both before and after his resurrection. He repeatedly told them that he came to die and that he would rise again. Luke records one of these conversations and his appearance to the disciples after the resurrection, saying, Then Jesus said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. That everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. And said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer, and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance, for the forgiveness of sins, should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem When Jesus there says the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms, that's a common shorthand way of referring to the whole Old Testament. So Jesus right there is saying that the entire Old Testament was teaching About who he is and what he came to do. This was God's plan, and he was working toward it from the very beginning. I mean, think about it. Right after the fall, after Adam and Eve sinned. God made the first promise of the gospel when he was speaking to the serpent in Genesis 3:15. He says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. This verse is considered the first proclamation of the gospel in the Bible. And the serpent had caused our first parents to sin. And God promises that a descendant from the woman would eventually come and defeat the serpent. Christ is the offspring of the woman spoken of here. His death is the bruise on the heel, but his resurrection is the death blow that crushes the head of the serpent. The gospel was God's plan from the start. We see this plan being revealed throughout the Old Testament. Paul points out that we we see this plan in the promise that God made to Abraham. Paul says in Galatians and the scriptures, for seeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. Saying, In you shall all nations be blessed. We go on to see this plan being revealed in the suffering servant of Isaiah 53, where we read that He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and by his wounds we are healed. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. We see this plan being revealed in the promise of Psalm 16, for you will not abandon my soul to Sheol or let your holy one see corruption. If you remember our preparation for worship this morning, Peter preaches on this text in his sermon at Pentecost and applies it to Christ, saying that ultimately David's words here are fulfilled in the resurrection of Christ. Jesus even tells us that we should read it as we read the book of Jonah. He says, For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Jesus points to this even while he's on the cross. Did you know that in two of Jesus' most famous sayings from the cross, he's actually quoting the Psalms? He quotes Psalm 22 when he asks, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And he quotes Psalm 31 when he says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit Both of these Psalms refer not only to the suffering of God's anointed one, but ultimately to his exaltation and deliverance. Church, can you see the beauty and the unity of God's Word? The Bible is not merely a collection of stories. It's one coherent, unified story of how God has acted to redeem his people. And central to that plan is the death and resurrection of Christ. You can have confidence in this book. And you can have confidence that the gospel is true because it happened exactly how Scripture said it would. That alone is sufficient for us. We take God at His Word and have confidence in what He says because it's Him who says it But Paul gives us another reason why we can have confidence that the gospel events are true. He points us to the many post-resurrection appearances of Christ. Paul lists several of Christ's appearances. He appeared to Cephas, who's Peter, then to the twelve disciples, then to more than five hundred people at once, then to James, the brother of Jesus, then again to the apostles, and finally to Paul himself. Jesus appeared to several different groups of people at several different times, and every one of them was telling the same story, that Jesus has been raised from the dead. This is I mean this is really the only explanation for what we read about in the New Testament, isn't it? Thomas, one of Jesus' disciples, goes from doubting to proclaiming Christ as his Lord and his God. What happened? Jesus appeared to him. James went from thinking that his brother Jesus was out of his mind to believing he was the Son of God. He became a leader in the church in Jerusalem, and he eventually wrote the book that bears his name What happened? Jesus appeared to him. Paul went from being a persecutor of the church, breathing threats and murder against the followers of Christ, to being the greatest missionary who has ever lived. Because Jesus appeared to him. Paul says to the Corinthians that if you don't believe that, he also appeared to more than 500 people at one time. You see, 500 people don't simultaneously hallucinate something or make it up. More importantly, most of these people are still alive, so you can go and ask them. I know that's great news for the Corinthians, but all 500 of them are dead now. So we can't exactly go ask them. So I think that raises the question for us. How is it relevant for us that Jesus appeared to all these people? I think Luke 24, which we mentioned earlier, is again helpful for us here. Jesus appears to his disciples, which is one of the appearances that Paul's talking about in this passage. And right after he explains that everything had to happen according to Scripture, he tells the disciples, you are witnesses of these things. Jesus reiterates this in Acts 1. 8, when he tells the disciples, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. You see, friends, Jesus didn't just appear to these people. Through the Holy Spirit, he empowered them to be his authoritative witnesses to the world. Paul says he's delivering to the Corinthians what he also received, but he's also delivering it to us. The gospel has been handed down to us ultimately by the very people who saw the risen Christ and has been preserved for us in the New Testament. You can have confidence in their testimony. So we must hold fast to the gospel because it's true. But we must also hold fast to the gospel because it's transformative. That's what Paul tells us we see in verses 9 through 11. In these verses, Paul tells us that the grace of God that is given to us in the gospel has the power to radically transform us. And he tells us this by sharing his own testimony as an example. Paul says in verse 9 that he's not even worthy to be called an apostle because he persecuted the church of Christ. He considers himself the least of the apostles. You know, we're first introduced to Paul in Acts chapter 7, when Stephen was martyred for his faith. Paul is also known as Saul, and we're told that as the people were stoning Stephen, they laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul, and Saul approved of his execution. We're told just a little while later that Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogues of Damascus. So that if he found any belonging to the way, that's Christians, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. This is who Paul was until Christ appeared to him on that road to Damascus, and he was converted. And Paul never forgot his past life and his profound unworthiness of God's grace. He calls himself the least of the apostles. In other places, he refers to himself as the chief of all sinners. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on to say that it's by the grace of God that he is what he is: an apostle. Doesn't that give you such hope? The the man who delighted to see Christ's followers put to death. Came to faith. And not only that, he wasn't shoved off to the side as some second-class Christian. No, he was given the honor of being an apostle, the highest honor that Christ could bestow upon someone The grace of God has the power to radically transform lives. And God's grace is not given in vain. That's the next thing that Paul tells us. We only need to read the New Testament to see the fruit that Paul bore for Christ. By any measure, he had the most significant impact of any missionary in history. The abundant grace that God showed him is what gave him the motivation and the ability to work so hard. He says, I worked harder than any of them, referring to the other apostles. But it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Paul's saying that even though he's worked hard, he knows that God alone is responsible for the impact of his ministry. You see, the gospel not only has the power to transform our lives, it has the power to transform others through us Somebody asks you, are you discouraged by your struggle with sin this morning? Are you discouraged by your friends and family members who seem completely uninterested in the gospel? Are you discouraged by the injustice that you see around the world, by the persecution that our brothers and sisters endure? I know that all of these things can tempt us to move away from the gospel. We might doubt its truth as we wonder why the world doesn't look the way we think it should. We might doubt its effectiveness as we wonder why people don't respond the way we think they ought to. You might even find yourself tempted to change the gospel because you don't want to offend anyone. On the other hand, some of us are tempted to add to the gospel. Thinking that to really be a faithful Christian and to really see change in our world, we have to think, speak, act, and even vote in a certain way sometimes. All of this reflects a lack of faith in the gospel as delivered by Christ to the apostles. While we might not all struggle with this in the same way, all of us struggle to remain faithful to the gospel. So if this is where you find yourself this morning, then I want to encourage you to hold fast to the gospel. Because God's grace has the power to radically transform lives. I don't know what the future holds for my life or for yours. But what I do know is that the gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. That the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword, able to pierce men to the core and to change their lives. Paul gives us his testimony to teach us that if God's grace has the power to save him, to transform his life, and to change the world through his ministry, there is no limit to what God's grace can do. The gospel has the power to change lives, and so we must hold fast to it. So what would it look like for us to become a church that confidently holds fast to the gospel in every area of life? To become a people who who know deep down in our bones that this gospel is true and it is the only thing that has the power to change our lives and our world. How would that affect the way we think about our jobs or our schooling? Or the way we relate to our coworkers or our friends? How would it affect the way we schedule our week and decide what activities we will or won't participate in? How will it affect the way we deal with sickness and trials, or the way we respond to death and loss? How would it affect the way we worship? Or the way you pray? What about the way we spend our money? Or the way we think? How would it affect what you long for? You see, friends, the gospel is fundamental to the Christian life. And the fundamentals are essential. So we need to get back to the basics. Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures. He was buried, and on the third day he rose from the dead in accordance with the scriptures. He appeared to his followers, and he sent them out into the world to proclaim the good news that if you will turn from your sins and place your faith in Christ, he will forgive your sins and give you eternal life. Church, this is the gospel. You can have confidence that this message is true and powerful. It's the foundation of all your life, and everything you do is built upon it. Never get beyond it. Never depart from it. And I promise you, on the authority of the Word of God, you will not believe in vain. Let's pray. Our Father, we come before you thankful for your gospel. We confess that We are so weak, though our spirit is willing, our flesh is weak, Lord. We we believe, but we need you to help our unbelief. Would you give us confidence in the truth of your gospel? Would you give us confidence in the power of your gospel? And would you encourage us to hold fast to your gospel with faith in all that we do. We thank you so much for your spirit who's with us, who strengthens us, and enables us to do all these things and promises that He will complete the good work He started in us And so we ask that you would encourage us in this way, and we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.