So um Carl wanted me to Take a one another verse. And so I have chosen Colossians three, twelve through seventeen. I want to tell you how delighted I'm I am to be here. one of your bodies. She met me at the door. Joan Nelson was at Faith Christian Fellowship with me for probably two decades. I worked under her in children's ministry and she's still here helping me out. Uh I once wrote a poem and dedicated it to her. It was called I Aspire to be a Saint. And I used to call her Saint Jones, as I remember, she scoffed at me whenever I did. There are three things we're gonna look at today. This the the theme is going to be Forgiving one another. First, we're going to look at what God has to do inside the heart. And second, three aspects of forgiving. First, that we need to forgive because God forgives because it's part of the gospel. Second, that when we forgive we forgive unceasingly. And third, that we don't forgive out of our own resource, but out of the Holy Spirit. Um if for those of you who are able, I'd like you to rise while I read the scripture. This is Colossians three, twelve through seventeen. Put on, then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you, so also must forgive. And above all these, put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts to which indeed you were called in one body And be thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. Singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with cheerfulness in your hearts to God and whatever you do, in word Or deed, do it into the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to the Father, to God the Father through him. This is the word. You may be seated. Few words just to give context to this verse. Colossians was written as one of the epistles in the um when Paul was imprisoned in Rome. We know that several ways. One, it had similar themes, similar tone. As to the other prison epistles, Ephesians, Philippians, and Philemon. And so it was written about A. D. 60 Paul had never been to Colossi. Uh and he was um probably what happened was one of the saints we think it was Titicus, came to him and said, There's kind of uh wrong headed thinking going in this one ch Church. Maybe you ought to address it. Now we don't know exactly what that was, but we think it was first adherence to um philosophy, it was a Greek state. It also had a preponderance of Jewish legalism. And lastly, it minimized Christ. So in Colossians, we have the most Christus-centric book in the Bible. If you want to know where we Christ the Creator, Christ the Sustainer, who judges, who saves, Colossians is the book This comes to us at the end when he is um delivering his admonishments So the first verse of this section is put on then as God chosen ones holy and beloved. So what he's doing at the outset is setting an identity in Christ. He is flying exactly in the opposite direction as our contemporary society. How do we get along with people? We get along with people by ignoring them. Right? No problem, whatever. You know, do your thing, leave me alone. That was not what Paul was doing here. So, the three aspects, first was that we are chosen That's eclectoi, which is the same word for election when he said we're chosen. Now I don't know what everybody's testimony is is here. But if I were to ask, I bet it would start with I felt a pull and then And so what this means is that the first letter, the first sentence of our testimony, whatever it is, is written by God. And all we do at that point is follow along. Second attribute is holy. Now holy means separate It means that he will take his chosen and he will put them among themselves, and they shall be Actually sacred to him. So let us look at the term put on. And the Satha. It's the same word that's used in Romans 13, 14, where Paul says, put on Jesus. Jesus Christ. It's also the same word that's used in Ephesians 6, put on the whole armor of God. So this is a metaphor that Paul uses. It means to dress, of course, to to put on clothing to slip into, but more than that, it means to array, to Invest in a wardrobe so that you are com you can comport yourself in one or another ways. So what are we going to put on He gives us five things. Thing number one is a compassionate heart. The term is agepe minoi. Now notice that within that is agape. Which is God's unique love that loves love and in love all things. That comes from C. S. Lewis. It means to love that to wish well and to take pleasure in. It is a love that's actually of reasoning It's a reasoned love. So within this term, compassionate heart, it won't It includes restraint, it includes uh discipline and regulation. So what he's saying is Is that therefore we need new hearts before we can get into the business of actually forgiving people In Mark two hundred twenty one he says No one sees a piece sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does the patch wears away the new New from the old and a worse tear is made. So if we're working under our own power and we try and befriend people if It won't work. The second item that we're going to put on is kindness. This means pity, compassion, favor, grace, and mercy. Now, it's not Pollyanna-ish seeing everything with a bright s it's not seeing the cup half full. Although I think that's a good thing What it is, is seeing life and your people exactly as there are, and still responding with kindness, with sweetness The third item is humility. Humility is lowliness in mind or modesty. What he's talking about here is is not self abasement. It's rather the appropriate vision of God who's here And we are down here. And once we see this appropriate juxtaposition, we are capable of no other response than humility. The fourth point is meekness, which is mildness or gentleness. You remember the Beatitude, blessed are the meek. This is the same thing. Building our kingdom in this body and outside. Last term that we're to put on is patience. Now the term patience very often when we use it today is But in fact the word patience is much more serious and it um Connotes enduring under pressure and bearing with and suffering So what do all these five have to do with one another? They have to do with getting along with other people So I think he's saying that in God's currency, the most god God esteeming thing that you and I can do is to take others and hold them up before us. Tell you a story. Last week I was an usher, put on a tie and a um a shirt and a tie like this. Um I'm not used to being an usher after the service. I was walking out and this probably four year old boy comes up And he says, are you the president? I said, Pardon? And he said, are you the president? And I said, why? And he said, Well the president always wears a tie, and I see you have a tie, so you must be the president And I said, No, but I am a deacon and I'm trying to look the part, but thank you very much. So out of the mouth of babes comes real wisdom. This giving depth to this term and the saste, this putting on. One of the things that I suggested in my might be in your bulletin that each of us take one of these terms that we talked about here and see what we can do to put on it. C. S. Lewis in Mere Christianity talks about the So he says when they're two boys and they're playing cops and robbers, what they're actually doing is they're building up this capacity Or when a girl has a doll that she's learning nurturance and how to um treat young people Okay, so we take, we put it on, and then we let the Holy Spirit transform us. Now we're going to get we're getting ready to go into the thesis statement of this entire section, or at least what I want to focus on But before I do, I want to put out a warning or a disclaimer that when we're approaching This term forgiveness. We need to gingerly. We need to presume nothing. Example. So my boss is uh about ten years ago. And they went out behind their apartment and they were walking along along the alleyway and she didn't have her sandals on so mom told her to go back getting her s get her sandals on. So she went back, got her sandals on A car. Her neighbor comes roaring way too fast down the alleyway She is blaring loud music. She's going too fast. The daughter comes out. She's hit. Run over. And kill Now, this kind of horrific situation we need to be delicate. There's There's I hope nothing in this that's gonna sound formulaic, okay? But um Where she was, she was visiting. There was no way that she could do anything except grieve In fact, after a year, she is a woman of of uh Christ, she found solace. So God was able to heal that. terrific um uh horror in her heart. Um so she's not living there. But I'll tell you when she told me me this story. There was a tear in her eyes and in mine. So now let me read this the um verse. This comes from 12. Bearing with one another and If one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you, so you must forgive. Now it's interesting this term for bearing and chomanoi. It is the same word for patient, which was the fifth attribute that he dealt with before. So in its context, in fact, it does mean to bear. But it's almost like you take the term patient And make it a verb and talk about being patient within an ordeal. The fact is that relationships in a fallen world don't happen without angst, friction And compromise. Um it inevitably, if we're dealing with other people, it leads to complaint, to faults, to blame And all of that stuff. Many of us have been blessed with children. We know that children make us better people 100% of the time. But it's tough work. And we and Scripture tells us 100% of the time we need to forgive So let's talk about what this verse doesn't mention. It doesn't mention who's right and who's wrong. It doesn't mention who's in authority. It doesn't doesn't even mention um what the consequences are. Now of course we need to apply the whole counsel of God. God Hates sin. And he has a lot to say about how he handles those who sin and who are under sin. But nevertheless, I think what he's saying is even when we're in these tough situations, an employee needs to be fired The son or daughter need to be grounded. Um we need to seek restitution. This has to happen within the love And the body of Christ. Why? Because God forgave us Or do salute us. We start out as sinners. We're justifiably alienated and isolated from God. And then, due to his grace, we receive a call. This call, then, changes our heart, our will. Once we see God and ourselves for the first time, we have a snapshot that we can see how miserable and small and meaningless we are compared to The fourteen point seven billion year o so far adventure that God has put on this earth And so we are now to bow before God. And the an identical statement is made. Um, Sermon on the Mount, you remember, we're given the Lord's Prayer without any segue, any change Christ says, For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your father forgive us our trespasses. So we repent not to earn God, but because God has joined us. We repent because we are now unified with God and we see what that brings us And that this then we repent because we have a changed heart, a changed will, and in fact we do good because God has changed us Not because we want to influence God. Second point about forgiveness is how many times. So Peter was talking with Jesus And he said, Jesus, with all this riff-rap out here, they're getting on my last nerve. How many times should I forgive? Seven? And Jesus said, Seven? No. Seventy seven. So Christ is telling us this word seven is a word of completion And so when Christ takes the word seven and changes the word seventy-seven, that means that we are to forgive over and over And over and over and over. Then Christ goes on and tells a uh parable. So there was this king. And this king was um a s one seriously in charge dude Like most kings, you know. And he was looking at his books and he saw that there was one of his there were several people that owed him a lot of money. One especially he was kind of an admin guy and he owed him ten thousand talents of silver. So I was wondering what that meant. So I went to um w the the web and I found that a pound of silver is worth two hundred and ninety one dollars. And that there are twenty seven pounds of silver in a talent. So that's $7,860. And $10,000 of those is $78,600,000. Now, what would your day be like if the IRS came to you and you had a debt of $78 million? It would ruin your date. Frankly, jail would be the worst would be the least of your problems. Because you'd have CBS and MBC and Fox All talking about what a creep you are and how irresponsible and how the government is all wrong to let you get in that much debt before they came before you But nevertheless, seriously in charge dude called the admin in. And he said, You owe me a lot of money, you need to pay me back, or you're going to jail, and your wife's going to jail. Your children are going to jail. Admin prostrates himself. He says, Lord, please have patience. Have patience. I will pay it back. And the king relented. And not only did he relent about being patient and giving him time, not only did he not send him to jail, but he actually forgave The debt. Now you'd think that the admin would be really great. Not so much. He went out, he saw a servant who owed him a hundred denarius. Now a hundred denarii's pretty piece of change. A denarii's about what one makes in one day's wage. So a hundred denarii is what? Three and a half months wage, you know. It's it's a significant amount. And he said, You need to give me my money, or I'm gonna throw you in jail Now the servant drops on his knees prostrate in front of the admin and he says, Please, admin, give me patient, be patient, be patient. I will return the money. Hmm. We've heard that before somewhere. Nevertheless, after that, the admin said You fool, you are taking away my money off to jail with you. The other servants, of course, were terrified. that the admin could do that. Apparently a lot of people were into him. And so they go back to seriously in charge dude, and he's not. Happy camper. So he calls him back, calls the admin back, and says, You wicked servant, I forgave you, and you punished those who owed you money You now need to go to jail and be there. At the end of this, Christ says, So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother. From the heart. So notice how often that theme comes up. First, we forgive because it's part of the gospel, because God forgave us. Second, we give unceasingly. But the most important point in this entire comes with the third point, which is forgiving out of the Holy Spirit. Friends, we can't forgive ourselves. It can't be done. We can't do it out of our own resource. We will stumble every time. If you try that gripe is gonna fester and then you're gonna hear it another time and you're gonna blow Or that thing undone is going to be undone another time and it may be small and you react as if it's major and serious and you end up being the one we end up being the one with mud on our face Well, in the rest of this passage, I think that Jesus that Paul, through the agency of the Holy Spirit, shows us And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your heart to which you indeed were called in one body, and be thankful Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, sorry I'm repeating wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. With thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do in word and deed, do everything in the name of Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. So he's telling us not to out of our own resource, but to put And what does it do? It binds us. And the result of this is we now can have the peace And note how this is written particularly to the Church of Colossi Because we are one body. We can be thankful because of the word richly dwelling in our hearts And that this allows, and notice the functions of the church. Every one of these has happened this morning. There has been teaching. There has been admonition We have shared wisdom. We have sung psalms. We have sung hymns and spiritual songs and thankfulness to God. So whatever we do, in word or deed, we do everything to Lord Jesus. with thankfulness in our hearts to God through Him. I'm going to end up my words with a thought that comes from a very wise lady. She's actually my wife. 2009 Kim was uh interviewed by a reporter um from the Baltimore's son in an article on forgiveness. And she said forgiveness is the only thing that can break the chain of bad human behavior. And so, my friends and saints, you to Joan. As we go out into the world, let us be mindful that it's our job to forgive over And over and over and over out of the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen.