Good morning, everyone. We're going to be continuing on our study of John's Gospel. Uh we'll be in John chapter 19, looking at the first sixteen verses of that chapter and just uh to kind of remind ourselves of where we are. We're here on what is Friday morning of the the day that Jesus will be created. crucified. He's been arrested in the course of the middle of the night. He's been questioned by the high priest, by Annas, by Caiaphas. He's then been sent in the the early, early morning hours to Pilate and been questioned by Pilate. Um and and now we come back to the point where where Pilate has uh been trying to release Jesus. He tried to release it uh release him instead of Barabbas and that proved to fail. And now we come in in chapter 19 to see more of this unfolding as uh Jesus is uh being questioned more, being uh beaten and abused, but also that that Pilate is trying to release him in in the face of the Jewish crowd and um all of these things are going to be going on in in our passages. morning. So let's uh take a moment just to ask for God's help as we look at his word and then we'll we'll read the passage together Our Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you that you have spoken, that you've spoken clearly through your word and ultimately through your son. You haven't left us to to grasp about and try and figure out who you are on your own, but that you have have revealed yourself as a God who loves us and cares for us, a God who is holy and righteous and good. We pray, O Lord, that as we spend time reading your word, meditating upon your word, learning from your word, Lord, that you would help us to know you in a deeper way and help us to love you more fully. We pray, O Lord, that you would speak now, for your servants are listening. And we ask this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. We'll hear now the reading of God's Word from John 19, verses 1 through 16. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him, and the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! And struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify him! Crucify him Pilate said to them, Take him yourself and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called the Stone Pavement, and in Aramaic, Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king! They cried out, Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. This is God's word. Jesus Taught, you can not have and serve two masters. You'll either be devoted to the one and hate the other, or you'll love the one and despise the other. You can't have divided loyalties. And but we see that come out in various aspects of life. And I I think intuitively we know that that that's true. Right, and and it comes out in in different areas of life. One of the ways that I see this come out that I think is interesting is is the the oath of allegiance that you have to take in order to become a naturalized citizen of the United States The oath that you have to take in that includes this statement: I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen. Dual citizenship so sure. Dual allegiance, not a chance. Can't serve two masters. You can't have divided loyalty. And one of the things we see about this is that it's important to resolve ahead of time where your loyalty and allegiance will be be placed because when push comes to shove in the heat of the moment you will pick a side. And if you don't decide beforehand, you might find yourself surprised by what you end up choosing and where you end up placing your allegiance. That's exactly what happens in this text. Everyone's actions in this passage reveal where their true loyalties and their true allegiance lies. And the lesson for us this morning is that Christ is our rightful King, so we must serve him with undivided loyalty. I just want to walk through this passage this morning looking at the various people that we see in the text. And so we'll first look at Christ's innocence, we'll see Pilate's cowardice, we'll see the Jews' hatred, and we'll see God's sovereignty. Let's look first at Christ's innocence. And as we said, the context is Jesus has been in his trial before Pilate. And just maybe briefly to address a couple of things that come out in this text that that present some complications. Verse verse 14 is a a significant passage. There are many who look at at that verse which says, now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. There are many who look at that verse and suggest that that verse shows that there's a conflict between John and between Matthew, Mark, and Luke. That that John is is saying the Passover that falls some other day other than the the Thursday when Jesus had the last supper with his disciples. And I think there really are some some good explanations for why there's no conflict here. The first thing is it's the day of preparation of of the Passover. The way we should understand that is to realize that the day of preparation always was on Friday. Because the day of preparation came before the Sabbath, which was Saturday. The week of Passover had several feasts, the the Passover feast itself being the the the full and uh most significant. But the Sabbath of Passover week was a significant day. And so all that John's saying is that it's it's the the day of preparation on Passover week. It's not saying that Passover was the next day. Passover happened the night night before and this just happens to be the day of preparation which is always on Friday. Um and you see there that that he says he was crucif he was it was about the sixth hour when he was sentenced. And just to help us understand the the time frame Mark makes it clear that Jesus was crucified at the third hour. Now it's important to remember that they're not using watches and they don't have clocks as we do. They're they're kind of Guessing and estimating about the time in some of these things. But the there's also two different ways to tell time, right? We have military time and we have the normal time where you used to. And that's similar to how they tell time as well. The Jews often would tell time starting with sunrise at six, so the third hour would be nine, the sixth hour would be noon Which is how Mark is counting things. So third hour, 9 a. m. John is using more Roman time, which is similar to what we have. The day starts at midnight, so the first hour is 1 With John saying the sixth hour is six a. m. And that understanding brings us right into harmony with with all the other gospel accounts as we see that Jesus was was brought there. We see that in In chapter 18, verse 28, it was early morning when he was brought to Caiaphas. So there's no or brought to Pilate. There's no reason we can't think that this trial unfolded. was done by 6 a. m. when he was sentenced and that over the next two to three hours he was brought and and crucified there. So that I think those are just helpful contextual things to help us uh understand how the the flow is happening here throughout the day. But remember Pilate has already said at the end of chapter 18 that he has examined Jesus, he's questioned Jesus and he's found no guilt in him. He's even been so convinced that Jesus has done nothing worthy of death that he's sought to release him And sought to say, you surely don't want me to release Barabbas. Let's release Jesus. Let's see this in perspective. He's already determined that there's no guilt. And we see this play out again in our text. Two times in verse 4 and in verse 6. Pilate says, I find no guilt in him. I find no guilt in him. And yet, verse one, Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. Though he was declared innocent three times, he was still beaten and mocked. And the the way this unfolds, I mean, there's nothing, no other word to describe it other than that he was tortured. This flogging is not the most severe form of punishment that the Romans would give. That's what Jesus will receive after he's been sentenced to. to be crucified. And that's that's why he's beaten within the inch of his life and it is so weak that someone else has to carry his cross for him. This wasn't that most significant beating, but it was still painful, it still hurt. It was um still a significant beating that he received. He's flogged. And then on top of that, the the soldiers then take this these thorn branches and and turn then and form them into the shape of a crown and they they don't just gently set the crown on his head No, all all people I think agree that that this would have been pressed into his skull so that he would have started bleeding and blood would have been dripping down his face. Probably when they were hitting him, they they would have hit the this deeper into his skull and been insanely, intensely painful. On top of that they they give him an old robe that is the the royal purple color and they they mock they give mock homage to him. Hail King of the Jews and as they do that giving that their mock salutes they they hit him and strike him with their hands. Jesus is being shamefully treated here, not only before he's convicted, but after he's been declared innocent. I find no guilt in him. Why in the world would Pilate proceed with this course of action knowing that Jesus was innocent? I think there's probably two reasons going on in Pilate's mind here. The first is simply to teach Jesus a lesson. He doesn't think Jesus has done anything worthy of death, but he still sees Jesus as somewhat of a troublemaker, and so he's going to teach him a lesson to say, look, if you act this way, this is what you can expect to get from it. Just simmer down and settle down. Try and teach him a lesson here. It's because he's he's trying to release him. Verse 12 makes that clear, right? I think the other side of it in light of that is that he's trying to satisfy the the wrath of the crowd. He knows they're angry and he thinks this guy has not done anything worthy of death. If I can uh give him a a nice beating, show that I've taken their concerns seriously, I can go back to the crowd, show that I've taught him a lesson and and maybe they will uh even take some pity on him when they see him in this way And we'll will agree to release him, and that will satisfy their problems, their frustration, and their anger. And so Jesus is then sent back out to the crowd. He's presented beaten, bruised, and bloodied. And Pilate says, Behold, I bring him out to you that you might know I find no guilt in him. Here's the key point that we need to see when we consider Christ's innocence Christ died not for his own sins, but for our own sins. It was clear even before the formal court That he was declared innocent. There was no charge in him worthy of death. He had not done anything worthy to be killed. He had never sinned, never broken the law. He Died not for his own sins, but for our sins. And even as the crown is put on his head, we see an echo there of Genesis 3 that with a curse of sin is that the plants of the earth will bring forth crowns or bring forth thorns, and the second Adam endures the painful curse of these thorns upon himself in order to free all of us and all of creation from the curse of sin. He died for our sins, not his own Isaiah brings this out explicitly in Isaiah 53. Surely he has borne our sins and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken. Smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him The iniquity of us all. See, the crowd would not be satisfied because Jesus was there not to satisfy the crowd's wrath, but to satisfy God's wrath for sin. Peter brings this out that the Christ suffered. Once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Christ was innocent, and yet still condemned. William Henderson, one theologian, brings this out by quoting the text, and he says, you can kind of look through the text and see the flow of this story being something like this. Pilate says, I find no guilt in him. I find no guilt in him. I find no guilt in him. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified Christ was innocent, yet stood condemned in our place. We see his innocence there. We also see Pilate's cowardice and and Notice this as you look at Pilate. He's presented as one who is cowardly and weak. He's one who is immensely proud of his own authority and position and yet afraid of his subjects. He ridicules and hates the Jews, and yet he proceeds to be manipulated by them. He knows the right thing to do and yet lacks the courage to carry it out. He knew that Jesus was innocent And yet he should have released him immediately, and yet he proceeded to beat him in order to satisfy the crowd. He goes on to mock the Jews when he brings them out and says, I I see that you find I find no guilt in him They say crucify him. He says, take that, take him yourselves and crucify him. Right? That's a mocking statement because he knew that the Jews had no authority to put someone to death. They needed him if they wanted Jesus executed. He mocks them, and yet when they respond that he's he's claimed to be the son of God, he's afraid of their response Right, he was a Roman, he was a polytheist, he he didn't hear that in the biblical sense of of the son of God. He heard that as this man might be a son of the gods. This might be some some sort of divine power going in on him, and I I don't want to be on the wrong side of the gods here. His wife, Matthew tells us in his own account, had a dream about Jesus and said, this this man's innocent. Have nothing to do with him. I've been troubled by him in a dream. All of these things are are swirling around in Pilate's mind and causing him great concern, great fear. about Jesus. And he simply wants to be done with this situation. He goes in and asks Jesus, where are you from? And Jesus gives him no answer, like a lamb that's being led to a slaughter, like a sheep that is silent before his shearers, he opens not his mouth. But notice Pilate's response. He's just so in love with his own authority, he's angry that someone isn't appearing to respect his position. You won't speak to me? Do you know who I am? I'm the one that has authority to release you. I'm the one that has authority to crucify you. We'll come back to Jesus' answer in a few moments because it's significant in light of God's sovereignty and understanding who's really in control here. The pilot knows Jesus is innocent and seeks to release him, and yet he's manipulated here by the crowd as he goes back out to them. He brings him out again, seeking to release them, and they say, if you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. You need to hear the the veiled threat that's behind that statement. Right? Tiberius Caesar was known as someone who was suspicious and someone who was vindictive and cruel and would not tolerate Any disloyalty. And the Jews are essentially saying, look, if you're not Caesar's friend, the implication is you're his enemy And Pilate, make sure that you know that if you don't do what we want, we will lodge a complaint before Caesar. We'll lodge a complaint saying, listen, we have someone gathering a following who claimed to be a king and when we brought it to Pilate's attention he just released him and didn't do anything Pilate's in a in a difficult place. He's in a situation where it's not just his his reputation, maybe not even just his career, but possibly his very life that could be on the line, depending on how he handles this situation. And we see that in order to save his own neck, he sentences Jesus to be crucified. I find no guilt in him. I find no guilt in him. I find no guilt in him. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. What can we take from this picture of Pilate? I think there's a couple of important things for us to consider here. The first thing, Francis, is Beware of the impact that the fear of man can have on your life. Pilate authorized the murder of an innocent man. in order to save himself, in order to stay on the right side of others. And we need to be careful before we think we're superior to that or better or above that in in some way. The fear of man at peer pressure can lead us to do things that we would consider unthinkable and impossible We must be careful of the fear of man, the impact that that can have, so to lead us to do all kinds of things that we would never imagine ourselves capable of. There's no depth to how far we can fall if we give into sin. So Paul makes it clear that the fear of man can't can't be something that rules us and governs us. He says, if I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. No divided loyalties. It's important for us in our own individual lives to consider the impact that that can have to resolve ahead of time how we're going to respond and follow Christ instead of following the crowds. But I think we also need to see, as we look at Pilate, the important principle, friends, integrity matters in leadership. The character of leaders at all levels and in every area of leadership, it matters. It's not simply a quality that's nice to have, but that we can do without it if it's not possible. Integrity matters. I think of this for us as a congregation as we're we're in transition, and the time will come when we are searching for a pastor. I'm reminded of of the quote by uh Robert Murray Machine, the famous Scottish Presbyterian minister in the 1800s in Scotland. He's he's famous for this quote that says, the thing my congregation needs most Is my own personal holiness. You see, friends, it's it's wonderful to have a pastor who's a great preacher. It's wonderful to have someone who's who's a great counselor, who's approachable, who's uh organized and efficient who can kind of take a an idea and run with it and bring people along with them. All of those are wonderful gifts, but friends What we need most, what you need most as you evaluate all pastoral candidates, as you look for a pastor, you need a man who is like Christ. You need a man who is holy. Like God, who can say with all integrity and honesty, follow me as I follow Jesus. Man, who you can look at and say, that that man has been with Jesus. Other things are important, but character and integrity matters. I think the other thing we we can't avoid saying as we look at Pilate, who's a government official, We have to remember that with with all this going on in our world, we we're still in an election year. I have no authority as a minister of the gospel to tell you how to vote and any of these kinds of things. My authority is limited to ministering and declaring the word of God. And yet the principles in God's Word affect the way we view government, the way we relate to our society at at all situations and and all of these things and and it reminds us that character matters for leadership. As you think about candidates, the the men and women that you'll vote for at all levels of government Character and integrity matters because you don't elect a platform, you elect a person. Integrity matters for leadership. J. C. Ryle has has a wonderful quote on this very topic from a hundred years ago. He says this, let us learn what miserable creatures great men are when they have no high principles within them. no faith in the reality of a God above them. The meanest laborer who has grace and fears God is a nobler being in the eyes of his creator than the king, ruler, or statesman, whose first aim is to please the people. To have one conscience in private and another in public, one rule of duty for our own souls and another for our public actions, to see clearly what is right before God, and yet for the sake of popularity to do wrong. This may seem both right and politic and statesmanlike and wise, but it is a character which no Christian man can ever regard with respect. Let us pray that our own country may never be without men in high places. Who have grace to think right, courage to act up to their knowledge, without truckling to the opinion of men, those who fear God more than man, and care for pleasing God more than man, are the best rulers of a nation And in the long run of years are always most respected. Men like Pontius Pilate, who are always trimming and compromising, led by popular opinion, instead of leaving popular opinion Afraid of doing right if it gives offense, ready to do wrong if it makes them personally popular. Such men are the worst governors that a country can have. They are often God's heavy judgment on a nation because of a nation's sin. Character matters. We see the the devastating impact of of a man in in authority without character in the the example of Pontius Pilate here, in the way he shamefully cowers the public opinion in order to crucify an innocent man, the son of God himself Christ's innocence, Pilate's cowardice, look third at the Jews' hatred here You'll notice there in verse 7 if you have the ESV footnote that says that the Greek word for Jews probably refers here to Jewish religious leaders and others under their influence in that in that time, not to all Jews in the nation. And in verse 6, it's clear because it's the chief priests and the officials who are the ones crying out, crucify him. Matthew tells us that that it's the scribes and the chief priests also who are the ones who stirred up the crowd to ask for Barabbas to be released. So they're they're clearly the ones that are pushing the agenda here and and others are simply being being led along to follow But notice their motivation. You can just hear it as you read this, the hatred in their voices Why is this the case? Certainly that they're jealous of Jesus' popularity, but I think it goes even deeper than that. I think John chapter 11 brings this out for us. Just after Jesus has raised Lazarus from the dead, many see it and believe in him, and others see it and go into tell the Pharisees. And that the chief priests and the Pharisees come together, and we're told this in John 11, 47. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. Take away our place and our nation. Place is is a reference to the temple, the nation, is clear that the nation of of Israel, but it it's more specific than that, right? Our place and our nation. It's their position within all that's going on that they're most most eager to preserve, their own power and their own influence. They fear that Jesus will lead an uprising, whether intentionally or not That his followers will come and rise up, and that the Romans will respond by destroying Jerusalem, and that they will lose their power and influence. And so they are committed to doing whatever is necessary to be sure that he dies. Which is why they shout out crucify him As we said, they need Pilate, right? They're under Roman authority. They have a measure of freedom in the sense that their laws are told that they're going to be respected, but they don't have the authority to execute anyone And so they need Pilate to sign off on this. And there's some some tragic irony there that John includes in verse 7. The Jews answered Pilate. They said, we have a law, and according to that law, he ought to die because he has made himself The Son of God. The law they're referring to is probably Leviticus 24, 16, which is the law that says those who are guilty of blasphemy are to be put to death. It is a law in the Old Testament, and it's true that for someone to wrongly claim to be the Son of God would be blasphemy. And yet the tragic irony is that they're standing before the one person in all of history who can actually make this claim and have it be true. They're standing before the one who is the Son of God. Not only that, they say he made himself to be the son of God. No, no, no, he didn't make himself the son of God. He is the son of God from all eternity, eternally existing. From the Father, begotten by him. And yet it's also the Father who has declared him to be the Son of God. This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. They're standing before the Son of God, the light of the world, their very creator, and they didn't recognize him. And notice friends when when we fail to rightly understand scripture, right? That would have been fulfilled by them. They should have been able to see his ministry and recognize this is the one. And they didn't see him. And when we misunderstand scripture, when we misread scripture, it's never the Bible's fault. That's what Jesus says in John 5. He confronts the Pharisees about this very thing. And he says in verse 39, you search the scriptures. Because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it's they that bear witness about me, yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life You seeing that picture of the the monkeys, see no hear evil, hear no evil, speak no evil That's the the chief priests and the scribes as they approach the scriptures. Whatever I do as I read the scriptures, I I will see no Jesus, I will hear no Jesus, I will speak no Jesus. They are refusing to recognize that He is the Christ, the Son of God. Suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. And so they find themselves standing before their King, their Creator, their Lord, calling for his crucifixion. And maybe the most shocking part of this whole thing is the last conversation they have with Pilate here towards the end of our passage. Pilate brings him out and says, behold your king. Verse 15, they cry out, away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate says, shall I crucify your king? Surely Pilate's mocking them, right? This is your king, and you're worried about him? Look at him. But notice their response. Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Friends, that is blasphemy. That they committed the very sin that they accused Jesus himself of committing. The Old Testament is at pains to make clear the point. Only Yahweh is the king of Israel. The Lord alone is the king of his people. When the people ask for a king and Samuel is all upset, he goes to the Lord, and the Lord says, Don't worry, Samuel, give them what they ask for. They haven't rejected you, they have rejected me from being king over them. They were rejecting the covenant promises of God, their very identity as God's people, and renouncing their faith in the Lord in this very statement. Instead of fulfilling their calling as the nation of Israel, right, to be a witness to the surrounding nations of the beauty of having God as your king, they renounce the kingdom and become Gentiles effectively. In many ways, fulfilling the prophecy that God would say in Hosea, those who are my people, I will say you are not my people. Friends, we we need to be reminded here that this is the people of God that are making the statement. At this point in his history, that the Jewish nation is the people of God, and yet their love for other things Leads to this apostasy. Because they love their power and influence. We need to always be looking at our own hearts and asking, do we love those things more than we love Christ? Fight against that, be warned against that, and never give in to that desire. But I think there's even a deeper application that we need to see here. This is a heinous evil thing that's happening, and yet even this is not the unforgivable sin. What a what a beautiful and astounding thing it is to flip just a couple pages over to Acts chapter two and hear Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost, and he ends it this way by by making clear that they stand convicted of killing The Son of God, he says, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. And listen to these beautiful words. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. They renounce their faith and reject the covenant of God. And yet what does Peter proclaim to them when they ask what to do? Repent and be baptized? Because the covenant promises of God are still yours, because you are unfaithful, but God is not unfaithful. There is still forgiveness and life in the sun. And friends, that is good news because if they can be forgiven for this sin, then you and I can be forgiven Because we do the same thing. Jesus died for our sins. He was on the cross because of us. And if they can find forgiveness, so can we come to Him and He will never cast you out. Don't miss the way that this passage just highlights the awesome love and grace of God, that he forgives not merely his friends, but he forgives his very enemies. While we were still his enemies, Christ died for us and holds out the offer of life for all who come to him. If you're here this morning and you you don't have that faith in Christ and you have not come to him, come to him and find rest for your souls. Trust in him and know that the promise is sure. He will never let you go. If you crane to him. See the Jews hatred there Finally, and briefly, because we've already touched on this in other chapters of John's Gospel, we see God's sovereignty in all of this. Everybody thinks they're in control of this situation, and yet the one person who looks least in control, Jesus himself, is the only one who actually has any real power. Acts four brings this out as we read in our preparation for worship that all of these people were were gathered. to do what God's hand and his plan had predestined to take place. This was the divine will of God unfolding according to his plan And so Jesus can answer Pilate, you would have no authority at all unless it had been given you from God. Because he is ensuring that this will unfold so that his people might be saved. Clearly, Jesus affirms that though God is in control, that there's there's nothing at all that ever happens in this world that happens outside of God's perfect control and sovereignty. Yet, we're still responsible for our actions. Pilate chose to sin. The Jews chose to ask for Pilate to crucify him. They're responsible for their sinful actions, and Jesus affirms that He doesn't say, Pilate, don't worry about it. The only reason you have power is because God's doing this. He says, no, you you're still sinning. Yet there's someone who is guilty of a greater sin Caiaphas, the high priest who handed Jesus over, who actively took the role of working to see the Lord crucified, he's got a greater sin. All sin equally separates us from God. All sin rightly and equally deserves God's wrath and curse. But don't make the mistake of thinking that means all sin is equally heinous It's like the the quote from Spider-Man. With great power comes great responsibility. The Bible says when it comes to sin with great knowledge. comes great responsibility. The more understanding we have of God's word and his ways, the more understanding we have of the gospel, the greater and more heinous it is when we sin against him And yet, we're also reminded from Scripture that the Lord Jesus holds out a grace that is greater than all of our sin. No matter what sins we commit, the Lord's grace is greater. We see so many things in here as this passage unfolds. We we see that Jesus is innocent We see the the shameful and wicked ways that that Pilate and the Jews interact. We see God's hand at work in all of it. But but friends, don't miss this. The main point that we need to take from this passage The number one thing that we should step back and do in response to this text is found for us in verse 14. Behold your king. Jesus is far different and stands in stark contrast with Pilate here. He's the one who has real power and real authority, and yet he doesn't seek his own popularity or comfort He doesn't shirk his own duty, even when fulfilling his obedience and duty comes at the cost of his own life. He's one who's willing to suffer and die for his own people to accomplish our redemption to establish his kingdom of justice and peace. He truly is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's the the exact image of God, the exact imprint of his nature, the one in whom the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, the one through whom the world was created, the one who upholds the universe by the word of his power, and yet he would humble himself by becoming like us. Taking on our human nature upon himself, living a life of suffering. And it's through his suffering, his death on the cross That he has ultimately been exalted, raised from the dead, exalted to the right hand of the Father, where he stands ruling and reigning over all things. He truly has conquered and triumphed over sin and death and Satan, and now he has promised that he carries on his work subduing his enemies and protecting his saints. And one day, friends, he will return in glory. And on that day, everyone will behold the king. And every single knee in heaven and on earth and under the earth will bow, whether willingly and freely and joyfully Or rather forcefully, every knee will bow and every single person who has ever lived will confess, Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Friends, behold this glorious, exalted king. John Owen has this wonderful analogy where he says contemplating Christ is like standing on the shore trying to take in the ocean. You're just overwhelmed by the the vastness of all there is, the the depth and the the power and the glory of it all, and then you then you remember that what you don't see is far more than what you see. You only see the smallest fraction of what there is. As behold this king and behold him, knowing that for all eternity you will plumb the depths of this ocean of glory and beauty, never exhausting all that he is. Behold this king. Behold him in his suffering. Behold him in his glory and come and bow and worship before him. Let's pray together. Father, we we give you all glory to not to us, not to us, but to your name be glory. Lord Jesus, we we thank you for the the strange yet beautiful way in which you accomplished our attention. Coming, suffering in our place, laying down your life for us, shamefully treated, despised and rejected, and yet doing it all that you might reconcile us to God. May you fill us with a deep love for you. That you would be our first love. All else would be a far distant second. And may you help us to behold you, longing for the day when we behold you not by faith, but by sight, seeing you face to face in all of your glory and beauty for all eternity. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.