We come this morning and for the next uh couple weeks before Easter preparing for Easter. And I want to encourage I encourage you to um not only think with me, but think with me through the week and uh reflect on what it is that God is teaching, showing, and uh doing uh in you and in us as we come near to that time which we uh fellowship together for Easter. morning. Especially I want to encourage you to pray for our Good Friday service. I'm hoping that we'll have a combined service with the Zhotong Baptist. Baptist Church. Um we had a special time to be with them over uh what was it uh when was the last time we did it together? But it was a really special time of just being able to worship as two congregations. We filled the room and it was neat. So I've I've invited them again, uh sessions and invited them again to uh worship with us on the Good Friday service. So I hope that that may be a part of our experience together. This morning, and uh actually as we look forward to uh the coming of Easter, there are a lot of different texts and passages. passages that prepare our hearts for uh Easter morning. But I want to uh want us to begin with uh what may be a little bit of a long story. It's actually difficult to break the uh the days just before Easter sunrise into small pieces, although we often do. But sometimes it's important to take a a look at the bigger picture. And it's some of that bigger picture that I want you to look at So our text is coming from Matthew 26, and I'm only going to read the first twenty-five verses. That's already a long reading, but uh but it's not yet completed. So if you would rise with me, I want to read from Matthew 26. When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered to be crucified. And then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the height. I think I missed something here. No. Gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people. And now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of a Very expensive ointment. And she poured it on his head as he reclined a table. And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? It could have been given, sold for a large sum and given to the poor. But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? For she's done a beautiful thing to me. You always have the poor with you. But you will not always have me. In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial. Truly I say to you You wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be also told in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went up to the chief priests and said He said, What will you give me if I deliver him over to you? And they paid him thirty pieces of silver. And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray And now on the first day of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he said, Well, go into the city to a certain man and say to him, the teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve. And as they were eating, he said to them, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were very sorrowful, and began to say to him one after another, Is it I, Lord? He answered He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me. The Son of Man goes as it is written of him. But woe to that man, by whom Whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Judas, who would betray him, answered, Is it I, Rabbi? And he said to him, You have said so. Let's pray. Father, would you cleanse our hearts? Remind us of who we are Are. Remind us of who you are. Enfold us in your arms today, we pray. That we might see you. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Betrayal is a hard thing not only to talk about but to understand. And so the title uh that I as you see listed in the bullet, Best Friends Forever. Until. Some years ago I was in Liberia teaching and leading some workshops. And I heard there the story of two best friends. They were both women Understand the years that I was in Liberia, there was a bitter war that was happening between many different tribal factions. And these two women were from very different tribal groups. That were actually not only angry with each other but killing each other. And uh the cycle of the war at that time in especially in Monrovia, the capital capital was such that uh when one particular group was in ascendance the other group would run away. And then they would gather their forces outside of the city and they would come in and uh as they took ascendancy the other group would run. And so there's this constant ebb and flow back and forth of killing, of running, of fear, and of violence. But there were two women who were best friends. Forever. Until one day one of those women knew that she had to flee. Both women had sons. And uh the woman who had to flee said, I I have to go, but I can't take care of my son. And her friend said, Leave him with me. I will take care of him. Nobody will know who he is. He will be mine. And so the woman did. She left her son behind and she went and fled Out into the bush. In due time the war reversed, and she came back to town, and with a little more time, her friend now had to flee. And so she said to her friend, You have served me and my son. Leave your son with me. I will care for him as you cared for mine. And so confident, the woman left. Several months later she came back to the city. It was positive. To re-enter, and she eagerly looked forward to seeing her son again. Went to the very home. And there was no son. And there was no friend. And she began to ask around and found out that her friend had actually let the soldiers know that one child Was a Gio child. A child of the fleeing people. And the child was killed. Betrayal. When we read scripture and when we hear stories of the depth of betrayal It brings a pain into our heart that is unimaginable. How could anybody do that? That's our first response. And yet if we look at what happens to our hearts, we recognize that that there is a slope. We just fall down the slope. And at the bottom of the slope is not betrayal, but it's the consequences of betrayal. We sort of prepare our hearts, and um it follows the storyline. The slope of idolatry begins when I want something too much. And you have, or you, I think, can give to me what it is that I want. But you don't give it to me. And I become un angry, unhappy, and there needs to be something that I do back again. So I recognize that the disappointment, sometimes I may even participate in something with you, but in the end, I'm going to punish you. Now what kind of punishment? Uh you know, if I was told not to have a piece of chocolate and the person gave me the chocolate went and told my parents I'd get in trouble. I'd be punished. That's true, you heard it. But we do that to each other. So what I want you to see in this text and the texts that surround it, the bigger story, is we want to start with understanding betrayal versus anointing. We have the story, we have these two stories that are juxtaposed. We have the story of Judas and the chief priests. that gathered at Caiophas' house and decided that Jesus needed to be put away. He needed to be killed. But not during a festival. the time, lest there should be some sort of a insurrection and the crowd should respond negatively. So they had to be careful But immediately following that is a story of a woman who comes and anoints Jesus with expensive oil. And so what we have is a betrayal versus an anointing. But the anointing was important to even recognize what was happening in the betrayal. And so here it is. But let me just back up a minute. What is betrayal? Just put a really crisp uh definition of it. Betrayal is a violation of a person's trust or confidence. It's violating faithfulness or defense. Something that I believe ought to be done. And that was true of Judas, wasn't it? He violated the friendship He violated his presence amongst the disciples. He violated even the idea of defense versus offering. The woman, on the other hand, prepared Jesus in his words for burial. So let's back up and understand what the background of this story is. Well, Judas was a treasurer, as you know, the keeper of the bag. So he counted the cost of the ointment. of the oil that had been given. And he objected. Well, maybe he could have imagined that that the price if it had sold that would have gone in the bag that he kept. Was he um you know did that wall uh that bag have a small hole in the bottom of it that went into his pocket? I don't know. It's easy to assume that, that he was a lover of money. uh because he carried the bag. But we're not actually told that he dipped into the bag. Not at this point, just that he did worse. But the seal of the ointment wasn't in his control. Jesus had not been the political Messiah that Judas expected him. him to be. Judas was bitterly disappointed. He hears that this woman is preparing Jesus' body for burial. But in Judah's mind, Jesus was there to be a messiah, a political messiah, who was going to lead his people forward. They were going to finally throw off the bondage of the Roman soldiers. and of the Roman government. So Judas was disappointed, deeply disappointed. He enjoyed being among the respected disciples. He enjoyed being amongst these people that uh all of the people could say, oh, those are the ones that travel with Jesus. Jesus who will be our Messiah. Jesus who will free us from the rule. Jesus who does these fabulous things that we can't even imagine. Jesus who heals the sick. Jesus who casts out demons. Jesus who brings light to the blind. Oh, it was great to be with them Judas liked that. He liked the respect. But the idea of death, of burial, of crucifixion, he didn't want that. He didn't want that idea. So disappointment led him right into the planned hands of the chief priests. And he comes to them. And he says, Well, what would you give me in verse 14? What would you give me if I delivered him over to you? And they gave him thirty pieces of silver. Not a small amount, but not a huge amount either. Enough to buy a small parcel of land. Scripture tells us later. So, what has happened to Judas? Just get inside of his skin for a little bit. I know it's an uncomfortable place to be, but get there, because we're there anyway. We tend to justify what we do, what we say, uh based on our expectation. So our betrayal of others, our betrayal of God, we do it in a different way, perhaps, than Judas did it, but we start in the same place. We're deeply disappointed. Sometimes our betrayal of God is not very different from Judah's betrayal of God. God, you didn't fulfill your promises. I expected a piece of candy and you didn't give it to me I expected life to be better. I didn't get it. I expected something different I expected my wife, I expected my husband, I expected my kids, I expected my job, I expected my friends, you name it. And we'll give it back to God. I didn't get what I wanted. I think I was entitled to it. And so it sort of explains our unfaithfulness or lack of care or turning away from God's purpose. It gives us a A reason at least in our minds a reason to turn away. Doubt, disobedience I mean the disciples slept. How much more do we want than that? All you have to do is sleep. That's an easy way to betray, isn't it? We don't sometimes Give that attribute to the disciples who simply slept, but it's true. Jesus said, I need you to watch with me, pray and watch. I need you to do this with me. Yeah, yeah, Lord, we'll we'll be right there. Surely. No, they betrayed the need. They betrayed Jesus. They slept. God's purpose. But it's not just that we we start out with this idea that somehow God has failed my expectations. We actually participate. And that's the second thing you need to see when When we look at the story of both of Judas, as well as the woman anointing, as well as the rest of the disciples, as it unfolds. And that is, they were all participating They were participating in the community of Jesus, the Jesus community. And some were covering their actions, and others were caring. And we have to sort of discern who was doing what. It's not very difficult. The question that the disciples asked when they were gathered around the table was one of dismay. The sense of who would possibly betray you? How could it be that you would possibly be killed? It was dismay. But the question from Judas wasn't one of dismay. He already knew what he was going to do. It was one of cover, so that he could simply be like the others and say, oh, I'm going to ask the same question they're asking one by one. So Judas asks that question. But actually nobody could see the response, the interaction. We have to go to the um the Gospel of John to actually see it. When Jesus says, My time is at hand, I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples, they were all going, right? They were all participating. But at the moment that Judas was at that place. Uh the text from uh the parallel text actually from uh from John chapter 13 reads, Judas who would betray him, answered, Is it I, Rabbi? And he said to him, You've said so And then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him, and Jesus said to him, What you're doing, do quickly. And the rest of the Gospel of John at that point Verse 28 says nobody at the table knew why or what Jesus was saying. Some thought because Judas had the money bag, Jesus was telling, Go buy what we need. He was dismissed and left. He had participated. He'd covered his tracks. So he thought. And you and I also may participate in the community of the king. It's very easy to do religious kinds of things. Especially in our culture. This morning we reflected again in our Sunday school class about persecution and the difficulties of that. The reality is That as long as our culture is a quasi-Christian culture, it's very easy to do quasi-Christian things and participate and find it very comfortable. So we can fit into the church. We can fit into the people of God. There are some people that don't fit. And we tend to know them as well. Uh but it's easy for us to fit into that and so we participate. But we might parti From the wrong motive. We might participate because of self-honor. We might participate simply because it's a habit. Judas betrays Jesus with a kiss. Imagine an expression of affection, an expression of commitment An expression of more than just walking along, but of a deep heartfelt participation. And Jesus is Given to the guards. So when we look at Judas, as escant as that look might be, as impossible as that look might be, We recognize, I have to recognize, and you need to recognize, that we actually participate in much the same way as Judas. We participate in active betrayal. Of the Master. And as we approach Easter, it's the recognition of what I have done, of the of the wrongness of my own heart that brings me finally Finally to the empty tomb. It takes me to the cross, it brings me to the empty tomb, in which case I see Jesus in the new way. But if I've only gone about my own way and I don't see my betrayal, I don't see my sleeping, I don't see my turning away from God's purposes When I approach the empty tomb, it's just an empty tomb. There's not really anything more. Well, of course, what happened after Judas betrayed Jesus was that there was punishment Punishment, however, is not the final end. You can imagine in the garden scene when the disciples had been asked to pray with Jesus and actually didn't. They fell asleep. And finally they gathered around Jesus and said, okay, um folks, let's go. It's It's my time. And as they gathered themselves together, Judas comes with a small armed guard and embraces Jesus. Can you imagine if you were one of the disciples? You were over one of the other disciples. You were immediately overwhelmed with the fact that you'd been sleeping. Jesus knew that there was a trial to come. You were sleeping. But then, think, but at least I'm not Judas. At least I didn't come and hug Jesus and plant a kiss on his cheek. I didn't do that. How could he? He's really bad. He's really evil. And so it's easy for us to be in the shoes of the other disciples, having just betrayed Jesus by not praying. And seeing somebody did it worse. So Judas immediately receives a sense of self-punishment. It's not the final end. He loses the respect of everybody. He even loses his own respect, respect for himself. The disciples all flee. But in the end, they all returned. All but Judas. Judas was the one who paid the deepest price. And it's always true. The one who pays the deepest price for betrayal is the betrayer Peter, who ran away, Peter, who denied, we'll look at denial at another point in time, we'll look at Peter at another point in time. Peter knew that he was also betrayed with his denial. But Peter heard the recommission of Jesus. The Peter who said, even though everybody else leaves you, Lord, I will be with you. Wow. We sometimes think of our baptism, our church membership, as that great deep promise that we make to God. And that I am yours forever. And we look at Peter and think, whoo, our earthly promises, our human promises aren't worth a whole lot, are they? Didn't help Peter. But in the end, Peter is able to hear the recommissioning of Jesus When Jesus says, Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. So Peter's end to betrayal. was actually recommissioned. Christ, you see, had taken his punishment. Christ takes the punishment of God. He didn't take Judah's punishment Judas surely thought he was punishing him. Judas surely thought he was helping the chief priest. In the end, Judas only looked at himself and recognized that he had nothing. And he changes his mind, the text tells us. And he comes back to the chief priests and he says, I made a mistake. What he thought he could do. Give me Jesus back again? No, it's too late. So instead he takes his 30 pieces of silver and he throws them on the ground. And goes out and hangs himself. Judas paid his own penalty. Our betrayal makes us ask the question: Am I Judas or am I Peter? And the difference is confession. A deep confession that leads to repentance. That's the difference. When I come to Christ and I recognize who I am, what my heart tells me I am, what my actions have told me I am, I confess that, I receive the forgiveness of Jesus. Or not and the left like dues. So the final end of betrayal is regret, isn't it? That was Judas as he came back to Caiaphas. the high priests. I've changed my mind. I regret what I did. They looked at you and said, it's fine. It doesn't really matter what you feel about yourself. It's done. So Judas' regret was the end of the Betrayal. It was a self-punishment. Peter's regret led him to sorrow, deep sorrow, that led him to be received and to be Here's the point. When we fail to receive to reveal to Christ, it's not that we can hide it from Him. We hide it from ourselves. Jesus knew what Judas was going to do. Jesus knew what Peter was going to do. He told both of them in advance. They had only to acknowledge it. When we fail to reveal to Christ our sin, we are left with regret. Sin starts with disappointment, my gratification, what I want, my position, my authority, but it its end. Brings me to regret. That's what this Easter season is about. I'm thankful we have it every year. God tells us, look in your heart. Find the things there and tell me about them again. You might see your betrayal of others When you look in your heart, you might see your betrayal of your friends. You might see your friends' betrayal, but look at yours. Look at uh your betrayal in your family. Look at your betrayal of God. And simply speak it. That's the message of Easter. That's what we come to. But we start right here. with Judas. Our betrayal does not need to come to an end of regret. We don't have to regret the circumstances. We don't have to regret the impact of our sins. We don't have to regret any of those things. Said, it allows us to come to the arms of Christ Himself. So here it is. Awaken from your sleep. Walk with the disciples. Just wake up. Put away the self-lifting assurances. was Peter. Lord, no matter what, I'm with you. No, Peter, you're not. Put away yourself lifting it. Look again at your frustration in misinterpreting God's purposes. Lord, how could this be so hard? Why does it have to be so hard? I thought it was no put them away. And look at God's purposes. And see Jesus who stands in your place again today. If you've done it before, do it again. Stand In his presence. Say, Lord Jesus, I have left you, but you have never left me and will Never leave me. I believe. Help me in my unbelief. Let's pray. Father, Lord Jesus, we confess that we have betrayed you even this week. Maybe not like Judas. But maybe it has been like Judas. Maybe we have sought physical wealth instead of you, physical opportunities instead of you. Forgive us. Forgive us, Father, because we have so many times put our opinions before your truth. Put our experiences before your purpose. And so yes. We have betrayed. We walk amongst your people. We participate. But Father, we recognize that still we have not done as we ought. Lead us, Lord Jesus, to your presence this week. Recharge us, we pray As we go forward, as we meet our friends, our family, our workmates, that our words The testimony of integrity of our lives would give testimony to you dwelling in us. Overwhelm us, we pray, not with our failure, but with your forgiveness, with your transformation. With the hope that only comes from you. Fill us this week, we pray. In Jesus' name.