Good morning. Last week we started studying the book of Philippians and we had our introductory uh passage uh preached and prepared for us by Pastor Dan, which was really good for us. Begin thinking about this book and what Paul is teaching us. And this morning we Delve more into the book as we move on to chapter one, following verses three to eleven. So if you are able, would you please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning? Philippians chapter 1, verses 3 to 11. Hear now the reading of God's word I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all, making my prayer with joy, because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart. For you are all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment. So that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. To the glory and praise of God. We ask you, Lord, this morning as we thank you for your word that's been long preserved, for our faith I pray that you would work in our hearts and minds that we may understand it and believe it and walk in the light of what you are calling us. this morning. We pray all this in your holy name. Amen. May be seated. When I started seminary in 2008, I met a couple, uh Lloyd and Cool Dawson and at that time, I think he was about two years old, son, Lee Samuel. And soon after I got to know them we became really good friends and I could tell like in the in the very beginning that our relationship was gonna be one good one. They they seemed like really good people See for me Lloyd just struck me as a model of what a a husband and and a father ought to be and Ku just displayed this this affection for her children and for her uh her husband and I could see what a godly mother, a godly wife looks like. I remember I used to uh d uh babysit their their son at that time and um soon it would be two sons But they would always go out for dinner or something and the one person that they had in mind to call was was Josiah. But I remember that so fondly because their two sons to this very day fondly call me uncle Messiah. I mean they can pronounce my name, but they still call me by that and it's just so special to me. But the one thing that I'm really grateful for this family is not just because they fed me at times when I had gone for a whole week just eating McDonald's and Chick-fil-A sandwiches, but they would give me a real homemade cooked meal. The reason why I'm so thankful for them is not just because of those things, but it's because of what they became to me. A true family. Times when I was lonely, times when I felt like I was going to give up in life, times when seminary was so difficult, I knew I could call them at midnight and we would talk till 4 a. m. in the morning, and they would not mind They took me in. They opened their doors. They opened their their home. They opened their hearts to me. I had a key to their house. house. I remember when I moved to South Florida and Keanu and I were dating. I could you know I could I could walk into the house at two AM in the morning as they were asleep and they did not mind And their children woo would wake me up at 5 30 because they knew I was there. Uncle Sire, wake up. We gotta play. I respect this couple so much to this very day. I call upon them when I I need wisdom, when I need a godly person to speak to my life. And when I think about them as I'm thinking about them right now, I am filled with so much joy because Because I truly love this couple. You know, I think it's what Paul felt as we've just read this passage this morning, as he sat in that lonely, broken, horrible place in prison. His mind must have drifted into the thoughts of Lydia, who had become a believer, to the thoughts of the jailer, to thoughts of Clement, Iulia and Syntechy. And he must have thought to himself, man, how I love. this people, how I cherish their friendship and their partnership with me in the gospel. And it gave him such great joy and enthusiasm as he pens these words, as he writes this letter to this church. See Paul wanted to thank them, but he wanted something to happen in his gratitude as he writes to them. He hopes that his gratefulness, that his gratitude would be a source of encouragement to the church in Philippi. Let's begin by looking at verses 3 and 5. I thank my God in all remembrance of you Always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day Until now. And here Paul begins by giving thanks not just to the church in Philippi, but to God. He gives thanks both to the church and to God. He leads the way in showing what true gratitude looks like. And as we saw last weekend talked about where Paul is, and so that he's in prison. So his joy and gratitude is not out of his circumstance. Because if anything, he wouldn't have the joy. Who would have joy being in jail, being bound by chains? But his joy and his joy His gratitude is because of how this little church has partnered with him in the advancement of the gospel. And he gives o he goes on to give the reasons as to why he is so thankful to this church. And like I mentioned, it's because they are partnering with him. And the Greek word that's used there, it's actually very interesting because we would just think of it as as mere fellowship. It's koinonia. But it's really more than that, and we we shall see more to that. And then the second reason that he gives that he's so grateful for them is because of his confidence in God, God who has begun a good work, as we found the beautiful song today during offertory. So I want us to start there by looking at his gratitude to this church Because of their partnership in the gospel. Our modern translations really don't do justice to this concept of fellowship. See, in the first century, the use of that word was even more of a uh economic or if if you will, head commercial overtones. So that when two people got together to start a business They were in fellowship, or as we say, they were partners in business. It was the same concept in the New Testament as we see in Romans chapter 15 verses 26 and 27. Remember the story of the Macedonian Christians who were giving money to help the poor in Jerusalem. They entered into fellowship with the churches. Are helping them. They entered into partnership. It is the same meaning here as D. A. Carson notes. He says that the heart of true fellowship is self-sacrificing conformity to a shared vision. It is self-sacrificing conformity to the gospel. They were partnering with him because they had a shared vision, that of the message of salvation. of the gospel. And Paul is being grateful because he's actually thinking about the practical support. Again, the concept, the broader concept of what fellowship means. He's thinking about the practical support that he's receiving from the church in Philippi as he proclaims the gospel. The church is persevering in prayer for Paul, I'm sure. And Paul here we see him as he is sending out prayers to them. They are sending money to help support his ministry. and doing everything in their uh capacity to help support him. And their support was actually as we're told here from the first day to this day, it was consistent It wasn't just a one-time gift. It wasn't just a one-time thing that they would do, but they were consistent in their support of Paul. And we know it was actually very important for Paul because as we will see later in chapter 4 of our book that we're studying in verses 15, most of the churches and most of the people that Paul was counting on in fact stopped supporting Paul. And so it was only counting on this small church. And as you all lose again in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verses 2, this was not a wealthy church that was giving out of their wealth. They were in fact a very poor church. Listen to what he says. For in the severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and the extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. They were giving out of their poverty, not out of riches. And so we see how even how costly this partnership is, as Paul is partnering with the church in Philippi. He's in prison, lonely, possibly facing execution, who knows? And the poor church is trying to pull together all the things that they had to try and And support him. And remember, the church in Philippi is also having their own problems. They're dealing with false teachers. There's disunity as women are fighting and other people are fighting in the church. And they are poor, and yet they find a way to support Paul. Reminds me of of of another verse in Philippians three ten as as Paul talks about trying Christ's suffering, sharing in Christ's suffering. It's a fellowship of grace. And that's what Paul is talking about here. But we you cannot think about his his gratitude, his thankful And the partnership, and yet miss the deep affection that Paul has for this church. Look at verses 7 and 8. It is right for me to feel this way about you, all, because in the since I have you in my heart Whether I mean chains or defending and confirming the gospel, all of you share in God's grace with me. God can testify how I long for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. You know, he's he's just declaring his his his emotional, passionate uh love for this church and for this people, how they stuck with them through thick and thin You know, w when if Paul is defending the gospel as we see him doing in 2 Timothy chapter 4, or giving a guarantee that this gospel that you really trust in is the true gospel of Jesus Christ, as we see in Hebrews chapter 6 They are fellow participants with Paul in grace. I cannot, as I shared my story with this couple I tried thinking about what would apply for us here, especially in our church. And I couldn't stop thinking about Pastor Dan. I couldn't stop thinking about you all, especially most of you that have been in this church for a very long time. Those of you who've worked with Pastor Dan through thick and thin, who've seen people leave, who've seen the church grow and church dwindle who've seen so many turmoil and so many problems come and go, who've stuck with him, who've stuck with this church for that long time. When I first met Dan and he was telling me about the church, he he would step aside and point to me and say, I saw this child growing. I baptize this child. I convinced this guy of infant baptism. And so more so, you know, so on and so forth. He's a man that's filled with affection and passionate For you are. And I hope you never miss that. Because he truly loves you. Paul knows the importance of being thankful He sees how our gratitude in our hearts can be a source of encouragement for others Especially those of us as we sit here and we we're tied together by this bond of the gospel that we have And there's absolutely nothing else that we can be thankful for other than our understanding of God's mercy upon us. And I think Paul is pointing that to them in speaking about the gospel. That Christ has poured out his His mercy towards us and we ought to be thankful to Him. We ought to be thankful to one another. And as we encourage each other, we encourage those who are doing good, those who are laboring in Christ, all of us as we serve God in whatever capacity that God has called you. As you serve one another, as you serve the church, as you serve the community, as you serve, ultimately serve God. And then secondly, Paul said the second reason that I am so grateful for you. It's because I have confidence in God. I have confidence that whoever began the good work, this God who started the good work in you, will be faithful to complete it. in you. It's a verse that most of us have memorized for a long time, Philippians 1, 6 to 8, and I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you. will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. And I think a verse that has been misquoted to some extent as people try to use it for their own um their own needs. But I think what Paul is getting into here is reassuring the church by taking them to the very beginning of who they are, by taking them to the to the to the very start of of of what God has done in their life to salvation. Imagine Lydia. This is what I think she would have thought She would have remembered the moment when the Lord opened her heart so that she could receive the message of Paul, as we are told in Acts chapter 16. Think about the jailer. I'm sure he would have these words ringing in his mind and his heart. Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. When they read these words, those are the those are the moments that this message brings to their heart. As they remember the time that God called them, choosing them out of their sin, out of their darkness, into the marvelous Light, setting them apart so that they may serve God. But Paul wants them to remember and keep in mind that the work that he has begun is not done yet. That God, if you will, is putting the finishing touches on their life. The Greek verb that's used here, anarchobai, actually means to inaugurate. It means a decisive and elaborate act that God performs in the hearts of men to bring them to himself. He says, he puts it better elsewhere in Galatians chapter 4. This is what Paul says. That when the fullness of time had come God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law so that we might receive adoption as his sons. He wants the church to hold firmly to this truth, this great assurance that God, who has called them out of darkness into the marvelous light, he will not leave them alone. That he's working in their life, daily working in their life to accomplish everything that he has started in them and he wants them to remain faithful because he himself will remain faithful. It's a progressive transformation. When I was a bit younger, I'm still young, I would like to think I used to have this writing on my wall, and every time people would come into my apartment, they would ask me, what does P something something something? It was a really long one. And it was just the acronym of please be patient with me. God God is not done with me yet. And I just had just the acronym of that. That's what Paul wants to assure them. I love what one of the commentators, Mortier, puts it as he talks about salvation and how God chooses us. He says, salvation would be a wretchedly unsure thing. If it had been no if it had no other foundation than by having chosen Christ. The human will blows hot and cold, is firm and unstable by fits and starts. It offers no security of tenure. But it is the will of God that is the ground of salvation. No one would be saved had not the Lord been moved by his own spontaneous and unexplained love to choose as people before the world wars. And at the decisive moment to open our hearts to hear, to understand, and accept the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. See, Paul wants to reassure his people, this church, that God himself has started this work and he promises To complete it. That it's not dependent on you, it's dependent on the one whose hands have started this great work. We'll reassure that just in the same way that he began this great work, he initiated it Neither does it depend on you and I to sustain it. Salvation is not for you to keep. It's not you to sustain it because God is the one who remains faithful. I cannot be confident of anything in me. I cannot be confident of anything within me that I could do, ever do, to sustain my salvation. But I can be confident in this I can be sure of one thing that He will sustain me till the end. Notice how in encouraging the church, Paul does not focus on his circumstances. He doesn't focus on the circumstances that the church in Philippi is going through. He doesn't dwell on their problems and sufferings, but he points them. Excuse me, he points them to the work of Christ. I'm not saying that we shouldn't focus on our problems. I'm not saying we shouldn't focus on what's going on in our lives, but Oh, how I think we need to hear this message today, especially when we're bombarded with so many problems in our lives that take us away, that take our eyes off of what is at stake. And I pray that as a church that we will look up more and look less on what we're going through. I hope that our eyes would be more fixed on this assurance I hope that our eyes will be fixed more on Jesus Christ and what work he has begun and the assurance that he gives us in himself and not just on my pity problems that I go through every day It is only God who can produce a life that's consistent with how He wants us to live with holiness. That he requires of us. And so this morning if you if you need to to encourage someone, if you're uh have someone who who is Tempted to to disbelieve or to doubt God's working in his life. Someone who is struggling with unbelief, point them to the assurance they have in Christ. Christ because it wasn't for them. It wasn't they who chose. God loved you first, not you loving him first. Completely on Christ alone. And Paul rejoices of this fact and wants the church to rejoice because God will not leave them alone. He will not leave what his own hands have begun. What an assurance it is for us. And and this assurance also tells us that the outcome is also guaranteed. But not even that, though every experience of life in all circumstances, as God is putting all the finishing touches on us But he will bring it to the very end. And the third and the final point that we're going to look at is the work that God is doing in their life and ours has a goal. It's not just work, just for the sake of doing things. And Paul says, Here's my prayer for you. We already know that Paul is praying for this church, as we've seen in verses 4. But what is it that Paul prays for them? Look at verses 9 to 11. And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment. That you may approve what is excellent and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ. Filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. To the glory and praise of God. And so Paul is spending time praying for this church, and here he gives us the contents of his prayer. And I think this really does reflect the priorities that Paul has in his prayer. What some of the commentators have called priorities of the gospel. You can summarize it this way. He prays for their love to abound, for knowledge, for discernment. If you will, he prays for their spiritual growth. And the goal for that is the glory of Christ and praise to his He prays that love may abound more and more. Does it strike you that Paul does not even mention the object of this love? Paul does not say, I pray that you may love God more. He doesn't say that I pray that you may love one another more. He prays that love may abound. I think Paul is getting into this. Paul wants the virtue of love to perveal their very Life. He wants love to abound in everywhere, whether it's love for God and for one another and for all things to abound in the life. He's already set the example in verses 8 as we saw. He in fact calls upon God as his witness. Why? Because God knows the heart. Only God knows the heart, and he says, You really want to know if I love you? God is my witness. He knows my heart. I truly do love you. And we know in 1 John 5 1 what what what perfect example what love of loving God and loving others looks like. It can only be shown in how we love one another. It can only be shown in how we obey his commandments. The common cliche that says that love is blind sometimes really is not true, if not most of the times. Because he wants this church to have an experience of love, love that's filled with knowledge, meaning that they may have spiritual insight. Insight to do what? Insight to choose what is right and what is wrong. In terms of making decisions that they love one another, Paul wants them to practice. Love that's knowledgeable. Knowledgeable of God. And the results are clear. What's gonna happen if you are filled with love of God? If you know what God requires of you, you're gonna have a discerning spirit But even more, you're able to live a pure and blameless life. Such devotion will keep them pure, will keep them blameless. Paul wants them to do what the church is called to do. Paul wants them to practice church discipline. Paul wants them to rebuke one another, to build one another. Paul wants them to restore, to reconcile those who are Arabs. And the goal for this Christian growth is what? Just so that we may feel like we have grown in Christ. No, the goal is that when Christ returns, he might find them pure and blameless. And again here we see, yet God chooses us, but then he is almost requiring us or giving us the responsibility of sustaining This love and this performing of what you know the thing that we're supposed to do. Not that there's any any works that you and I can perform that would keep us blameless before God. But I think it's it's a reminder for Paul, for the church, and for us, that the free gift of salvation also means that we've been given a free gift of a new life. A life that's enabled by Jesus Christ, a life that's enabled by the power of the Holy Spirit to live a life that reflects who Jesus is. Notice how Paul does not spend time praying for the church. I pray that you may be the greatest mega church in the world. I pray that you may have most money so that you may support me as much as you can. Notice how Paul's Focus is on their holiness, is on their life, on their character, that he wants them to be ready when Christ returns. What do we devote our prayer life to? What do we How are we focusing on our our prayers today? Let us prioritize. I don't know when was the last time that you prayed for your brother, your sister, your wife, your husband, your child. That they may grow more in knowledge of God. They may be pure and blameless before Christ. Again, Paul is setting for us here a great example. And what in it, a great example! example it is that when when we say we pray for one another that Paul is actually being specific on what that prayer looks like It is not wrong for us to pray for for more money, for big houses, for cars and for peas, for for for for good health and all those things. But I think the priority for us should be again gazing upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. I think the focus for us ought to be to focus on who we are and who God wants us to be. Isn't that what we were made for? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever? That ought to be our focus in our prayers, that we may grow more. Because when it's all been said and done, church, it is not our legacies, it's not our achievements, it's not all accolades that gonna that's gonna matter at the end of the day. What matters the most from now on in our in our life. Is when Christ returns, will you, will you be ready when he returns? Will he find you faithful? Will he find you pure and blameless before? I love the way Paul summarizes what we all just talked about this morning in Titus chapter 2 verses 11 and 15. One of my great uh uh passages in scripture Paul speaking about the grace that has come, grace appearing, bringing salvation to many, teaching us to renounce on godliness and to live godly lives, upright lives. Why Because God has chosen us out of his mercy, set us apart for himself. And what hope do we have? The glorious coming of his name, that one day he shall return to judge. the earth to judge you and I. Will you be ready when he returns? Paul could have focused on all good times that he had with the church in conclusion. And I'm sure there were great times he had with this church in Philippi. He could have focused on their achievements and their legacies. But Paul focuses on their partnership in the gospel. The very message of salvation, the very ties that bind them together. And this is what ties you and I together, the gospel of Jesus. As we gather together every Sunday morning, delighting in God, sharing what we have learned, praying for each other, encouraging one another in obedience. Reassuring one another of the faith that we have in Christ, bearing with one another's burdens, and growing in self-sacrificial love for one another for Christ's sake. sake. It is what you and I are called for. And so let us therefore encourage one another, church, this morning. Let us build up each other in Christ as we go through life's upside ups and downs. as a family of believers because as Sinclair Ferguson puts it, the bonds of grace are strengthened by adversity. The affection of the heart is deepened by sharing in suffering. And we, you and I, have a great confidence. That in all things, under all circumstances, God remains faithful to you and I, and He will not let you go. He is truly the love that will not let you go. And you can rest your weary head on him. Pray with me. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for your encouragement this morning. That you are the love that will not let us go. May you help us to be thankful to you for your mercies that are more abundant than we could imagine. May you encourage us as we reassure one another of the security we have, not because of anything we have done, but because of Of what Christ has accomplished in our behalf. Would you help us to focus on prayer? Praying and seeking that, Lord, when you return, you will find us faithful, you will find us pure. and blameless only because of what you have done in Christ Jesus. We pray all this in your holy name. Amen.