Well good morning. We're gonna be finishing our study in John's Gospel this morning, reading John twenty-one verses fifteen. all the way to the end of of the book. And we've been in John's Gospel for uh basically a year at this point. It's been a really in enriching, rewarding time to just dig deep into this gospel, but we we finally come to an end. And so we're gonna Close out this gospel this morning reading this passage from John 21. So if you please stand, we'll honor the reading of God's Word this morning. Hear now the word of the Lord from John 21, starting in verse 15. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him a third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you, and carry you where you do not want to go This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who also had leaned back against him during the supper, and had said, Lord, who is it that is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things, and who has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true. Now, there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the whole the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. This is Dow's word. You may be seated. One of the the interesting dynamics that's been been kind of interesting to watch recently develop over recent years and especially in in recent months has been the the rise of what's known as cancel culture Now if you're not familiar with with what cancel culture is, um one reporter, Asia Romano, defines it this way. She says it's the idea that a person can be canceled In other words, culturally blocked from having a prominent public platform or career. You can see this happen whether it's a celebrity, a politician, someone else that's well known. And it's the idea that when they do something that's deemed offensive or out of step with the culture, it's an attempt to hold them accountable through some form of of cultural boycott. A way of saying, We're we're gonna not have anything to do with you anymore because of what you've done or because of what you've said Now, my my point in bringing this up this morning is not to suggest anything about the merit of the issues that are being discussed. Those are other sermons for other days. The thing that I want to draw your attention to in the reality of cancel culture is It points to the fact that we live in a society that is deeply concerned about justice and yet has no foundation for grace. No concept or understanding of the grace of God and forgiveness or any of these so crucial important issues. And I think that should remind us that we ought to be so deeply grateful that that's not how our Lord looks upon us. That he is a God who loves both justice and is a God full of grace and truth. And in our text today, we see a very different path from cancel culture in the way that Jesus Interacts with Peter here. Peter's not just done something offensive to the world around him. He sinned against Christ in his moment of greatest need, denying him three times at the cross. There's nothing he could do to undo what he had already done. There's no way that he could make atonement for himself to make it right again. He had already done it, and he needed Christ to restore him. And the beautiful thing for us in this passage is that as Christ restores Peter We're shown that He also can restore us. And so the lesson we have this morning from this passage is that Christ cancels our sin and shame so that we are free to live for him. I just want to see how Christ restores Peter by considering three questions, two commands, and one prediction that Jesus gives in this passage. So let's look first at the three questions that Jesus asks Peter And you'll notice it's the same question three times over. Christ fed them there on the beach with the bread and the fish, as we saw last week. And after they finished breakfast, he turns to Peter. Now I think it's just helpful to kind of paint the scene for us a little bit. You've got to picture the the scene here. They're all sitting there around this charcoal fire that the Lord has prepared for them Incidentally, the same kind of charcoal fire that Peter stood by to warm himself in the courtyard the night that he denied Christ. And no doubt as they're they're sitting around after the meal, staring into the flames of this fire, Peter is thinking about some of those things. And that night, I'm sure. And no doubt also as they're sitting around with the Lord after this meal, they're reminded of the last time that they all sat together with the Lord at the table after the meal, the last supper, the night that Jesus was betrayed. And as they're thinking about these common scenes scenes, it would be natural for them to remember the discussion they had with the Lord at that table, the time when he warned them I'm going to be betrayed, I'm going to be crucified, and you will all fall away. And I'm sure Peter's statement was echoing in his ears at that moment. When he stood up boldly and said, Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Clearly devoted and yet speaks so foolishly in the heat of the moment. And so here, in the presence of all the other disciples Jesus turns to Peter and says, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? There's different ways we could take that. It could be referring to, do you love me more than you love the other disciples? I don't think that's the case. Do you love me more than you love all this fishing gear and your old life of fishing? I don't think that's what Jesus is getting at either. I think it's because Peter said he was going to be more faithful than the rest of the disciples, acting as if he loved Jesus more than the rest of the disciples. Jesus now asked him Peter, are you still ready to claim that you love me more than the other disciples do? Do you love me more than these? Or have you learned your lesson? And notice Peter's response each time, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Not, yes, I love you more than they do, but but indeed, Lord, you know that my love for you is true. You know that I love you. In his humility, he he doesn't compare his love to the love that the others have for Christ. He just confesses his own love for Christ. And notice his confidence, right? It's almost as if he's saying it this way, Lord, I know I haven't acted like I love you, but you know my heart. You know that I love you. And it's maybe one thing to address in passing as we look at this passage. There's there's been a lot of of writing done about the Greek words that are used for love in this passage. Because you'll notice there's different words in Greek to say love, right? There's the the agape form of love. There's also the philetto form of love. And if you read through this passage in the original language, you'll see that Peter is saying, do you love me with the agape love? And Peter responds each time saying, Yes, Lord, I love you with the philetto love. And then the third time Jesus says, Do you love me? Using the same word that Peter used, the philetto love. And Peter responds, Yes Lord, I love you, philetto. There's been a Uh many people that have used that as as the argument to say that that Peter can't bring himself to affirm his love for Christ the way Christ is asking, right? That that they would say that this agape love is this higher form of love, and Jesus is asking it. Do you do you have total and utter devotion to me? And all Peter can say is, I love you, but I I'm not ready to go there yet. Been a lot of arguments to that case. I think that reads too much into the text, and I think that misses the point of what's going on here. This passage is not about Peter, it's about Jesus. And I think we need to see that these different words for love, sure they have different shades of meaning, but they can also be used interchangeably. They're used interchangeably throughout the New Testament. They're used interchangeably in John's Gospel, even to refer to the way that the Father loves the Son It's kind of like if your spouse, if you're married, would were to come to you and say, Do you cherish me? And you say, Of course, honey, I treasure you Right, they're not going to think that that you're somehow not willing to to own up to full love for them. It's just using different words, different word choice, for for stylistic reasons. John uses different words in different places. Interestingly, he does the same thing later, right? Jesus says Feed my lambs, tend my sheep, and feed my sheep. The same point in all of those answers and yet subtle word differences. So I wouldn't want us to read too much into the language there. Because it's really pointing us to Christ and his heart to be a God who restores, rather than focusing on Peter's love in this instance. We'll see the importance of Jesus' response in a few minutes, but for now, just notice that Jesus is responding in a way to make it clear that he's reinstating Peter to his apostolic ministry. Making it clear that Peter, in case there was any doubt, I've still got a job for you to do. Can you just imagine what it would be like to be in Peter's shoes walking through this question? Imagine how relieved he would have been the first time that Jesus asked this question. He answers, Yes Lord, you know I love you. And Jesus says to him, Feed my lambs. And then just uh imagine the confusion begin to sink in as Jesus then asked him the second time. Yes, Lord, you know I love you. Did I say something wrong? Last time I I And then Jesus asked the third time Peter get what's going on and he's grieved by the question. Because you see, the last time that Peter was asked the same question three times in a row was the night that he betrayed Christ. You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you? No, I have no idea what you're talking about. You also are not one of his disciples, are you? No, I'm not. Didn't I see you in the garden with him tonight I don't know what you're talking about. You see what Christ is doing here? He's walking Peter through his sin in order to restore him. Each For each time that Peter publicly denied Christ, Jesus is now giving him an opportunity to publicly confess his love for him. And in doing so, Christ restores him to service. It's a public restoration that the other disciples get to see, right? It removes any doubt of his role in the early church and his calling as an apostle. Whatever you do as you read this passage, don't miss the tender love of Christ that's shown here. See the way that he deals with Peter's sin. He doesn't minimize it, right? He's not afraid to make Peter grieved over his sin. He doesn't kind of paper over and say, don't worry, Peter, it's in the past, it's all forgotten. No, he he walks him through it, holds it up to him and says Are are you fully understanding what you've done? Right? Because genuine repentance includes a godly grief and hatred for our sin, not because of the consequences, because of what we've done. But we never think of our sin without also thinking of the The mercy of God that's held out to us in Christ. We always have to keep God's mercy in view. And so Jesus shows Peter his sin, and yet he gently walks him down the path of restoration. He removes the stain and the shame of his sin, which could have cast a cloud over his entire life and ministry. And friends, we have to remember this is what Christ does for us as well. Jesus didn't come for those who have it altogether. He says, Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, those who are just Burdened down by the cares of life and the weight of sin and guilt. Come to me with all your sin and all your shame, and I will give you rest. He didn't come for those who were healthy. He came for those who were sick and unclean and knew they would never be able to clean themselves up enough to come into his presence. If we think we're fine and that we have it all together, then the gospel presents a Jesus that doesn't really have much to offer us But if you know what it means to be broken, to feel the stain and the shame of sin, either sin that you've committed, or maybe the shame that can come when someone sins against you in heinous and grievous ways. If you understand that, then Jesus has good news for you. Because he promises there's no stain that's too dark to be washed away by his blood, there's no shame that's too big to be covered by his robe of perfect righteousness. No one is too stained, no one is too tainted or too broken to be used by God. And when He restores you, He wants to use you to serve you in His kingdom, to serve Him in His kingdom. Isn't it just such a beautiful thing that Jesus isn't ashamed of any of the sheep? Have you ever thought about that? He loves them. No matter how often they wander away, no matter how often they got Stuck in a ditch, tried to drown themselves in a river. He's never embarrassed to be our shepherd. What a beautiful thing that is. So when Christ, by his Holy Spirit, holds up your sin and shows it to you, convicting it to you, He's not trying to rub your nose in it to make you feel awful about yourself. He's graciously and tenderly restoring you. Freeing you from its burden, its guilt, and its shame. You realize that Jesus only wants you to feel guilt long enough to go to Him for His grace. The moment that you flee to Christ, there's no place for guilt. There's no need for it anymore. Because he's taken away and nailed it to the cross Instead of being burdened with guilt, our Lord wants us to be overwhelmed with gratitude for his grace and his love. As we sang this morning to open our service, no matter what we've done, His grace is always greater than all of our sin. Not just one of our sins, all of our sins taken together throughout the whole course of our lives. Don't miss Christ's tender love. But also, friends, don't don't miss the opportunity here to search your own heart This passage really is about Christ, and yet I think we'd do ourselves a disservice if we didn't take the time to ask ourselves the question that Jesus asks Peter in these verses: Do you love Christ? Do you have affection for him? Do you love him for who he is, the eternal Son of God who took on flesh to come and live for you? and save you, the one who is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, the one who is tender and merciful and gracious, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, does Does Christ in his person draw out your affections? Do you love him for what he's done? For his incarnation, for his perfect life, for his death in your place, for his resurrection, for his ascended ministry now. on your behalf, interceding for you before the Father, before the throne of heaven, whose rule and reign over all things. Of course we can't base our entire uh standing with God simply on our our emotions, which can change and be fleeting from day to day. And sure, we don't love him as we ought to love him. But I think this passage wants us to see that if we don't love him at all, if there's no sense of any affection rising up in you for Christ, that's a real red flag. That's a real warning for us. J. C. Ryle brings this out in his commentary. Listen to what he says here. He says, Let us take heed that there is some feeling in our religion. Knowledge, orthodoxy, correct views. Regular use of forms, a respectable moral life, all of these do not make up a true Christian. There must be some personal feeling towards Christ. Feeling alone, no doubt, is a poor and useless thing. It might be here today and gone tomorrow. But the entire absence of feeling is a very bad symptom and speaks ill of the state of a man's soul. A true servant of Christ may be weak and fearful, ignorant and unstable, and failing in many things, but at any rate he is real and sincere. Ask him whether he's converted, whether he's a believer, whether he has grace, whether he's justified, whether he's sanctified, whether he is elect, whet He's a child of God, ask him any one of those questions, and he might perhaps reply that he really doesn't know But ask him whether he loves Christ, and he will reply, I do. He may add that he doesn't love him as much as he ought to do, but he will not say that he doesn't love him at all. The rule will be found true with very few exceptions. Where there is true grace, there will be a consciousness of love towards Christ. Friends, do you have a love for Christ? If not, I urge you to spend time reading his word, see who he is, read through this gospel over again, and just see how Jesus reveals his heart and his character and his person and the way he interacts with people. See the promises he holds out for all who come to him, and the forgiveness he offers for all who will trust in him. Ask him to show you his love for you because we love, because he first loved us. And friends, don't wait. Come to him, trusting in his promises, that he will give you a love for him. Jesus asked these three questions to probe Peter's heart and to restore him. And he follows it up with two commands: a command to kingdom service and a command to undistracted devotion. And the first thing he says to Peter is this, feed my sheep. We get a glimpse in here of how restored sinners ought to live. But I just notice several things in this command to feed my sheep. The first thing we see here is Christ restores Peter to service in the church. That Jesus never never saves someone and just kind of sets you off in a corner. You can get into heaven, but you're not really useful to me in any way here on earth. There's no sense of that in the church and in the gospels and in the way that Christ works. He always wants to use his people for service in his kingdom. He restores Peter to service in the church, but also Christ knows that Peter loves him and still calls him to show his love through his service. Show me you love me by caring for my sheep. And don't miss this here. They're Christ's sheep. Jesus is the good shepherd. He's the one who knows his sheep by name. He's the one who lays down his life for his sheep. And he calls Peter to take care of his sheep. Peter will give an account to the Lord for how he cares for Christ's sheep, because they're not Peter's sheep. Just pause and let that sink in about how much Christ loves you. That not only when he ascends, would he give you the Holy Spirit to be with you forever, to unite you and seal you for glory, to apply your salvation to you, but he also gives you pastors and elders to shepherd you and teach you As Paul says in Ephesians, that we might all grow up into the faith, into the bright knowledge of God, into maturity, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for the building up of the body. And it's about Christ's love for you, but notice what also comes out here. You see what the task of a pastor is. It's to feed the sheep. Not merely with bread, right, but with every word that comes from the mouth of God. A faithful shepherd feeds Christ's sheep with the word of God. Friends, this is the minister's most important task. If that's true, I think there's maybe two things that we should take from this. First, when the time comes to search for a pastor, find a man who is devoted to the ministry of the word. Yes, you you want a man who's who's kind and gracious and charitable and approachable. You want a man who is gifted and in all kinds of ways, good leader and administratively gifted, and all these kinds of things. But above all, there is one thing you need. You need a man who will give his primary focus, primary attention, the bulk of his time, to the preaching of God's word, week in and week out. Who sits under the text first as a sheep before he steps into the pulpit as a shepherd. Who rightly divides the word of truth. For all he loves about being a pastor, he will tell you that his number one priority in ministry is the preaching of God's word. The second thing I think we need to see is how that relates to those of us who aren't pastors. If feeding you from Scripture is the minister's most important task, I think that causes us to ask the question. How do we prepare to be fed each week? Think about it, just the illustration of how you come to a meal, right? How do you prepare for dinner? You don't fill up on junk food ahead of time. You become hungry. You wash your hands. You come to the table. Maybe you help set the table. But even while you're eating, you're active. Eating is an active process. You chew your food. You savor the taste. When you eat a meal, you come prepared and you're active in the process. Here's one thing I want us to draw our attention to. Listening to a sermon is not a passive experience. It requires active participation because by listening you participate in worship and glorify God. Don't ever make the mistake of thinking that participating in worship means being up front. The Westminster Short of Catechism talks about the importance of preaching and then follows it up with the question about how we should listen to the preached word. In question ninety it says this, how is the word to be read and heard that it may become effectual to salvation or effective? To salvation. The answer is this: that the word may become effective to salvation, we must attend to it with diligence, preparation, and prayer, receive it with faith and love, lay it up in our hearts and practice it in our lives. Did you notice you participate in preaching before, during, and after? Beforehand you you prepare. Maybe in your family devotions you you read the passage ahead of time, or maybe you pray for the preacher throughout the week. Or maybe you pray for yourself as you're about to hear it, or pray that God's word would go out and have a kingdom impact. During you receive it with with faith and love in the act of listening to preaching. We we don't stand over God's word to judge it, and we don't listen to sermons for someone else that they need to hear. We stand under it, letting it it search you and pierce your heart, believing what God's Word says. And then when the benediction is given and the service ends, your work is only just beginning. Because you have to store it up in your heart and practice it in your lives. Maybe you go home and talk about it over lunch. Maybe in the Lord's Day afternoon, you spend time doing more devotions and praying through the text. Whatever it looks like, it might look different in each of your lives. But the point is before, during, and after, we prepare and we participate in the preaching of God's Word. Jesus emphasizes the importance of pastors feeding the sheep. And I think the call for us is to make sure that we come ready to eat. He gives the command to feed his sheep, and the second command is this: he says, follow me. We'll come back again to what Jesus says about Peter's death as a martyr in a few minutes. But notice the call to follow him in the end of verse 19 there going on for the next couple verses. After saying these things, he said to him, Follow me Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who also had leaned back against him during the supper and said, Lord, who is it that's going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? And Jesus said to him, It is my will that he remain until I come. What is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he wasn't to die But that if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? Jesus says, follow me. Have you ever noticed how much of the Christian life is active or described by motion? Luke 9, Jesus says, deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me. Matthew 28, Jesus says, the literal translation is: as you are going, make disciples. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. Paul says in Ephesians 4, Therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling that you have been called He says in Philippians 3, one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Join in imitating me. And keep your eyes fixed on those who walk according to the example that you have in us. Colossians 4, he says, walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Hebrews twelve maybe the classic one. Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of God. You see, the Christian life is a journey where we are called to follow Christ on the road to glory And it often comes through suffering and self-denial, and it requires persistent, sustained effort. It's only by grace, and yet we're still called to work hard with all the strength that He gives us and all the grace that He works within us. But we have to always keep our eyes fixed on Jesus as we walk. It's kind of like when you you teach a child to ride a bike. And you tell them, look in the direction you want to go, because if you start looking at all the squirrels that run by, you're going to turn and end up driving off the curb. It's the same when we follow Christ. We have to keep our focus on Him and follow where He leads us. We focus on Him through the regular reading of His Word, through prayer, through the means of grace and corporate worship. We keep our focus on Christ and we don't get distracted by others. Right? That's what Christ is telling Peter here in this passage. See, at some point after Jesus asks Peter, Do you love me? It seems that they started going for a walk. And so Peter turns back and sees John following them. And he asks, what about him? Jesus says, if if he used to stay alive until I return, what's that to you? Right? That's the nice way of Jesus saying, Peter, my plans for other people are none of your business. Evidently that point didn't get through to some of the disciples, and so this misunderstanding went around that it was a prophecy that John wouldn't die until Jesus came back. John's kind of getting up there in years at the time he's writing this gospel. And so before he actually dies, he wants to clear that up so that no one has a crisis of faith when he actually dies and Jesus hasn't come back yet. So he says, Jesus didn't actually make that promise to me. He just used it as an example. Regardless, Peter asks, and maybe he's asking innocently, right? He loves John. He cares for John. He's just been told, as we'll see in a minute, that he's going to die as a martyr for the faith, and maybe he's concerned about his friend. That's entirely reasonable. But either way, Jesus sees Peter's focus on John as a distraction From the call to follow Christ. And so he says, none of your business. Don't worry about what others are up to, or about what I've called others to do for me, or how I bless others, or where they go. Just follow me. I don't know about you. I need that reminder. Contentment is not easy, is it? There's a reason that one Puritan writer wrote a book entitled The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. It's not easy to come by. We're always tempted to think that the grass is greener in other places. We're always tempted to look at others and say, oh man, if I only had what they had, I would be able to serve Christ in this way or all kinds of distractions. Pastors struggle with this. As pastors we struggle with this, we're tempted to covet other people's ministries. You had how many conversions last year? How many books did you write? God must really be blessing your ministry. I wish I had some of that. Right? But it's not just pastors, it's every single one of us that struggle in these ways. We struggle with these kinds of temptations. Because no matter how the Lord has blessed you or gifted you or called you, there's always someone more successful, smarter, better looking, stronger, more productive. Even when we're following Christ, there's always someone who has greater faith or greater amount of gifts and blessing. We're constantly tempted to hold ourselves up in light of others. And either we look at someone who we think is better than us and we feel awful about ourselves Or maybe worse, we look at someone who who we think we're better than and feel like, oh, I haven't done what Johnny did, I guess I'm okay. Jesus wants us to see that anytime we take our eyes off Him and focus on comparing ourselves with someone else, we're like that kid riding the bike, getting distracted, and we're about to crash into the bushes. Don't get distracted. Keep your eyes on the prize and focus on Christ following wherever he leads you. He says, feed my sheep and follow me. So Jesus asks three questions. He gives two commands. And now we'll circle back and see that he makes this one prediction about Peter's death. In verses 18 and 19, Jesus says this: Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you're old, you will stretch out your hands. And another will dress you, and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. The language here here points clearly to Peter being martyred for his faith. You see it in a couple ways. You see the loss of freedom, the loss of control. You used to dress yourself, walk where you wanted, and now you don't have that freedom anymore. Someone else dresses you. But it specifically indicates crucifixion because the language of stretching out your hands was a common reference to crucifixion in the ancient world. As a side note, several commentators just brought out this idea what it must have been like for Peter to go on and minister for decades having this prophecy just hanging over him. And how that must have shaped his life in so many ways. Because as far as we can tell from church history, Peter was indeed crucified in Rome under the Emperor Nero and the persecution that arose in that time. Jesus says that by his death Peter will glorify God. There's a couple ways that I think that's true. The first thing is Peter said earlier that he would follow Christ unto the end, unto death. I will die with you. And now Christ is saying, Well Peter, you're going to get your chance. And it's not some sort of punishment, right? You talked a big game, now see how you can how you can deal with it. No, Christ not only restores Peter after his denial, but he promises that in the future, the next time he's faced with suffering and persecution He will choose to publicly identify with Christ rather than to deny him. Imagine what a aside from not wanting to die for your faith, do you imagine what a comfort that must have been to Peter? How we always would have wondered, you know, Jesus restored me, but man, I wonder if it happens again, if I'll really, if if I just went out again. And here Jesus says, no, Peter. You will suffer faithfully to the end. You'll never deny me again, no matter what it costs you. He gives Peter a second chance to remain faithful to the end. And you see that difference that it makes in his life as you read through the rest of the New Testament. Just the the difference of Peter in the Gospels and in Acts, the boldness that he has, and of course, of course, that's because he has the Spirit dwelling within him of it Poured out in Pentecost in all his fullness. But the restoration of Christ also had a significant impact there. And Peter then writes his letters all focused on suffering well for Christ in the face of persecution because he had done it Time and time again. He gives Peter a second chance, but it also reminds us that you and I glorify God when we suffer for Christ. Whether that means facing rejection or losing our jobs, or maybe if we ever live in such a a context where Christ might call us to suffer to the point of death. That we bring him glory, because we testify to the world that Christ is more precious to us than anything else, even life itself. And Christ often uses the death of his people to draw many people to himself. As you read through church history, you see the saying is true that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. Some have brought out the point that the English Puritans and the persecution they suffered shortly after the Reformation there, that that some of those martyrs from church history had a greater impact for Christ in their death than through all of their sermons combined. And just as Jesus is glorified and glorified God in his death, in a lesser way we get to do We do that as well. We follow him. And that's whether you die under persecution or whether you just suffer well to the end in a world where death is a reality. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. As this scene comes to a close, John also uses it to bring his gospel to a close By testifying to the truth of it. He says that he is an eyewitness. He writes down for us the things that he saw, the things that he experienced. And we know that his testimony is true. And he tells us he could have said even more, but he's told us what's necessary. He told us what we need to know in order to believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and to find life in his name. But he says that Jesus in fact did far more than John has recorded here and makes this statement: if everything that Jesus ever did was written down, the world itself could not contain the books. Now, in some sense, this is hyperbole, right? It's just that saying Jesus did a ton of stuff that I didn't mention. But don't pass on too symbolically before we actually think about that, because think about how John has presented Christ. In this gospel. He is the Word who was with God and who was God, who was eternally in the bosom of the Father, who became flesh, the infinite, eternal, unchangeable God, the one who reveals the Father's glory. The exalted one, the only Son full of grace and truth. The one who is supremely exalted through his death for sinners on the cross and his resurrection. He's the light of the world, the bread of life, the resurrection in the life, the one through whom all things were created, so that nothing that was made was made without him. This infinite, exalted Son of God can never fully and adequately be described in words. D. A. Carson quotes it this way: He says, the Jesus to whom John bears witness. is not only the obedient Son and the risen Lord, but he is the incarnate Word, the one through whom the universe was created. If all his deeds were described, the world would be a very small and inadequate library indeed. And it is this, friends, it is this exalted and risen Lord who cares for you, who knows your name, and all the things that keep you up at night. And even in the midst of your sin, he steps in to restore you, canceling all our sin and shame at the cross. Friends, remember his tender and merciful love for you. Keep your eyes fixed on Jesus. Love him and follow him above all else. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we praise you for what a gracious, tender, merciful God you are. You love us so well. You love us so faithfully. Forgiving all of our sin, and then using us to serve in your kingdom, the kingdom we once made war against. That you would make us saints instead of sinners. Lord, we we praise you for who you are, for how you love us, how you care for us, how you lead us. I pray, O Lord, that you would fix our eyes on you, Jesus. Help us to love you more deeply and to follow you more faithfully each and every day. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.