It's an interesting weather today. A little gloomy and dark outside and I guess we're getting ready for winter, but I hope that that's not how you feel spiritually. I feel like I need to go back to bed and sleep But I hope that's not how we feel in our hearts, in our lives. We are moving on through our study in First Corinthians, and this morning we're looking at chapter three. So I'll ask if you're able, would you please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word? We're reading the first nine verses of chapter three of First Corinthians. Here now the reading of God's Word. But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not ready, for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? For when one says, I follow Paul, and another, I follow Apollos, are you not being merely human? What then is Apollos, and what is Paul? Servants through whom you believed as the Lord assigned to each, I planted Apollos water, but God gave the growth So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor. For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's build. God's building. The word of the Lord this morning. Holy Father, you have given us your Holy Spirit To dwell in us. He is the power that makes your words effective in our hearts and minds. He is the power that comes to illumine this very word, your breath, into our hearts and minds so that when we hear it, we not only believe it But we also walk in it. Would you help us this morning, Lord, to grow and to hear this good message that you're giving to us, your people? We pray in the name of the Father and of the Son. Love the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. I think it's not an understatement or an overstatement to say that we are a culture that is expression extremely obsessed with celebrities. We love our celebrities, we follow them on TV screens, we follow them on on Twitter and Instagram and Snapchat and whatever else people are using these days. We want to know what they are doing every day. We want to know what they're wearing. We want to know where they're vacationing. We want to know when they have a baby. We want to know when they get married. When they get divorced, they make the national news We dislike or like them when they're playing in in movies or sometimes we we will watch we would watch certain movies because our stars are in them and we would not watch other movies because our stars are not in them We will like sports themes or music concerts or whatever it is because our stars are there and we want to see them Unfortunately, our obsession with this culture of celebrityhood is not only found in our lives as we think about movies and sports and music and everything else, but we find it in the very doors of our churches. That we idolize men and women, especially men who are ministers, we idolize them, we elevate them to a level that we should never elevate them. We create a status for them We form a party spirit, if you will, or grouping group. We pledge our loyalties to one at the exclusion of another. And separate ourselves. It is the problem as we're reading in chapter 3 or verse of 1 Corinthians that Paul is dealing with. Paul himself is a celebrity. He's one of those men that's being uplifted. He's one of the men that is being elevated to a level that he's saying you should not elevate me to that level, or Apollos, or Peter, or anyone for that matter And so here Paul has to be the mature big brother as he admonishes the church and tells them that such action of trying to be loyal to one minister of another, of claiming that your celebrity is better than the others to the exclusion of the whole fellowship of Christ, that that truly is not a mark of your maturity as believers, as those who belong to Christ. What is Paul telling them Paul is telling the church if you want to know that you are growing, if you want to know that you are becoming a mature Christian, you must be seeking to maintain unity within your body, not some celebrity division that brings about this unity. And so he does this in two ways, which is what we're gonna do this morning. By looking at verses one through four we will see that he basically tells them a simple structure for us to to to to understand and to hear that your disunity is a sign of your immaturity. Your division is a sign that you are not growing in Christ, you're not growing in faith, that you were supposed to be growing and how does he Do that. Paul begins, if you look with me in verses 1, he's rebuking them. But see how tenderly Paul is rebuking the church. He says, But I, brothers, of course, it includes sisters, I, brothers and sisters. I am trying to rebuke you in love. I am addressing you in solidarity because you are part of who I am. You are part of the same body of Jesus Christ that I am part of. And in unity, I have concern for you that I want you to be unified. Remember we saw it to the uh in the end of chapter two last week As Paul was contrasting between believers and non-believers, and he was telling the church in Corinth, you are the ones that have the spirit of God, pneumaticals, you are the ones that are spiritual, and this is how you ought to act, as opposed to those who are not. Spiritual, those who have not received and accepted the words of the wisdom of God. And now here he's actually turning to the church and saying, I am done with talking about non-belief. Now I am addressing you as people who have the Spirit of God and as people who know the gospel of Jesus Christ That I cannot address you as spiritual. I cannot address you as pneumaticals, as people that are filled with the Holy Spirit. Why? Because you are behaving like infants You are behaving like babes, you are behaving like children. Of course there's nothing wrong with being a child or with being young because we know faith comes through time, right? When when Paul is talking about them being children Yes, he had preached the gospel to them. He had taught them the word of God. The problem is, when we remain in that state of being a child, that is not okay. That's what Paul is saying. I have shared the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ with you. I have taught you all these things, but you seem to be remaining in the same spot as I left you. It's been over five years But you are not growing. And it's curious to see how Paul in verses one and three uses two words that are actually different. The first word that he uses in verses one is the Greek word sarkinos, which is An adjective that actually means fleshy or worldly. And then in verses 3 he changes that word. It looks the same in our English Bibles, but it is actually a different language. The difference is this. The first word means fleshy or worldly. The second word means fleshly. Instead of fleshy, he's now saying you're fleshly. Think of it this way. The word leathern and leathery. What is the difference? An article that is made out of leather is leather, right? What do you call an article that is made that looks or feels like leather is leathery. The first one is permanent. You can't change it because leather is leather. You can't change leather. The second one, you can alter it It's just a mere appearance. It's a characteristic that you can change. So Paul here is not talking of uh as some would want to say a difference in grades of Christianity. Christianity, that we that when we sit here we have different levels of different grades of being spiritual. That's not what Paul is talking about. That we somehow become spiritual by a second experience of the spirit That's not what Paul is telling them. Paul is referring to them and saying, you are the people that are simply refusing to make progress by understanding the truth of the gospel teaching. You need to grow up. That's what Paul is telling the church. And how do they do that? He's saying, you are simply not submitting yourselves to God's word. You are acting, or not acting, rather, you are not acting like believers, like those who have heard the gospel. The difference is not that they don't have the Holy Spirit, they have the Spirit of God, they have the power to change and become better, they have the position, their identity is in Christ Jesus But their practice does not speak of their identity. They are practicing that which looks like unspiritual as people that are not growing They are almost going back into their former life being so you are in Christ. You have the Holy Spirit. You are capable of growing And yet, in terms of their practice, they're saying, Well, how can I do that? And Paul is saying, Well, are you listening to the gospel that I preach to you? He's addressing their spiritual condition. Why? Because he's their spiritual father. He planted this church. He knows them well. He knows what he's been teaching them. Like a mother that cares for the spiritual, for the physical well-being of our child See the issue here is not about the church needing two different kinds of diet. I don't think that Paul is talking when he refers to the to the solid food and and milk and all of that. I don't think that Paul is saying, well look I I I don't need to teach you the the advanced doctrine, Christian doctrine, because I've I've only been teaching you the el elementary, you know, doctrine because How can he say that? And then in the next few chapters we're gonna see him talking about spiritual uh giftedness and and and and communion and all this grand advanced Christian doctrine. I think what Paul is telling them is what Gordon Feast tells us, uh one of the comments is saying The problem is you are not hearing and making the difference between the true food of the gospel versus a synthetic substitute which you prefer. That's the reality. I have given you the true word of the gospel of Jesus Christ that needs that you require to be feeding on and growing, but you prefer the synthetic substitute. Which is not good for you. They did not need a change of a diet. What they needed was a change in perspective Understanding their position in Christ and that enables and gives you power by the Holy Spirit to begin to grow. Instead, they're looking back into their former lives and saying, Well, this is how we used to act before. No, you need and no love and no humility and no kindness and all those things. So we need to go back there. How do you go back there when you already have a position in Christ? They are Christians who are nominally Or just for a little while, they seem to be in principle focused on Christ. Yes, they are. But in practice, and in all stances, they seem to be focused on the interests of the self. Their own interests. Why do I say that? Because Ford keeps on following with his arguments, he says, because that is the rude explanation of the anomaly, which is jealousy. And what is jealousy? We know what it is, don't we Jealousy is my desire that I have the status and the possession and the honor and the esteem that is supposedly accorded to someone else And then he says, and you have strife. And what is strife? Strife is actually when I truly act on that desire that I have. To capture or to get this the honor and the possession and the esteem that I see in others, and actually have a strategic, a strategy to gain advantage for myself And for others that I think are like-minded. It's about advancing our claims and the interests You know there's elsewhere in Galatians 5, Paul this all these works of flesh which which he's telling the church you're acting like That's what you're doing, works of the flesh. And he says they are this sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, envy, stride, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies. And things like these. See the church in Corinth had received the Holy Spirit As we saw in chapter one. The church in Corinth had exercised gifts. I mean, remember when we read in chapter one, they exceeded in spiritual gifts more than others They had grown in wisdom and knowledge, but how are they using what they've been learning? Are they using it for a constructive manner or destructive manner? Something for us to think about, church. When we show up every Sunday to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ, what impact is the Word of God having in your life? Are we using what we're learning every day for the construction, for the unity, for the for the edification of the church, or are we just using it for our own selfish interests? I have to think about that. You think about that. They were rebelling against the Holy Spirit's guidance He is right there guiding you and yet you'll rebed. You are abandoning the spiritual empowerment that God has given you by His Spirit in favor of fed in fighting? Really See, when we fail to recognize that we're all equal, we have an equal standing before Jesus Christ, when we engage in quarrels and strife and jealousy. You know what we're doing? We're mocking the cross of the you know the cross-centered gospel that calls us to be humble That causes us to be loving, that cause us to be serving one another. When we consciously sin, when we intentionally sin, knowing so well what we are doing, what are we doing? We are simply trying to take back the control that we've given over to Christ to rule and govern our lives and saying, I want it back, it's mine See the truth is we subject we are subject to two forces as Paul continues to tell us elsewhere, right? And that's our problem. That we know we're decisively in the spirit and in Christ. Yes, we know that that's opposition We know our right standing, and yet on the other side, we're still carried away by our childish enthusiasm We're behaving like babies. That I would rather be more enlightened by the wisdom of this world, by men, and by the things of this world that I I think is better, that I would rather be more enthused by greed and jealousy and envy That I would rather look for more ecstatic exp experiences, that I would rather be more motivated by my my my own human concerns. What serves me and my purposes is my, my, my Instead of looking to edify God and Christ and His church, instead of trying to ask the Lord to get away envy and jealousy from our hearts, instead of serving my brother and my sister I find myself seeking only to have strife in the church. These are signs of immaturity. And I am not growing. If that is how I ask. Later in chapter 13 of 1 Corinthians, the chapter that we all know and love, Paul is going to tell them that love must be the mark of a mature Christian. Nothing else but love. You know jealousy is actually a good word. Do you know that? Jealousy is actually a good thing that was admired by people because jealousy simply means zeal. That's what jealousy is. But what kind of a zeal is Paul talking about here? It is the zeal to get your own way, which is not good. May we be careful. May we be careful as a church that we relate with one another in love. That we ask the Lord to help us, to help us not to be complainers, not to be unsatisfied people but always giving and always willing to give for the sake of the body of Jesus Christ that he's building. See the reason why Paul is calling this church babyish and fleshly, you know why? He says it's because of their factionalism, it's because of the divisions, the clicks that they're having in the church that are causing Loyalties that they they're having loyalties to a particular minister, and he's saying, This is all too human for you. You cannot act in this way. And if you do, you're going to remain baby-ish, you're going to remain fleshly. For all of you mothers here, this is right in your alley, isn't it? That your child, your baby, when they're breastfeeding, they're always content when they're in their mother's bosom. They leave that place and I'm about to experience that, not me but my wife. See Paul is not saying it's not okay to follow certain leaders. It's okay to follow leaders It's okay, there's nothing wrong with that. But Paul is saying it is not okay to follow a certain leader, to follow leaders in a manner that is secure. in a manner that causes division, where we begin to think that others are less, not equal. That someone is outside or out of the fellowship of Jesus Christ. And we know how that goes because it's a regression that happens, which is what Paul is Doing and telling us here. The inner attitude of having jealousy develops into an outer activity of causing strife or s or quarrel, which actually becomes real When we begin to use our words to cut and eliminate others. And that is division. And that is not good. Secondly, Paul gives the church the what is the the the path for the church to become more mature. He gives them the path, verses five through nine. He says, if this unity was a sign of your immaturity, then the opposite must be true, right? So unity is a sign of your maturity. Verses five through nine. He's asking the question, what is Apollos? What is Paul? He did not include the other two. We know Peter and then Christ. But this is enough. He's saying, You're asking, I'm asking you a rhetorical question: what are these men that are preaching the gospel to you and that you're actually following and causing division over? Who are we? And then he tells them, We are servants. Servants of Jesus Christ, and you have no reason to be elevating me in a level that I don't belong. Please don't call me a celebrity, he's saying Who is a servant? Acts chapter 6. Those who tend to table. I mean some people use this passage for deacons, and the what the deacons do. Someone who is attending to the table, someone who is serving on behalf of the master, someone who is whose name means nothing, because he knows that the authority is in God, in Christ. And he's saying, look, we are servants, mere instruments that Christ used to bring the gospel to you. And now you have believed. That's it. We're nothing more than that. The effectiveness was not in something that was innate, some innate ability that Paul and Apollos had What is Paul telling them? The effectiveness of the gospel was completely dependent on God Almighty Himself and not anything that we did, not anything that we said, not anything that we could have done in and of ourselves. We are not super status kind of people. All we are is people of super service. Paul is telling them I was the plow boy and Apollo was the water boy. What are we? Nothing. And Paul is saying, my job of planting the church that was essential and significant. The job of Apostles of Watering, that was essential and significant. Man, how should we think about our church ministries here? Are you better because you preach? Are you better because you are an elder, not a deacon? Because you play music? Because you're serving the Sunday school? Absolutely no. Every aspect of one ministry is important, equally important, because it's serving the same purpose God and His people. We cannot highlight one ministry over the other. Every ministry, even if someone is just picking up paper on the pews, it is as important as me standing over here and preaching the gospel to you. That's what Paul is saying. Don't highlight one over the other. Paul plantings. And then Paul is following up with his eloquent preaching. But who is keeping the church growing, both spiritually and numerically? Is it Paul? Is it Apollos? It is God. You see their work ended. Paul is not planting no more. Neither is Apollos watering. But whose work is continuing in that church? Who continues to do the work of growing the church and helping them know who Christ is and for them to have an impact in their community? God Himself. Our eyes must always be focused on the one who grows and not the one that God is using to do the work. He is the one who controls the weather He's the one who controls the sun and the wind. He's the one we gotta be looking at. Don't look at me. And then in verses eight he says, all the ministers are one. Does he mean that Paul and Apollos are one thing? No, he's he's saying that they're one in terms of their status, they have the same standing, that they have one purpose. That they have one calling, that they are working as a team, that they're working towards the same end, the same goal. Planting and watering all serve the same purpose. What is the purpose? Facilitating the the the the the process of growth which God alone is providing. So what's the logical conclusion therefore, if that's what Paul is saying What is he telling the church then about unity? He's saying this if all of these tasks are necessary for the same end With no staff are necessary for the same end. Then how should you be Paul is saying that it excludes any notion, any notion in your lives and in your outworking of your lives of competition. Of ranking, of status, of rivalry, or anything like that. Instead, the focus should be on cooperation, on solidarity, on unity. That has be has to be your purpose. It cannot be a competition of gifts in our churches within members of one family. If we're all working towards the same goal of genuinely building the Church of Jesus Christ. But all working towards the same purpose. And not self-interest, not self-fulfillment. The emphasis here is on God. I mean, Paul is even saying we are nothing. Paul is saying Paul, myself, and Apollos, we are absolutely nothing. Because God is the one who is growing this church. Next time you're tempted to look down upon someone Because you don't think that their job is as important as yours. Think about who you serve I think about Christ's church. I have to remind myself that every day. Paul is telling them all the ministries of the church are essential and have equal worth. But everything that we do is supposed to be honoring and glorifying God and nothing else. But look at the jobs that Paul is talking about. Planting and watering, meaning your jobs? Worth what? Minimum wages? Worth nothing. But why are they doing it? Are they doing it because of the work that's in that's entails? No You're menial jobs. What are you saying? We're doing it not because of what we do, but because of who we serve. You do it because you're serving God Himself and His church, and that's important Then Paul is telling him every one of us will receive his own reward from God. Paul is saying, God is the one who rewards us for faithfulness. Not you. I am accountable to God for everything I do here as a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am accountable to Him, and that scares me, but it is the truth. All of us as believers, we are accountable to God. Our rewards are not rewards for anything. Just as a result of our faithfulness to God Not the reason or goal that we do it, not for the rewards. Who would set the water boy and the plow boy on a pedestal These two servants, trying to elevate them into a celebrity status when God is the one who is doing the real work. When they're just merely instruments of the gospel of Jesus Christ. When they're trying to serve the Lord together, not separately, but together. See, I think Paul is here saving us from having two wrong views about ministry, about the church. And the one view is that sometimes we do have a very high view of the doctrine of the ministry of God, which tells us that it's the minister. And not God who is growing the church. And Paul is telling us we should not go there. But sometimes we also have a very low view of the ministry of the church. Sometimes W we think that the ministers are just full-time servants of the church and that's about it. They are agents of God. And we should never forget that You know there's a real application for us in this church about this passage. Right? Pastor Dan has been a faithful minister in this church for a long time. And I ask you to honor him. I ask you to thank him. And appreciate that he would be willing to be used of God as a vessel, of as an instrument of the message of the gospel to we Withstand all the things that he's been able to go through all those years and be used of God and not quit, even when you were driving him nuts. And he would be here, still serving faithfully. We gotta honor him. But I gotta tell you this too. See we're going through a transition, whether Jonathan or Smith or John or Brooks or whoever becomes the next pastor of this church. I ask you, because you have not done it with Dan, I ask you not to do it with whoever becomes the pastor in this church. Don't look at him. Don't look at the personality. Look to God. Don't look at the person who is doing the work. Look. And God look to Christ who grows his church. And when you do so, you are going to be in a better place. When we make a mistake of merely saying we need to bring someone here who is going to grow Christ's church, we are doomed to fail. But if we say we are looking to God to grow his church and to use whoever he chooses to be the pastor, we are looking In a good place. See, that's what Paul, that's how Paul is ending in verses 9. What is he saying? Using these images of a field and fellow liberals and buildings. He's going back to Ezekiel. In chapter 36 and Isaiah chapter 5, calling the people of God as a field, as God's vineyard, planted by who? Themselves. No, planted by God, that God is the creator and the giver of life, that they are servants working in God's building And they're performing the tasks that remain the conditions for growth, but only God is able to bring the growth. That the church is God's building, it is His possession under His leadership, not any man, God's leadership. And that God is in the process of building a unified church, not separate, one church, one baptism, one God, and Father of all. And that is the truth of the Church of Jesus Christ. When we try to quarrel and bring strife and jealousy in the church, you know what we're doing? We are seeking and struggling to destroy what God is building in church. You do not want to do that. Everything we have, everything I have and am is only by the grace of God There is absolutely nothing in me. There is absolutely something that I can do that can make the church of Christ grow. Not without him. So church, there is no Christian leader that is ever to be idolized. We're only servants. Servants of the one leader who is worthy of all, of our praise and loyalty. And that is Jesus Christ Himself. Let us not forget that. Let us not become celebrity Christians. It's not even a good name. Let us not turn our ministers into You know what we do? We maintain unity. But how do how do we do that? There's only one thing. Paul has given it to us. We've got to submit ourselves to Christ, to the gospel, to his teaching. We gotta pray. We gotta pray and ask the Lord to take those hard, hard, cold. Parts of our hearts that tend to be jealous, that tend to be prideful, that tend to cause chaos and all those things. We gotta pray. But we gotta grow up. We gotta grow up and we gotta grow up together with one another. And the only one who is able to do that is not just I. It is not Pastor D. It's Jesus Christ. And Him crucified. Father, thank you for your word. Help us to grow Help us to hear your word. Help us to understand it. Make it effective in our hearts, Lord, and make us one as you and the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are one. And pray this in Christ's name. Amen.