In Ephesians. We finished, Pastor Stan finished chapter five for us last week, so we're going to be picking up in the start of chapter six. If you have a Bible, I encourage you to open to Ephesians 6. as we'll look at the first four verses. If you don't have a Bible this morning, then you can use the Pew Bible. You can find it on page 1245 there in the Pew Bible as you follow along. Hey there we go. Good morning. All right. So Ephesians 4, sorry, Ephesians 6, verses 1 through 4, is what we'll be looking at together this morning. So once you find it, I'll invite you to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together. Hear now God's word from Ephesians six, verses one through four. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you. And that you may live long in the land. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. This is God's word this morning. Let's go to him in prayer once again. Father, we we hear those words and we know that we need to hear them, but we're reminded, I think, of many of us of Many shortcomings in both areas as children and as parents, where many of us have fallen short. And so we need you to speak to us. We need you to encourage us from your word, to rebuke us where needed, to exhort us, to train us for righteousness, but we also, Lord, need you to show us Christ. Show us your grace. Show us your love. Lord, we pray that you would sanctify us in the truth. Truth. Your word is truth. Give us confidence now as we sit here and and reflect on your word, hear your word proclaimed, that you are at work in our hearts and in our minds to make us more like Christ. And we pray that you would And we ask in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, I think we ought to be firmly convinced that all of God's word is for all of God's people. But it is obvious that there are some passages in Scripture that are are more obviously applicable to some than others. Right? Some passages seem to address pastors, and we might be tempted as non-pastors to think, well, I don't need to hear anything from there. Other passages might speak to married people or single people or in this case parents and children Last week we we saw Pastor Stan preach to us about the relationship between husbands and wives, and this week we're we're going to spend much of our time focusing on the parent-child relationship because that's what Paul's focused on. And particularly his focus seems to be on those who have children still living in the home. It's kind of the most immediate focus. But if that's not you this morning, I hope you won't just tune out. I think God's given his word for each and every one of us this morning, and hopefully that'll be clear. But it's a good reminder for all of us as we hear God's word preached That when something doesn't seem quite as relevant for you one week, it just means you have extra work to do When you go home and reflect on the passage this afternoon and begin to ask the Lord to help you see how does this apply to my heart We're called to be active listeners as we hear God's word, to prepare ahead of time, to receive it with faith and love in the moment, and then afterwards to reflect on how we might store it up in our hearts and practice it in our lives. And so I stress that because in this section of Ephesians, Paul really is making specific applications to people in different situations, right? We remember the the overarching structure is that in the first three chapters he says, this is who He goes over the great truths of the gospel that all believers share in common. And then in verse chapters four through six, he begins to unpack this is how you live in Christ. And as he does that, he starts pretty broadly, walk in a manner that's worthy of the calling to which you've been called, and then he begins to drill down more and more specifically So last week he talked about husbands and wives. Here he's going to talk about parents and children. And next week he's going to talk about slaves and masters. He goes in these different areas of life. He's applying to different situations. And in these verses, he begins to speak to children and their parents about living the Christian life in the home. And his lesson that he's drawing out of here this morning that I think we are meant to see is that our Heavenly Father has given us the family to teach us about what it means to be part of his family. He's given us our families to teach us about himself and his family. And so the way that we relate to one another in our families is actually a pattern for how we relate to God and how God relates to us. And so he gives two sets of instructions in this passage that we'll look at each in turn. First he gives instructions to children, and then he gives instructions to parents. So the first three verses are instructions for children. He says, children learn to honor God by first honoring their parents. He begins with those instructions in verses 1 to 3. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you. And that you may live long in the land. Just notice before we even begin to explain what he says there, he's talking to children. That might seem so obvious that we don't give much thought to it, but that means that he's talking to children because he expects them to be present in the assembly, in the worship service, to hear what he has to say. Boys and girls, I hope you don't miss this. This isn't just mom and dad's church. This is your church. This is a place where you belong, and Jesus wants you here because he loves you. He has things he wants to say to you. And parents, I think that's a reminder for us that you and I need to be careful how we communicate about worship. As if this isn't for our kids and if it's just for grown-up time. Worship's not just for grown-ups but for children as well. It's important to have them under the means of grace so that they might hear God speak to them through his word. They might watch you worship God and realize that their parents aren't the only ones that believe the things that they're being taught It's wonderful to have ministries like children's church because they're so helpful as we train young children who might not be ready to sit and worship, but I hope we don't ever misunderstand The goal is always to get them here as early and as often as possible to worship our Lord alongside of us. So here he says what they should do. It's pretty straightforward. He says, obey and honor. Right? There's an overlap there with honor being more broad, right? All of us at every stage of life are called to honor our parents. Even when we get to the point where our parents have have passed away, we can still honor them by the way we speak of them, the way we remember them. There never comes a point in time when you and I no longer need to honor our parents And yet, when we're younger, the way we honor is most often by obeying. And so it's especially important that young people learn to honor their parents by obeying them. Of course, he would never assume that we obey blindly, like every other authority, it's under Christ, and so we don't follow someone into sin or listen to them if they try to make us sin. But we are called to see here that God has given parents to their children and given them authority over you. And kids, you need to obey them because they love you and care for you. So the instruction of what they're supposed to do as children is pretty straightforward. But he doesn't stop there. He also focuses on how they are to do it. He says this obedience is to be in the Lord. Right? In other words, you're not merely obeying your parents just because of who they are. You do it for the Lord's sake. Obedience to parents is ultimately obedience to Jesus. That means we're talking actually about far more than just your outward actions. We're talking about your heart. Right, so if your mom and dad tell you to go and clean your room and you go and straighten things up, but the whole time you're stomping around and grumbling, you're not actually obeying. That's really important because Paul here is not saying just to act right. He's saying our hearts matter as well. A Christian home, friends, is not distinct. merely because there's some things we do and other things we don't do. Of course there's a level at which that's true, but the calling here is for a distinctly Christian family life one that's centered on Christ, where your love for Jesus is the key motivation in everything that you do. So, yes, we obey our parents, but we obey in the Lord. And that means, as Mike Allen says in his commentary, obeying parents is actually an act of faith in Jesus. For Christian children. He says how you obey. He also says why, and he gives two reasons, right? The first one is pretty simple. This is right. It's the right thing to do. Never hesitate from teaching God's law to your children because you need God's law at the start before you come to Christ to realize your need for a Savior. But once you come to Christ, you still need God's law as the roadmap for how to live a life That's pleasing to God. Because Jesus said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. And so we're clearly commanded that we honor our father and mother. We obey because God tells us to. It's right. It's in line with God's law. But he adds a second reason, a promise. He says this is the first commandment with a promise. Now clearly he's referencing the fifth commandment. But many commentators point out that this is actually the only commandment with a promise. There's a promise attached to the second commandment, but it's more broad and general. This is the only one that has a specific promise attached to obedience. And I think what Paul's doing here is he's actually emphasizing the fifth commandment as particularly important for children. He's saying this is the first commandment, this is the key commandment, the primary commandment, and it has a promise attached to it. It's the key command for children to learn in order to begin to understand all the other commandments. We learn to honor and obey God by honoring and obeying our parents. Sinclair Ferguson says it this way. He says, God trains us to respond to his fatherhood, which we cannot see, by responding to earthly fatherhood, which we can see. It's as if the Lord were saying to children in homes marked by faith: love, trust, and obey your father and mother. In obeying this command, you will soon learn what all the other commandments mean. There really is a promise though. It says you honor that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land. It is an interesting promise because, of course, the initial context is God giving his law at the foot of Mount Sinai to his people as they're about to wander in the wilderness. And it's pointing forward to the promised land, the land of Canaan, saying, If you keep my commandments, there will be long life for you in the promised land. But of course, as we read through the scriptures, we find that that was never the ultimate hope of God's people. Paul in Romans 4 says that Abraham was promised to inherit the world, not just the land of Canaan. And in Hebrews, we're told that he's looking forward not to physical piece of land in Jerusalem, but to the city that has foundation. whose designer and builder is God. So you see the promise is really life now and hope of eternal life hereafter. It's important to see as as you unpack this promise that it it functions kind of like the way Proverbs does. Right? It's a general promise about the way that God typically It's not intended as a guarantee in every particular instance and circumstance, but as a general hope that God sets before children. And it's this promise. He says, if you obey your parents Life will generally go better for you than if you don't. You'll be protected from so much harm and from danger because they love you and they know what's good for you. As a result, generally speaking, obedient children live longer than rebellious children. Generally speaking, it's a general instruction about what the Lord often does and how he often works. But it's more than that. It's not just long life here and now. It's the promise that if you take to heart what your parents tell you, particularly if you grow up in a home centered on faith in Christ, if you take to heart what your parents tell you, particularly when they tell you about Christ. And if you submit to them out of a love for Christ, then actually your relationship with your parents and your upbringing in their house will be one of the things that's easy to used by God to cultivate faith in you. Don't misunderstand it. We're not at all saying that obedience saves you. We're certainly not saying that you can be saved by your parents' faith. Right? Kids, you're being raised in a church to believe in Jesus, but your mom and dad can't believe for you. You need to see your need for Jesus, your need to be saved from your sins. You need to be the one that turns away from your sin and puts your trust in Jesus. No one can do it for you. And if you don't do it, none of your obedience, none of anything that you've learned from your parents can save you at the end of the day. Only Jesus can. Believe in him, come to him and trust in him. Some of you already do that, and we we rejoice at that reality, and our hope as your church family is that one day each and every one of you will Profess faith in Christ and will join us one day as we come to that table to remember and reflect on what he's done and celebrate with him in hopes of doing it again in his kingdom. But the point in this promise is that God has given you godly parents so that they will help you come to know Jesus and to find eternal life in Him. We pray that God would make that come true in each and every one of your Lives. Paul encourages children, honor and obey your parents. The second thing he does is give instructions for parents in verse 4. And he says, Parents show God's fatherly love. So he starts by telling parents what their duty is. He says in verse 4: Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. He emphasizes fathers. Of course, everything he's saying applies to both fathers and mothers. But as we saw last week, husbands and by extension fathers are the heads of their homes. And so men, you you need to have a particular burden to faithfully raise your children because you have a particular responsibility. And so he's speaking to fathers, but everything he says applies both to moms and dads. And first he says: here's what you don't do: don't provoke your children to anger. There's a way for us to parent that can end up driving our children away from us. Don't make a mistake. They're still called to honor and obey. That commandment doesn't uh suddenly evaporate. But we need to see the reality that we can parent in such a way that makes it really, really Hard for them to do that. And that actually provokes them to anger. And so he's saying, don't be overbearing with our children. Don't be overly harsh. Don't be overly strict. If we're not careful, you and I can as parents end up nitpicking everything that our children do, correcting every little thing. And they need correction. They need discipline. It's important But if all we do is correct, if we never encourage, if we can it can be demoralizing. We have to remember that as parents we can do lasting damage to our children if they grow up thinking that we're constantly disappointed in them. If they grow up thinking that we have unachievable standards that always move and they can never meet, they grow up thinking that we're always unavailable and too busy for them. Not to mention the more heinous sins, like parents who verbally or physically abuse their children. God's given you authority in your home, but your parenting is always under God's authority. When you act in those evil ways, he sees you and you'll give an account. He's telling parents, don't abuse your authority. Don't make it even harder for your kids to honor and obey you. They're sinners. It's hard enough for them without us adding to the trouble. But after saying what not to do, he says how we should raise our children. And we can sum it up in one word, discipleship. He says, bring them up. The word he uses is the word nourish. Sinclair Ferguson says it's the same word that's used of how husbands nourish and cherish their wives the way they care for their own bodies. We're called to nourish our children. You can talk to Lee and she'll tell you there's a big difference between merely feeding yourself and nourishing yourself I can eat three Big Macs a day. It'll be delicious and I probably will be filled up. I'm also going to be malnourished and deeply unhealthy. In order to be properly nourished, you have to eat a balanced diet. You need different food groups in the right proportions. It takes time to prepare. It takes be time to eat in an unhurried manner. All of that emphasizes the care involved in the way you prepare to feed yourself. It's similar to the way we relate to our kids. Our parenting ought to be marked by tenderness. By gentleness, our homes should be a nurturing environment. They should know that we love them. They should know that we are for them, that we desire to see them succeed and flourish and that we cherish them deeply. But it's not just a vague description of go and nourish your kids. It's not just be sincere. There's a goal. What do we nourish them in? The discipline and instruction of the Lord. Just like adults, children don't live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. And notice here what he's saying: God sets the agenda for your parenting. As a parent, you are an instrument in his hands as he cares for your children. Your job as a parent is to disciple your children. This is one of the key ways that you carry out the Great Commission. As you teach them about God and about his ways, as you discipline and correct them when they go astray, as you model God's steadfast love to them, as you shepherd them and feed them with God's word. I think we can't stress this enough because I think it comes up a lot subtly in our culture. Your job is not merely to make successful adults or good citizens. That shoots far too low of the goal. You don't need to be a Christian to be a well-adjusted adult. Our goal is not successful adults, but disciples of Jesus. So we need to regularly examine our words and our actions and ask ourselves the hard questions, whose discipline and instruction am I bringing them up in? We need to be careful that it's not the discipline and instruction of Hollywood teaching them to love entertainment and pleasures and and fame. That it's not the discipline and instruction of Wall Street as they learn money and stuff is what life is all about. Not the discipline and instruction of ESPN as if accomplishment and sports and achieving more and more was all that matters Not the discipline and instruction of Washington, as if all that's wrong in the world is the people over there that think differently than us, and if we change laws we'll fix everything. Not saying that any of those things are irrelevant or unimportant. We need to strive to have a home centered on Christ and His Word. We need to realize the reality that our actions speak louder than our words. And regardless of what you tell your kids, they will watch you and learn what you love and value. We seek to center our home on Christ and His Word. We do it informal things, right? Regular family devotions, consistent involvement in the life of the church, including worship every week. We do it in informal things, like Moses says in Deuteronomy 6, teaching them God's word. As you sit in the house, as you walk by the way, looking for teachable moments in everyday life. Because the goal is to make disciples, and like anything else, we do this in the Lord, right? We do it out of obedience and out of love for Christ, wanting to be good stewards and faithful with the precious souls of our children. That does lead to a couple of important things for us to to unpack as well though. Because as as we think over this words, we have to be Be careful of making mistakes on either side. And I think we need to remember: on the one hand, never overestimate your ability to save. And on the other hand, never underestimate your ability to influence. Never overestimate your ability to save or underestimate your ability to influence. Those are so important to remember, friends, because salvation belongs to the Lord Lord, not to us. As much as we might wish it were in our power at times, we simply do not have the ability to change anyone's heart, let alone that of our children. We're called to be faithful. And then leave salvation in the Lord's hands, trusting that the judge of all the earth will do what is right I think at least I am, I don't think I'm alone, but we're we're tempted at times to embrace a a parenting version of the prosperity gospel of a name it and claim it. If I do XYZ, then God will save my children. God will bless me. Things will turn out okay. That's not how grace works. Sometimes you can do everything right and your children walk away from Christ. Other times you can only remember your failures and a long list of things you've done wrong, and somehow though you can't explain it. By God's grace, He draws your children to Himself. It can be really painful when we think of our adult children who aren't walking with the Lord's Don't ever give up praying for them. That the Lord would draw them to Himself. But make sure that as you pray for them, make sure that you also don't make yourself responsible for more than you really are. You can't save them. You can only be faithful to teach them about God and His ways. And friends, every single one of us falls short. I was confronted yet again this morning with one more example of how I'm not anywhere close to being as good a father to my kids as the Lord is to me. We all fall short, and by God's grace, none of our kids are as messed up as they could be from having us as parents. Even when we've been unfaithful, even where we've caused deep pain in our children's lives, friends, there's grace held out to us in Christ, a grace that's greater than all of our sin. When we confess our sin, Christ is faithful and just to forgive us, cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Take all of your parenting failures and shortcomings and bring them to Jesus. Lay them in his hands. Don't overestimate your Your ability to save. The opposite's true as well. Don't underestimate your ability to influence. As a parent, friends, you have a powerful impact on the lives of your children. That continues into adulthood. You have the ability to influence because God works through families, and his ordinary way of working, as he's revealed in his word, is for parents to pass on the faith to their children. I've been struck one of the best biographies that I I've ever read was an autobiography of John Payton. Who was a Scottish Presbyterian minister missionary in the 1800s, and he was a missionary to the South Seas. And he starts off the biography. I wish I could read it all to you, but we just don't have time to read it all to you. But he he starts off this biography with a a lengthy description of being raised in his parents' home and the impact that that's had on his faith even to the end of his life. He talks about the impact of seeing his father's prayer life and of just hearing his father pray for him and for his family day after day. And he says, never in temple or in cathedral. Cathedral, on mountain, or in glen, can I hope to feel that the Lord God is more near, more visibly walking and talking with men than under that humble cottage roof where he was raised? He goes on and says, though everything else in religion were by some unthinkable catastrophe to be swept out of memory or blotted from my understanding, my soul would wander back to those early scenes And shut itself up once again in that sanctuary closet, and hearing still the echo of those cries to God, would hurl back all doubt with the victorious appeal, speaking of his father, he walked with God. Why may not I? Later he reflects on the time when he was leaving home to go be trained at seminary, and if I'm not mistaken, I think it's the last time he saw his father in life, and he talks about how his father walked with him for the beginning of the of the journey, just in silence because they they couldn't bear to speak to one another, and yet his father was praying for him the whole time in silent prayers. And he talked about that parting moment and how he he watched his father walk away. He said, I watched through blinding tears. till his form faded from my gaze, and then hastening on my way, bowed deeply and oft, by the help of God, to live and act so as never to grieve or dishonor such a father and mother as he had given me. The appearance of my father when we parted, his advice, prayers and tears, the road, the dike, the climbing up on it, and then walking away, head uncovered, have often often, all through life, risen vividly before my mind, and do so now while I'm writing, as if it had been but an hour ago. In my earlier years, particularly, when exposed to many temptations, his parting form rose before me as that of a guardian angel. It is no Phariseais, but deep gratitude. Which makes me here testify that the memory of that scene not only helped by God's grace to keep me pure from the prevailing sins, but also stimulated me in all my studies that I might not fall short of his hope. And in all my Christian duties, that I might faithfully follow his shining example. Friends, we have a profound ability to impact our children for Christ. Never underestimate your ability to impact, but never overestimate your responsibility to save. We leave it in the Lord's hands, though we strive to be faithful Sermons on on family and parenting can be really hard to preach. So it's the focus of the text, and so it has to be the focus of our time. But I'm keenly aware of how painful this topic is can be for so many of us. Whether it's because you have difficult relationships with your your children or difficult relationships with your parents, because your home's been marked by loss and pain. Or because your your hopes and dreams for what your family might one day look at look like just never materialize the way you had hoped. I think the sad reality is that that even though we rightly want to uphold marriage and uphold the family, the church can often be the place Where we so emphasize family and marriage that if that doesn't describe your living situation, that you can feel forgotten, overlooked, neglected. Friends, your Lord never loses sight of you. He has a tender care for the fatherless, for the widow, for the childless. Friends, he knows the unique pain that's marked each and every one of our lives. lives. And he promises that no tears ever fall from our eyes unnoticed by him. And he promises that one day he's going to wipe them all away and set everything right. But I want to ensure you that text like this, even in a passage like this, he hasn't forgotten about any of his people as he inspired it to be written. This applies for each and every one of us. And the best way that we apply this is by remembering the central truth that parents and children need to remember as well. God's family is the primary family. Our earthly families are meant to teach us about God and what it means to be part of His family. Your earthly family is temporary. Marriage is going to end in heaven, but we're all going to be brothers and sisters for all of eternity. The church is the only family that lasts forever, and so even if your family doesn't look the way that you wish it did, Or you don't have a family. Friends, you still get to be a vital part of God's family. The fullness of family life is found in the church. It's found in God's family, and that is a hope that every believer gets to share in. Regardless of what your earthly family might look like. It's important because earthly families are important, and yet earthly families are not sufficient for making disciples. Friends, you need a church. Sinclair Ferguson in his new book, Devoted to God's Church, has a this great statement. He says, No single family possesses all the resources it needs to be a truly and fully Christian family. We need support, friendship, example, wise counsel, and much else from the church family. He said two Christian parents are not in themselves adequate to rear one child for Christ They were never meant to be. Every child in this church needs not just their parents, they need all of you. They need saints that are older, saints that are younger, younger, saints that are married, saints that are single. Saints from different ages and stages of life to speak into their lives, to shape them so that they might better understand the gospel and know Christ more deeply. That's why in our baptismal vows, there's a vow for each and every member of the congregation To promise that you will assist the parents in the Christian nurture of their child. Because the saying that it takes a village is a deeply Christian impulse. We're meant to be raised in the community of God's family. We need each other. Jesus promises that the church is meant to be the the true place where we find a home, where we find belonging, where we find brothers and sisters and fathers and mothers. And it's a wonderful promise, and yet I I think at times It sometimes rings hollow for many of us. Because it doesn't always feel like it matches the reality of our experience in the life of the church. See, I think if you and I aren't careful, we can be too consumed with our families. We can be really polite on Sunday mornings and then retreat back into our homes and our busy lives for the next six and a half days. We need to invest our lives in one another, to be brothers and fathers and mothers and sisters to one another. One of the key ways of doing this is showing hospitality to love our brothers and sisters. Invite people into your homes. Let them share your lives with you. It benefits everyone as you disciple and shape one another. So friends, one one great takeaway from today would be to think of someone else in the church who is different from you. If you're single, maybe they're married. If you're younger, maybe they're more elderly. If you have kids, maybe they don't And invite them into your home. Get to know them. Let them get to know you. Begin to live like the church is your true and primary family. Because it is. The family is important. It reflects God's creation pattern. We live in a society that seems bent on systematically destroying the traditional family. And it should be no surprise that we see devastating impacts when we reject God and His ways. The family is important, but we just Have to remember the family is not ultimate. It's meant to teach about something greater than itself. It's meant to point us to our Heavenly Father and to teach us about belonging in His family. So no matter what your home and family situation looks like Every one of them falls short and is surpassed by a perfect heavenly Father. Father who loves rebellious sinners such as us. That though he made us to live for him, we turned aside and went our own way. Rejecting him. He can't tolerate sin, and yet he didn't leave us there. He sent his only son, the son who honored and obeyed him in everything, to come and rescue us and to bring us home to our Heavenly Father. Christ was the perfect Son, obeying in every way, honoring the Father in everything, and then laying down his life in the place of his people, promising that all who believe in him, who trust in his name, who turn from their sins and hope in him, he He will give the right to be children of God. He will give you his spirit, the spirit of adoption that allows you to say, Abba, Father, to share in his own relationship with his father. Friends, if you're here this morning and you've not turned away from your sin and trusted in Christ, come to Him. Nothing else in this life has lasting meaning unless through Christ you belong to God's family and have God as your Father. A God who loves you and who cares for you. And that's your greatest need, and it's only possible through Christ. He is the way and the truth and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through Him. But if you come, He'll never cast you out, He'll never turn you away. He will give you a place in God's family, a place that can never be lost or taken away from you. Come to Him today. Now is the time. Don't wait for another opportunity. Know God as your Father as you come to Christ. Friends, for those of you who already are in Christ, who are trusting in him. Just take time to reflect on the blessing of your adoption. That the God of heaven, the creator of the world, loves you Loves you the way a perfect father loves his child and he cares for you. He watches over you, knowing what you need. He's qualified you to share in the inheritance promised to his son. An inheritance that's Imperishable, undefiled, unfading, and kept in heaven for you where one day you will get to be with him forever. And in the meantime, like any good father, he disciplines his children. Because he loves you. He gives you this life so that he might train you for righteousness. So, friends, remember his goodness, remember his love. Place all your cares and concerns before him. Trust that Jesus is enough. And thank you for giving him giving you a place in his family for all eternity. And not just that it's only future, but also that there's an expression of it. Here and now in the church. Let's pray together. Father, what a blessing it is that you have sent your Son to wash us, to cleanse us. And the highest privilege of it all is that we get To call you Father. We thank you, Father, that you are our Father, that you love us, that you care for us, that you've met our greatest need in not sparing your own son. But giving him up for us all. We pray, Lord, that that would spur us on to live for you in all the areas of life where you call us to. We pray this in your name. Amen.