Well, good morning. We're continuing our series in the book of James this morning, and if you have your Bible, I'd encourage you to open with me to James chapter 1, verses 19 If you don't have a Bible with you, you can find it on page 1289 in the few Bibles. Would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word? Hear now the reading of God's Word. Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak. Slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, put away all filthin. And rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts He will be blessed in his doing. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world. This is God's word this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we praise you that you have spoken to us, that we might know you, that we might love you, that we might serve you. And Lord, we praise you that you've not only spoken to us, but you've sent your Spirit to dwell within us, to open our eyes, that we might behold wondrous things from your life. So now, Lord, as we turn to reflect on your word, we pray, speak, O Lord, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well what does it mean to be a Christian? To put that another way, what does the Christian life look like? We live in a time when it's becoming increasingly popular for people to call themselves Christians, but try and make that term mean whatever it is they would like it to mean. Not too long ago I remember seeing a short video entitled, I'm Christian, but I'm not. The whole purpose of the video was to suggest that the people in the video were saying, I'm I'm Christian, but I don't fit into the stereotypical mold of what you might think a Christian ought to look like. But what was really interesting is as you listened to this video and as you watched it, many of the people who said, I'm Christian, but I'm not such and such went on to describe their lifestyle as one that is explicitly condemned by Scripture You see, they were fine being called Christians so long as they could continue to live however they wanted. I think it's it's tempting for us to look around at others and see how they live inconsistently. And fall short of what it looks like to truly live in accordance with God's Word. But sadly, too often you and I don't do the uncomfortable work of looking at ourselves To see how we measure up. Because the reality is we all struggle to one degree or another with the temptation to hear God's word and not do it. And so James is warning us against that temptation, and he does it by walking us through Christianity 101, if you will, explaining what it looks like to live the Christian life. And he says that As Christians, we must receive God's Word. We must respond to God's word by living out what it teaches. And he shows us this by looking at two qualities that ought to describe every Christian. And then goes on at the end to give us three tests so that we can see how we're doing. So the first thing he says in verses 19 to 21, he says that God's word must take root in our hearts. And he starts off saying we need to be ready to listen if we're going to really receive God's word. He says, let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak. And slow to anger. Now we all know that's just a good principle to live by, isn't it? I heard one preacher recently say, God gave you two ears and one mouth for a reason. The point is we all know that that our natural inclination is that to be quick to speak and and slow to listen. When we're having a conversation with someone, instead of truly intently listening to what they say, the gears are going in our heads and we're trying to figure out how we're going to respond. And very often we realize we didn't even hear what they said because we were so thinking about what we were going to say Truly listening to someone is an act of love that shows them that you you value what's going on in their lives as much as you value what's going on in your your own life. That you're you care enough about them to hear what they're going to say rather than making sure you you talk at them and get your point across. We also know that when we're quick to speak, it often leads to tempers going up. We leads to anger. And we can be quick to fly off the handle and say things that uh don't that that we might not have wanted to say This is a general principle in life, good to put into practice in our relationships. Even the proverbs reflect this. They say even a fool is considered wise if he keeps his mouth shut. But while this is good for you and I to practice in our relationships with one another, I I think James wants us to see that this is ultimately Something that we ought to have in our posture towards God. Think about the context. Last week Pastor Josiah walked us through the beginning of chapter one, and he said The whole point of the trials and sufferings we go through in this life is that God uses them as a means of testing in order to mature our faith and make us more and more like Christ. Now, what's your natural temptation when you're suffering? If you're anything like me, you're quick to speak, quick to tell God what he's doing wrong and how he needs to fix it. And maybe you're quick to anger. They're quick to become angry with God for allowing this suffering to take place in the first place. Now that's not to say that that we can't cry out to God. Of course it's okay for us to to come to God in in our pain and in our suffering and and in our questions and frustrations. He's not scared of us. He can handle that. That's the whole book of Psalms essentially is coming to God and honestly wrestling with the reality of life in a broken world. But James's point is that when we're quick to complain and quick to be angry with God, we often fail to listen to what it is that He's trying to teach us through our suffering. And so James is encouraging us to have a posture of listening, ready to hear what God wants to say. Saying, like Samuel, speak, Lord, for your servant is listening. And why is that? James says, the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Another way to render that verse is to say that human anger does not produce the righteous life that God desires. Now it's it's clear from Scripture that anger is not always sinful. There's a righteous form of anger, but I think if you and I are honest with ourselves, that's not normally the type of anger that we feel Human anger, the anger that James has in view is a sinful anger that's often indignant and self-righteous. Right? How dare someone do such a thing to me? If God intends to use our trials to make us holy and righteous, we can't expect to see that growth take place in our lives if the whole time we're bitter and angry towards Him for what's going on. And so James wants us to have a listening and receptive posture. He says, put away all wickedness and receive the implanted word that God has planted in us. And he says you need to receive it with meekness or humility. The point is, in order to rightly receive the word, you need to realize that you need it, because it can save your souls. And I love that language of the implanted word. James says, let it take root in your heart. The scriptures echo that this language of God's word taking root The great promise in Jeremiah 31 of the new covenant is God saying, I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts. Psalm 119, the longest chapter in the in the Bible devoted to praising the excellencies of God's Word, has a wonderful section in there. It says How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. And he goes on to say, I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. This is the same thing that Jesus is speaking about when he he gives the parable of the soils. Right? The sower goes out to sow the seed and it falls in all different kinds of soil. Sometimes it falls along the hard path and it never even gets to penetrate before the birds come and And snatch it away. In other cases, it it falls in the soil, but it it's shallow soil. And instead of taking root, it it sprouts up really quickly and then gets scorched out by the heat. In some cases it it falls and starts to grow, but there's so many other things growing around that it gets choked out and can't really take root and grow and produce fruit And James is saying, be good soil, ready to receive God's word. He says, do the hard work of weeding the garden of your heart. Put away filthiness and wickedness, all these things that threaten to overcrowd your heart so that the word gets choked out. Don't let them choke out the word. That's an important point for us because the entire Christian life is to be a life fighting against sin, constantly seeking to put it to death every day. And James says, the reason this is so important is because the word is able to save your souls. Now I think that's pretty fascinating because we saw last week James was writing to believers. If you remember verse 18 from the end of our section last week, we saw Zayn say that they have been brought forth by the word of truth. That's the language of regeneration, of passing from spiritual death into spiritual life. They have been Brought forth by the word of truth. And so what we see here is that salvation in the Bible is a much more broad and comprehensive term than sometimes we think about it. Often you and I think of salvation only to refer to the moment of conversion or regeneration. Or maybe we think of salvation as only justification. The fact that by trusting in Christ alone, our sin has been forgiven and we've been counted righteous in God's eyes as Christ's righteousness has been counted. to us. Now those are wonderful, beautiful truths of the gospel. But salvation is broader still than even those two things. Salvation includes sanctification The long, lifelong process of God making us more and more holy, of transforming us from sinners into saints, so that we look more and more like Christ. It includes perseverance. The promise that our God loves us with a love that will not let us go. That even though we go through times of doubt and struggle and backsliding and sin, That those who have truly trusted in Christ will never lose their salvation. And he will never let us fully and finally walk away. It also includes the great hope and promise of our future glorification. That that one point, whether when Christ returns or at our death, whichever comes first, that we will be made perfect in holiness. Holiness, seeing our Lord face to face that we'll be like him, free from sin forever. You see, church, salvation is a comprehensive deliverance that frees us not just from the penalty of sin. But it frees us from the power of sin in our lives and ultimately one day from the presence of sin in our lives and in our world. It includes the renewal and restoration of all things. One scholar brings this out. He says, To save, then, means to make a person whole and complete in every respect. And this is what the Word of God is able to do for the believer. This is exactly what Jesus taught as he prayed in the garden the night before his crucifixion in the high priestly prayer. He prays to his father, saying, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. The writer of Hebrews echoes this when he says that the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, able to pierce us to the depth. vision of soul and spirit, of joint and marrow, exposing every thought and intention of the heart. When you read this word, you're not reading any other book. You're having an encounter with the living God. God's word is able to change us. Scripture is sufficient. You know, too often you and I try to hear from God in ways other than where he's told us to find him We look for God to speak to us in dreams and impressions and feelings. But the reality is he has never told us that we should expect to hear from him in those ways now that Christ has come. But he has given us his word, which is sufficient for us. And he's given us his spirit to open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things from his law, to know not only what it says, but how it applies to our lives. And so we must let God's word take root in our hearts by listening to Him to see what He would speak to us through His Word. What that means for you and I is read the Bible. Read the whole thing and then read it again. And then read it again. Memorize it. Study it. Talk about it with one another. Receive it in such a way that it becomes part of who you are. Because that's where we find the gospel, which is the power of God for salvation for all who believe. So the first quality of the Christian life is that God's word must take root in our hearts. And the second quality we see in verses 24 and 22 to 25 is that we must respond to God's word with our actions. James says, don't merely hear what it says. Obey it. Listening is good. Listening by itself is bad. And this gets to one of the difficult realities for us is that it's possible to deceive ourselves It's possible to think you're a Christian and be wrong. And James says, do not deceive yourselves. He goes on to describe it later. He says, to be deceived means your religion is worthless. And he'll go on and describe it later in the letter when he says, faith without works is dead. Now, certainly he's not saying that there's any sense in which our works save us. Well we can't do anything to earn God's favor. We're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And yet Works are the necessary fruit of true saving faith. Just like a healthy tree produces fruit, a healthy Christian produces good works. We've been saved not by good works, but for good works, so that we might do them and walk in them. And he gives this this great illustration of a mirror, of someone who looks intently at his face in a mirror but immediately forgets what he looks like. And I don't I don't know about you, but uh growing up whenever I heard this illustration I I always thought it meant, oh he didn't just look he didn't look long enough. It was a fleeting glance, and if he had just taken the time to really memorize his face, then he would have been better off. But the text says he he looks intently at his face in a mirror. It's not for lack of looking. It's because he didn't commit it to memory. I actually had this exact thing happen to me not not too many months ago. I was in need of a haircut. I was getting ready in the morning and I looked in the mirror and my hair was just all over the place. In the busyness of getting ready and getting out the door, I completely forgot to do anything about it. Was walking around for half the day with hair that was sticking in all different directions Pastor Josiah didn't say anything to me, by the way. You see, I saw what was wrong with my appearance and yet I didn't do anything by my actions to alter it. James is saying, don't be like me. Don't let the word of God go in one ear and out the other. And see, this is a sobering thing for us to realize because he's describing the person who hears God's word regularly. He's describing the person that's here week in and week out sitting under the preaching of God's word, and yet by the time you get home for lunch, you've already forgotten everything that was said and won't think about spiritual things again until you come next week. He's talking about the person who knows their Bible and can quote it front to back, and yet who never does the work of applying it in their lives so that it makes no difference in how we live from day to day. Church, we need to take an honest look at our lives because the reality is that you cannot have Jesus as your Savior if you will not serve Him as your Lord. He died for you so that you would live for him. And he gave us his word so that we would respond by living it out. He compares this picture with the person who meditates on God's word and does what it says, and he says that person will be blessed in his doing it. He describes the law as perfect, the law of liberty. And he's echoing the Psalms there. Psalm 19: the law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. Describing just the beauties of God's word, going on to say that, moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. This whole passage that we're going through echoes the Psalm one. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the Seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither In all that he does, he prospers. God's word is a reliable guide to pleasing him. Sometimes you and I speak of the law of God in negative terms because we we mean by that that you you can't earn your salvation, as we said, that keeping the law will never do anything to earn God's favor. Because we're sinful. And when we try to keep the law in that way, it becomes not a blessing, but a burden that enslaves us. But the reality is, we were never meant to understand God's law apart from Christ. The whole purpose of the law was to point us to our need for a savior by exposing our sin and driving us to Christ. And once we see our need for a savior, it then becomes a reliable guide to teach us how to live in a way that honors Him and pleases Him. The law, when understood in Christ, is something that gives freedom because it's how we were created to live. It becomes not a burden but a blessing. You see, the law is to a Christian like water is to a fish. It would be absurd for a fish to suggest, I'm so trapped in this water. I just want to get onto dry land so I can be free. The moment the fish gets onto dry land, it realizes that land means not freedom but death. The same is true for a Christian. We are only free when we live within the bounds of God's law. To step beyond it is to go to death and destruction, not to freedom. And so if we have truly received the word, we will seek to live out what it teaches. And James ends in verses 26 and 27 by giving us three tests to look at our lives and see how we're doing. And we'll go briefly through each of these three because In so many ways they set the contents for the rest of the letter that he's going to continue to pick up and touch on in many different places. But these three tests he gives is are speech, works of mercy, and holiness. So first he looks at our speech. He says: if any man thinks that he's religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives himself, his religion is worthless. Why is that? It's because speech is a reflection of the heart. Jesus says it's out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. Words have have a way of just coming up out of us sometimes without us really even thinking about what we're saying. Sometimes something can can pass through your lips and before you even realize that you said it Words reveal what's true about our hearts. And James here is not speaking merely about foul language and cursing, though that would certainly apply. He's talking about the hypocrite who looks outwardly righteous in so many ways, but who puffs himself up by speaking badly about others. He's talking about the person who gives themselves over to gossip and slander, the person who goes around spreading rumors and talking behind people's backs. Church, we must use our words to build one another up and to encourage one another, not to tear others down. Our speech matters to God, and so we must guard our words. The second test he gives us is doing works of mercy. It's interesting if you notice the flow of this passage. He began telling us to put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. And now here he ends by telling us what religion that is pure and undefiled looks like. And he says the first thing it it consists of is in visiting orphans and widows in their affliction. You see, in the ancient world, orphans and widows were extremely vulnerable. They had no means of provision or protection in the broader society. And so they're a common example in the Old Testament. Of people who need special care and protection and provision. Visiting, of course, includes physically going and spending time with one another, but more broadly it means ministering to them. Caring to them, caring for them and meeting their needs. We're to bear one another's burdens, doing good to everyone as we have opportunity, but especially to those within the household of faith. Christianity is a corporate religion. It's not just about me and Jesus. It's about us together with Christ. We are part of a body and we must bear one another's burdens. You see that as you look at the picture of the church in the New Testament. You see constant fellowship, constant prayer together, and meeting one another's needs sacrificially. And I think that's an important point we have to honestly wrestle with. Just showing up on Sunday and leaving and not having any interaction with your brothers and sisters throughout the remainder of the week. Is not living the Christian life. We must be involved in one another's lives. Now I I know this is going to look different for different people because I recognize that We're not all in the same stage of life. We all have different things going on, and every one of us is busy, but I think we have to acknowledge that it is unhealthy to be so busy that we can't be part of the life of the church. At a minimum, each and every one of us, if we can't find the time to physically spend with one another throughout the week, we can commit to praying for one another throughout the week, bearing one another's burdens by bringing them before the Lord in prayer. That's a real ministry that you can do for your brothers and sisters. The Christian life, James says, is a life of self-denial, where we sacrificially love others and make time for them. Finally, he points us to personal holiness. And he describes holiness as being unstained from the world. Right? He's not saying that we must withdraw to the monastery. And be monks or nuns. No, he's talking about the more familiar concept of being in the world, but not of the world. In the words of Paul, he's saying: don't be conform to the patterns of this world. Be holy as God is holy. To be holy means to be set apart and entirely devoted to God. We belong to Him, and so we must serve Him. We've been bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your bodies. You see, as Christians, we've been sent out in the world to be salt and light. Salt is a preservative. And light so often in scripture has the connotation of being purifying and cleansing. You see, as Christians, we're to go out into the world and have an impact for good, not allowing the world to impact us for the worse. When we start to think and speak and even live like non-Christians, we're failing in our God-given mission. We cannot be stained by the world. The last thing to say here, just briefly, these three things that James goes through, he's not saying that that's all it means to be a Christian. Right, he would certainly agree with Paul's understanding of the gospel and the importance of faith in Christ alone. His point is: without these things, you don't have the Christian life. These things are necessary for the Christian life. So what does it mean to live the Christian life? In Christianity 101, James lays it out as basic as it gets. Let God's word take root in your heart and then practice it in your life. You see, when we think about the Christian life, it's so important to remember that there is great blessing in keeping God's word. But you can't do that apart from Christ Himself. He's the one who kept it once and for all. He is the blessed one who does not keep company with the wicked. He's the one who delights in knowing and doing God's word. That's what he did in his earthly life, perfectly fulfilling the law in every way, and then dying for sinners like us to satisfy God's wrath for sin. You see, church, we're called to be doers, but we can only do it in Christ. Because we have his Spirit dwelling within us, who changes us, so that we become a people who delight in God's word And who gives us the desire and the ability to obey. So, Church, if you're if you're feeling like me as you read these words from James, if you're convicted because you're aware of just how far short you fall and how often you do not live up to what you profess to believe. And I want to encourage you, look to Christ. He is able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God through him. His yoke is easy, and his burden is light. He doesn't tell you to do it in your own strength. The gospel is not do better, try harder. By his Spirit, He helps us to obey by changing us from the inside out. And he promises to bring that work that He began in us to completion on the last day. So look to Jesus, because the more time you spend gazing at him, the more you will become like him. Let his word take root in your heart, and by the strength that he works within you, go and live for him Let's pray together. Our Father, we confess that we fall so far short in so many ways of not acting on your word. Lord, we would be doers of your word. We want to be people who not only hear what your word says, but who put it into practice in our lives. Who go out into the world and are a blessing to others. And we pray, Lord Jesus, that by your Spirit you would work that change within us. That as we go out in the world, that that That people might know we are Christians by our love. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen