And be foul in him, not having a rightness of my own that come from the law But that we come through the faith in the Christ, the righteousness from God that depend on faith. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection and may share his suffering, become like him in his death. That by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead Uh not that I have already obtained h this or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it on my own because Christ Jesus hath made me his own. Brother, do not consider that I have made it on my own. But One thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and uh changing forward to what lie ahead I press on toward the goal for the price of the upward cone of God in Jesus Christ. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise God will reveal that also to you. Only let us hold true to what we have attained. Philippians It is good to be back with you on this resurrection morning. Over the last several months, this resurrection morning has sort of come to me in some fresh ways. We have been at two funerals. And they were both people that meant a lot to us. At one funeral we simply left the coffin where it was. It was a military funeral and they were going to intern the coffin at a later point in time. Was my brother-in-law. The second was a longtime friend that we were in California And uh we held back with the family and watched as the coffin was slowly lowered into the the ground. For most funerals in today's world, you don't actually see that. They encourage the family to walk away. And um And you just see the coffin on top. Nice green carpet. So the sense of being swallowed up by death isn't quite there So as I've been thinking about what is the power of the resurrection In neither of those cases did I anticipate that I would go back to that site. And find somehow that there was going to be a resurrection at that site. I didn't expect to go back and find my brother-in-law or my friend. Death is fine Except we gather to celebrate the resurrection Now, how odd is that? How wrong is that? How strange is that Uh you know, the kids get it. It's dead. It's not going to come back. You just Throw it away. We can stick the signs of life in it, but I'm really thankful that those uh fronds were put in the refrigerator from last night week because they wouldn't have looked too fancy for today either. It doesn't take very long for them to wither. All of the good stuff we do doesn't take very long to wither and fade until we look like disaster So what is it about the power of the resurrection? This text turns our mind to a slightly different direction. It focuses on the resurrection, but it turns our mind first to the idea of the loss before we come to the gain. If you thought through, worked through, prayed through Good Friday, you already had a chance to think about loss. The loss in Christ. And that loss is something that the text picks up here But in a different way. So I want you to think about what often happens when you lose something. Think about the last thing you lost. You went and you looked for a place where it might have been or you might find it, right? You go to maybe the last place where you left it. Or where you used it. Or you hope that somebody put it someplace, that they found it and put it in a lost and found place. And so we look for found places. And we may say, I found it. I found whatever it was. I found my keys. Uh most of you know we've moved to a new uh location and we are now your near neighbors. And uh was uh this week we listened to one of our um fellow residents say, I lost my keys. Well, to gain entry into this kingdom that we're now living in, you better not forget your keys. Because you don't get in without keys. I lost my keys. Well where do I go to find my keys? I have no idea where. Maybe I'll go to my post box. Maybe I left them there. Well and so she was speaking about all the places she was gonna go to find her keys. Uh I know none none of you have ever lost your keys Or your glasses. Or the other things that are favorite things to lose, and we go looking for them. The lost and found. But in God's world, the lost is not accidental. The lost is intentional. So God's kingdom is turned upside down. And that's what this text helps us understand. That in God's world We are looking for a found place, but actually, the place finds us. We find ourselves in a place. That is called found. It's all upside down. In God's world, loss is a choice. It's a putting away. It's a leaving behind. It's the intentionality. It's not the accident of saying, I forgot where I put that Or somebody took it away from me and it was not right, I experienced a loss. It's not even the kind of loss where we sometimes think, well, somebody didn't give me the respect that I ought to have. I had that respect taken away from me. I had a right taken away from no. In God's world, it's different. In God's kingdom. It's different. And here in the text of Philippians chapter 3, we find how different that is. I want you to look at some of those verses. Is it up there? It's not up there. That's all right. Open up your Bibles. Or look in it in your bulletin because it's there. It's printed for you there. And I'm going to take you through some of those verses. Just so that you can see them. Look at verse 8. Paul says, Whatever gain I had, I counted that as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ. Now he's preceded this by saying, I was in A Jew of Jew, a Hebrew of Hebrews. Here's my pedigree. Here's what I've learned. Here's the schools I've gone to. Here's what I've done. I'm zealous. I'm this. I'm that. He giv You all the good things, and then he says Poof. I like that plant. Gone. Done. Dead. It's useless. It's only good to be thrown away. Counted as rubbish. That's what he He says. Why? Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. That's me. That's you. That's all the good stuff we've done. All of our value before God is dead Shriveled up, ugly, even kids don't want it. Dead. Throw it away. That's what Paul said. But I'm found, verse 9 says, I am found in Christ. I am found there. It doesn't say I found it. It says I am found. It's the passive sense I am found. I'm in the place of finding. Paul says, I am found in him. I was lost. But now I am found. I am in the finding place. I am where I need to be I am found. God has revealed to me that I am actually found. I'm not lost. It's not by right, it's not my right, it says, but that which comes through faith. I'm found in him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, so it's not that I'm right. It's not that I'm righteous. It's not that I'm preserving what belongs to me. We are watching a a political battle of this This is a year of elections, so everybody wants to say what's right and what's right for them, what's right for somebody else, what's wrong for them, what's wrong for somebody else. We've got this great Sometimes it feels like a circus going on. Fighting about rights and who's taking my rights away? Paul says Fui. It's not about rights. It's not about righteousness. It's not mine. There's nothing I can do to make my death come to life. I can't stick things in to the ground of my life and make it come alive. You can see these two plants. This is living. It's growing from the inside. That one's dead, dead, dead. You pour water on it, you can put it in the sunshine, it's gone, it's too late. Right, righteousness. It's not my righteousness. It has to be the righteousness of Christ. It has to be what God does inside of me. Even as God makes a plant grow. So God has to make me grow. He has to make me alive in Christ. Verse 9 says, it's not my work. It doesn't come through through the works of the law, through the things that I've done, but it depends on faith. It's not what I do. So if I'm going to gain Christ, it's not what I do, it's not my righteousness, verse 10 says, it's not my wisdom It's not because I'm smarter than you, or you're smarter than me, or we're together smarter than somebody else. It's not because we we're simply Such good choosers that we chose God. We chose Christ Well we do, but that's not why we're in the place of found us. It's because God's done something deep within us that even gave us a desire to do choose him. So Paul says that I may know him. That's why he puts all these things apart. Verse ten, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, that I may know him. It's not a head awareness. It's not just an ascent to the truth. Something deeper. It's to embrace him. It's to experience him. It's to know the power of his resurrection this week We learned the power of a cargo ship. Now, we sort of knew that, right? But I don't think there was any one of us that didn't watch that video at least once or twice, that watched that cargo ship slowly. Bump into the bridge. And in seconds, the whole bridge was in the water. We watched the power of one vessel. All right, it had 5,000 or so containers on it. It was big. But not nearly as big as the realities of our world. Not nearly as big as the pain of our world, not nearly as big as the love of God in our world. And so if we're going to experience the power of the resurrection, Friends, we have to get beyond even just a huge ship in the middle of the bay bumping Into a huge bridge. We have to experience the resurrection. We know the power of love by experiencing it, not not by trying to define it. Not by trying to just talk about it, but by being a part of it. That's how we experience the power of love. By being received, by being embraced. By recognizing that we have been forgiven. That's how we experience God's love. The question is, how do we experience the power of the resurrection? That's what Paul says. He says, I count all of these things as loss. I walk away from them. I leave them that I might receive, that I might embrace, that I might know the power. of the resurrection. So that's the question of Easter. How do we, like Paul, experience or know the power of the resurrection? Paul answers that. Verse ten. But it's not the answer that makes sense to us. He says that I may know him in the power of his resurrection and may share his sufferings. So he comes to experience the power of the resurrection by sharing in suffering. That sounds a little backwards to me. Maybe it does to you as well. I'm going to experience the power of life By entering into death. What does it mean? What does it mean that we share in the suffering Well, surely it's not our death on the cross. Let's start there, right? It's not that God is calling us, and not that the Apostle Paul is here calling us to somehow suffer like Christ suffered. Actually we find this in other parts of the world where for Good Friday uh you will find in some parts of the world so uh people carrying a cross. The Philippines, there's a reenactment, and there's always somebody who is nailed to the cross physically. To experience the sufferings, it doesn't do anything except hurt a lot That's not what Paul's saying. So and it's not to compare our sufferings to Christ. It's not about, oh, you know, I've had this headache. So I've experienced some of the sufferings of Christ. I've had this body ache. I've experienced cancer. I've experienced this. I've exper we'll of all experience these things. They are sufferings. We can even talk about the sufferings of being rejected, of feeling lonely. We can all talk about the suffering experiences, but none of those experiences. Begin to compare to the suffering of Christ. And that's not what Paul's talking about. He's not saying, take all of your suffering and list it. Write it down so that you can understand how much you have suffered. How much people have caused you to suffer. That's often what we do. We keep this little list. And and it's a list of people who have caused us to suffer. We think, well, this person's done this to me, and that person's done that to me, and I really no. Forget that. It's not about that kind of suffering. So what does it mean? It means that we receive the outcome of Christ's suffering. Not that we enter into that suffering, except that we receive the outcome of the suffering. We receive from him what he has suffered for. It's the benefit of Christ's suffering on the cross. In other words, we often leave the benefits of Christ's suffering in the grave. You say, well, wait a minute, that doesn't yet make sense. Alright, I want you to go with me on that Easter morning. There were women who went there, right? And when some of those women came, they were shocked and surprised. A stone was already rolled away. And they hurried back to the other disciples and said, He's risen. What? No. No, we don't believe so. Well, two of them ran down to well, hmm. Body's not here. That's true Disbelief. One of the women sticks around and and she weeps And Jesus appears to her, and she thinks he's the gardener, and she says, Where have you put him? And it it's almost like she's having this amnesic event. I had one of those in the last six months. I know what it's like. No idea how I got to Florida. No idea what was happening around me. And here's Mary. Apparently no idea of what was really going on. And Jesus sort of awakens her out of that amnesia event. Says, Mary. And her response, my Lord, my God, she still had him in the grave. She had not yet experienced the power of the resurrection. And the two men walking on the road towards Emmaus, feeling painful about everything that had happened. And Jesus joins them and they ask this question: Have you no idea what's happened in Jerusalem? No. Tell me about it. And so they go on and tell him about it. And he acts as if he was go as if he would go on. And he said, No, no, stay and eat with us. So when he breaks the bread. They finally realize it was Jesus. And immediately they get up and they run and they go back to the disciples. We too have seen it. You see, until the moment They had left the power of the resurrection in the grave. And that's often what we do. We compare our suffering to Jesus. We think of our suffering. We have not thought of his resurrection. So, what Paul means in the sharing of his sufferings is that we share the benefits, we share the results, we share the power of what he has done. I I I can only give you a really simple illustration, and it doesn't begin to really do it. But at some point, all of us, I think Have been offered a choice piece of candy or something like that from a child who loves it. Have you ever had that experience? Your own child maybe? They probably don't give you a very big piece. Or maybe it's a lick off their ice cream cone. They've sacrificed and they get something less so that you get something more. Do you get that? That's the formula. They get less, you get more. You have entered in to their sacrifice. That's a that's almost a dumb illustration But the best I can do. Because that's what Paul is saying: that we are to enter into the sacrifice of Christ. We receive The benefits of his sacrifice. It's not that we're going to tally up what he does or we're going to compare what he did to what we have experienced. No, we receive the benefits. Of his death, of his sacrifice. Christ's suffering and sacrifice gave me everything so that I might have hope, so that I might have reality again So that I might have life again instead of death. But how am I going to really take the sufferings Out of the grave, as it were. Paul goes on in verse 11. Look at verse 11. That by any means possible I may attain The resurrection from the dead, that I might gain Christ, that I may share his sufferings, that I may attain the resurrection I'll take you back to the two funerals I've been at. Both of them were believers. Did they expect, twenty minutes after they were put in the ground, that they were gonna come to life again Once they were shut in that coffin that somehow the coffin was going to pop open, I can guarantee you there'd be a lot of frightened people If that were to happen. No, I didn't expect that. I didn't expect that. So what does Paul mean? That I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Yes, he's looking at eternity. Yes, he's looking at the time when Christ comes again. But his focus is not just into eternity, it is also in the moment. It is recognizing that he needs the present power of the resurrection in his life. So it's not a it's not a a piece of it, it's not symbolic, but it it's complete, it's utterly a part of that resurrection from the dead. So in this life. You or I or Paul are not going to die and come back. Well what he means Is that the power over death, the power over sin, the power over everything that holds me, everything that has caused my death That's broken. You know, I could have kept that plant alive. I could have But when it got cold last fall, we stopped watering it. It was on the deck Didn't get any water and it got freezing weather. It didn't take very long to kill it. And then it just got bright Browner and browner and browner. And I can't bring it back to life. So there were forces that brought death. And what Paul is saying is that the forces that bring death by the resurrection of the dead, God has broken, God has chained, He has changed those forces. So that we are able to be renewed. And life comes again. I can put away the power of betrayal, the power of temptation, the power of my focus on evil. I'm not just gonna put sprigs into the soil, into the ground. No. No. There's something new that needs to be inside of me. And needs to be inside So here it is. When you choose to put away all the things that you think are important, When you choose to lose them. For Christ's sake, put them behind you And pick up, embrace the realities of the resurrection. Recognize that those things that bind you, those things that are death to you No longer need to be death. The embarrassments, the shame, the failures, the naysaying. It doesn't have to be a part of your life. In Christ, we have hope. That's actually why we come to the table And that's what Paul says. He says, press forward, press in, hold on. Come, come and experience the power of the resurrection.