Well it is Christmas two thousand twenty three right here in Relay. Christmas in lands where the fir trees and pine Christmas in lands where there's palm trees and vines. Christmas where there's snow peaks that stand tall and white. Christmas in cornfields where it's a little more sunny and bright. Christmas where children are hopeful and at play. It's Christmas Where old men are getting older and gray. This Christmas where peace is like a dove in its flight And it's Christmas hovering over soldiers in the thick of the fight. Everywhere. Everywhere It's Christmas tonight. Phyllis Brooks, Phyllis Brooks got it right. Christmas hovers over all of us. Without discrimination. Whether you have a broken body or a broken heart, it's high And it creates opportunities for new stories about Christmas Like this year, uh my wife and I have a tradition that got broken. We have about two or three huge bins of ornaments that have personal attachments and individual stories behind them meaningful relationships that go back for years and we love to look at many of these and tell the stories and sometimes we run out of time But uh but this year uh our two nine year old granddaughters came up and says, Can we decorate the tree? And we said, Sure, go ahead. Usually we gave them two bins of decorations, usually takes us about two hours. And about fifteen or twenty minutes later we heard them say, We're done And they were done except for that last two feet at the top that they couldn't reach. But the most interesting story about Christmas is the actual first. Christmas, not the ones that we ourselves create. And I'd like for us to ponder a little bit, to treasure and ponder Some of the characters and activity in and around the story of the first Christmas. You know, it's interesting that the shepherds, when they heard the first story of Christmas The angel lit up the sky and a myriad of angels appeared and told them what has just happened in Bethlehem. Baby being born, wrapped in swaddling clothes, placed in a manger, they rushed off and they told Mary what they their experience was. Guess what Mary did? was told that Mary treasured up all that they had said and all that they had she had told them or they had told her and she treasured these things and she pondered them in her heart So let's do a little treasuring and pondering because it's a big story and we'll just look at a few of the characters and a few of the details. The birthplace. Where was the birthplace? Well, Bethlehem. A little town with a big name Little town because it probably had maybe two or three thousand people, many of the scholars feel. But a big name because the name means house of bread And in that town of Bethlehem, God had created a house of bread where he would feed the world For all who believe. And as Mary's child grew up, did he not say, I am the bread of heaven? They came down. And whoever Eat from me, I have eternal life. Whoever comes to me, and I will never turn them away, and they will never be hungry Food for thought. Food to treasure and food to meditate more upon. And then there's the birth facility Well, it was no hospital. It was no birthing center, it wasn't a hotel room, it wasn't even a guest room No room. It was all filled up, probably be because the census was in town. People were registering where they were born and they had to give registration. Joseph's town. And of course, town of David And with no guest rooms, everything being filled up, it's food to think about that God's coming into the world And there's no room for him among people, just among the animals. Just in the animal shelter. Pages are sticking together. You think about that birthing facility, or that place. Uh there's no the baby's bed, there's no sealy postropedic. Right? There's no crib. There's no bed at all It's just a feeding trough, a manger. Really, and had you touched it, you could have gotten a splinter Imagine God coming into the world, they put him in a splintery crib because it's the best the world could give him I hope we can do a little better. God enters the world and placed him in a crib, and Mary's child comes to a simple, humble place. And perhaps there's much lessons, many lessons for us to learn there about the kind of God we have. How humble and lowly he can be to come down as far as he can come to meet our needs. And how much we're called to emulate him, for unless we become like little children We cannot inherit the kingdom of God. That's the attitude that we're called to have as meek souls where meek souls will receive Him still Well dear Christ will enter in. And it will enter into your life afresh tonight. And then there's uh the nature of the Christ child, not just The manger, the bed, Bethlehem, but the nature of the Christ child. That can create an encyclopedia for discussion. The Christmas child is so unique and so special. The Older Testament prophesied his birth, and there was a long awaited Messiah, and many people, like Simeon, waiting for this child to come into the world. But who is he? What's his nature? Is it like ours? Or is it different? If he's special, we would hope there's going to be something different. And if it is different, how is it different? How is this child different from you and me? We begin to study more and more. We find that he's different in one way, he's without sin. Yeah. And every other way he's exactly like you. In fact, the Bible's not embarrassed to call him your brother. Trusting in him. He's your brother. He's in your family, and you're part of his. And yet he's so much different. Because The early theologians told us, and the Bible tells us. You know, when they got together to think about Jesus and they had these counsels because they're trying to figure out exactly what do we know from the revelation. It makes him the same and makes him different. So they have councils like Nicaea or Constantinople to help us think through not only biblical tradition but biblical revelation And so at one council in Nicaea, they said, well, here's a theological term that might do it. It's the hypostatic union. Hypostatic union. Or the mystical union. Basically, what they're trying to communicate there is that the Christmas child has two natures. And these two natures are united in one person. The Christmas child is fully God and always has been, and now he's added to himself a second nature. He's fully human, just like you and me apart from our sin. And they are brought together in one divine person. The Christmas child. And of course he did that for a reason. The purpose of bringing together God and man in one person is so that you yourself can be united to God. That you yourself on earth can be united with heaven. Not that you become God, but that you have a divine nature like Him, and that you yourself will be perfect. Or to sin or to fall again, never to feel pain, and to enjoy all the benefits that are absolutely thumbs up And nothing comes down ever again. And then there's uh the virgin birth. You think about God coming into the world, we talked about the nature of Christ, two natures Fully God, fully man, united in one divine person, Mary's son. Then the the Virgin Mary. Now that in itself is like An anomaly. A Virgin Mary giving birth. So you're scratching our heads. A lot of people have problems with it Because it doesn't fit the way we have babies, right? It just doesn't fit the norm. And yet that's what the revelation shows us. And the scholars, as they begin to talk about that, they're like the drinch. You know, the Grinch, he was something. He puzzled, and he puzzled, and he puzzled until his puzzler was sore You know he puzzled some more, I don't I don't quite have it right in terms of memory, but his puzzle was sore because he kept puzzling, puzzling more And um I think he got it right in the end. A black Christmas. And I hope we get it right in the end. But how is it that a young Mary who's probably a teenager Young teenager. And how is it that she can give birth to a human being without having a relationship with Joseph or anybody else? That's like Okay, that's gonna take a miracle. Yeah. We got that one right, right? Or how can Mary give birth To God. How can Mary meet be the mother of God? Oh well, that's probably already rubbing some of us wrong when you hear that kind of language Ooh, does that get down real good? But isn't he God? And didn't he come to earth as a human being? Can we call Mary the mother of God? Well, they had a counsel about that You know, and they came up with some language and adopted mostly in the east, but orthodox position, the means mother of father And that's the orthodox position. In the East and Catholicism and uh Episcopalians, etc. I feel real comfortable with that language. We at the West and Protestants a little bit maybe not as comfortable, but we have to say, What do you mean by that? Is he is she really the mother of God? Well Well not if you mean she gave birth to God in the ultimate sense. So you see there's much to ponder about. On the other hand, she did give birth to the Son of God more comfortable talk about it around the Christmas table and afterwards because the Takos the Council Nica says Mary indeed in some way, shape, and form, in reality is the mother of God, the son of God in particular And if you're really confused on it, you'll find somewhere in Luke. Now the birth of Jesus was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be pregnant. By the Holy Spirit. That makes it simple. Now we don't have to think about it anymore. I hope not. And then there's the backstory, the backstory of Herod the Great, the king of Judea, the Tetrarch, who ruled one-fourth of the kingdom at that time time in that area. And what's he doing? He hears about the from the Magi uh that a king is being born And he's threatened, right? He's going it now he's gonna kill the baby. Can you imagine that? He's gonna try to put to death the babies being born, and that's why who knows how many kids were killed uh in and around Bethlehem as Herod's the villain in the story, the real villain. And I tell you, if you're a villain and you're fighting against God, you're wasting your time. You're wasting your time your time because you're going to lose every time we fight against God, the God of the Bible. And so he fights and fights, but there's some other people in the story, the Magi We keep switching. What are we going to call magi? Kings? Or wise men? Well we kind of eh we'll fix it around and I think the NIV, I believe it was, did it very simply. We'll just bring the word right over. Magi. Let the people figure it out what they are. You know, we won't have to say they're wise men or kings. They were wise and they brought kind of gifts that a king would have And our tradition holds them up as some type of kings. But as these uh men they come to Jesus, they're following this Star that's mysterious. We're still figuring out that what that is, right? A lot of people just try to explain it down, take out all the miracles But one thing it did, it was created a miracle in that they brought Jesus and these magi together. And they came and they sought him out instead of Herod trying to kill him, like the him them trying to kill him, they were coming for what reason? They're coming to seek him, find him, give him gifts, and worship him That's what they were going to do. And by the way, we think about the gifts that they brought. Usually we s we talk about the gold being, you know, sign of the king or the myrrh being something you use for a burial or so forth the frankincense of priests offering up prayers. But think about what's going to happen here. As this King Herod is going to try to kill the babe this baby They're going to be out of town. They're going to be exiled for about maybe eight or ten years. They're going to need some cash. I tell you, gold's going to go a long way for some startup money to settle into a foreign land So they take the ca cash and he's and myrrh's not cheap and Frank says my wife just we she and I brought some back from we were over in Israel and over in Jordan not too long ago earlier this year before the trouble But these are valuable gifts and these would help. And to preserve and protect Mary's child because you know what? He needed to be protected because he had a job to do. And God is always going to protect Christ. And if you're in him, you're going to be protected. Because that's what it's all about. God preserving the salvation that we need in this world. And so why do we need the Christmas story as we move in more closer here toward the end? But why do we need the Christmas story? Well, we're a people living in darkness. And we're a people living in the shadow of death. And so we've seen a great light. Light has shined in the darkness, meaning We live in the shadow of death and we're dying and we gotta find a way out. And we're we have some big problems here. You know, we have uh stuff we can't get out of and stuff we can't can't fix and we have we lost three good friends. Well the third one's on our last leg just within the last week. You know. One was a member of this church, it's Sandy's uh Cynthia Sanderson, you remember her? She's like has hours probably to live. And uh stopped eating on hospice. And one of Kay's students, uh, just about thirty years old, suddenly just we lost her. And that's why we need the Christmas story Because we're dying. And it's great that the angel said, Behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which shall be for all the people. People who are dying. People who think they're not dying, but are anyway. And people who are single, married, separated, divorced. It's good news for all the people. People with Who are broken in heart or broken in body. He's come for us. And Christmas is hovering over all of us. It's hovering over all of us without discrimination tonight And without prejudice. To those living in the shadow of death, a light has appeared. Behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which shall be for all the people. And as I bring this to a real close Uh this Christmas I hope you feel the same way that I'm feeling when I wrote these few words here. Uh because no matter what I feel because of Christmas, I'm good to go I am good to go. No matter what's coming next, the next chapter, I'm good to go. And so I put it this way I hope you agree. Life seldom goes the way you want. Who can predict what's next? We make our plans, we roll up our sleeves, but life is so complex. So when I'm stuck and out of luck and feeling low, low No. I tell my soul he's coming soon. And so I'm good to go. Some days it requires a fist of steel, some days a heart of gold. Some days it takes a steady grit to stay the troubled road. So when I'm stuck and I'm out of luck and feeling low I tell my soul he's coming soon. And so I'm good to go. Wish we could stop this stream of hurt When pain flows off the chart, wish we could blunt that jagged blade that scrapes the human heart. Each morning rise and each setting sun brings us one day nearer. It's almost time. The worst will pass. The best is almost here. So when I'm stuck and out of luck and feeling low, low, low, I just tell myself he's coming Soon. And then I'm good to go. Therefore, take joy. Take joy tonight. Remember, the Lord has come and the Lord will come again. And may I speak as God's representative? Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Father, we thank you for sending Christ into the world. Much for us to ponder, and much for us to treasure as we remember. How kind you've been to us. For coming. Amen.