Come to the water and who um and he who has no money come buy and eat, come buy wine and meal without money and without price Why do you spend the money for what uh wick is not bread and the labor for that wheat does not satisfy? Listen uh the listenly to me and eat what is good and delight those in rick food incline thy ear and come to me uh hear that thors may live and I will make you uh with an everlasting covenant. My steadfast through love for Davis, behold, I made him a witness to the people and a leader and commander for the people. Behold, you son called a nation that do not know you. and a nation that did not know you, son, run to you because of the Lord, the God, and of the Holy One of Israel For he has glorified you. Seek the Lord while he may be foul, and call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to Lord. that he may have a compassion on him and to our God he will abandon pardon For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are thou ways my way. Declare the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth So are my way higher than thou way, and my thoughts than thou thought. For as the rain and the snow come down from the heaven and do not return there, but the water, the earth, making it bring forth and spow, giving seed to the sower and bread to the woo eater. So that son my world would be that go out from my mouth, that Isan not return to me empty, but Isa not accomplish that which I propose And son succeed in the thing for which I send it. For you son go out enjoy and be led forth in peace. the mountain and the hint before you son break forth into singing and on the tea of the film Sand clap their hand. Instead of the tongue, San come up the side breath. Instead of the beer prayer, San come up the middle And it son make the name for the Lord an everlasting sign that son not be cut off. Isaiah 55. Amen. Thank you. be seated. Awesome. Okay, before I start, I got here and I was like, Maria's talking and I didn't order her book, so there's going to be some books up here next week. I know, but I normally think to do that, but I didn't. So Maria's book will be up here next week. We are talking about being in the presence of greatness. in Isaiah. And today it's the food edition. We've been talking about places and people mostly. But um I never did much cooking and then at some point I started grilling. So I went through a grill phase. I don't really think grilling is cooking. I know. Um I did try to count it as cooking for a long time. And then I did I had an Instapot phase. Now that is certainly not cooking. No no nothing cooking about it. And so somewhere right around before COVID we started getting those food boxes, you know, HelloFresh and all those things. And I was really enjoying, especially during COVID, whenever I did whatever all day long, I don't know, nothing And I would come home and I would be able to cook this recipe and I didn't have to go shopping or anything. And I always picked the ones that took the longest, the most complicated ones, because I was bored. And needed something to do. But it was it was very satisfying to follow the instructions and then put something out in front of other people that you instantaneously could tell whether they liked it or not. And so I've just enjoyed continuing doing that. Uh I'm I subscribe to like the New York Times cooking app and um I just really love cooking. And you know those um the the the Advertisements about becoming your parents. You know, and I think they're hilarious. But I'm becoming my dad. Right? I would go home and and he would be watching Iron Chef and all these cooking shows and I'd I would sit there with him. Just because I wanted to be with them. And I did not like watching those shows. And now I probably watch cooking shows More than most other things. Which is weird. So anyway, I don't know where your favorite food is. We asked the kids. We got some good ones. And so maybe think of yours. And I was I was thinking about my buddy in OKC, his name's Steve, and he has this beautiful restaurant and he just goes and he just s tells the chef, uh make me whatever you want. Now this is a very nice place, so it's not gonna turn out bad. In fact, he um one time invited me to his cigar smoking group in this restaurant, and so I bought a twenty dollar cigar, which I think is twenty Pretty good. And I showed up and they were appalled. Appalled. So it's like, no, here, open up the box, you know. And then we're smoking and I said, What do you do? And this guy I'm sitting next to you says, I erase Porsches. What? That's a conversation ender. I don't know nothing to say. I don't want to tell you what I do. I just like So anyway, he he eats amazing food. And so we are talking about amazing food. Isaiah 55, come to the feast. Our whole service today is about feasting. We've been talking about that God is going to send a servant to deliver us, to save us, to give us salvation. And last week we talked about Isaiah 53. The suffering servant, the one who comes and gives us his salvation, delivers us from exile, enters our suffering. Our brokenness, our wrath takes it on himself so that we can be forgiven, to be brought whole, to be reconciled with God. And then that salvation goes out into the world. So I have two points for you this morning. Invitation to the feast and extending the invitation to others. Invitation to the feast. We have a God who pursues his people, right? We have a welcoming God, a God who is the great inviter. So when have you been invited to something awesome? You think of that time when you got invited And God is inviting us to this feast, this banquet, this party. Isaiah 55. 1. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And he who has no money, come and buy and eat, come by wine and milk without money, without price. Y'all come to the feast. I was invited to a birthday party just last week and I went and this guy has a super cool apartment up on the top floor and it used to be a whole furniture store. So he has the whole place. And it was all these musicians that I've gotten to know over the last year and a half. And so it was like Jamfest. So great to be there. Come to the party. And God is calling us to come to the kingdom, the party in the kingdom, for rest of restoration and healing. He's inviting us to that salvation place because a feast is a picture of the new heavens of the new earth. It's often described as a banquet, as a feast. And this is a feast of grace, isn't it? He's inviting us to the waters, life-giving waters. You know when you you've exercised or you've you've gone for a run or you've mowed the yard and he and that water tastes so good. Life-giving water. But then he also gives us milk, and we're not talking almond milk or lactade. This has all the lactose in it that you want. Uh the the bread is gluten, all the gluten. Okay? The wine is not fake wine, it's real wine. And this is a picture of nourishing, joy, restoration, life. Verse 3 Incline your ear and come to me, hear that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. This is the real feast because the real feast is this everlasting covenant with God Himself. It's the relationship with God that the feast is picturing. Connected to Him, life for our souls. And who's invited? Everyone who thirsts. Now remember, this is going out to a people that are about to go into exile, right? But God says, I will deliver you. I will be your God. I will save you. And there's an alternative feast. The Babylonian feast is right in front of them. And that's known for being pretty cool. It's a seductive feast apart from God. A prosperous feast apart from God. And here we are. We are not in exile in any sense, but think of it metaphorically. Where are you feasting apart from God? Where are you apart from Him? Do you have a Babylonian home somewhere that's comfy and delicious? There's an Ishtar, a fertility goddess. There's Nebuchadnezzar's hanging gardens. Life without God, like what was offered Adam and Eve in the garden. You can have all this without God. But God urges us not to do that, doesn't he? Even in this, in 55, 2, why do you spend money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which does not satisfy Why do we do that over and over and over again, right? Where do we look for life apart from God? Where do we search for, experiment, labor for things that satisfy us? What do we spend money on to satisfy us? And what happens when it doesn't satisfy us? Do we turn back to God or do we switch it out? Do we trade up? Do we get new? Do we double down? Do we say, you know what? I need a new computer. That's going to satisfy me I need a new car, that's going to satisfy me. I need a new phone. Of course I need a new phone. I'm always being told I need a new phone. So I believe it. Maybe you want a new spouse upgrade. Garrick and I went sailing last week. We got a little stuck. It's okay. We were safe. And I was showing him the other boats that I Want. I'll admit, I lust after these boats. And uh and Julie and I last Sunday went to the Annapolis Boat Show. Which is a terrible idea for someone who lusts after boats. But they're so far out of the ballpark it's just impossible. So as a joke we went we were going in and said, okay, let's make a promise to each other. We're not buying a boat today But I was on a boat that was three million dollars. Three million. The boat cost two million dollars and they had a million dollars of upgrades. Unfathomable. Will that satisfy me? I mean we have heard I can't get no satisfaction. But I try and I try and I try. Don't I? Now, Gus loves hot dogs. Gus is also small. You know there is a major league eating. Major major league of eating, right? There's a international federation of competitive eating Which is wacky dude. And so we talked about this in the Fourth of July, the Nathan's hot dog eating time. And this started in the 70s. And I I went back and looked at the records. So in the 70s, okay, they have 10 minutes, eat as many hot dogs as they can. And so in the 70s, the records, they're winning with eight. Eight and a half. Nine. So they're just feeding a hot dog. Like they haven't learned the tricks yet. 80s, you get up to 15. 90s 21, 22, 23, 24. 2000s, there's a Japanese guy, Kabayashi. He gets in the 50s because you know they start dunking the hot dogs, the buns in the water They eat the bun separate and then they just basically stick the hot dog, strike down the gullet, hardly chewing it at all. I mean this And then this guy shows up. Joey Chestnut. Have you heard of Joey Chestnut. We all know this man is famous for eating hot dogs. That's a thing to be famous for in the world these days. And he's getting up to Sixty-six six-time winner, and his record is seventy-eight hot dogs It blows the mind. Do you think he goes to bed after that thinking, I just ate a great meal? I think he's going to bed thinking like I gotta practice. Like I gotta eat seventy hot dogs a lot of times to be able to eat seventy-eight and the time that matters, right? Okay, are we gorging on hot dogs for life instead of coming to the feast that the king has prepared for us? We think that anything but God will work. Anything will give us life and joy. And we labor for that which does not satisfy. But God enters in, doesn't he? And he calls us to himself. But remember, remember Jesus called people to the feast one time and they had excuses, didn't they? And they they seem sort of valid. Sobering to watch people not Come, to refuse the invitation. But God says, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. God is calling us to this goodness, pursuing us, inviting us to the good stuff. God says, I am here to deliver you. Walk in my ways, not your ways. Think my thoughts, not your thoughts. Even in Babylon, even when you're in Babylon, I will deliver you. I will put you on a new path, an abundant life. This is good news for us today, isn't it? We have a Savior who loves us. We have a Savior who came to us, came all the way down to Bethlehem, a no place town, lived this perfect life, did all these things. For us, died on the cross, raised from the dead. And what do we need to come to Him? Come, ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Do we need to come with our hands full of money? We ain't got enough, do we? Come who thirsts, he who has no money, come buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money and without price. You can't come with your stuff or your goodness. We come with our need and heal He is able and ready and stands to save us. Isn't that good news for us today? That God demonstrates his love for us in this while we were still Feasting and gorging on hot dogs instead of him. He came for us. He died for us. And he said it is finished, it is promised, bought, paid for, forwarded for you Um I think I've mentioned this. My dad's favorite meal of the year Wasn't Thanksgiving. It was the night after Thanksgiving. And he would book a Japanese steakhouse, you know, where we all sit around and watch the show. And uh he never really explained why he liked it. Maybe it was the cooking shows and all this stuff. But he mostly liked this being together and I always ordered the sushi and they always said I ordered too much, which was That was never true. And then we all got to eat and watch each other eat and watch all that stuff. And he loved it. So during COVID, when we couldn't do it, I did it. I did our own Japanese steakhouse And I had a hat and I the the place was called Nakado. So we called ours Ducado. Right. And and I'm looking forward to doing it again because it is being together and feasting together. So we're invited to know and love God and to feast on Him with each other. And he extends the invitation. When we taste this, when we know this, we become what? Inviters. The invited become inviters. This is verse 3 and 4. Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast your love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. It's not just for us, right? We become, we talk about chanticleers, you know, crowing roosters, talking about this message, sort of bothering people sometimes. Because we can't shut up about it. We become witnesses, reporters, because we've experienced it. We get propelled out into the world in mission. Like we talked about Isaiah 6. Here am I, send me. So Isaiah sees his sin. He sees God. He says, woe is me. He receives forgiveness and healing. And then he says, send me out. So we become a welcoming, inviting people. We want to have a welcoming, inviting culture, a hospitable culture. Thinking about people that should be with us, that we want to be with us. that aren't here. Like Jesus does. We're inviting people even into our lives, into our homes, not even just our church, but into all these ways. But we get busy, don't we? And scared and tired. And we forget that it's good news sometimes. We we sort of become misers. We want to have it and not dull it out. When I moved up to from Norman to Oklahoma City, we moved in this neighborhood called Gatewood. And Gatewood was supposed to be haunted. It was known to be haunted. W whatever. So we moved in October and when we got there our neighbors said you need to buy two thousand pieces of candy And give each kid one piece. What? There's gonna be 2,000 kids at my house? And they were right. Because it was haunted. They would take buses. Buses would come and they would just trick-or-treat. It was insane But it was I was thinking when we were kids, a lot of us, they didn't have bite-sized candies, right? This is a terrible invention, bite-sized candies Fun size candies is the even worse name for it. What's a fun size is the big mega one. That's fun size, right? And so like my dream would be to like hand out kids mega Snickers balls, mega you know, the double ones. I just don't have enough money. I wish I did. But but that's a picture of like, well, okay, you get one little piece of God's goodness. Here you go. Instead of the good stuff. The big feast of God. Because he's giving out hope and shalom to the world. Look at verse 12. For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace, the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth and singing, and all the trees in the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off This is all the good coming out into the world. The shalom. We wanted all this stuff apart from God, but He's giving us Himself. We feasted on rebellion and ate from the tree of good and evil. We created these thorns and thistles, and we live among them. But God says, I will make things right. And I sent my son Jesus to save you. And there will be peace in all things made new. No no tears at the wedding supper of the Lamb. The wedding supper of the Lamb. We have a place at the table. Who does Jesus eat with, though? You know, uh a lots of times in the Bible when Jesus eats with people, there's some grumbling involved. Because who does he eat with? Sinners He eats with sinners over and over and over again. Even in Zacchaeus at the very end. He's like, dude, Zacchaeus, you're going to go eat with him? He's a known sinner. Well, he doesn't eat with anybody else because there's no other type of people, is there? What do we need to know that we sin? But what else do we need to know? We have a Savior who loves us, saves us, and there's plenty of room at the table. There's a song that Kenny Chesney sings. And it's about this guy who has his first fight with his wife. So they're newly woods, right? And he takes off in a car and he goes to a bar and the bartender says, What do you have? And the guy says, the good stuff. And the bartender, he doesn't reach around for whiskey, he doesn't pour a beer, his eyes get kind of misty, and he said, you can't find that either The good stuff is the first long kiss on a second date. I'm thinking about Julie dropping a ring in the spaghetti plate. The way she looks with rice in her hair. Eating burnt suppers the whole first year and asking for seconds. That's the good stuff. It's being a grandpa. And being with her when the Lord called her home. So he says, when you get home, she'll say, she'll start to cry. And when she says she's sorry, say, so am I. And look into those eyes. So deep in love. And drink it up. Because that's the good stuff. It's relationships, right? Not the stuff. Relationships. So on a Thursday I'm gonna go sailing. That's why I'm not gonna be here. I weirdly living in Oklahoma got into sailing. Doesn't make a ton of sense. Now this is going to be my ninth and tenth weeks of sailing sailing. So I am a very privileged person. Uh we were at the boat show and I said Julie, the the number of wealthy people in this square mile is off the charts right now. And so I'm gonna go down and it's it's just amazing, amazing amazing. I'm taking my high school friends um on the first week and my two of my son my two sons are both going And I've been enough times, I know every place, and I love it, I love it, I love it. But the best part about it now for me is taking other people. When I get to show them and be with them, when they get to see these things, I can't even explain them to them. You you can't look on the internet and understand this, right? And they say, oh, don't don't cook. It's like, I I want to cook for you because I want you to be here and to love this place. That's my favorite part. That's inviting people to Jesus, isn't it? Inviting them to know what we know To taste this. Come if you're thirsty, come to the waters. Come by wine and milk without money and without price. And then take a few moments in silence, asking the Lord what he would want for us to know and learn today.