Good morning. It's another wonderful day, a privilege as we Come before the Lord and consider his word this morning and we're reading from Deuteronomy chapter 21, just the first section, verses 1 through 9. And as Israel traditional would ask if you're able to please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word this morning. Deuteronomy chapter 21, verse 1 to 9 If in the land that the Lord your God has given you to possess, someone is found slain, lying in the open country, and it is not known who killed him. Then your elders and your judges shall come out, and they shall measure the distance to the surrounding cities. And the elders of the city that is nearest to the slain men shall take a heifer that has never been worked, and that has not pulled in a yoke. And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with running water, which is neither ploughed nor sown, and uh and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley. Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come forth, for the Lord your God has chosen them to minister to him and to bless in the name of the Lord, and by the words every dispute and every assault shall be settled And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley. And they shall testify. It shed. Accept atonement, O Lord, for your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not set the guilt of innocent blood in the midst of your people Israel, so that their blood guilt be atoned for. So you shall purge the guilt of innocent blood from your midst when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord. The word of the Lord this morning Lord, we do come to you again in prayer, and we do know that on our own we are completely incapable of obedience. Of hearing and obeying the word that you're teaching us this morning. So we call out to you and we ask for your Holy Spirit to help us hear your word, to help us understand it, to help us believe it. And to help us obey it in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. It is often said that one bad apple can spoil the bunch. How true is that? Uh as most of you may know I I love sports, especially soccer. And I've I've seen, I've watched uh teams or countries being banned or fined or points taken off of uh their competition because some brainless hooligans decided to do something terribly wrong. Now that language of hooligans may not be very familiar with us in in America because Hooliganism is really in England and and the Western Europe, you know, where soccer is played. Football and baseball, eh not so much. But in soccer, it's a dangerous thing evil-minded gangs or individuals who uh invade the peach, they that they can uh go out and and have some racially abusive things or even sometimes Physically insult or assault players and fans altogether. It is a bad thing. Now the problem is There are so many people in the in that field or in that uh soccer field that are wanting to just have a good time and enjoy a good game Yet these evil-minded people will cause not just the team and the players and the fans to shoulder responsibility for their actions. This is what I mean. So A group of gang ends up doing something terribly wrong wrong. The owners of a team get fined, hefty fines, thousands, sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars The players miss a chance to win a trophy if they are banned. The fans get robbed the joy of simply watching their team play. And for what? For something they did not do. While these criminals can be arrested and taken into to custody, the effects of their action will still be felt so much deeper. It will go deep into people's lives and families and communities and all those who have to shoulder the responsibility of what they have done. It's a hard thing. We just read a text this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 21. A perfect example of what happens where a situation is going on here, there's a murder that's been committed, someone has been killed. But the offender cannot be found. They have no idea who did it. It's a whodunit kind of a situation. And yet the community is being called to take corporate responsibility for what has happened See, this is what happens when sin is committed. When sin is committed, it's not time for us to hide in the closet. It's time to take responsibility. It's time to own up. So that's what I want us to see this morning. Two things. Corporate responsibility of sin, which leads to corporate confession of sin. Someone needs to take responsibility, as I mentioned, verse 1, for the crime that's been committed in this case, it's the nearest town that is closest to where the body has been found. And so the judges and the elders are being called to come and measure this. Let's let's take the tape out and measure the distance between where the body has been found and the nearest city is going to take responsibility or shoulder responsibility for what has happened. I I want us to make sure that we understand what is going on here. First of all, let's understand and be be clear that the community or this uh the city that is closest to where the crime has been committed They are not in any way being held responsible. I'm using my language very carefully. Shoulder and health are very different things. Secondly They are not being suspected of having done the crime. Okay? They're not being held accountable. They are not being suspected of having done the crime. And thirdly, they are not being held liable of compensating the victim uh that has been killed. Okay? So that's that's clear. So so what is the issue here? What what does shouldering responsibility mean for the community here? It means that an atoned blood has been shed. Blood has been shed that that was innocent and the whole community is going to suffer. Why? Because Something has gone wrong and it's not been taken care of. And so the responsibility has to do with making amends on behalf of the offender. See the crime stains the whole community. The crime stains the whole community. Now remember as we talked in chapter 19, we we talked about chapter 19 which where Moses was being uh called to to build these cities of refuge. Do you remember that? For those who had committed manslaughter. And we said that from chapter 19 all the way to in fact chapter 22 thereof, those chapters are talking about the issue of homicide, murder, and what that means. And and this is a continuation, if you will, of chapter nineteen where we saw the cities of refuge where someone has ki uh uh has committed uh or killed uh a neighbor And intentionally they were supposed to flee there. But there was a particular passage in chapter 19 that we saw right in the middle that talked about if someone indeed has committed murder and they're trying to escape into the city of refuge that the community is supposed to take care of that business and make sure that that person is punishing. So here we are A crime has been committed. But the person who's done it, they don't know who it is. The commandment about murder, we talked about The gravity of shedding blood. We talked about murder is an assault on God Himself. Why? Because we know that human beings are the only creatures that God made in his image. And so when innocent, when murder is committed, we are basically attacking God's And that's why God's people are here being asked to make sure that they take responsibility, to make sure that they shoulder responsibility, to make sure that they don't say, Well, I did not have anything to do with this And I think we see something interesting here that while they may not be held responsible, they're saying we're going to make it our business. to what to to make sure that that that God does not punish our community, our city, for the sake of innocent blood that has been shed. And and I think we see here just the horror of what murder it can can do to a community. But not just that, the fear that grips people, if God is to avenge, if God is to avenge for that innocent blood that has been shed, the whole community is going to suffer. But not just that. But this is polluting the whole society, the whole community. You're going to experience what sin has taken place, you will be impacted by it. Again, we saw in chapter 19 how that murder would happen, right? The description was: someone lays in wait. In the shadows, in the darkness, waiting to strike at someone. And so it's a sin that begins in one person's heart that is causing heartache for the whole community A wife is robbed of a husband and children are robbed of their father. The whole community mourns as they're affected by this particular incident. And the elders are being called to do something about it. Otherwise, the land will experience the wrath of God. What does this mean So does this mean that w whenever we think about sin and crime when when things are committed, that we ought to think of them always in a corporate kind of a sense? Well no Are we held accountable for everything that we do individually? Yes. Are criminals held solely responsible for what they do? Yes. Everyone is. Held accountable for what they do. We know that's scripture, right? Every one of us will stand before God and give an account of what you did. That's true. But I think sometimes we think about salvation only in the sense of An individual. And we forget that there's a corporate identity to it as well. Okay? We must keep in mind that there's a corporate responsibility when sin happens. For instance, just looking at this particular example, right? Think about it. This person who commits murder grew up in a family, right? They grew up in a community. And so the question we we can ask, I mean, we're only looking from outside, but the question we can ask is: what kind of brokenness happened in in his family, in his community? Was there some kind of abuse that happened there? We don't know. What kind of social and spiritual counsel did he receive in his upbringing? Right? And so when things happen, those are some of the questions that we ought to be asking ourselves as well. While they are held responsible for their actions, we have to think in a corporate sense and ask ourselves: what happened? How do they get there? How do they begin hating? How do they begin doing, you know, wanting to do all these things? And and I must admit, these are complex questions, aren't they? I mean you can follow that all the way and still come out with nothing, with no answer as to what was the cause. It's almost an impossible task. But this is what I'm getting at. See, it's so easy for us when we know that something has happened or gone wrong, it's so easy for us to do this, right? Especially when a something has happened, we know how to point fingers at I know I'm not guilty, but someone is. Okay When something has been committed, it is so easy for us to know and realize so-and-so did this. But we may want to ask ourselves a question, which is this. Well, people are guilty of doing things, Is there a sense in which we're also guilty of not doing that which we ought to have done? Called sins of omission. Our failure to do something. A failure to have spoken, or failure to have offered counsel, or failure to have of whatever you want to put in there. Is it possible? Yes Again, there are no easy answers to this question, are there? So how does the community deal with this particular problem here? We're told in verse 3, okay, after the elders measure and and and and and and and get to know w w which is the closest city city where this murder took place, verse 4 They're told they have to provide a means of expiation. But notice who is providing the means of cleansing, the means of dealing with this issue. Okay? It's God Himself. God Himself is providing the means for expiation where an animal, in its purest sense, in this in this in this instance, a cow uh that is pure is being sacrifice and I use that word loosely. We'll take a look at that in in one second. And the idea is because it is God Himself who is providing for the calf to to to be killed that's used that language At the heart of it is really grace, God's grace. Remember in the Old Testament, when you're offering your sacrifice to the Lord because you sin, you You went into the sacrifice. You were the one who brought the lamb and you brought it to the altar and and you placed your hands on it and and then the priests did what they had to do and they was killed and all of that and But here, it is God Himself who is providing the means. It is God's grace Meaning, people can rest assured if they do, and actually it says that at the end, when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord, when you do what God has commanded you to do, you'll be alright. It's a life. It's a substitute that had to be made for someone had been murdered. And so this cow is really a symbolic act or symbolic substitute for the murderer. Now as I mentioned this is really not a sacrifice because there are things that are missing here, right? Um first of all there's no altar So this cannot be a sacrifice. Uh second of all uh the the uh elders are being asked to wash their hands over the animal. That's not how it happened. the blood was supposed to be spilled on the on the altar. So I so this cannot be a religious sacrifice. And third, there's actually no shedding of blood. You notice that There's no shedding of blood. Because how are they killing the animal? Ring the neck. When you do that uh you know there's no blood that's gonna be shed there. So so so this it's it's a difficult it's really difficult for us to understand um uh what what the the the religious uh purpose of it um and you know different theologians have argued whether this was really a sacrifice or not you know it's really neither here or there but uh we do know Now we can actually compare this with uh scapegoat in Exodus in in Leviticus or chapter sixteen, which is the day of atonement, right? Remember what happened with the scapegoat where uh you would Lay your hands on the on the goat, and then the goat was released and sent away to a deserted place loaded with the sins of Israel. But this particular killing of an animal is achieving something. Uh and when when you talk about atonement we talk about about a covering or a wiping away. Something is going on. The alternative would be to look at it as as the killing Which is a re reenactment, so to speak, of a murder that is that is that has taken place. So in essence, God's people are saying, okay, so a murder has taken place and we don't know who did it, and J's an animal. And this is how this happened And they kill the animal in the presence of the people. And the idea of one commentator says that it's supposed to be the transferring of guilt away from the human settlement and then flushing it away in the running water, which removes all its threat from the community. And so the idea is that the the the water of the Brook Valley would Suck in the blood and clean it away, and and that the blood sucked by the earth would not be brought to light again by the ploughing and working of the soil. Again, that could be true. Again, the cow, as we saw, it's described in verse 3 as what? A cow that has never worked and that has not pulled in a yoke. But also the valley. It's a stream that is fed by a spring. And these things are undefiled by common use. There's there's an idea of something that's pure, something that's that's that's about to plant. And so that makes sense, right? That this is a symbolic, this is a religious or a sacred act that's that's happening here. And then the elders were told, and the judges washed their hands over it. Now there's a passage in Matthew chapter 27, verse 24, of a man who does Something similar. It was Pilate. Basically saying, I'm I'm innocent. You killed him, not me. Basically showing that while they accept responsibility for what has happened, they are nevertheless free from the guilt that is attached to the crime. Now, so here's a big question. So can we really be corporately responsible for sin? Can we really be held responsible for other people's sin? I'm going to use an example that's difficult in itself, very debatable, but I think it's a good example for us to consider. A few years ago, and I was able to attend this particular meeting during the 44th General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of America, which is a denomination There was a document, it's called the Norbiksha that was passed on racial reconciliation. And this is how the document was phrased And this was overwhelmingly passed, by the way, by all of our pastors, elders, and teaching elders and ruling elders. It was to recognize, to confess To condemn and to repent of corporate and historical sins, including those committed during the civil rights era and continuing racial sins of ourselves and our fathers. Now that language was okay for a whole for a lot of people, especially the recognizing and confessing, condemning. But that language of repent That's been a very difficult thing for some people. I mean the truth is why should we accept sins of people that we were not even there? I mean how many of us were there during slavery? Okay. How can we be held how can we be culpable of someone else's sin? Now, I must admit, I'm learning these things as well. I'm growing in some of these things. And so as I offer these two summaries of what they what I think this means I want you to understand that this is not an easy thing. It's a very difficult thing. And we may not agree, even looking at scripture, we may not agree on whether this is what we ought to do. But I want us to think about two things as we think about repentance. In terms of corporate responsibility. One, think about repentance as regret. And by that I mean, is it possible that we are called to look back And and and think and regret what slavery did for black people in this country. Is that real? Lamenting the past, lamenting its effects on others. By the way, effects that happened years ago but are still felt to this day in some sense. Is it possible, even in terms of talking about repentance as regret, that we are able to ask ourselves this question? And I mean every one of us be able to ask: could we really have done any better? That's a hard question. But I must ask myself that. I'm talking about myself. And that leads me to a place where I recognize that I am a sinner as well. And that as much as we regret the sins of our ancestors, we also realize that we are not that far removed from them. Secondly, we must think of repentance as public disapproval. What does that mean The truth is we are heirs to a great legacy, and I mean by we, I mean the Presbyterian Church in America, but not free from sin. See, our repentance is denouncing those who participated and sinned against our brothers and sisters. I don't know how many of you have visited churches in the South. I was in the South. Some of those churches were there during slavery. They're still standing. Those churches stand as an example for the black community that lives out there that reminds them There was a time that my great-grandfather, my grandfather was not allowed to enter into that room and worship God. And those churches are still standing. I'm not saying that they're committing sins of racism, but I'm not saying that. I'm just talking about what they present to their community in Alabama, in Memphis, in North Carolina. But to me, this goes into something else that Paul talks about in Romans chapter 5. How is it that we are called, or we are told, that even in our birth we are sinners One man, our ancestor, committed sin. And because of that, you and I stand before God, guilty and sinful. It's called the original sin. And we cannot escape it. Now Having said that, Paul in Romans chapter 5 actually gives us amazing, wonderful, good news because he says, just the same way that sin entered the world through one man, through one man Salvation came to us. Now, regardless of how we may feel about this issue, regardless of how you may view scripture in terms of repentance, public disapproval. Really, that's not my point. Here's my point, brothers and sisters. My point is this: I pray that God would give us wisdom as we think about this idea of corporate responsibility, that we would, with humility, say with David from Psalm 39 139 verse 23, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me. And know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. That's my point in terms of corporate responsibility. That's really where I think we ought to go. That at the end of the day Every one of us has to turn and look to the Lord and say, God, you know what? This is hard. It's complex. I may not understand. But you know what, God, you're the one who searches people's hearts. So do that to mine. It's a freeing thing. It's a great thing. At least that's how I look at it. And so corporate responsibility leads to corporate confession. So again, as we mentioned, the offender cannot be found. It's a who-done it situation. Uh but a sacrifice Again used loosely here, is made so that the way is made to portray an element of newness. What are God's people looking out here for They want to be done with this thing. They're taking responsibility because they want to be done with this thing and start anew. We want a fresh start. They are praying that the Lord would put this away behind them so they can start a new chapter. I I I love the way uh uh verse seven puts it that the people are testifying before God and what are they saying? They say, our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it shed. Corporately confessing. And of course, as I mentioned, the confession is actually seen in how they wash their hands over the over the animal. Acknowledging that they're not guilty of the crime and they're not being asked uh you know they're not being called uh to confess because they are guilty, but they are making a spiritual confession See the the community is here helpless, isn't it? I mean they have no idea who who's done this. They're helpless in terms of bringing justice as God had commanded them to make sure that they bring about justice. Again we saw this in Chapter 19. They were commanded to always seek justice, but how are they gonna do this? What I think is actually beautiful here is their prayer. If if if you're here, if you're God's people, judges and priests and elders thinking about what God has commanded you to do to seek justice, you would think as they come before God in prayer, they would say, Lord, please, can you please help we need help Help us find the person that has done this horrible thing so that we may bring them to justice, right? That's what they would say. Help us bring this person to justice so that we will be obedient to you, because that's what you've called us to do. Is that what they're praying for? What do they pray for? Forgiveness. What? I thought you were not responsible. I thought you're not being held accountable, but they're praying a prayer of confession. They are seeking forgiveness from God. It is clear now, right? That the ultimate purpose of this ritual that has happened, verse 8 Was all because of atonement. Verse 8, read it together: accept atonement, O Lord, for your people, Israel. Notice that. Keep in mind, it's not the city, Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not set the guilt of innocent blood. in the midst of your people, Israel, again, not the nearest city, so that their blood guilt be atoned for. See, I think that's good. See, this is a prayer of confession, seeking for forgiveness that goes way much deeper than mere forgiveness. What's at stake here? What's at stake here if God does not forgive them? It's the end. God's plans come to an end. If God is gonna wipe them away and He this is the same God was promised them this land, this this place where there's you know flowing with milk and honey and all these things, all that comes. to an end. It's forgiveness. It's a new start for them. And if they don't get it, it means trouble for the community. In spite of their innocence. The community is shouldering responsibility. And so that's why this prayer of confession is being offered before God. But notice the language as I mentioned. It's not the city It doesn't say forgive us. We, the city that is so close to where the murder took place. No, Israel. It's all of God's people. See the basis for forgiveness that is offered in this prayer was not dependent or was not a merit on Israel. They actually tell God that. Accept our atonement. Why? Because we are your people. How? You are the one who redeemed us. You ransomed, you you rescued us from slavery so that we may be your people. Again, God did that out of his grace. And here again, they're coming before God. Again, on what basis? Grace alone. See, we're called to confess our sins, aren't we? Corporately. That's our life is God's people. Because the truth is sin is like a fatal infection, isn't it? It spreads just like that from one person to another The good news is, as James will tell us, that if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us from all unrighteousness. When you talk about corporate confession, I think it's easier for us to use language here in church when we confess sins together. But think about confessing sins to one another. That's a hard thing to do, isn't it? Because if I confess my sins to you, you're probably gonna run away. Really, Josiah? And so we're afraid. We're afraid that people are going to judge us. That people are going to say, aha, you? You struggle with that? But we're also scared, scared to death because We don't want people to know that we struggle that way. We don't want people to know that we fall that way. You know what's true though? We do fall I love what Dietrich Bonhoeffer says about confession. It's a beautiful statement. He says, He who is alone with sin, with his sin, is utterly alone. If you're alone with your sin, you're utterly alone. But it is the grace of the gospel which is so hard for the pious to understand That confronts us with the truth that says, you are a sinner, a great and desperate sinner. And now, now come as the sinner you are to the God who loves you. Now come as the sinner, you are to the God who loves you. See friend, confession is not optional for us as Christians. And I mean corporate confession Martin Luther wrote in he says, Essentially our confession consists in acknowledging ourselves to be sinners and in praying for grace. And we come before God and we say, Lord, here we are, standing before you. We are deprived. We are sinners. And what are we begging for? Grace. Grace and grace alone. See, I think it is acknowledging who we really are before God when we confess corporately. Sinners who are utterly in need of God's grace. It's what it means to be a follower of Christ. A disciple of Christ is one who confesses his or her sin. When we do that together, you know what's happening? We are applying, we are celebrating the gospel. We're not basically beating ourselves up and saying, oh man, we're so bad. You know what? Horrible people. We're saying that in essence, but we're saying that, but celebrate now that Christ has been sacrificed and you are free. See, there's something so freeing and beautiful when God's people confess their sins. I love what John writes in 1 John 2:1. He says, My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. Okay, so that you may not sin, okay? But if you if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for uh for ours only, but also for the sins of the world. I think John Calvin put it better. He says that by the confession of our own wretchedness, or wretchedness, our own sin, we show forth the goodness and mercy of our God among ourselves and before the whole world. That's a beautiful thing. See, friends, here's the bad news. The bad news, as Paul says, you are a sinner. We've all fallen. None of us is righteous. But there's good news. And here's the good news. The good news is that because we have broken God's law Because we are guilty, because we are filled with shame for what we have done. God Himself, not you and not me, God Himself has provided a way for us to come clean. We don't have to hide. There's no need for us to hide because God knows it all. Anyways. Jesus is the sacrificial Lamb of God. He's the one who shed his blood. He's the the purest, the perfect Lamb of God that was without blemish, without no sin, though he was tempted in every way, yet he had no sin. And he he obeyed and fulfilled the fathers law and his demands, all the standards that you and I couldn't keep, Jesus fulfilled that on your behalf so that you don't have to hide. So that you and I can come clean and say, I am a sinner, a great Desperate sinner. And now I come as the sinner that I am to the God who loves me. So come clean because God has dealt with your sin. That's the good news Father, we thank you so much this day for your word that you've given to us that we do not have to hide in in our darkness anymore. You have shed light into the darkest parts of our lives. You have given us your Son, Jesus Christ, the perfect Lamb of God. Whose blood was shed for our sins. And now we celebrate with freedom that you give to us. For so much grace has been granted to us. Would you help us, Lord, to continually, every single day of our lives, confess our sins to you? Pray this in Christ's name. Amen