We enjoyed our time in Maine. It was a special time with our grandchildren and our uh two of our children, so the refreshment of God God's spirit uh went with us. I trust that the respect the refreshment of God's Spirit abided with you as well these last two weeks, but it's been uh it is good to see your faces again And to be able to press on. Our text this morning, Psalm 13, is a prayer that calls us Maybe each of us can identify at one time or another in our lives a time where everything has fallen apart. And sometimes we feel like that to a greater or a lesser extent, many times in our lives This is a psalm that we pray when those times come. And I want you to enter into it with me. We engage as a congregation to say, Lord, how long? How long? We engage as individuals to say how long. How long? So I want you to read with me Psalm thirteen. Let's stand as I read the text. Psalm thirteen How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul? Soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day. How long shall my enemy be exalted over me Consider, answer me, O Lord my God. Light up my eyes, lust sleep. I sleep the sleep of death. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice, because I'm shaken. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart will rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord. Because he has dealt bountifully with me. Father, lift our eyes this morning That we might hear your voice, that we might receive from you your good gifts, your bountiful gifts. And from your eternal treasure stores, enable us to dip down and to receive your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. I've only had one um request from you for a psalm. We're going to come to it. So again, just a a fair word. If there is a psalm that you would like to uh listen to to and to have me uh focus on please let me know. Um I'm happy to take that. I'm happy to look at it. You got a hundred and fifty, no a little fewer than one hundred and fifty now to choose from And and you'll sense that I'm sort of starting at the beginning and I'm going to advance, but not one by one. I'll I'll uh do what I've always told my grandchildren. in because I'm gonna count to a hundred and fifty. One, two, skip a few, a hundred and fifty. So, you know, it might take uh longer, it might take shorter to get there, but uh you you choose the numbers It is true that we often find the pain of life at night. Not everybody is as gifted as I am, and you can affirm this with my wife. But when I lay down, my lights go out. You give me about five seconds, and I'm gone. And I consider that probably one of the greatest blessings of my life. That I I don't lay on my bed and fret. But I know that I'm probably unusual in that. I fret plenty during the day I make up for my daytime, what I don't do maybe while I'm falling asleep. I want to read a section. I don't often do this But I want to read a section from a book written by Tish Harrison Warren called Prayer in the Night. She's actually a columnist for the New York Times. She is a Anglican priest. Um I may not agree with all of her theology, but I do agree with this section and and I want to bring it to you because She's put in rather crisp form, what we find so much and so often in our lives. It was a dark year in every sense It began with a move from my sunny hometown, Austin, Texas, to Pittsburgh in early January. One week later, my dad back in Texas died in the middle of the night Always towering and certain as a mountain on the horizon. A month later I miscarried and hemorrhaged, and we prayed complaining. I'm going to pause here because her word doesn't make any sense, but in the Anglican prayer book, there is a prayer called comply. And this is what it is. Keep us as the apple of your eye. Hide us under the shadow of your wing. Lord, have mercy. Christ have mercy. Lord, have mercy Mercy. Defend us, Lord, from the perils and the dangers of the night. And we prayed comply in the emergency room. Grief had compounded. I was homesick. The pain of losing my dad was seismic, still rattling like aftershocks I w it was a bleak season. We named it, in a grim joke, the Pits of Despairburg. The next month we found out we were pregnant again. It felt like a miracle. But early on I began bleeding and the pregnancy became complicated. activity. I couldn't stand for periods, walk more than a few a few blocks, or lift anything above ten pounds, which meant I could lift my then four years As I spent hours sitting in bed each day, my mind grew dimmer and darker. The bleeding continued nearly constant for two months. months with weekly trips to the hospital when it picked up so much that we worried I was miscarrying or in danger of another hemorrhage. In the end, in late July, early in my second trimester, we lost Another baby, a son. During that long year, as autumn brought darkening days and frost settled in, I was a priest who couldn't pray. There were too many things To say. Too many questions without answers. My depth of pain overshadowed my ability in words. And more painfully, I couldn't pray because I wasn't sure how to trust God. Martin Luther wrote about seasons of devastation of faith when any native confidence in the goodness of God withers. It's then that we meet what Luther calls the left hand of God. Have you ever been there? Where your heart passes through a dark night, but it's not just night It stretches into day, and the day stretches into more than the day, into a week, into a month, into a year. And you cry out, as the psalmist says, Lord, how long? How long does this go on? That's our solemn. I want to give it to you this morning. Because it draws us into the presence of God with truth. It exposes our own soul. And there is no reason to hide from it. God calls us To ask that question. It's in his word. And so it's appropriate that we do it It's appropriate that I cry out in my heart darkness and ask God hard questions. He's not afraid of hard questions. Questions. He's not afraid of honest questions. Only you and I are afraid of honest, hard questions. But God isn't. And he entreats us to ask them. So maybe you cry out for your life, maybe you cry out for your friends, maybe you cry out from your childhood things that continue to creep and overshadow you. Maybe the things in your marriage, maybe friends. And your cry out, Lord, how long? How long must this thing haunt me? How long must this thing engulf my life and keep me From seeing your goodness. How long do I have to hand a have a handful of rocks? my life. And how will I ever get them out in order to take again and taste the sweetness of your gifts? It's too much pain. My hopes are gone. My identity. Failure sometimes overwhelms me Me. But why didn't I see this sooner? Why didn't you show it to me sooner? Why didn't you open my eyes sooner? Why didn't I do something different? And so we beat up on ourselves. And we cry out to God. But couldn't you have prevented this? Of course he could. Well then why didn't you? Haven't you Haven't you wrestled with God that way? Whether it's in the darkness of the night or in the brilliance of the day, we wrestle We have unanswered questions. Lord, why me? Why now? How am I supposed to cope? How do I deal with this? And there's a sorrow, a deep sorrow of loss, sometimes an estranged family, sometimes broken relationship I don't have an answer for it. And you look around, you listen to your friends, and they don't have answers either. Because they've got some of the same problems. Then I look around and I start to see enemies everywhere. But it's a little bit like looking at a glass. If you take a clear glass that's a little dirty on one side and you peer into that a long enough, you start to recognize, whoops, there's my image I'm not looking through a glass, through a window to see enemies out there. I start to recognize my image is there also. So when the psalmist speaks out, when the psalmist pours his soul out, he's pouring his soul out, recognizing that there are enemies Enemies, and that he is seeing his own image as one of those enemies. Pain. In pain, I recognize actually I'm my own enemy I have filled my life and allowed my life often to become filled with stones. And there's no room for God's sake. goodness. I focus so much on the pain, so much on the loss, so much on the things that I wish I had and I don't have. Maybe even good things. But good things that have become too important. And I focus so much on those things. That all I have is a handful of stones. That's what the Psalmist is talking about. About. How long, O Lord? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long will I take counsel in my own soul? That's our answer. Our answer in the midst of a pain, in the midst of of of the the night of our soul, is to look to ourselves, as if the psalmist says that. He says, how long must I take counsel in my own soul? That's the beginning of recognizing, wait a minute, I haven't listened to God's counsel, I've taken counsel with myself. Isn't that much of our problem? I listen to myself. And I talk a lot. I don't know if you talk a lot to yourself or not, but I talk a lot to myself. Not always verbally. The conversation happens inside And I take counsel with myself. Carl do this, Carl do that. Have this opinion, have that opinion, feel bad about this, feel bad about that. And what I do, I discover I'm the enemy. I listen to my inner sense of wanting a good thing Not always a good thing. But here's what happens. I start wanting a good thing often, and then I want that good thing too much And pretty soon I start to demand that good thing. I expect that God ought to give me the things I want. And it's not enough. I want more. I want it when I want it. I take counsel. And the psalmist says, How long? How long must I take counsel on my soul and have sorrow? That's the result of it. That's a result of my answer. I have sorrow in my soul. How long will my enemy, that is me, be exalted? How long will Satan taunt me? You trusted? You're a fool. You believed it? Really? You're a fool. And we struggle with the contemplations, the thoughts of our own hearts And we recognize no it takes me the wrong place. It takes me to sleep The sleep of death, that's verse three. Consider and answer me, O Lord, my God. Light up my eyes lest I sleep the sleep of death. Well, sleep might be restorative, but if you wake up in the middle of the night worried about the same things that you were worrying about when you went to sleep, it's not very restoring You wake up feeling like you worked all night long and didn't get anywhere. That's what the psalmist says Sleep of death. That's actually the result of our answer. So we have a question, we have a problem, it's the midnight of the soul. We come to God and say, God, I've got an answer for you. Just do it. I consult with myself. I expect God to consult with me too. And what happens? The sleep isn't restorative. It's a sleep of death. It puts me, sinks me deeper. Deeper into my depression, deeper into having no answer. So I have questions, but don't have answers. Have eyes to see, but there's no light of hope. I can't see any light at the end of my tunnel. The sleep of death then leads me. To give up. You ever given up? Given up on dealing with sin in your life? Giving up with trying to resurrect a relationship, giving up with what God's gonna do with your kids, giving up with what God's gonna do in your finances. You just give up. You sleep. The sleep of death. It's the darkness of depression. The darkness of built-up anger, resentment, frustration, whatever you want to call it, it builds up. And it turns out the lights and This isn't getting them any better, is it? Not getting any lighter. Look at verse 4. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him. My foes rejoice because I'm shaken. So I look at my very faith, I look at my family, I look at my walk, and I am shaken. Why, God? How long, God? I am shaken. And my distress is seen by others. I can't hide it Sooner or later it comes out. It eats a hole in my own soul first, then eats a hole in my environment, and then next thing I know, everybody sees it. Even people that I meet in the grocery store, I think they see it too. They don't, but I think they do. It seems all of a sudden like I'm the target, like I've got a big X on my back and on my front But God God answers. But I have trusted in your steadfast I have trusted. Do you always trust? Do I always trust? No. I don't. Do you? No, you don't either. But you have trusted. You have clung to the righteousness and the truth of Jesus Christ. You have known his graciousness. And you look back at that in the midst of the darkness of your soul, and you say, Lord, I have trusted you. And I know that that is the only thing that holds me. It's simply the grace of Jesus Christ. I have trusted him. And I have trusted a steadfast love My love's not steadfast. It breaks, it fails, it's frail. But God's love is steadfast. And that's finally what the psalmist turns his eyes to. He says, Yes, it's a darkness of my soul, but but I have trusted, and your love is steadfast. It is a rock. It will not be shaken. It will not move. I can trust in a steadfast love. A relationship that's built on my whim, on my inability to be steadfast. Fast is a relationship that will fall and feel. And all of us have those. But my relationship to God is not based on my response to Him, it's based on His response to me And so the psalmist says that. It is your steadfast love, O Lord, that I have trusted in. Don't trust in your own love for him. Him. It won't hold you. Trust in his love for you. That's the steadfast love. You know, Christ was given to us before our problems, before the dark night of our souls. God gave to us Christ. Christ gave to us his life long before our lives were born. Long before the struggles and the difficulties that you and I faced this week, last week, the week before, and next week, Christ was And Christ gave. And Christ has not just a small bag of candies that our little hands can get into. He has enormous hope and wealth in his bag of the gift of Christ. Christ. And he simply says, Reach in and receive. Take the rocks out of your hand, empty them, and take Take my gift, my trust is in God's love then. It's not in the answer I hope for That's what the psalmist says. Listen, if I hope in my answer, then it takes me back to verse 1. Lord, how long? How long before I get my answer? I don't know how long. I don't know how long it will be before God brings to this congregation a pastor. I don't know. You might hope it's next week, next month. Maybe it's next year I don't know. But what we do know is that God's love is steadfast, and He was in this place before we came to this conundrum. And he will continue to be in this place after we struggle with the questions. So God's love and my trust, my trust in God's love, not in my answer, my trust in God's love is the core of what brings me out of the pit of despair. I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart will rejoice in your salvation. Not my grasping of your salvation, Lord, but in what you have given to me in Christ. Himself. And there's an abundance. Verse 6 says so. He has dealt bountifully with me. Can you take a moment in the midst of your dark night of the soul and begin to identify what is it that God has done? In my life. Had a conversation at the International House on Friday with one of our board members' wives. Wife. He doesn't have more than one. He only has one. I don't know how to put that apostrophe S in speech. But uh As I got to know her, uh she was a is a Hmong. Uh she spent much of her early life uh in ref Uh I've been in enough refugee camps and I know the pain and the horror of those places. So I began to ask for a little bit more. I said, Well, have you lived with trauma? And I I knew at that moment I had leaned into the darkness of her soul. And the tear welled up in her eye. Yes, she had And then I asked her if she'd had continued experiences of post-traumatic stress. And yes, she had. What brings it on? We talked about it. And what makes it go away? How do you deal with it? Universally, the way we deal with the pain, the darkness of our night. Is to look at the bounty of God. What did God do? And she said, sometimes I just had to realize I am still here Many of my friends and my family are not, but I am God has done bountifully with me And so if we're to erase the dark night of the soul, it is to look at God's caring arms that surely gather us up that hold us when we can't hold ourselves. And say to him, Lord, you have done bountifully with me. You have kept me when I couldn't keep myself. You have loved me when I couldn't love myself. You have given to me people here and there and over there and over there that surround me and remind me of who you are. You have done bountifully And I have trusted you. And I can trust you. Open your heart. Open your heart's hand. Empty whatever it is that's there. Empty it. And then reach down again into God's love and mercy and receive His gift. That's what we do this morning. We come to the table. If there was ever a time that we need To simply know God's answer. And find God's hope. It's here. It's here. Here Isaiah fifty three. Surely he took our infirmities and carried our sorrows. Yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds. We are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and afflicted, and yet he didn't open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before shearers is silent So he did not open his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And who can speak of his descendants? For he was cut off from the land of the living. For the transgression of my people he was Stricken. He was assigned the land the grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, although he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit. In his mouth. Beloved, in the dark day of your soul, come to Jesus. You have come to Jesus. Come again. And beloved, when we share the dark night of our souls together, and when we ask the Lord how long, Lord, why? Why must my family be thus? Why must my life be thus? Why must my We come together? And we are reminded that the body of Christ was broken for us. The blood of Christ was shed for me and for you. And that's what gives us hope. I trusted, the psalmist said, I have trusted in the goodness. of God. And this is his reminder of his goodness. It's not a bag of candy. It's a lay Of eternity, in which his arms wrap around us, and his hands lift us up, and his spirit enters into our hearts and souls and says, I am with you. Wherever you go, whatever the hardness is, I will be with you. I will be your God. I want us to come. Come to the table. Let me ask the elders to come forward. I'm going to shift our order a little bit. I wouldn't read Matthew as an entrance into the table, even as I've read While they were eating, Jesus took the bread. He gave thanks and he broke it and he gave it to his disciples, saying, Take and eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup, and he gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, Drink from it all of you. This is my blood of the cup Has there ever occurred to you when you receive the bread and you receive the cup. That Jesus said, take this my cup. Didn't I just read the pain that he took? From Isaiah. And Jesus invites us to take that pain. We can't bear it, but He does. So we take the cup, we take the bread, and we realize that he was broken in a way we can never be broken. He shed his blood in a way we can never shed ours. So come, take a moment and lay your pain on the altar. Lay the question how long on the altar. Father, receive the doubts of our heart. Receive the darkness of our mind. Receive our failures. Repeat it again and again. Draw near to us again. We come to this table not because we are spotless, but because we are spotted. Not because we are whole and healthy, but because We're sick. We have wandered. We need you. Father, thank you for sending Christ Jesus. To take that penalty, that punishment for us, and instead to give us life and hope. And strength. We have trusted. Help us to trust even now. And help us to trust tomorrow. In Jesus' name. Amen That night that Jesus was betrayed. He took the bread and he broke it