To cultivate a greater sense of thanksgiving, let's read this familiar but uh piercing story of the Ten Lepers Please stand. We're reading from the ESV, Luke seventeen. Verse eleven following. Hear the word of God. On the way to Jerusalem, he, Jesus, was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered the village, he was met by ten lepers Who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed. Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice. And he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. The Word of Christ. May He pierce our hearts and change our lives with it. Please be seated. A familiar but indeed piercing story How do we this season cultivate a more thankful spirit On television, earlier in the morning, this morning, on the Today Show Uh they interviewed a fourteen year old girl and they asked her, uh uh, what are you thankful for? Her response was, well, I'm thankful for my eye and my leg And as they talked to her, it became clear why she was thankful for her eye When she was four months old, she was diagnosed with cancer. And they thought she would lose. Sight in that one eye. But God gifted her with the ability to save the eye. Then when she turned eight She was diagnosed with bone cancer in her leg. She thought she would lose her leg. They had to take out the bone Now she has a titanium rod, but she has her leg. And so this Thanksgiving, she's thankful for Her eye and her leg. How do we cultivate and maintain a spirit of gratitude? Perhaps it's easier if we have something more dramatic that reminds us But not everything is dramatic, although many of us have monumental experiences that we can share and hopefully you do with those who haven't realized That God, your God, is in the business of giving out gifts to you, to me, and to these lepers. If we are to advance in our gratitude as we march toward heaven First of all, we've got to remember the gifts. What is self-obvious from this passage is that the healed leper remembered the gift that he had been given. Apparently the other nine took it for granted. The leper remembered the gift And he was thankful. He remembered how he once was ill. He was sick. He was an outcast from the community. And from friends and family, as Marked as a leper, and uh that meant he was marginalized into a colony of lepers. And he was ceremonially unclean, which was a liturgical lesson to us as well, that God's people must be a clean people. And to access God, we must come to Him spiritually cleansed. So we see this uh man with with leprosy now restored. He's no longer an outsider, but he's going to the priest And as he's walking to the priest after meeting Jesus, he's going to declare there at the priest, have the priest examine him to see if he's fit back for the community. And uh We're not told the rest of the story, but that's what priests did. They saw whether your skin infection or skin disease, it may have been minor, may have been more significant. But whether it was uh considered cleansed or healed, whether you were well, now you could go back into living a normal life. And as we think about this passage I think an appropriate connection is with the Ephesians 2. 12 passage. Appropriate description of the leper and most of us. There we're told in Ephesians 2. 12, remember that you were at one time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel You were strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope Without God in the world. But now, now, in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off You've been brought near by the blood of Christ. And so the leper is brought near. He's restored to family, friends. We can infer this. He's back into the community. And he's back into access, into the relationship with God, to worship in the community. And here's a is a man who remembers the gifts he's been given. As we're told in Psalm 103. Yeah, regarding how do we cultivate a deeper sense of thankfulness, like this man had here. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits That's how we do it. He forgives all your iniquity, Psalm 103. He heals all your diseases. He redeems your life from the pit He crowns you with steadfast love and mercy. He satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's And so if we're to cultivate and maintain a gratitude, we have to remember those times when we were sick When we needed an operation, when we needed a transplant, when we needed a doctor, we needed some medication. Forget not that he has crowned you with love and mercy. And many of the times when we had no energy, and yet we We're able to finally get it together, return to work, return to school, go back to the sports field, whatever you were doing. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Sometimes I think women are smarter than men. Sometimes. And uh take for example a baby shower or a wedding shower. What do these women do? Hey, you're the secretary. Right? We're opening gifts. And what's the secretary do? She writes down the gift. Here it is. You got you got a gift here. You got an electric mixer. You've got a set of glasses. You've got a stroller. And she writes the gifts down because All the women want this person, this bride, or this mother to be, to remember the gifts. The ten lepers were gifted. Each of them had received something, the same gift from God. But only one remembered the gift. While the others went on their merry way, experiencing the kindness of Christ, apparently taking the gift for granted. Which brings us to the second way that that's helpful for us. To remember not only the gifts when you needed an operation. and got it. When you needed a a person in your life and you got it. When you needed you wanted a child or whatever it was and got it. That God you remember not only his gift, but you remember the giver These gifts don't come out of a vacuum. They don't just disappear. We click our fingers and all of a sudden you're healthy. All of a sudden you've someone's come into your life that's meaningful to you. to you some something that uh some energies come back. We remember the giver And as we see in the 15th verse, this man remembers the giver As we're told. Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, you know what happened, right? Jesus saw these ten lepers, and he said, Go tell yourself to the Uh go show yourself to the priest. They didn't have the healing there. They just took his word. They're probably figuring, well, go to the priests and maybe the priest when I get there it's gonna happen to me, you know, and and as they're walking their way. One after a while, maybe they walked a mile, two miles, three miles, ten miles. We're not told But into their horizon they disappeared, and one of them noticed, as he says in the 15th verse, One of them saw he was healed, and he turned back, praising God with a loud voice. And he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. And this one was a Samaritan. He remembered the giver. He remembered the giver. And notice he remembered him in a loud, jubilant way. He shouts to God with a loud voice, thank you, God, that you've made me well. We come to church, sometimes we're afraid to raise our hands, you know. And we're we're even Orthodox, the Presbyterian Church, but maybe the minister hasn't given you the license to do that, but maybe we're a little bar embarrassed at times This guy was shouting in a loud voice. And not only that, he prostrate himself in worship of Christ He remembered the giver in a big way, and he could see it in his body language, and he fell down on his face to worship Christ. Sometimes we do well not to be embarrassed. We always do well not to be embarrassed. We wanna if we want to say something or do something. Sure we want to respect people around us and give them some Courtesies. But sometimes folks, you know, you just want to show your love for Christ in an emotional way and just do it. That's their problem. They're gonna have to deal with it. Why did you do that? Oh, you're too religious. Well, you know, I just felt like it. And now you gotta at least have a discussion going on. But two times we're embarrassed and uh So how do we um cultivate uh uh a thankful spirit? We remember the gifts That's why it's good to have uh read the scriptures every day to open them and so you remember what you've gotten is coming from God. And some people keep diaries. You know, so some people want to remember uh a a prayer book where they write down uh what the answers the prayer that God's given them and they visit that from time to time. And so we remember the gifts and we remember the giver, and that's why we come to church. That's why we're in Bible study. That's why we hang out with other Christians. So we remind each other, hey, you know, we got God. Might not have much. Can barely pay the bills this month, but you know what? We have God. We don't need everything else. We still got a lot of gifts, especially here in the West. And finally, it's really almost a sub-point. So it's remember the gifts, if we're going to cultivate gratitude, and we remember the giver, and we reach for a greater thankfulness. It's almost a subpoint here, but I want you to notice that this man inconvenienced himself in giving thanks. In the 15th verse again, it says, then one of them, when he saw he was healed, he turned back. He turned back. And he went back to Jesus. He inconvenienced himself. The other nine, it's we're told in the text they were all cleansed. But the other nine, when they got maybe they were like five miles down the road. That's why when they got healed. They didn't go back. It was too far. Jesus said, Where are the other nine? You know, that was a good thing that he went back, and the other nine should have done it too. They remembered the gift. At least to some degree, they were happy, they were cleansed, but they didn't remember the giver, and they certainly didn't inconvene themselves To show how they remember the giver. I'd say we all here in this room remember the giver. But how much are we inconveniencing ourselves? How much are we going to reach To show we are really thankful. I mean, you do realize you own your life, don't you? That God in the flesh Came and lived the perfect life. He gives you a perfect life record. That's yours. It's a beautiful thing. And that's how he sees you as perfect. in Christ. He takes the judgment you deserve. You owe him big time. How can we show him, especially as we go into the new year? I don't want to give my New Year tips yet, but as we go into it, how can we show God we're thankful in a greater way So I tell you the story of how many of you know Marcus Lattrell? Marcus Latrell and Lone Survivor. So I had I had the chance to meet him Uh saw him speak in public. He was um uh Navy SEAL. And uh you saw the movie was Mark Warburg And uh what happened is the these men, there were nineteen of them actually, on the movie only think of C four of them, I believe, and they're going over into Afghanistan and they're looking for high target sal high target um uh what's the word I want to put? High value targets. What yeah like especially bin Laden looking for him. And so they dropped these men in, these uh Navy SEALs, middle of the night. Nineteen went and he came back. He alone came back. And um he tells the story, and they left this part out of the story. But um Lutrell uh he crawled six or seven miles on his stomach through the mountains before he finally got to safety. He was being they were in a skirmish and there was all kind of shooting and stuff and he was falling over rocks and Uh and you say, why would he crawl six or seven miles? Well first of all his back was broken. Secondly he was all shot up, shod up. He just he said, I was pretty well busted up And he said, I lay down, I'm quoting, I lay down to die twice. I thought I was at the closing mark of death He told himself, quote, quit being a little wimp about it, end quote. Here you are, he's a broken back, he's all shot up, and here's what he did. He said I drew a line, I was crawling, and I drew a line like when the dirt were in the sand and I would go draw the line like that. Then I would crawl to it until my feet got over about eight feet. You know, he would he'd get about eight feet and then his feet crossed and he'd draw another line And he did that again and eight feet and eight feet and eight feet until he got to a mile. Then he did another eight feet and eight feet until he got the second mile. about six or seven miles crawling with a broken bra back and saying, you know, I'm not a wimp. I'm gonna do this thing until I get to safety. I want you to think about that. As you think about your gratitude, how do you show your gratitude for God? And I must admit, I'm a kind of a coward guy. I'm getting a little better, but not much. And uh I hope that we can draw some lines to lines to stretch yourself a little further this year. You know, we're going into faith promise, for example. Some of you have never participated I challenge you to draw a line to say I'm going to give this much money toward faith promise this year to support our missionaries. That's how we support them. Some of you have drawn it in the past, and maybe you're in the same economic situation Again, this year, how about drawing it just a little further down? You know, it's between you and God. It's not between it has nothing to do with me or and you know, about the service or whatever it is. Somehow God has made us indebted to Him. We are indebted. And we can never pay Him enough So the question is, whether it's through money, whether it's through service, whether it's through something in your life, you set your own challenge on how you're going to Express your thanksgiving to God. You know, Hannah in the Bible, for twenty years she prayed for a child. What'd she do? She dedicated him back to God and put him in the service, sent him into the temple. You know, the woman who anointed Jesus' feet got criticized because she gave him a fragrant offering, you know, preparing him for his death. And it was You know, all this viable uh perfume that she annoyed him with and people criticized her for like being too extrav extravagant. But you know if you're forgiven in a big way and you know it, hey, you know you're gonna return the favor in a big way Um and there are other examples in the in the Bible. The one with the two small coins gave much more than all the other people, give tons of money, but you see they had tons of money to give. She had hardly anything She drew a line and she crawled to it. She said, Here, Lord, I want to show you something. Stretch yourself this year further than you have in the past. One of them men, when he saw that he was healed, he turned back, praising God, a loud voice, and he inconvenienced himself Before the Lord, big waves showed his thanksgiving. He fell down and worshipped him on his face. So at the very least, you can inc inconvenience yourself tomorrow it's Thanksgiving. And so um when the mashed potatoes are cold and the turkey seems a bit dried out And you don't feel like helping it with the dishes. You might have to inconvenience yourself and help out and Not complain. Can you go 24 hours? Let's make every effort to go 24 hours without complaining. Because He has indeed done great things for us. And let us do whatever we can. uh to say thank you this season for his kindness toward us. Let us pray. Lord, we uh we are indeed indebted indebted to you. Uh our indebtedness is not a virtue. But our virtue indeed begins when we dedicate ourselves actively to the job of showing gratitude, which means sometimes keeping our mouths closed so we don't complain. Sometimes helping with the dishes or doing whatever we can as a as a person who's been blessed with many gifts And we thank you for uh the opportunity to worship you and to think about this story here tonight. In Christ's name we pray, Amen.