Well this morning. If you're tuning in online with us and and haven't worshiped with us before, my name is Eric. I'm one of the pastors here and we're we're glad to have you join us. And if you've been worshiping with us in recent weeks, you'll know that we'd been in a series of the letter to first letter first Timothy that Paul wrote to Timothy. And we're going to pause that series for the month of December and we're going to do a special Advent series here focused on Uh the early chapters of the gospel according to Matthew. And so we're going to read from Matthew chapter 1, verses 1 through 17. And as you flip there in your Bibles, you'll You'll find that it's a long list of names and you might find yourself wondering, what in the world am I going to learn from a long list of names? And I hope that as we Go through God's Word this morning, you'll see there's actually a lot of rich treasures in this portion of God's Word for us this morning. So let's stand together and honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now God's word from Matthew chapter 1, beginning in verse 1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob, the father of Judah and his brothers. and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezrin, and Hezron the father of Ram and Ram the father of Aminadab, and Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashin the father of Salmon, and Salmon the father of Boaz by Ruth And Boaz, the father of Obed, sorry, Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz, the father of Obed, by Ruth, and Obed, the father of Jesse, and Jesse, the father of David, the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah, and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph. And Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, and Uzziah the father of Jotham. and Jodham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah And Josiah, the father of Jekoniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. And after the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Sheeltiel, and Sheeltiel the father of Zerubbabel. And Zerubel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim, the father of Azor, and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok, the father of Akim. And Acham, the father of Eliud, and Eliud the father of Eliezer, and Eliezer the father of Mathan, and Mathan, the father of Jacob. And Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. So, all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation of Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation of Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. This is God's word. Let's pray to the Lord together. Oh come thou long expected Jesus. Lord, this has been a year of waiting and longing. As we've dealt with this virus and all of the difficult things that this year has brought. And yet, Lord, may we never forget that the ultimate thing that we are longing for, the number one thing that we wait for, is for our Lord to come. That we long for you, Lord Jesus, that we might behold your face. And we pray, O Lord, that as we turn to your word, knowing that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from your mouth, Lord, become hungry. Needing to feed from your word. We come, maybe some of us as those that don't have much of an appetite for your word, and we pray, O Lord, that you might help us to open our mouths wide, that you might fill us And Lord, that you would speak to us and show us Christ, for He is the one whom we long to see. So we pray all of this Holy Spirit, that you would do for us. Open our eyes. Speak to us, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in the name of our Lord Jesus. Amen. Well, please be seated. It's interesting to see that over the last several years there's been a rise in the interest in genealogies. seeing more and more commercials for things like ancestry. com that that seek to to help you uh understand your past, know where you've come from, and to to get more details into who your ancestors were, what kind of people they were, where they where they were from, what they did. just to understand your family line better. We intuitively recognize that where you come from matters. Because it can help you understand things about who you are, right? We can see this on a on a very practical level when it comes to health records. Your family history can have a real i impact on understanding your own health and and things like that. But we can even see it in more subtle ways and in personality traits and all kinds of other things. Where you come from matters because it can help you understand who you are. And I think it's important for us standing in 2020 to recognize that if even we understand something of the importance that in the ancient world, especially in a Jewish culture, this was far more significant than merely knowing who your parents were. There's an important place that genealogies have in the Old Testament. One significant place is The people are coming back from exile in Babylon and recording their list of names and being of a descent from a particular tribe was important. You had to prove your lineage. Especially if you were from the tribe of Levi, in order to be able to serve in the the temple and to serve as a priest. There there were several we read about in in Ezra chapter two that that couldn't prove their descent, and so they were not able to serve as priests because The family line was so important. Genealogies function in a lot of different ways in the Old Testament, and it's interesting to see that right in the beginning of the Bible we have a book in Genesis that's that's heavily laden with genealogies. In fact, one of the most common ways to outline the book of Genesis is to break it into ten different sections that start with this phrase, these are the generations of. God cares about who his people are, where they come from, and then passing on that information so that we know it. Maybe even and it's an important thing, especially in Genesis, is we trace the seed of the woman. Which is going to be an important thing that factors in for us. And maybe even more significantly, if you were to flip to the end of the Old Testament, you would find the the small prophetic books. But if you were to go into my office over here and pull the the Hebrew Bible off my shelf, you would flip to the end of the Old Testament and find that it's the book of 1 and 2 Chronicles, that is the last book of the Hebrew Bible. And if you've ever tried to read through the Bible in a year and you've somehow managed to get through Leviticus, somehow managed to make it through numbers and get through some of those exciting narrative stories. You hit First Chronicles and man do you have to work because for nine chapters you have a genealogy And so it's no accident that this book of 1st and 2nd Chronicles written toward the end of the exile period to remind the returning Jews that you still are the people of God. God's covenant promises are still there for you. That those long genealogies that form an important part of tying them to the history of the patriarchs and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And so it's no accident that the very first book in the New Testament, the Gospel according to Matthew, starts as the Old Testament ended with a genealogy. He wasn't just randomly trying to pick things out, but he had a reason for starting with this genealogy. And we'll find out that in many places he borrows from that genealogy in Chronicles. But he he does this all in an effort to answer one all-important question. Who is Jesus? That's the real main question that this genealogy is designed to help us understand. Who is Jesus? So what I'd like for us to do this morning is to look at this genealogy from a few different angles to see some details of how Matthew uses it to teach us about Jesus. We'll look at the structure. We'll look at the people. We'll look at the pattern. And then at the end we'll tie it all together and offer some conclusions about three things that Matthew wants us to learn about who Jesus is. So let's look first at this structure. And there's a two-fold overarching structure that you see in this genealogy. The first thing shows up there in verse 1. There's this movement from Jesus to David to Abraham, then Abraham to David to Jesus. The whole focus of this genealogy centers on the fact that Jesus is a descendant of Abraham And as we'll see, Matthew has this specific point to make about who Jesus is. But he he wants us at from the very beginning to recognize Jesus is a son of David, son of Abraham. Because that's going to factor in really importantly to the things he wants us to learn about Jesus. And maybe just at at this point it's helpful to pause and and recognize that if you Read through the other Gospels, you'll come to other genealogies, maybe most famously in Luke. And most of the commentaries that you would read through always make the point to draw attention to the fact that as you read through those genealogies, there's a lot of similarities There's also a lot of striking differences in those genealogies. And if you read through them, you'll notice some significant differences. First of all, whereas Luke traces, he starts with Jesus and works backwards all the way to Adam. Matthew starts with Abraham and works forward to Jesus. And as you read through it, you'll actually notice there's different names listed in the genealogies. They're not identical. And there's a reason for that. Some would argue that one of them is tracing Joseph's family line, and others are tracing Mary's family line. I think actually that the text makes it clear that both of them are tracing the line through Joseph, but they're doing it in different ways. One of them, Luke, is tracing the biological line of Jesus. And so it goes into more detail, has more names, and is more specific. Matthew is doing something something different with his genealogy. He's tracing the legal line. He's tracing the line of succession to the throne of David. Because the point that Matthew wants you to see is that Jesus is the rightful heir to David's throne. And so he focuses on the royal line, passing the line of succession. And that means that in some cases a line might shift over a generation or something like that. And so there's differences because Matthew is tracing the line of succession, not merely the biological line. But he also has this other structure that you notice it it's broken into three sections. Three sections that each make up 14 generations Verse 17 makes it explicit. All the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. Now, nearly every scholar recognizes that Matthew has left names out of the list. He's not trying to be exhaustive. He's intentionally structured this so that there's 14 generations in each of these sections. To to make a point. And so he skips people. Between uh Rahab and Boaz, giving birth to Obed and Jesse, likely he skipped a few generations because that that covers the entire period of the judges all the way to the beginning of of David's life. And so he's probably skipped some things there. He's even left out several kings. He leaves out Ahaziah, Joash, Amaziah. These aren't problems for Matthew, right? Because he's got an ancient way of recording things that's different from our modern way of recounting stories. It's not that he's not telling the truth, it's not a challenge to the truth of God's word And in fact this this idea that so-and-so was the father of so-and-so was the father of so-and-so, that that's more like saying so-and-so was the ancestor of so-and-so, right? The same way that we might talk of our forefathers. Not necessarily meaning that the person that was right above us biologically as our father, but generations of our fathers, even the founding fathers as a nation, people that we claim heritage from. So he doesn't have any issue with with skipping these uh certain names along the way. Um the question is why, and we'll we'll explore maybe one reason that he does that in a moment. If you study real carefully, th there's one issue that arises that's maybe interesting to consider is that the last set is is actually short by one name. There's thirteen names. Listed as the men that are listed. Some some might argue that it's because Joseph and Mary are listed, and so together that would be 14 names. I think probably more likely is he's he counts Jechaniah twice. And there might be a reason for that. If you look back to the book of 2 Kings, Jeconiah is another name for the king Jehoiakim. And so if you look at 2 Kings chapter 24, I'll read a couple passages there. 2 Kings 24, 8 through 12. We're told of Jehoiachin, who is Jechaniah. He was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Nehushta, the daughter of El Nathan of Jerusalem, and he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord according to all that his father had done. At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came up to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged. And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to the city while his servants were besieging it, and Jehoiachin The king of Judah gave himself up to the king of Babylon, himself and his mother and his servants, and the officials, and his palace officials. The king of Babylon took him prisoner in the eighth year of his reign. And jumping down to verse seventeen, we're told that the king of Babylon made Mataniah, Jehochin's uncle, king in his place, and changed his name to Zedekiah And if you look over in in chapter twenty-five, just a few verses later, you see at the end of Second Kings twenty-five that we're told in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin, king of Judah, and in the twelfth month, on the twenty seventh day of the month, evil Meredok, the king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, graciously freed Jehoiachin, King of Judah, from prison And he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon. So Jehoiashin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table, and for his allowance a regular allowance was given him by the king, according to his daily needs, as long as he lived So you have this interesting movement where Jechaniah, also known as Jehoiachin, is is dethroned, taken away prisoner, and someone else is placed on the throne in his place, and yet towards the end of the book he's restored And though he doesn't go back to rule in Judah, he's treated and recognized like a king. And so it's possible that the reason Matthew counts him twice is because he has these two distinct phases of his life, one where he's dethroned and what un one where he is restored. We're not really sure why, other than that, that might be the case. But regardless, Matthew is clear that he sees this structure as three sets of fourteen. And I think probably the most likely reason is that there's this ancient way of looking at names called gematria. And it can be it can be certainly overblown and used way too often in understanding the Old Testament. The essential point is this, that every letter in the Hebrew alphabet was assigned a numeric value. And so you could add up the numeric value of each of those letters and find the numeric value of a word And I think it's no accident that the numeric value of David in Hebrew is 14. And so I think the reason that Matthew structures this 14, 14, 14, is he's just driving home that point. This is the rightful heir to David's throne. This is the son of David. This is who Jesus is. He's driving this home. Jesus is the son of David. So that's the structure, the the overarching structure of this genealogy. Let's look at the people in the genealogy. We've already said that Matthew's tracing the line of succession, and so he skips some of the people. And as you read through the names, it's it's somewhat of a mixed bag. Some are godly men, some are wicked men, like Manasseh. There's Some that you read of that that well-known stories come to mind, the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. You see Judah, the the tribe that Jesus comes from, the tribe that that was prophesied to be the kingly tribe. We see David himself, we see Zerubbabel who functions in a really important role there after the exile. So some of these names are are familiar. Others of them are are more obscure. But but looking at most of the men on this list, it's not overly clear why he might have included some but left others out. But what is interesting is to notice that he doesn't only include men. And that alone is an amazing thing in the ancient world where genealogies would have been traced through the father's line. He specifically mentions women, which is a significant and uncommon thing, but he doesn't mention the women that you might expect. If I were to list Jesus' line and include women, I would I would have listed names like Sarah, Abraham's wife, Rebekah, the wife of Isaac, or Leah, one of Jacob's wives. But that's not who we get in this list. Before Mary, there's four women listed, Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba. It's an interesting list of of people. You can read about Tamar's story in Genesis 38, but she's she's known as the s the the daughter-in-law of Judah who dresses as a prostitute to seduce her father-in-law and have children. Goes on to to Rahab, who was the the prostitute there in uh in in Canaan when they came into Jericho and was a prostit she's a prostitute there but She saved the spies as they came in to spy out the land and and evidently becomes part of the people of Israel. Evidence is she she leaves her former way of life. But but this is who she is In the Old Testament, she's a significant figure in that portion of God's word. Tamar, Rahab, and then it goes to Ruth. Ruth is interesting in that she's she seems to be a woman of great character, and yet we have to also remember that the very fact that an Israelite married her would have been sinful. You were not to marry outside of the people of God. You were not to marry a Canaanite, and and Ruth is from Moab. Ruth's father-in-law was named Elimelech. Which means my God is king. And yet instead of acting like that, when things got difficult, he packed up with his family, left the promised land, and went out into the land of Moab, where he gave his sons to marry Moabite women. And though and after uh Ruth's husband died, he she returned with her mother-in-law Naomi to Israel and meets Boaz, who who redeems her and marries her and becomes her husband, and then she finds her place in David's line, and ultimately we find out here in Jesus' line. The last woman mentioned isn't even mentioned by name, the wife of Uriah, which is a reference to Bathsheba. And we that's a well-known story from God's word, but David the king saw her bathing from the rooftop and had her brought to himself and committed adultery with her. and then tried to cover it up and when that failed he ended up having Uriah, her husband, murdered And though it's it's unclear in God's word to what degree Bathsheba was a willing participant in this and to what degree she was a victim in this. It does emphasize David's sin. By calling her the wife of Uriah, it mentions that Jesus' line passed through because David had a child with another man's wife. But it also emphasizes that Uriah was a Hittite, who is a Gentile. And even though Bathsheba was likely from the people of Israel, she would have been counted as a Gentile because she married a Gentile. And that's one of the things that ties all four of these women together. All four of them are Gentiles, not Jews. And that's because Jesus is not just the son of David, he's also the son of Abraham, the one in whom all nations will be blessed. And that's evidenced by the fact that he has Gentiles in his lineage. It also is a significant thing in that it doesn't minimize the reality of our sin. That though Jesus was sinless, he came from a long line of sinners. And as we'll see next week, he came to save his people from their sins. Even though God's people sinned along the way, they couldn't frustrate or unravel God's plans. To send the seed of the woman to crush the head of the serpent. And to roll back the curse. And in the fullness of time, God sent his son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those. who were under the law. The people in this genealogy tell an important story for us about who Jesus is. Third, the pattern. And just really briefly the pattern. Notice the the pattern that happens here. So-and-so was the father of so-and-so, was the father of so-and-so, was the father of so-and-so. The old King James says, Abraham begat, Isaac begat J Joseph or Jacob. It goes on in that way. Thirty-nine times in a row, so and so was the father of so-and-so was the father of so and so. No variation, no change, just thirty-nine times until verse sixteen The pattern is broken. Because you expect to read that Jacob was the father of Joseph, the father of Jesus, but that's not what you see What we're told is Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born. It's like Matthew is driving down the highway and all of a sudden just pulls the wheel to the left to avoid any chance of saying that Joseph was Jesus' earthly father. Matthew is hinting at the point that we'll make even more clearly in the next passage that we'll look at next week, but he's making this point. Jesus had no human father. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Matthew highlights all of these things from the genealogy because he's trying to make a theological message about who Jesus is. So I just want to draw out three things for us that Matthew tells us about who Jesus is as we look at this genealogy. The first is this: Jesus is completely unique. He's truly human. He didn't just beam down out of heaven one day. No, he was born of Mary. He comes from a long line of Israelites, the son of Abraham, the son of David. As Matthew makes the case, he is the Messiah, the Christ, the one they've been waiting for. He comes from a long line of Israelites. He's part of the people of God, and yet He's not just the son of David, he is also the Son of God. Truly human, yes, but not merely human. He is God in the flesh, born of woman, and yet existed eternally. He humbled himself, taking on the form of a servant, becoming one of his people. Friends, this is the thing you need to see about Jesus that Matthew wants you to see. There is no one else like him. I love the the way the Song of Songs bring this out in in chapter five. Th the bride is asked, What is your beloved more than another beloved? And she starts off, she says, my beloved is radiant and ruddy, distinguished among ten thousand. Friends, that's what Matthew is saying here. There's no one else like him. Have you known this beloved? Do you delight in the beauty of his uniqueness? People heard him teach and they said, Never spoke a man like this before. And Matthew says, that's because there never was a man like this before. The fullness of God dwelling in human body, joined to a human nature. Grace was poured upon his lips. His robes are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. He's He is utterly unique and beautiful and altogether lovely. This, friends, is who he is. No one else like him. One person, two natures, forever Think about what that means for you. Your flesh now sits on God's throne. A man sits on the throne of God because Jesus is truly man, truly God. In Christ, you have a high priest who knows what it's like to be a man because he is one. And yet he's also Lord of creation, who is without sin. He is utterly unique and yet truly human. Second, Jesus is sinless, and yet he is drawn to sinners. He is not born of a human father. He didn't inherit Adam's guilt or his corruption. He is utterly sinless. And yet Jesus is not afraid to be associated with sinners as one of their descendants. He wasn't afraid to be part of their people. It reminds me of the the story of of the leper that comes to Jesus, and you know leprosy in the ancient world has had the stigma even worse than COVID does today, where you you didn't just want to stay six feet away, you didn't want to touch him with a ten-foot pole. Because it was this disease that was contagious. You were an outcast for all of your life. No one wanted to come near anyone with leprosy. And a leper comes to Jesus and says, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus doesn't say, stay back. No, Jesus reaches out his hands and touched him. Said, I will. Be clean. He's not afraid of being stained by our sin. Friends, that is good news for us because he didn't just feel the way that way about his ancestors. He feels that way about you. He's not it's not just that he was not reluctant to be associated with them, but he is willing to be associated with you and with your sin. Paul says he became sin who knew no sin, that you might become the righteousness of God. To take you as his people, to make you holy. He is not ashamed to call us brothers and sisters, and to take our flesh on him forever, that all eternity Christ will be a man. And you can look at the marks in his hands and in his sides and see how far he was willing to go to be associated with sinners, bearing our shame, bearing our guilt, bearing our punishment for our sin. The great hymn, Man of Sorrows, brings it out. Bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned, he stood and sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah, what a savior. At the end of his perfect life, a life lived fully to God's glory, obedient in every possible conceivable way, doing only what the Father gave him to do, no more, no less. Instead of stepping up to a podium like someone who wins an event in the Olympics and receiving a medal and a crown, hearing an anthem played in celebration of his wonderful achievement. Instead of stepping up and receiving that glory, no, he is nailed to a cross. And as Luther says, it's as if God takes all of our sins and hangs them around his neck. Friends, this is who he is, the sinless, spotless Lamb of God who is yet willing to be identified with your sin for your salvation. That means he's not ashamed to identify with you. No matter where you've been, no matter what you've done, no matter how worthless you might feel about yourself or how worthless other people have made you to feel. Jesus knows everything there is to know about you. He knows the deepest, darkest corners of your soul, and he knows them even better than you know them yourself. And knowing all that, he still says. Come to me. I'll give you rest. Rest from all your guilt that you carry around. Rest from all the shame of what's been done to you. Rest from working so hard, longing for the approval of others. I'll take all your sin upon myself and I'll give you all of my righteousness. In fact, I'll give you my very self. And I'll introduce you to the most tender, loving Father that you can ever imagine. And I'll give you my spirit to guide you and to change you and to seal you. Friends, when you come to him that way, when you come to him like the leper and say, if you will, you can make me clean, there is only one answer that he ever gives to reach out and touch you and say, I will be clean. All you have to do is stop looking elsewhere. To realize that you can't carry your own burdens and to come to Him because He is not ashamed to be identified with us. He's unique. He's drawn to sinners. And finally, he is the one in whom God keeps all of his promises. For the attentive Jew reading the Gospel of Matthew, they will notice how Matthew is saying that Jesus is the answer to all God's promises. He's the son of Abraham. We read that promise that God makes to Abraham in Genesis chapter twelve, where the Lord says to Abraham, Go from your country, your father your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you a great nation. And I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. As we read through the New Testament, it becomes clear that that's not just a promise to Abraham's biological children, but to all nations. Seeing in how Matthew includes the Gentile women for this reason. The New Testament makes clear, as Matthew does, that Jesus is the fulfillment of this promise. That's why Paul says in Galatians 3. That this is the way that Jesus answers. He says, know that it is those who are of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the scripture says, for seeing that God would justify the Gentiles for by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham. the man of faith. And he goes on to say that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit. Through faith. Jesus is the way that God answers all his promises. And we can sometimes forget how important these promises are to you and I, can't we? Because most of us are not ethnically Jewish. We are Gentiles. We have to remember that at one time you and I are the ones who were cut off, apart from God, without hope and without God in the world. But Christ makes the way for us to come in. That's why last week in 1 Timothy we saw that God wants all people, Jews and Gentiles, to be saved. Because Christ is the ransom for Jews and Gentiles alike. Dividing, taking down the dividing wall of hostility. He's the fulfillment of the promise to Abraham. He's also the fulfillment of the promise to David the King. Matthew makes clear that Jesus is the Christ, which is the Greek word for anointed or Messiah. God made that promise to Abraham in 2 Samuel 7 that he would always have a son to sit on God's throne. We've already seen that Matthew makes clear that Jesus is that son, he is the heir to David's throne. People had all kinds of expectations of this son of David that would come, the long-awaited Messiah who would bring deliverance to the people. They had ma they had massive misunderstandings of what that meant, and Matthew, throughout his gospel, is seeking to correct some of those misunderstandings. But he makes the point right off the bat, he is that Messiah. He might look different than you expected, but that is who he is. Matthew connects Jesus to Abraham and David to say The one you've been waiting for, he's here. It's the same thing that Paul says, that Jesus is the yes and amen to all of God's promises. He is the one in whom they come true and are made sure. Jesus is like this funnel. All of God's blessings and promises flow only through him. He is the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through him. Everything that God is for you, he is for you in Christ and no other way. That's why the message of the gospel has never merely been repent of your sins or be holy as God is holy. Those are important, essential components of the gospel. But we can't reduce the gospel to only those things because There's no way that we could find a workaround to get to the benefits of salvation apart from Christ. No, the message of the gospel is this: come to Christ and receive all the benefits that are available in him. Kiss the Son. Believe in Him. Call upon His name and you will be saved. I'm troubled by how often I hear people speak about God in this vague and and general way and yet they never mention the name of Christ. You and I can set the bar so low sometimes and it's it's understandable because we have We have people in our lives that we long to see come to know Christ, but we can we can just look for any evidence that someone says they pray or they believe in God. And we uh we want to make ourselves assume that they must be Christians. But no, if you don't love Christ, if you don't believe in Christ, if Jesus Himself is not central to your faith, then the Bible says you're not a Christian. If you're not in Christ, God is not your Father. No matter how fond of him you might be, Jesus is central to God's plan. He is the one in whom God keeps his promises. He is the one who offers himself to you with all of his benefits if you will only but come to him and rest. That is who Jesus is. Who is he? That's the question that we all need to remember. And it's important to understand what he came to do We're going to explore that some next week as we see that he came to save his people from his sins. But what he did only matters because of who he is. He is the son of Abraham, the son of David, the Son of God. He is the yes and amen to all of God's promises. He is the one who is utterly unique, God and man, sinless, and yet offers himself to sinners. Friends, make it your goal this Christmas season not not merely to remember that a child was born, but to know the one who was born and who invites you to come to him that you might have life. Let's pray together. Our father, we need you Apart from you, we are groping around in the dark with no hope of saving ourselves, of fixing anything that's wrong in our lives, and we thank you that you haven't left us to do that, but you've sent your Son. into the world and with your son have poured out your spirit that we might know you, that we might find life in his name. And we pray, O Lord, that you would fill us with a a holy longing to know Christ. To know him more deeply, to love him, not merely to be content knowing things about him and what he's done, but to know who he is, the things that that make his heart beat for us and how he loves us. And all the pleasures and riches that are found in His presence. May you fill us with a greater love for our Savior, Holy Spirit. We pray this in His name. Amen.