Good morning. The word of the Lord this morning is coming from Deuteronomy chapter six. We're continuing to finish up this chapter. We will read from verse 10. to the end of the chapter. And I will ask you if you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy word? Deuteronomy 6, 10 to the end. And when the Lord your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you with great and with great and good cities that you did not build. And houses full of all good things that you did not fill, and cisterns that you did not dig, and vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant When you eat and are full, then take care lest you forget the Lord, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and out of slavery, out of the house of slavery. It is the Lord your God you shall fear, him you shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are round you, for the Lord your God in your midst is a jealous God. Lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth. You shall not put the Lord your God to test. To the test, as you tested him at Massah. You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God and his testimonies and his statutes which he has commanded you And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that he may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land That the Lord swore to give to your fathers by thrusting out all your enemies from before you as the Lord has promised When your son asks you in time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes and the rules that the Lord your God has commanded you? Then you shall say to your son. We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed signs and wonders and great and grievous against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household before our eyes. And he brought us out from there that he might bring us in and give us the land that he swore to give to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes To fear the Lord our God for our good always, that it might he He might preserve us alive as we are this day. And there will be righteousness for us if we are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God as He has commanded. The word of the Lord this morning. Lord, you indeed are good to us. You are so good to us that you've not only called us from our sin and saved us, you've given us your word, continues to instruct us on how we ought to live and what we should do. And so we do ask this morning, as we consider these words, the Lord your Holy Spirit would encourage us, would help us to understand The things that we are reading and hearing this morning. And may it be a blessing to all of us. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated If something is important to you, you will remember it. Right? If something is important to you, you will remember it. Now I know on your phones or whatever gadgets you may have, you have something called a calendar. You have reminders on your electronic gadgets. A reminder that tells you or reminds you of important things like appointments Anniversaries, birthdays, text messages, someone liked a picture on your Facebook or something Or someone posted something that you are interested. You have all these reminders on your gadgets so that you may not forget what is important in your life. Now the interesting thing when I actually think about all the gadgets and notifications that we have on our emails and on our computers and everything else, I I actually do think that we've become more forgetful that we have all these reminders. Isn't it funny that we have all these things that remind us what we're supposed to be doing and yet we are becoming ever more forgetful? There's so much information that fills our our minds, our phones, our computers, our TVs. Everywhere you look, there's a ton of information for us to process, and to me most of it is junk And instead of us reminding instead of us being reminded of the most important things, or should I say, the most important thing in life, we tend to forget. And what is that? We tend to forget our God. And that is especially the case when life seems to be going well for us. When things are smooth sailing, when we feel like we have everything that we ever needed, we forget That's our passage this morning. That's the warning that God's people are being given not to forget the goodness of their God. Why Because whether things are going well or not going so well, we must always keep in mind that we have one God who provides everything that we need in life. That's important And we'll see why. We must remember a God or our God who provides everything that we need in life. See, as we read in verses ten here, we see God's people are uh recollecting, they're the they're they're remembering, recalling certain things. Actually Okay, so they know what God promised them that you're going to to to this place, you're going to be this great nation, you're going to possess this land that God promised to the patriarchs. But also remembering the Exodus They're remembering how God has saved them from slavery, that miraculous and amazing outstretched hand of the Lord their God who performed all these mighty miracles to to bring out their ancestors from the Egyptians. And finally, they're also remembering their responsibility as God's people, their obedience, that their responsibility as covenant people is to obey the Lord their God. And then here in verses eleven through twelve we see our promise that God is actually telling them there's something that awaits them There is an agricultural, an agrarian civilization that weighs God's people. Remember God's people are not uh farmers. Okay? So here is an agrarian civilization, a new civilization, that awaits them. But see how it awaits them? They have absolutely nothing to do with it They did not work for it. They did not put any labors of their own to achieve this particular uh civilization that God has prepared for them. In fact the language of verse ten is this, and when, not if you possess the land, but when you come when you possess this land. It is God, their king, their master, who is acting in their own royal obligation by acquiring this land on their on their own, uh, for their on their own behalf. And then he says you are going to find all these systems that you did not dig, all this all these trees flourishing and vineyards and cities that have been built All waiting for you. And then he says, when you have eaten and been satisfied, and here comes the warning. Be careful. Guard your hearts. Do not forget the Lord your God. Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God. See, this is an already accomplished thing that God has done for them. That God's people don't have to put any work, any effort into achieving this land that God is promising them. But you notice the things that God is telling them Already there for them to possess, it's actually everything that's needed for life. Everything that they need in their life in the new land that they're about to possess. And the idea here is plenty will bring with it the temptation to forget the giver, the one who gave all these things to you. The temptation Is that God's people will enter into this promised land, they will enjoy and have pleasure in all these earthly possessions and completely forget the gift that God has given to them Them. They will forget that the land that they're about to achieve it was a gift of God's love to them, but also a fulfillment of a promise that God had already made. And so the richness of land, a land that as we saw last week, a land that is flowing with milk and honey, which is really a reference to a land that is just rich and fertile and just all the blessings you could ever think of. That this idea of having all these things provided to you can lull you into having an attitude of forgetfulness. Which could be disastrous for the people. Now we we know this so well as we think about our own lives, right? How often do we spend time fasting and praying for something only to receive it and then turn around and completely forget where it came from? We stop praying. We stop being thankful to God. We stop acknowledging God's gracious providence for our lives. And this idea here of do not forget does flow naturally from a requirement for God's people to be faithful to God, to worship only Him. Look at verse 13. Together. And what he says here, it is the Lord your God, you shall fear him, you shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. That God's people are supposed to live this life that is characterized by holy fear and reverence of their God, which is the root of all obedience and the and the actually the basis of our attitude towards God. To be loyal in our service, in their service to God, but above all, to make God as the God who guarantees everything that they do in their life. That's the language of swearing here. It's that God is the grantor of integrity and honesty in all of God's people understand Taking. That's the idea. Now, we all know as we as we flip flip through through the pages of the Old Testament, we know the truth about God's people, right? The history of the Israelites, right? They were the most faithful people, right Their life was was based upon their not forgetfulness but always remembering how good is, right? Absolutely no. I mean Old Testament is just replete with examples of how God's people suffered from this horrible sickness of Of uh forgetfulness. Amos 5, Hosea 2. I mean you look at all the prophets, even here as they're about to to to acquire the land, they will soon forget What about church history? Right? Church history is filled with after the Israelites and in the New Testament, God's church moves with this excitement of always remembering God is good, right? What about us? What about us today? We are people who never forget God, right? I wish that was true. You know, you know a day uh we're filled with this thing called Christian nominalism, right? Nominal Christians. It just seems like in our prosperity the church has completely forgotten who God is You know it it's so easy for us to talk to people, maybe not here, but it's so easy to talk to people out there and and and you talk to them and you realize oh you're a Christian. Oh yeah I'm a Christian And then you watch their life and you start scratching your head. Because it's so easy for us to profess faith and to profess Christ, but it becomes a totally different thing for us to walk the talk. I lived in the south. Well Florida really doesn't count as count as the south, but we'll say it's the south. And it's so easy to meet everybody that I met and people follow you a pastor. Oh great, brother. Well I'm I'm a Christian. Oh where do you attend church? Oh twenty years ago I used to attend Holy Spirit transformation revival grace church. I don't go there no more. Are you a Christian? Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. I watch Joel Austin on TV Or anybody else for that matter. See the vividness of verse thirteen is really here showing us the people were rescued from slavery from into freedom. That's the reminder here that the God rescued his people from slavery so that they may enjoy an intimate relationship with their God. You see, God is here acting as a good king, as a good master, as opposed to Pharaoh. By the way, remember, Pharaoh was considered a god in Egyptian religion, right? And so God is saying, I've rescued you. Remember your liberation from such an oppressive king. And understand that you have been brought here into safety, into freedom, so that you may only worship and fear and serve me And those three ideas are actually how, in a positive way, God's people are reminded to remember God. That's how you remember God, by fearing Him, by serving Him And by making him the garantor of all of your undertakings in in life. You see, there's a tragic thing when we forget The tragedy we see here as as God's people reminded is that if you forget, you are going to turn yourselves to other gods in the land around you. And the idea here is that forgetting the mercies of God leaves a vacuum in our hearts that leads to idolatry. That's what we do. When we forget the mercies of God, when we forget who we are in Christ, when we forget what He has done for us, we are leaving a vacuum, we're leaving a room in our hearts to start toying with idolatry. And so for God's people here, it's actually even more dangerous that for them to forget God's goodness and his deliverance was like going back to Egypt and placing themselves under the authority And the leadership and kingship of Pharaoh himself. It was unfaithfulness. It was denying their own God and saying, We want to go back to where you brought us from. Let us be under the kingship of this king. It's rejecting God's grace that has already been given to them. Now we wouldn't want to do that, would we? When we forget God and what He has done for us, that's what we're doing. We're turning to other things. Things that replace Him as our Lord and King, the very things that He has given to us, to deliberately forget God. Is equivalent to denying and rejecting his sovereignty in our lives. And that's why he says in verse 15, it amounts to facing God's judgment because he's a jealous God as we sang this morning. And jealousy, we've talked about this right before. Jealousy is not just a a mean God who says, Well I I don't I don't want you to be with someone else, you know, I don't want to see you with you know going to another God. God's jealousy is for you. It's because God knows that by you placing yourself under another king that does not love you and care for you, you are destroying your life. It's for your safety. Now I think that the main thing here for us to understand as I said we'll you know we'll see what that what this means to uh to not forget a God who provides everything for us. I think it's important to understand that God's creative power that He has Is seen in terms of how God is able to give plenty, and that God has the right to determine who gets what. That it is God who is able to give to one at the expense of another. So he chooses to bless Israel. And I think that's a huge concept for us to remember, especially in this particular passage. As we look at our own lives and how God has blessed us. That we must be careful not to have the temptation that comes to us that we think we have because we have worked ever so hard. Not to be tempted to think we have because there's something we've done in it of ourselves, and that's why we're deserving. Not to think that we have because we are special. See, God does reward good work and hard work, doesn't he? God does give us gifts and talents. But let us not forget that he is the one who determines And you know what, brothers and sisters? Sometimes some of the hardest working people do not get the same measure of blessings as we do. And remembering God's goodness, I think it's important for us to help us and to keep us trusting in Him. That God is the one who provides all the things that we need. That it helps us guard our hearts against pride and arrogance and independence. And boasting when we have. It helps us to depend fully on God and on His grace and be grateful to Him. That we're able to look back and see where He has brought us and be gracious, be grateful to Him. And avoid the temptation of turning to things that will not satisfy us. See, God's people do not just forget That it is God who provides all that they need for their life. God's people also forgot that it is God who keeps his promises. They forgot the God who keeps his promises. Look at verses 16. See, the people got not only forgot God's providence But here they're give they're being given a warning to not test the Lord. And what is testing God, anyways? How are they testing God? You see, to test God is to check his capacity to deliver. Is he really able to deliver? Can he really do it? Is he able to keep the promises that he that he has made? And Moses is here pointing to them to an event that happens in Exodus chapter 17, verse 7. We'll look at it in a second. But here testing involved whether God could actually take them safely from slavery and into the wilderness and into the promised land If you go back in chapter 17 of Exodus, verse 3, you see it's also here that God's people actually started being tempted in thinking, actually not even thinking, hallucinating, so to speak. That somehow Egypt was better than the pros prospect that led ahead. I mean, isn't it funny that God's people would start complaining to God after seeing the ten plagues, the blood, the the the gnats, the the locusts and the and the frogs and all these things happening and them crossing the Red Sea. I mean A huge city that's being divided and peop God's people able to walk through and they're saved and all of a sudden here they are, they're eating man and they're like, Man, what is this stuff that we're eating? And then they start hallucinating, thinking Man, we ate leeks and cucumbers and meat. We had all that stuff. What you forgot about all the slavery and labor and torture One commentator puts it this way, he said To test God is to impose conditions on God and to make his response uh to the people's demands in the hour of of crisis the condition of their continuing to follow. Do you hear that? It's like saying, you don't show up and show me that this is true. I'm not gonna follow you. Well then you'll be dead. I mean that that that was it for God's people. Now going back to Exodus 17, 7, what was the problem? God's people needed water. I mean water is important, right? So they asked Moses to produce water. We w we need water now. So God commands Moses and tells him about the rock and hit the rock and you get the water and stuff like that and But do you know what they say? What's the question that they ask in that particular passage? Is the Lord among us or not? Is the Lord among us or not? It's a presumption. It's a presumption that demanded God to prove Himself. You prove yourself to us, prove your presence and your power to us, and then maybe we maybe maybe we will believe you Remember when Jesus was being tempted by Satan? And he quotes scripture to Satan. The idea here we see that testing God is unbelief. Testing God is an act of unbelief. It is refusing to acknowledge that God will deliver on his promises that He has made to us. See, God's people doubted that He would take them to the promised land. By the way, Who came up with the idea of the promised land? It was them, right? By the way, who initiated their salvation Who called them? It was them, right? They oh, maybe we should even go here. Who made them? See, we must be very careful. Because I know even in my own life we I do live in unbelief. Here's a couple of questions for us to consider. In what ways do you think you're living in unbelief and refusing to obey God because you are afraid that God will not do what he says he will do? In what ways are our hearts filled with mummering, unbelieving murmuring before God, because we feel like God has somehow refused to take some kind of distress immediately that we are we may be going through See, such an attitude of unbelief is contrary to faith. That's not what we're called to. See, God has offered a sign for us on what it means to be a people of faith. To live in such an attitude is to propose a substitute, a substitute that is only acceptable to us and to others. It is doubting God's sovereignty in the hour of crisis of need. And we're seeking to gain the initiative, we're seeking to have the upper hand, so to speak, we're seeking to compel God to prove Himself by some spectacular sign or deed so that we may believe Him. And sometimes we do have these demands that God satisfy our own cravings and our own wants And that's what leads us to test him, to test if he is able to deliver on his promises, to provide for us. And many times we are filled with so much impatience with God, we just wouldn't let up. We have incessant complaining that we'll not stop. That's me, guilty as charged. Because Friends, here's my problem. Maybe you don't struggle with this, but I do. Do you ever ask the question, is the redemption that you're experiencing all that is promised in it? Is that all that we get in salvation? This is what I mean. I mean, I thought the Christian life was supposed to be this easy thing that we do. I mean, ask me. That's what I thought. I mean, don't I have the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords as my God? I mean, isn't He the one who is majestic? And powerful, he can crush all of his enemies in just an instant. Isn't he the God that I serve? Then if he is, you tell me then, how come I don't always have instant victory over my sins How come I don't have overcome every trial that I face in my life? How come that I watch and see broken relationships every day? Why do we struggle with sickness? Why Maybe I'm the only one complaining here, but let me complain for a little bit. It's hard for me to think about the Christian life and and just all the things that we have to deal with and and the and the brokenness. And again I stand here on the pulpit every Sunday and here we are. We are still struggling with sin, trial, and brokenness. Is that all redemption promises? Do you remember Jesus in Matthew 12 and Mark 8, when Jesus refuses to perform signs to the scribes and Pharisees? He's a kicker for us. And maybe I need to hear this every day of my life: that God doesn't need to prove Himself to me more than He has already done on the cross. God has fully demonstrated his goodness. His love, his providential care through the redemption of our sin. That there is no sign that speaks louder and better than the love of Jesus Christ seen on the cross. And you know, he doesn't call us to a blind face, does he? See that's the thing. That's the mistake I make when I complain, is that all the redemption promises My problem is I'm thinking that I'm being called to this blind faith, to this, to this unknown, to darkness, and to all these other things. Well, no, no, no, no, no, that's not the truth. God calls us to a firm foundation that is Jesus Christ. He calls us to remember what Christ has done for us to deliver us, not just in the exodus that He promises people, but He promises that He will bring about salvation to all people, to us And he calls us to rest upon him. See if that faith, if that foundation is so good and so true, that's why they're supposed to pass it on to their children. As we see here in verses 20, when your son asks you in time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and statutes? Okay. Tell them a story. I mean, what child does not like a story? And what set what story do you tell them? You recite to them. God's deliverance. You tell them God saved us from sin. slavery. He brought us out in the wilderness. He has brought us here where we are. He is always leading us. He's always doing all these things. Now you understand that this idea of this question and the answer does imply that there's a healthy relationship That is going on between the children and their parents, or father and son, which implies that these people are keeping the what commandment? The fifth commandment. It is the essence of covenant theology, isn't it? That God reveals to us, God reveals Himself to us. In his word and in his actions. And that they both show him as a God who has a purpose for our life and a God who has true concern for us. But as well as a responsibility. And that's the idea of righteousness. It's the idea of right standing. with God, an intimate relationship with God. It's not some legalistic thing, you know, blessings and then you you're right. Now, what's the purpose then of parents explaining the nature and the meaning and the object of the law that God has given to them? What is it? What could be the purpose of that? It is this. It is to awaken in their children a deep, deep love of God. Now you may wonder why this the source huge thing is on here together with testing God. There's a reason. Disobedience is testing God. You know how? So God says that He is the just and holy God who will punish sin. When we deliberately disobey God, you know what we're doing? We're testing to see what's what are you going to do? I'm gonna break this thing. What are you gonna do? So in essence, the parents are actually in a sense saving their own children From facing judgment, from facing God's wrath, by pointing them to the love of God. Do you need a reminder this morning? You've got your notifications turned on, ready to receive your text messages and your Facebook post and everything else? We need a reminder. Not a reminder of all these things that are going on around us. We need a reminder that you have been wondrously saved from sin and death by Jesus Christ, and He is the one who promises that He will always sustain us. By providing for every need, that we will obey him in every circumstance. But you know what? Our reminder is really good for us because God wants us to be enthralled by what he has done for us in redemption. Do you know where you were before you got here? Do you know what he has done for you? God wants you to be captivated, not just to be enthralled by what He has done, but for you to be super captivated by what awaits you in the end of the journey. And I can tell you, it's a beautiful thing. I hope that we may live today to testify about all the good that the Lord has done for us. He really has been good to me. I know that for sure. There's an old African American spiritual that says we've come this far by faith Leaning on his word, trusting in him. See, Jesus has never failed us. He's not going to start He who began a good work in us will be faithful to complete it. So don't you forget him. Father, we do come to you this morning and we are thankful. That you're reminding us to recite, to meditate, to think about To cherish, to be filled with memories of where you have brought us. And Lord, we can all testify to how good you've been to us. Would that be our motivation for us to live for you every day? To thank you, to honor you, to love you, to fear you. And to be guided by you in all that we do. Thank you for your word this morning. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.