Well good morning. We're continuing on in our study of the Gospel of John this morning, and we'll be reading from John chapter 5, verses 1 to 18. So if you have your Bibles, I invite you to open there with me. You can find it also on the Pew Bibles on the page listed in the bulletins. So let's stand as we honor the reading of God's Word from John chapter 5. Hear God's word. After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool, in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed One man was there, who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed, and walk. And at once the man was healed. He took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, The man who healed me, that man, said to me, Take up your bed and walk. They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk? Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, and there was a crowd in that place. Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus. Because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him Because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. God, we come before you now reminded just how desperately we need you. And we need you every hour. Even as we pray for you to give us our daily bread, we're reminded of the thing that we need even more is to feed on every word that comes from your mouth. And so, Lord, we come to you hungry and needy, asking that you would satisfy us by speaking to us through your word and applying it to our heart our hearts and our lives. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things from your law. We come asking you, O Lord, speak, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. We've been studying in John's Gospel for a couple of months now, and it's been really interesting to see the early stages of Jesus' ministry and how he's being met with with a response. And you see, in in all these interactions that he has in the first four chapters of of the gospel, according to John, nearly every response he gets is Somewhat generally positive. People are curious and inquisitive about who Jesus is and what he's there, what he's all about. But up until this point, generally speaking, he's gotten somewhat of a positive response. But all of that begins to change as we move into John chapter 5. And we'll see that that the response that used to be one of curiosity and interest and Generally positive moves now towards a response of persecution and opposition. And before we look at the chapter, it's interesting to see here that Jesus really isn't acting all that differently. But the response has changed. People are looking to Jesus for the wrong things and not seeing their true need for him. And I think as we read through this chapter, these verses this morning, John wants us to see that you and I will never rightly respond to Jesus until we first see our need for him. We will never respond rightly to Jesus until we see our need for him. And so we need to look at our hearts and ask ourselves, What is it that we're looking to Jesus for? What do we want him to give to us? And I think we'll see as we go through this chapter two common mistakes that you and I often make. The first is that we can often find ourselves looking to Jesus simply to change our circumstances instead of to bring salvation. And secondly, we can find ourselves in a place where we think all we need is the law rather than a Lord to rule over our lives. So let's first look at verses 1 through 9. We'll see we must look to Jesus to bring salvation. Not just to change our circumstances. Jesus has been in Galilee. You'll notice that John's gospel is a little bit different from Matthew, Mark, and Luke in the way it's structured. In that in John's Gospel, Jesus goes back and forth to Jerusalem. John is showing, he's filling in the gaps that's left in some of the other gospel accounts, showing that Jesus traveled a few times back and forth between Jerusalem. So most recently he'd gone back through Samaria and met the Samaritan woman at the well, and then he was in Galilee where he healed the official son. And now we're told that there's a feast in Jerusalem. To fulfill his obligation to come and celebrate the feast. And in verses 2 and 3, John begins by giving us a little bit of a historical background about this pool, where we're told that there was a pool by the sheepgate. The pool was called Bethesda. You might have heard it in different other ways, maybe Beth Seda. Bethesda is the most common translation that we have, and it means house of mercy or house of outpouring. And this pool, they've actually found it. Archaeologists have discovered it. It's a little bit north-northeast of the Temple Mount, not too far away from the Temple itself. Evidently, by this pool, there were five porches or roofed colonnades areas where various sick people would come and lay, people who were blind, lame, or paralyzed. And it seems, actually, as we read through this passage, that there was a belief about this pool that it had healing properties, that at certain intervals the water was Stirred up. We're not exactly sure how it happened, whether it was some sort of natural spring or some water flowing from other sources that stirred up the water. But there was some sort of a belief That as this water was stirred up, there were healing properties that were in the water, and the first person down into the water would be healed. And actually, if you look at this passage, you can see the explanation for that. You'll notice as you read through this passage. It goes from verse 3 all the way to verse 5. There is no verse 4 in most of your Bibles. But you'll see a footnote there And if you read really the the teeny print at the bottom, you'll see that the footnote says that as as people would come and lay by this pool We're told that some manuscripts insert the following words. They would lay there waiting for the moving of the water, for an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred the water. Whoever stepped in first after the stirring of the water was healed of whatever disease he had. Now while there's some manuscripts that we have that would insert that verse there. The oldest manuscripts and the best manuscripts that we have available to us don't show evidence of that verse being part of the original text that John actually wrote Um and so on the one hand we wanna we wanna say it's it's certainly possible that God could have used this water supernaturally to heal, right? God has the power to heal. He often works through angels to accomplish his purposes It's not at all impossible that this was the case with this water. But we're actually saying God's word doesn't actually tell us that that's what this uh about what was the case. Evidently it's simply a a common belief that was held, and we'll see the man who's healed held that belief. And so probably the best explanation is that at some point in the copying process, a scribe tried to give like an explanatory note in the margin that somehow uh found its way in. But It's actually just as a side note, just a real testament to the wealth of manuscript evidence we have to God's Word that we can even know this. That the only reason we can know these things about God's Word is because it is the most well-attested document Of any ancient source. And we have over 5,000 Greek manuscripts, and it allows us, in God's providence, to know exactly what John wrote and what he didn't write. And that is such a true blessing. So rather than Uh shaking your confidence in God's word, it ought to boost your confidence that we can know with certainty what God has said when he has spoken in his word. And so there's there's this maybe as we look through this verse, we'll see that there is this belief in some sense about the pool, but it's important for us to notice That the focus of the passage is not on the pool at all, but on Jesus' miracle. Because when he does come and heal this man, he doesn't use the water at all. So Jesus comes to the pool and he sees this man who had been sick for 38 years. And he comes and he asks him a somewhat strange question. Do you want to be healed? Might seem like an odd question to someone who's been lame or crippled for 38 years. Of course he wants to be healed. But I think the man's answer actually begins to reveal why Jesus asked the question. You see, he thinks Jesus is talking only about his legs. He thinks Jesus is speaking only about physical healing. And so he responds, Sir, I have no one to help me into the water. Before I can get there, someone always gets in there ahead of me. It seems that the rules at this pool were every man for himself. No one was going to help him into the water. So he might be thinking, maybe this nice guy who's asking if I want to be healed, maybe the next time the water gets stirred up, he'll be kind enough to help me in and allow me to get healing. But as we see, Jesus clearly has other plans. We'll see this in a moment, but Jesus is looking deeper than merely physical healing. But Jesus does bring physical healing. He heals him powerfully and decisively. It's immediate. Get up, take up your bed, and walk. The one who upholds the universe with the word of his power speaks healing into this man's life by the power of his word. And he's healed at once, and he gets up and he walks. Just imagine for a moment the joy and the excitement that this man would have felt. He hadn't walked in nearly 40 years. And now in an instant, he is completely healed. Jesus can truly do the impossible, can't He? He can do more than we can even imagine. He can bring blessings into our lives that we might never even think to ask for. This man could never have even begun to think that he might be healed in an instant. He couldn't lift his mind any higher than the pool that was in front of him And yet this man's life completely changed in an instant. Before he even realized what was happening, he had been healed. And the man responds by taking up his bed and walking. It's so interesting here to see that he doesn't actually even know who healed him. We're told later that Jesus withdrew because there was a crowd in the place. But that doesn't mean Jesus was done with him yet. It's interesting that there's no mention in this account of faith at all. So often when Jesus heals someone and In the Gospels, there's a mention that it's it's your faith has made you well. Or the response, even just as Pastor Josiah preached last week, the response to the healing is that many came to faith and believed in Jesus, and yet it's strikingly absent from this account. In fact, as we said, he didn't even know who Jesus was, let alone come to believe in him. So Jesus comes back to talk with him again, and he says in verse 14, Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. Now, there's all kinds of different opinions as to exactly what Jesus means when he says this. On the one hand, several people think that Jesus is suggesting that at some point in the past, 38 years ago, this man sinned. And as a result, he was crippled and suffered. And so Jesus is saying, don't do it again. Or you don't know what's going to happen to you. I think it's important for us to acknowledge that we live in a fallen, broken world. And on the one hand, all suffering is the consequence of sin. We wouldn't suffer if sin didn't exist. But that doesn't mean that every time you and I suffer, it's the direct result of some sin that we have committed. Scripture teaches that that is certainly possible, but it's not always true, and I would actually go on to say it's not even the most likely scenario. We just live in a fallen world and very often suffering comes to us just as it did with Job, with no real cause in our own lives, other than in God's providence, He chooses to allow it to happen. And so I think maybe a more helpful way to understand what Jesus is saying is to hear him as saying, no longer continue in sin, that nothing worse may happen to you. You see, then it becomes a statement about the man's spiritual condition. He's saying, you might have been physically healed, but you're not at peace with God. There's a deeper healing that needs to take place here. Not just your body, but your soul needs to be restored. Jesus is saying, don't keep living in sin because then something much worse will happen. Being crippled for 38 years is bad enough. But it would be far worse to spend eternity suffering under God's judgment, under his righteous anger, being separated from his loving presence forever. He's saying you don't just need physical healing. You need to be healed from your sin. You need to be reconciled to God. And sadly, I think we see this man's actions seem to reveal that he's not all that interested in the deeper healing that Jesus has to offer. Look at how he responds. When he's confronted by the Jewish leaders, he immediately shifts the blame to Jesus. Don't look at me. The man who healed me told me to carry my bed. Maybe that's not convincing by itself, but look again, once Jesus comes back to him and reveals himself to him, look at his response. No mention of faith, no mention of belief. Instead, what does he do? Goes back to the Jews and says It was Jesus that did it. He's trying to win favor for himself with the Jewish leaders, and as a result, throws Jesus under the bus for healing him. This man was only interested in Jesus for how Jesus could change his circumstances. But he didn't want Jesus to touch his heart. Do you ever feel like that? We do live in a broken world. Life can be so difficult. And suffering, you don't have to live very long to realize that suffering is real. Might suffer from a broken relationship, a strained relationship with your children or with your spouse. You might deal with chronic pain that just won't go away. Maybe it's a terminal illness that the doctors say there's no hope. It could be some other conflict. You could just be suffering under the weight of crushing anxiety or deep depression. Or maybe it's not your suffering, but you're watching a loved one suffer and you just wish they could be well. Friends, so often you and I can find ourselves in a place where we are tempted to look to Jesus merely to save us from our circumstances and to leave us in our sin. Certainly it's not wrong to look to Jesus for relief of our suffering or to change our circumstances. We see that all throughout Scripture. We see that in the Psalms as people cry out to the Lord, asking for relief, and asking, how long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? He can change our circumstances. He can relieve our suffering, and praise the Lord that sometimes he does But I want you to notice from this text, there were a multitude of invalids at the pool. And Jesus healed one. And beyond that, everyone that Jesus healed in his earthly ministry, every blind person that he made to see, every lame person that he made to walk, every leper that he cleansed, every dead person that he raised to life They all died eventually. Their bodies wore out and they went to the grave. Friends, unless Jesus heals your soul and forgives your sin and reconciles you to God, then whatever circumstances He Changes in your life are at best temporary and fleeting. We must keep our suffering in the perspective of eternity. Recognizing that our deepest need, our greatest problem that you and I face is our sin. The sin that separates us from God and seeks to enslave us, the sin that would lead to our death and our destruction. And friends, the good news for us this morning is that Jesus stands ready to heal. Through his life, his death, and his resurrection, he has defeated sin. on the cross and taken away the penalty for sin for all who will come to him in faith and repentance. And beyond that, he gives us his spirit. To break the power of sin in our lives and to help us to live for him. And as if that weren't enough, he then promises that one day he's coming back. And he's going to set everything right. He's going to wipe away every tear. He's going to heal every hurt, right every wrong, and we'll remove the presence of sin from this world forever. But in the meantime, we have to remember that in the same way that physical healing can often be painful, in the same way that a bone might need to be broken before it can be healed. Salvation and spiritual healing come with pain sometimes too. Being refined in the fire gets pretty hot from time to time. And often Christ chooses to save us through our suffering rather than from our suffering. So we must learn to say with Jesus, not my will but yours be done. We need to learn to say with Paul as he dealt with his thorn in the threat of the flesh, three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, Paul can say, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me for the sake Of Christ, then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities, for when I am weak, then I am strong. Go on in another place, and while not denying the reality of suffering, can say, I count the sufferings of this present life not even worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed to us. Church, may you and I learn our deeper need for healing. And may we not merely run from our painful circumstances, but may we allow them to drive us to Christ. The second thing we see is that we need to recognize our need for Jesus, realizing that we need more than a law to simply guide our behavior. We need a Lord to rule over our lives. The first nine verses recount the healing of this man, and now we begin to see the response to it in the following verses. And here's where the plot begins to thicken a little bit. We're told that the day that Jesus healed this man was the Sabbath. And as the man's walking, he meets some of the religious leaders. The language of Jews there is not just meaning he met any Jewish person, but one of the Jewish religious leaders. And they're quick to remind him that he's breaking the law by carrying his bed on the Sabbath day. Now, as you read through the Old Testament, you learn that the Sabbath is a command that God gave to his people, and he develops it throughout the Old Testament in terms of what it looks like for Israel to keep it. Most commonly, we think of it as the fourth commandment in the Ten Commandments: remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. It's a day where we're called to rest from all our work and to devote the day to worship of God. And as we said, the Old Testament fleshes out some guidelines for how Israel must keep it. But there's two important passages that shape the understanding of these Jewish leaders that we need to look at here. The first verse comes from Jeremiah 17, 21 to 22, where God says, Thus says the Lord, take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden On the Sabbath day, or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem, and do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath, or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy as I commanded your fathers. The second verse comes from the Nehemiah 13:15. In those days I saw in Judah people treading wine presses on the Sabbath And bringing in heaps of grain, and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, and I warned them on the day when they sold food You see, in context, both of these passages refer to working on the Sabbath day, doing your job on the Sabbath day, and even more broadly, to commercial activity. And God's teaching his people through these verses that the Sabbath is a day for worship, not for work, not for buying and selling. But compare that to what this man is doing by carrying his mat. He's not doing his job on the Sabbath. He's not going to buy and sell in the market. No, he's just been healed. He hasn't walked in almost 40 years, and he has this bed with him. If he's going to go anywhere, it's got to come with him You see, the Jewish leaders had developed a complex system of rules about what counted as work on the Sabbath, going far beyond the text of Scripture. And as you read Jewish sources, you see that they developed 39 categories of work that counted as work on the Sabbath. These things could include tying or untying a knot, kindling a fire, And relevant to our purposes, carrying something from one domain to another, such as carrying something out of your house onto the street, and beyond that, carrying it more than a certain distance. They had added to God's law and then taken the further step of beginning to view their traditions as equal with the law And so it's important for us to see here that what Jesus commanded the man to do did not actually break the Sabbath, according to the Old Testament. But it violated the tradition of the Jewish leaders. So they confronted this man about carrying his bed on the Sabbath, and we saw his response, pointing the finger to Jesus. But we need to look at what's going on in these leaders with their hearts. You know, there's an irony in the way that they completely miss it. Do you notice it? They don't even care that this man has been healed. Only that he carried his bed on the Sabbath. Notice through the text, the man is described over and over again as the man who had been healed. Every time the man refers to Jesus, he says, the man who healed me did such and such. But the Jews refuse to even say the word healed. They refuse to even mention that he had been healed. All they care is who told you to pick up your bed and walk? Can you see their self-righteousness on display? All they care about is that this man fell short of their standard. They don't acknowledge his healing or even begin to rejoice with him in the greatest thing that's ever happened in his life. So his man goes, finds out that it was Jesus, and comes back and tells them that he had been healed by Jesus. And it leads the Jews to persecute Jesus. We're told because of what he did on the Sabbath, not just commanding the man to carry his bed, but the healing itself. And it's fascinating. Jesus' response makes them even more angry. He says, my father is working until now, and I am working. There's a couple things for us to understand in light of of this response. But the first thing is to say it it wasn't all that unusual for a Jewish person to to say, maybe in the synagogue or or collectively, to speak of God as our Father. That wouldn't have been shocking at all. And yet It would have been pretty unusual for someone to specifically and individually refer to God as my Father in a special sense Jesus is claiming a specific, special relationship with the Father, and they know it. They realize that he's claiming to be equal with God, that Jesus is the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity. God as one being, eternally existing in three persons, Jesus stands in special relationship with his Father, the one who is eternally begotten by him, not created or made, but who has existed from all eternity. He is God Himself and not merely a man. You see, it's clear that the New Testament shows that Jesus absolutely claimed to be God, and everyone knew it. And that was actually the reason they wanted to crucify him. So just as a side comment, the suggestion that Jesus was merely a good teacher is absurd when compared to the evidence in the New Testament of who Jesus claimed to be. He claimed to be God Almighty, the one who had power to heal and the one who had authority to demand obedience. It's not just that he calls God his own father, though It's that he exposes their warped view of the Sabbath. You see, they viewed the Sabbath as a day characterized more by idleness and inactivity. And Jesus says, what about God? Does he break the Sabbath? You see, the point is the Sabbath is rooted in creation, as God created all things in the space of six days and rested on the seventh day, making it holy. But that doesn't mean that God stopped working on the seventh day. You see, he rested from his work of creation, but he never for one moment rested from his work of providence, of preserving and governing all his creatures. and all their actions, of his sovereign rule over the world that he had made. And Jesus is saying, I'm just doing the work of my Father, carrying out his plan of redemption to save his people through me. See, Jesus is saying it's right to do things that glorify God on the Sabbath. That's what Jesus' work was all about, and that's what this healing is about. And in their rage, they sought all the more to kill him. Because they thought that the only thing they needed from God was a little guidance. God just give us the right rules and we'll take it from there. See, these Jewish leaders thought they were fine. They didn't want healing because they didn't think that they needed it. Too often we can tend to forget that we don't just need better information. Or better rules, but we need a change of heart. A heart that is willing to submit to Christ instead of seeking to rule our own lives They thought they were fine on their own, and we see there the danger of trying to obey without seeing your need for God's grace. Friends, we never respond to Jesus rightly until we see our need for Him. And Jesus uses this physical healing to teach us about the sickness of our own hearts. And even as believers, we need this reminder because too often, if we're not careful, we can find ourselves in a place where we can become filled with pride and self-righteousness. Even though we might not want to use these words, we can act as though we deserve God's love. Thinking that we're fine, convincing ourselves that we measure up. That our sin is not that bad, and we're not the ones with the real problems like everyone out in the world. Church, that is a dangerous place for us to be. May we never forget our need for grace. Never forget who we were or where we'd be without Christ. It's good, and it's important to take obedience seriously. It's right to pay close attention to God's law and to seek to follow it as best we can But obedience apart from Christ is worthless. Without God's grace, given to you in Christ, your best deeds and my best deeds will earn us nothing more than hell. Think about it. The whole point of the law was to point us to Christ, to show us our need for Him, and only then to teach us how to live in response to our salvation. It was never intended as a means of salvation. Because you and I are guilty in Adam before we even take our first breath. Only Christ could fulfill the law perfectly, and the law was always meant to point us to Him. That's why Paul can say in Romans ten four, Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. End there is is actually the Greek word telos. Which could be translated as goal. Christ is the goal of the law for righteousness for everyone who believes. The law was always leading to Christ, always pointing to Christ, and by adding to the law, they made it harder for them to see Christ. You see, if they had used the law rightly, they would have seen that the Sabbath was fulfilled in Christ, not broken by him. And we can't go into all the details of our theology of the Sabbath. It seems clear from the New Testament that the Sabbath still continues as the Lord's day, being the Christian Sabbath, the day that God's people are still to observe. But we also need to recognize that the Sabbath rest was always looking forward to the ultimate rest from sin that God would give his people in Christ. But we miss it when we forget that the law points to Jesus and shows us our need for Him. Teaches us to To learn to love him helps us to obey him out of love for him and out of gratitude for our salvation. You know, the question that Jesus asked the crippled man is a question for all of us. Do you want to be healed? Friends, Jesus stands ready to save, ready to make you whole and to make you well. But we need to make sure that we want what Jesus offers. Too often we look for a Jesus who can make life a little more comfortable or just give us a little guidance now and then. But that is not the Jesus of the Bible, and that's not a Jesus who can save. We need the Jesus of Scripture. The Jesus who is not merely some teacher or guru that gives us principles for a better life. We need the one who is the Son of God, the Lord of all the earth. This Jesus offers freely to save, but he demands all of us. Total allegiance and worship. So I asked you this morning, do you want to be healed? Come to Jesus. Let Him heal you of your sin and submit to Him as the Lord of your life, and I promise you, you will be eternally glad that you did. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, we do need you. And we confess that so often we We struggle to recognize our deep need for the true salvation that you offer because we're so caught up in the things of this world. We thank you, Lord, that you care for us. You care about the details and circumstances of our lives, and yet We thank you also that you have acted mightily and worked to save us from our sin, the greatest problem that we have. Pray that you would bless us now as we seek to live for you and follow you. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.