On the book of First Timothy, chapter four, verses one to five today. Our series is The Life and the Household of God and our text one to five. Let me read ESV translation, and then I'll pray. Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons. Through the insincerity of buyers whose consciences are seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. For everything created by God is good. Nothing is to be rejected if it's received with thanksgiving. It is made holy by the word of God and prayer. God's word is praying. Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word, Lord, as we begin to talk about the more practical things in this book. Thank you for your people as we gather this cold January morning. To worship you, to give you the honor that you deserve. Help us to to hear your word, but not just be hearers, to be doers who who practice what we see in our daily lives that we might uh live for you and reflect your word So bless our time now during these moments as we as we look at the word in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, today's a snowy day. It's a snow panic day. Any of you I hope none of you ran out to the store this morning to get your toilet paper and your junk food. You should have been prepared like me, right? I was prepared. Um junk food You know, chips, cookies, that kind of good stuff. Good quote. They call it junk food, don't they? Many freely give advice about food, telling you that food is junk. They give their opinions very freely. In fact, confidently, in fact, very arrogantly. They know what's good for you physically. But what about spiritual advice? As we move into the fourth chapter today, we're just going to hit this first paragraph, the first five verses. Paul gives us Two examples of what I want to call, using the King James Version phrasing, doctrines of demons. It's from the King James. Maybe you have a King James with you. Doctrines of Demons. That's my title today. We need to be on guard against teachings, doctrines that are destructive to our spiritual life. We need to be on guard and alert about teachings that are destructive to our spiritual life. Many have come to the conclusion that this Area of doctrine and what we believe is Satan's primary activity in the church to bring distortion and deception and confusion regarding what's really true. If Satan can't keep you from believing in Jesus, then he tries to get you to believe wrongly about Jesus and about what it means to live for Jesus. Today we're going to look at three things. First, the reality that there are these deceptive doctrines demonic doctrines, beliefs. Secondly, we'll give the first example, which is the distorted beliefs about marriage, and then thirdly, the distorted beliefs about food. Right? Chapter 1. First, deceptive demonic beliefs, verses 1 and 2. The Spirit expressly says that in latter times, the last days, translation, some translations. Some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits, teachings or doctrines of demons. Believe that there are demons Through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are sears. This is the fourth time in this book that Paul has talked about the conscience. Trace it back. Conscious, something we don't think about a lot. The last days. Hebrews 1 tells us that in former days God spoke to the prophets, but in these last days, these latter days He has spoken to us by his son. Beleh. In chapter 2 of Acts, he quotes the prophet Joel where he says that in the last days um uh signs and wonders are going to be done and and and he's look and then he's talking about what happened at Pentecost Look, in the Bible, first of all, the last days began when Jesus rose and the church was the church was birthed. That's when the last the former days is the Old Testament, the last days is the New Testament That's the first thing we need to understand. The day when God will pour out his spirit and when um when the gospel will begin to be active in the world It's a day where there'll be a conflict between the forces of God and the forces of Satan. This cosmic struggle, which will continue to play out until Jesus comes. The New Testament also seems to talk about the last days as, it says, in the last days will come. 1 Timothy, excuse me, 2 Timothy chapter 3, Paul says, understand this, in the last days there will come times of difficulty. And it seems that he missed a whole lot of things there. And then this passage here also, it seems those who look and study this deeply believe that in these last days there was going to be an escalation. Of the things that are characteristic of the last days. Now some good Bible people don't believe that. They believe that the last days is just going to be a time Well there'll be ups and downs and then Jesus will come. But but I like many believe that before Jesus returns there's going to be an escalation of the chaos That's characteristic of the last days. Jesus in the Gospel of John talked about this era as gonna be like the birth pangs of a woman Remember that? John chapter 16. He talks about things happening, even in Matthew 24. He talks about birth, birth, but these are the things that are going to happen will be signs that this change there's a new era coming. Just like when a when a woman and some of you have have had that experience or are having that experience of having these uh labor pains. John Braxton Hicks, a British musician, who 150 years ago he's the first one who who I guess he gave it the label of it's called the Braxton Hicks uh uh a labor. I don't know why I would call it the John Hicks because his first name was John. I guess Braxton call is a cooler name. I don't know. But they're Braxton Hicks false labor painter And um what it is is you begin to feel something happening and you think, oh, oh, it's that time, right? Well, I don't know personally, but I I know it's my wife. Braxton Hicks labor pains. Well I believe of the last days of you you you we already pregnant. We know that Jesus is returning again. And then as we get closer to that return, we experience what looks like the end, but it's not the end. It's just the false labor pains of Braxton Hicks. Okay? Of well, not of Braxton. The Braxton Hicks labor pains. He was a man. He didn't have those pains. Okay, so he was a physician. My point is simply this. There's an escalation of these things that are going to be happening. And um and so and so Paul's warning of that in this era things aren't gonna get better and better and better and better. There's gonna be And one of the things he alerts us to was to be alert to false doctrine, to doctrines of demons, deceptive things that are going to be happening. There are demon spirits who hate Jesus, who hate the church of Jesus Some of the doctrines of demons that infiltrate churches, well, I would say most of the time, churches, it just happens very slowly and gradually, and people begin to drift into them. I mean sometimes there might be one person who comes and just clearly preaches false doctrine and people begin to believe it. But usually it happens gradually Deception, de defection. You know, if I if I use the term nuns, you probably think about um Catholic women who are committed to God who wear habits. He's clothing. That's probably what you think about. Women who are really committed to Jesus. Let me introduce you to another usage of that word, in fact, a different spelling of the word Um you look at some of the research about religion by the few research data or even if you look at the George Barner data, they talk about American religious trends They talk about the fact that the fascist growing groups are what's called the nuns and the duns. The nuns and the duns. And the nuns is not is not that Catholic order. It's not N-U-N-S. It's N-O-N-E-S and the D-O-N-E-S, the nuns and the duns. Who are the nuns and the duns? The duns are people who once worshiped, once believed, but have chucked it as irrelevant. Out of touch. This Christian faith is out of touch. They are done with religion. They are done with the church. Some, not all, say they're even done with Jesus. Some say Jesus yes, the church no. Many are rethinking their view of Jesus, though And they want to worship a kinder, gentler, more politically correct Jesus, one that is created in our own image. And then there's the nuns, N-O-N-E-S. These are those who have no history of believing They are a second or third generation post-Christian. They gave up their faith generations ago. And they weren't raised. So these people are people who are growing into adulthood who were never raised to understand the gospel. Don't understand anything about Jesus. Their mama rejected it and they didn't weren't around it. And many missionalists who study these things believe that it is easier for Christians to reach the nuns than the duns. Because when you go to talk to a nun, they don't know anything about the Bible You talk to a dun, they think they understand. And you're chuckling. Those are the two big challenges that we face. as demonic doctrines begin to be to to be in our culture and begin to infiltrate the church. And many of us are parents And many of I I bet most Christian parents who are who have children who are adults are living with a sense of frustration because many of the children Of God's people in the in in in in society today, in this generation, are the duns. They say that they may have believed at one point, but they say they are done. That brings that that brings a lot of pain to us and to many, many of you, many of us. And I would I would just say that God called us to proclaim the faith to our children. Hopefully you've been safe for doing that. God calls you to practice the faith in front of your children. Hopefully you've done that. God calls you to pray for your children. Hopefully you are still doing that. Whether your children have grown up and I know very few people who had children, multiple children that have gone on to love God and serve God. Most parents I know have a child or two who have strayed from God. And it it it it there's an ache and there's a frustration. And God would say just pray The duns are not done. Amen? Because God is still on the throne. And God is still looking out there for prodigals and saying, come home. And that's our confidence. But there's a deception, this demonic, and Satan looks for the vulnerable. And he attacks in many ways. Many of us have had the pain of seeing kids go off to college and come back just different kids. Many of you have had that The second thing I want to look at is Paul begins to get he talks about doctrines of demons, teachings of demons, and then he gives a couple examples. Just three words. Probably more than three words on that one. That's an important one. That's a very important one. Distorted beliefs about marriage. You know there are you probably know this the steward who believes about marriage out there, or you didn't you know that. Marriage is God's idea in the Garden of Eden. God established the first marriage, Genesis 224. Man should leave and cleave and become one flesh with this woman. God said it's good. It's not good the man should be alone. It's good to be joined. My definition, marriage is publicly legally sanctioned covenant between a man and a woman of legal age. And sound mind to live as one, emotionally, physically, financially, spiritually, sexually, until death separatist. Let me see it again. Marriage is perfectly legally sanctioned covenant between a man and a woman of legal age and sound mind to live as one. emotionally, physically, financially, spiritually, and sexually until death separates them. That's God's ideal. That's God's plan. And any good nation will endorse God's plan. Most nations understand God's plan even if they don't know God's word. Because it's innately understood that it is good that man not be alone. And it's good that man and woman's desires are are fulfilled in complementary ways. Genesis 3, of course, there's the fall. It didn't take long. Genesis 2, God established it. Genesis 3, hmm, mankind fell. That's us. Marriage is tough. Marriage is broken. Marriage is cursed. Look at Genesis chapter 3. But it is still God's idea. It's not a fake marriage is not a failed, outmoded social experiment that was created by human beings, as we are told. God created marriage. Marriage is distorted and twisted by society. I want to walk through five ways that I think our society twists and these demonic views of marriage begins to infiltrate the church. I want you to to to to be aware of these and to fear these and to pray against these in the church now and the church in the future. What? That celibacy is superior. That it is early, particularly in the early church, there were many who believed that the superior way for man to live is without women at all. The superiority of celibacy. We know the Catholic Church maintains that understanding of the priests, that leaders of the church, if you're really going to be holy, you got to be celibate. We know that Jesus never married. We know that Paul may have been married, but was not married when he wrote 1 Corinthians. Probably his wife left him, or he was we don't we don't know. He doesn't go into it Well he says, I wish you were as I am, single. So Paul was not Paul. We know those two men were not married. And yet they both promoted marriage as God's ideal. Celibacy is not in the superior way. That's a distortion. Singleness is a calling. It's a good calling. But it's not a superior calling in that sense. That some would think it is. That's a distortion. Second distortion is that polygamy is allowable. That you can be married to one person, more than one person at a time. Again. First marriage in the garden, God created Adam and Eve. You know, he didn't create no Eve plus Mary plus plus Joan. No! Adam and Eve. One-one Now, yes, we know that in the Bible, godly men were polygamous. We know that. We know that through the Old Testament there was a lot of distortions and a lot of things, and God allowed it for a time And Jesus has addressed that in the Son Amount in the Gospel of Matthew. We know that the Mormons practice that even now, believing that that's the preferred marvel. Talk to women. I don't know. Most women I don't know they don't like that marvel We know that in Southern African societies, that's that that's the model. But God's intention is always been that polygamy is not allowable. In fact we looked at a few weeks ago with um a leader must be the husband of one wife. And I I mentioned then that Some believe that there was polygamy going on and in the early church they were trying to stamp that out. No, the leaders of the church cannot continue with that polygamous thing. In the New Testament, God in the Old Testament God allowed it. In the New Testament, God was raising coming and bringing us back to the standard. that was always God's ideal. The distortion that polygamy is allowable. Three, the distortion that adultery is unavoidable Oh you just can't help it. You know we weren't created for one person. Come on. You can't help yourself. You find a new soulmate and you just have to go for it, man. No wise person, we're told, would ever not take what he wants for himself, what she wants for herself Now, self-gratification is what's important. That's what's normal, and that's what's sanctioned by society. See, the ultimate sin is to not fulfill your dreams and desires, and to even think about controlling your urges, which may deprive you of pleasure And to think of your children and hurt to your parents and your family when they hear how you couldn't control yourself, well that doesn't matter. What matters is that you go for it That you fulfill your desires. Certainly God does forgive adultery and divorce that often adultery often leads to When God says thou shalt not do, he is trying to spare us of great hurt. Maybe some of you have learned that. God's not being a mean ogre trying to look for anyone who wants to have fun saying, Stop it! That's not God. God is promoting joy and blessing And that we would have influence and obedience and testimony by living an obedient life. And those can be damaged by a moment's pleasure. We don't get the Ten Commandments in Sunday school. Yet our society believes that adultery is unavoidable if you find if you If you're in a marriage that isn't perfect, and no marriage is, but you see your soulmate out there. The grass, someone says, the grass looks greener on the other side, but that grass got to get cut. There's problems over there. Fourth distortion. That premarital sexual activity is inevitable. Again, that's not new. It's in the Bible. The Bible talks about it. Of course we're told and we're showing in in the media, television, movies, books, whatever, that information uh sources that um No relationship can really go anywhere unless you have checked off the sexual compatibility box early, early and often. In modern culture, keen on your boyfriend is now seen as more as morally bad as adultery is. Because well, because marriage isn't really issue. It's only are you a couple? Do you have a partner? Do you have a a a mature consent a consenting consensual mature relationship? That's where the culture is. Personal consent is no way to build a society. Nor is it a way to ensure that the individuals have the strength and the lasting joy to make it that comes from a socially, legally sanctioned marital boundaries. You need the social pressure. It shouldn't be easy to end a marriage Last week I mentioned um a quick comp side comp you might have picked up that um I I had uh I didn't have a lot of success with the young ladies when I was a teenager But I did have a little bit. I had some. The most important one was a was a girl that I that broke up with me because of her frustration uh uh that after a year of being with me, um um I would not have sex with her. Now Was I a saint? No, I wouldn't say. But I I I heeded the warnings of Proverbs, and I had a healthy fear of my dad. Listen, young people, teens desiring to be sexually active is not new. It's in the Bible. It's in your parents. We all had those temptations and desires. But what is new is that back then there was no social sanction, encouragement Against promiscuous behavior. Now it's it's endorsed and encouraged. That's different. Parents understand that's different than our world There are no people saying, well, we know that you're going to just make sure you protect yourself. I didn't hear that from my parents. I heard a strong no from my parents. I hope you did. No, it was a no not yet. The greater society believed back then that premarital sexual activity was wrong, and the greater society encouraged biblical virtues of wisdom. Discipline, caring for the other person rather than caring for your self-gratification. Holding yourself for your eventual spouse. Those are the values that were encouraged. But this is the 21st century, isn't it? We've learned, haven't we? Well Today only a few crazy preachers like me are telling you that the world is wrong. The world is wrong. Only a few of us say you're talking about this anymore. We need to talk about it with our children. If you make mistakes, repent of those mistakes, but talk to your young people Tell them the truth of God. And tell them that you may not have followed the truth, but you need Jesus, and Jesus is forgiving you. And you want to spare them of pains that you've experienced. Pew the Pew people do we great research and they did some research in October 2019 on the church and on the society and sexual moralities And um but is it this is seventy-nine percent of American adults, this is a year and a half ago, October twenty nineteen, almost two years ago, um 79% of American adults not affiliated with any religion believe that sex in a committed relationship is sometimes or always acceptable. Premarital sex, etc. Well, 83% believe that casual sex between consenting adults is sometimes always acceptable. That's the American adults Okay? 79, 83%, that's a thing. That's four out of every five. That didn't surprise me at all. That's our society. What kind of surprised me was the other statistic that I'm going to give me now. The number of individuals who identify as believers in Jesus Christ, Christians. That sex is in a comedic relationship is sometimes or always acceptable. What do you think the number was? 49% 49% think that casual sex is sometimes, but always, acceptable between two Christians, between two considering adults who are That that is startling and scary Many like King David have fallen in this area. Let me just say again, that like David, there's great for David David, there's for you great forgiveness. And his great grace available. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will clothe and cleanse within. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all of our sin. But premarital sexual activity is not something that's inevitable. You don't have to do that. Save yourself for your spouse. God will bless your life. You will have less headaches. If you follow God, trust me. Well, the fifth one is the one that's the most dangerous to talk about in the world today. The distortion that I that our society which believes that homosexuality is normal. That's the other distortion And we see it in little TV commercials, we see the romantic embrace of men and women, and we say, wow. Uh we see dating sites commercials on where that's become the norm. Maybe you should be alert to the fact that um the uh in in in the the new president's cabinet there is um there's been a lot of discussion a lot of um Confus confusion and discussion because one of the um cabinet members, I can't remember what position he was given, um He was too conservative for the world, for the world as the world understands it. He was too conservative. His problem was that here was his problem. He was married. And he was a white male. Now there was another thing that was part of his bio, which wasn't a problem. He was married to a man. Excuse me, he is married to a man. That's not the problem. The the the problem is that he is married and who says you'll be married and married to a man well that's not important but but but but that he's a white male And so when he was uh when when when he was put up to be in that cabinet position, there was a lot of noise from many people That the the that the that the cabinet need to reflect America better. That's where we are, people First Corinthians six, when Paul talks about the church He lists the things in the church, some of the issues in the church, some of the sexual issues. He talks about fornication, which is primeral marriage uh sexuality outside of marriage. He mentions uh uh uh uh uh Probably many believe he talks about uh uh child predators predators in that passage, homosexual behavior, something he's talking about, the word he uses. He talks about all these things, but then he says this, and such were some of you, but you've been washed. You've been cleansed by the blood of Jesus. If that's your past, if you trust in Christ, that's not your now. You are changed by Jesus Christ. And the challenge of the scriptures, the challenge of us is to live according to who we are. That's our past. That's not who we are And we're to to to to understand that, we're to practice that, and even we're to proclaim that, that Jesus Christ makes a difference. Jesus Christ transforms lives. Well the the f the last distortion that he talks about is a little less complicated and a little less popular to talk about than than the issue of everyone talks about sex is a problem. No one talks about food because here's here's a here's a distortion He says the demonic teaching is to require to stay from food that God created to be received with Thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. God has received food to be created with thanksgiving. Everything on the circle, everything. Pray by God is good. Talk about food. All foods. And nothing is to be rejected if it's received with thanksgiving. For it is made holy by the word of God and prayer. What is Paul arguing about here? Well again. This the the there was this teaching. Maybe these false teachers that you can talk about are uh these are two of their prime things. This astronist, this asceticism that uh that was kind of a a pre-nostic understanding of the world, Gnosticism. They believed that, you know, asceticism, keeping yourself sexually pure was good. They believed that that certain types of fasting for certain foods was was what's going to make you holy and better and more holy, closer to God. Paul's saying, no, no, no. God created food for mankind. And he's alluding back to Genesis 1, where God created these things and said, it is good. It is good. It is good. Remember that? Genesis chapter 1 And especially believers should understand this. As we partake of food, we should include the Word of God in prayer. What does that mean? It means it means table devotions if you if you have particularly when we have little kids, we always every every dinner we had we don't do that anymore. Terry and I know the word. We could remind ourselves of the word. We talk about it, but we don't really sit down with our Bibles. But One way one you know people say well I don't have time to really train up my kids. Do you eat with them? Oh, first of all, eat with them. Sit around a table and eat together. But bring out the Word of God in other ways. We seem together bring uh books about the Bible, uh, catechism. There's lots of different ways, but uh the Word of God in prayer. Um Pray for the food. Don't just dig in. Before you dig in, you pause and pray. You talk to God. You thank God for the food. You thank God that you're not hungry. You thank God that He has provided for you You think about all the things, the daily bread and the daily sustenance, the food, the clothing, the shelter, all the things that he's provided. It's a time to pause and remind yourself, remind your children that God is your submissive And dependent upon God. Our prayers should be prayers that are biblical. We pray scripture, pray things that are biblical, pray biblical ideas, because we're getting the word of God and we're thinking God's thoughts Even more so, an attitude of perspective around the table is important. That recognizes the one who provides all of our needs. It's God You see, Lord Jesus is the holy one of Israel. He's the Holy One, and He is the Word of God. So these things are the food is sanctified. It's holy. with the word of God in prayer. And he's the one who's present at the table. Now that's the ver now the Old Testament's interesting as we talk about food in the Old Testament You know, we have the creation mandate in the garden, you know, the human race was given uh dominion and told to to rule creation. And from the ground came that which was energized which energized mankind, you know. Eventually, you know He man was allowed to eat meat, certain meats, fish, birds. The medical dietary laws did in the Old Testament gave um some restrictions on the people of Israel Certain categories of food were off limits. I think it's Leviticus 11, if I remember right. I didn't write that down. I think it's the 11th chapter of Leviticus. Look at that. Um what what are those restrictions? What are those prohibitions about? Well, there's a couple things. One um health. Some of those so they didn't have refrigeration and things like we have today, and some of the food that they ate very unhealthy. You know, it was better better health if they kept away from certain foods Certain th there was re there was uh again cooler refrigeration effects. Second, third of the foods that that that were prohibited are foods there there even now. Those who know food saying those foods aren't as healthy for you. Okay? Those are some of the things that we live that God was trying to encourage health among his people. But the third thing was a clear marker of distinction. A marker of distinction that you are God's people And so the people of Israel had a different diet. Of course, in the New Testament that became a problem when the church became Jew and Gentile and they had issues with the food. We'll talk about that in a second. But one thing that that we've learned living here in um in in Pikesville which is historically a very predominantly Jewish area and still has um some remains of being a very Jewish area, is that food matters Years ago we walked into a a Chinese restaurant and we realized looking at a diet, hey uh I'm the pork fried rice here. Well this is kosher Go to the closest uh Dunkin' Donuts uh when you walk into the drive-thru, you go to the drive-thru, there's a there's a sign um at the drive-thru thing telling you that this Dunkin' Donuts has been blessed by the rabbis, the kosher Dunkin' Donuts. That's where I live. The Old Testament food law, some people still take them very, very seriously. But again, the New Testament church, the Old Testament church, the Low Testament Jews, many became saved, the word went out, Gentiles came to the church, and there was a conflict about food. In the book of Matthew, Jesus is talking about that it's not what what goes um into you, but what goes out to you that's evil. It's in Mark chapter 7. And in that, Mark there's a parenthesis. He says, but He says Jesus then declared all foods to be clean. Mark is telling his hearers, his readers, that the Old Testament Jewish laws are no longer valid now in the New Testament. That's what he's saying. Dog food is now clean. You may remember. Mark is disbiedable by Peter. You may remember that Peter, in Acts chapter 10 and 11, had this vision and leaves at the house of the Gentile, this God-fearing man. And um and God all this food was there and and and some of the food, I think all the food was food that P Peter knew. That's Not on the list. That's not on the rabbis. I'm not supposed to eat that food. God said, eat the food. Rise up, Peter, slay it, eat. Something was changing. Something was changing. It it was so dramatic for Peter that he it happens in verse 10, he describes it, and then in Excuse it, chapter 10, and in chapter 11 of Acts, it reviews the entire thing again. It's that astounding, it's that important. That food laws had changed. Gentiles were now included in the covenant of God, the people of God And then Galatians chapter 2, Peter and Paul have this little conflict. Peter and Paul and not just Peter, but the other apostles, those There's a conflict in the Antioch over Paul's decision to eat at the at the non-kosher table with the Antioch Christians. No, Paul, you can't do that. Conflict. Paul got in Peter's face, said, no, no, no, no. You're destroying the truth of the gospel. The Gentiles are equal partners now with God's covenant people. Now, New Testament, if you look at Romans chapter 14, 1 Corinthians chapter 8, Paul says that we are free to eat or not eat meat. That's been Consecrated, dedicated to pagan gods. Because God, those gods are not really gods at all. They're nothing, they are not. However, Paul says If your brother, your Christian brother, is weak and doesn't understand his freedom, then you, as a mature one, should refrain from eating. Your brother is more important than your freedom. Let me say that again. Your brother or sister It's more important than your freedom. And that application goes far and not just about food. Another thing that's mentioned about food that I ought to mention as we continue is that The issue of healthy foods is a big issue in some of the urban thinking that's going on, some of the city thinking. Are you familiar with the idea of of of food deserts? of areas where people don't have healthy food close to them. That's desert, not desserts. We know about food desserts. Food deserts. And then the the more urban an area is, the fewer food choices the the uh people have. And even and the prices are usually higher for food also Never let that cause division. Never never let that cause you to have an arrogant attitude. The poor have what most would consider an unhealthier diet for lots of reasons. Before judging the poor is stupid and unhealthy, first put yourself in their shoes. Had a friend the other a conversation with a friend the other day about West Baltimore. He was saying that only only in terms of of um Family restaurants in West Baltimore. We give beyond Anna Harbor and all. There's only one. It's TGIF at Mount Dowman. And uh I said, that's true. In terms of the all the chains, they're not in the city. You can't go, you know, the the only outbees in the city is right around the corner from me. That's up here in North Paul near the near the county line Everybody everybody in West Bomber goes to Route 40 or goes up to Liberty Road to have a sit-town family restaurant. And and he and I were joking because we both well of course we'd eat there and we talked about how bad the service is, but that's okay. The service is slow, but it's in the city. So I put it up. Don't judge the poor. There's other things going on than you may think think when it comes to the fork and food. Well, doctors of demons. Marriage laws, food laws. One last word. Don't just follow your gut about these things. Study the Word of God. Don't just follow your gut. Follow what the culture is saying. Study the Word of God. Many conflicts are a result of people not agreeing on which issues in life are totally black and white issues and which issues in life are not totally black and white issues, or more gray. And Christians need to understand that. Before blasting somebody for their position about food, do a theological gut check about what Paul says about freedom. What does God's word say? How has the Christian church historically understood what God said in this word? How has it been applied historically by people? And how how how are biblical Christians trying to understand that now. Those are things we need to think about before we come to conclusions about some issues. And then speak compassionately with speak clearly what God has said. Look, our culture is confused, so confused that they have no idea what issues are black and white, what issues are great. Diet? That's an area where our culture doesn't give much freedom. Exercise and health and physical look. Boy, people can be really mean, can't they? They can be very alien. And bless you for your food, for your body shape, body form. Oh man! For morality Our society says, no, no, no. They will demonize you as as not only stupid if you hold to what some people believe, what we believe are biblical value systems, value norms. Now they say we're not to judge people. Don't impose your values on me. Do you see the conflict? You see the irony. It's utter madness. The Romans 1 says, Professing to be wise, they became fools. So we're to speak gently and harmoniously about issues that are not as clear biblically, but speak clearly about things where God has spoken clearly. We need to know the difference. Doctrines of demons, doctrines that can destroy a church. Satan is real, he works to deceive. The challenge that every church faces is this. How do we solidify what we believe, embracing a biblical view of the world? How do we disciple the next generation into the a biblical worldview? How do we simultaneously welcome those from the world who need the love of God and need to be discipled into a biblical worldview? How do we do that? It's a challenge for our churches. It starts in each of our hearts to believe what God has said in his word, to embrace it, to train our families in it. To learn the word, to keep the word? Do we believe that all we need for life and godliness is in Christ? I hope you do. Just pray. But uh there's many doctrines out there that are very attractive To your people. And yet they're destructive. I pray as we speak about these things in the context of the whirlwind of America in the 21st century, we would have compassion and yet clarity And we would know what you have said, know your heart. Jesus, we as we look into the scriptures, we see you live in a world just like this world. World was changing. Well there was many people who just did not come from a biblical perspective. Yet we see in you the grace, the gentleness uh to chakra people into into truth and into eternal life. Help us to do that, Lord. Bless our time uh as we uh transition to a a meeting. But again help us to remember these words that to be alert to what we believe and to pass it off. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's close with the doxology.