Good morning. Uh we continue with our study of the book of Deuteronomy and I just want to make uh mention here that We're going to be reading chapter 16, verse 18, all the way to chapter 17, verse 1 through 7. But if you take those verses that we're reading This morning and read all the way to chapter eighteen to the end, uh they seem to be a collective whole Uh and so Eric will be preaching the next uh couple of Sundays um and you will see how uh this relates together uh with uh the passage that we reading this morning. So if you're able, would you please uh stand uh and hear the reading of the word of God this morning coming to us from Deuteronomy chapter sixteen verse eighteen uh through chapter seventeen seven Moses writes, and he continues to encourage the people of God as they are about to inherit the land that is given to them, and he says, You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns that the Lord your God is giving you. According to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment. You shall not pervert justice, you shall not show partiality, and you shall not accept a bribe For a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous. Justice and only justice You shall follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not plant any tree as an asherab beside the altar of the Lord your God that you shall make. And you shall not set up a pillar which the Lord your God hates. Chapter seventeen. You shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or sheep If there is found among you within any of your towns that the Lord your God has given you A man or woman who does who does what is evil in the sight of the Lord your God in transgressing his covenant, and has gone and served other gods and worshiped them or the sun or the moon or any of the host of heaven which are forbidden and is told you and you hear of it, then you shall inquire diligently And if it is true and certain that such an abomination has been done in Israel, then you shall bring out to your gates that man or woman who has done this evil thing, and you shall stone that man or woman to death with stones. On the evidence of two witnesses or three witnesses, the one who is to die shall be put to death. A person shall not be put to death in the evidence Morning. Father, we do come to you, and even as we've been reminded through our prayer, that we truly do need a steady diet of the means of grace that you have given to us. And here we do consider your word. Help us, Holy Spirit, we pray, so that we may hear and believe and walk in light of what you're calling us to this morning. morning. Praying in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. If you recall in chapter five we uh went through the ten commandments and one of those commandments that we saw was the fifth commandment which was uh that you shall honor your father and your mother And the implications and the application of that commandment we all together saw was that God was commanding his people to be obedient towards uh their fathers and their mothers as children of God, but that the implication of that commandment was not merely obedience in a family setting. We talked about obedience even in a wider scope, that the obedience was required of not just those within the family, but outside the family. Now you can imagine as as Israel it continues to grow from from a clan setting, if you will, into into larger villages and eventually into a monarch, which is what Israel is gonna become and have king Kings, you you can imagine how the population continues to grow and more need for law and order is required And that's what we read this morning that God has appointed through the clan elders or the clan council elders or leaders to provide leadership in those communities to help administer or serve justice. But the responsibility of serving or doing justice or uh observing law and order did not just lie within those that were appointed by God as we read before You could hear the language is not just simply on the judges and officers, the language is for the whole community together to administer justice. Now, mentioning that particular word causes us to think about different things. We hear this language of social justice, right? uh a a term that cannot be defined or even if we defined it I define it maybe differently than you may define it. I'm gonna avoid using that term today, not because I'm scared of the term But because I also know that it's a difficult term to uh to address, it's a difficult term to use, and it arouses different feelings for different people. However, the Bible does use the term justice. And so we cannot avoid using that language of justice. And so we're going to address this complex topic of what is it about justice that the church ought to do to be doing. Should we as a church uh be doing justice? Justice in a general sense, which means uh caring for those that are oppressed, the poor, uh the immigrants, and all of that? A are we supposed to be involved in that. Uh as as as leadership in this church, we've been studying, uh reading through a book uh by Kevin DeYoung uh by the name What is the mission of the church and I would highly recommend that book to you if you're interested. Um and we've been asking that question, what is the mission of the church? And and we may want to realize that we are not the first people to debate this particular question as to whether the church ought to be involved in doing justice. That for centuries the church has asked that question, what is the role, therefore, of doing justice for the church? And so as we unpack uh this complex topic, I want to begin in a good place for us to ask the question: how do we understand the concept of justice in the Bible? What does the Bible say about justice? Which I think uh we Moses is giving us here an idea of what justice looks like And then we'll use a practical example, which were also given in chapter 17, verse 1, verse 2 through 7. A very practical example of how to do justice through church discipline. So the understanding here is the appointment of these judges and these officers that God is giving to them is in fact a response to the divine gift of land But God has promised to give them this particular property, this land, uh for them to to to dwell there and to to serve God and and and and to be the people that they were meant to be uh but there are certain things that are gonna come up that they need to address, uh which involve uh law and and order and And people disagreeing and homicide and all these kinds of things. And the best way for us to think about these judges and these officers that have been been appointed by the people within the community is in fact uh the same way we can apply of judges in our day to day. So our judge was really doing the work of a modern judge judge. And officers were like, you know, court clerks or police officers that were uh b asked to administer and execute Law and order for the people. And they are meant to deal with smaller cases. As I mentioned, we shall see later on that larger cases or more difficult cases were supposed to be taken to the central church Tribunal. Now you can imagine Moses being the leader of God's people. When we saw this earlier on in chapter one, we've already been told that Moses is gonna die And toward the end of Deuteronomy, he'll be dead. And so we wonder how how how is Moses going to administer justice? How is Moses going to continue for his He'll be gone. And so this is the process that is beginning to unravel for God's people and how they were going to exist in the new land. And so it was the task of these judges, of these officers, to see that right. To see that justice was restored to those who had been deprived of it. And if need be, to punish those who had broken the law, the offenders. But notice the appeal for loving justice. The appeal to love justice is not only directed directed to the judges and the officers. Again, as I mentioned, it's directed to the whole community, to to all the people, to administer, to observe It's their responsibility to implement the law that God has given to them. And we can even think about this, even in terms of God choosing, and we shall see this again, God is one who directly appoints priests and prophets And the people are given the responsibility of choosing these judges and officers, but God is not removed from that process, is he? That God is still directly involved In appointing, by giving wisdom and discernment to the communities to appoint leaders that could actually observe justice. And law. What do I mean by that? That even in that process that people are involved in implementing law and order, God is still involved in the day-to-day activities and details of their life. That the judges and ministers represent God's will and his sovereignty, not their own. Just because they're chosen by the people does not mean that they're representing their own ideas and their own ways of life. They are still representing God Himself. And so perverting justice, as I mentioned, if these people are really representing God and His will and His sovereignty, perverting justice is contrary to the character and purpose of God for His people. And he gives them an example here of some of the ways that they can pervert justice and we're given uh uh examples, taking bribes. Favoring one person over the other. Because the idea of taking a bribe really does disrupt the true course of justice, doesn't it? Because it appeals to the basis side of human nature. And it definitely does render justice to become a hypocritical system, doesn't it? Because it only serves those who are wealthy enough, those who have the means and capabilities to manipulate the system And so if I'm poor, if I'm vulnerable, if I'm not able to manipulate the system and pay someone a bribe, then that means I'm not going to get what is due to me The Bible tells us that God says he does not take bribes. And so it was wrong for people in authority. Again, think authority, but also think about the people themselves when they contribute towards those particular things. The idea of showing partiality Which is a second example that's given here of perverting justice, is basically God telling people, do not recognize spaces Do not recognize faces. Create uh treat every person as God sees them and not by what you see Do not recognize faces. Don't see me. See me as God sees me. It's not my class, not my status, not the color of my skin, not where I live, not how I dress, not how I speak. See me as God sees me. To favor one person over the other and to neglect them, perhaps because they're poor, perhaps because of their race, perhaps because of their whatever it is. Is not the way of justice. And there's an emphatic expression here in verse 20 that Moses says, he says, justice and only justice you shall follow. A reputation in Hebrew always means, again, emphasis. This is important. Listen, listen, listen. And the expression is meant to encourage God's people to pursue justice at all costs. Why? He gives them a motivation. What is the motivation for God's people to do justice? What does he tell them? You you wanted a land which I promised you, do you want to succeed in that land? That's what he says Do you want to be successful in the land? Do you want it to go well? Do you want to enjoy God's blessings in the land? Do justice Obey what I command you to do. Again, the source of authority for Israel, unlike other nations which saw the source of authority resting upon the king, for Israel it's The source of authority is not with the key. What's the source of all of authority for Israel? It is the key. of kings. It is the divine word of God. It is the law that He has given to them. God has chosen them out of all the other nations and And Mount Sinai has cut a covenant with them and said, You are my people, and because of that, because I've loved you, I have chosen you, I've given you a law That will preserve you as my people. Now, that law that is who I am. That represents my character, my nature. It's who I am, and that's the source of your authority Any king that you have that comes and rules over you and says anything else apart from who I am and what I am and what I've given to you, you cannot obey. Because that is not me. It is the law that mediates the qualities of justice and righteousness And all of these things that God is telling his people to listen to follow justice ultimately ultimately are from the character of God Himself. God is a just God. And of course we know from Romans thirteen he re God reminds us that He is the one who appoints civil leaders and judges and presidents and all these people. We think we're the ones who elect them, right? No. It's just a responsibility we're given to do so. But God ultimately appoints them. Regardless of whether you may agree with them or not, guess what? God is the one who appoints them. Sometimes for our good, it's always for all good, but sometimes it's actually to wake us up. And the call is for us to obey them. In fact, you know, scripture tells us that they are ministers, if you will. They are necessary ministers of God. And that we must obey them. But here, even in this verse, even in this passage that we read, that God is commanding those who are in places of authority not to abuse their God-given responsibility. And not do justice. Now we can read in other prophets in Amos and Micah and Isaiah and see just how God condemns Leaders who have no care for those that are vulnerable in the strongest terms. But what exactly is justice then? See in scripture that word is used a whole lot. What does the Bible mean when it talks about the idea of justice? See, justice in scripture is not just merely about treating people equitably. It's not just that. It goes beyond that. It's more than punishing those who have done wrong. We always think about serving justice is put that person to jail because that's what they deserve. It has that to do with that, but it's it goes beyond that. And the idea is justice has a lot to do with punishment, yes, but also protection and care. It's often used in scripture in reference to those that are vulnerable. You go back to Isaiah and again to all the prophets and you read and you realize that every time that language of justice is used, it's always in reference to the widow, to the orphan, to the poor, to the immigrant, to those that are Cannot speak for themselves. And we can even go farther and say that the idea of justice is in fact evaluated in terms of how it treats those that are vulnerable. So that neglecting and not caring for those that are poor, for those that are vulnerable, is not merely neglecting to be charitable and to be hospitable to them, it is doing an injustice. To them. And that's why we should be concerned about doing justice. That's why we should be concerned about the poor and the vulnerable, those that are weak in not just in our own community, but also outside of our community. Because that reflects the character of God. I love Psalm 68, 4 and 5. What does God remind his people that he is? He's a father to the fatherless, he's a defender to the widow. That God identifies with the powerless. That God takes up the causes, the cause of those that are vulnerable. This the other part about justice is this. Justice is in fact in scripture used used interchangeably with the word righteousness. Right? So right, just justice, righteousness, we we put it all together. And every time we think about righteousness or being righteous, what do we where do we go normally We think about personal holiness, we think about morality, right? So I'm a righteous person, that's a righteous person. Um but the idea of righteousness in Scripture is not just that. It's not about personal holiness and uh and and personal morality. It it actually is about a day-to-day living, right-living relationship. It's about having right relationship with God and with others. It's just being able to treat others with equity, with fairness, with generosity. It's having a right relationship with God so that we may rightly relate with one another. A summary of the Ten Commandments, isn't it? Jesus says in Matthew 22, love the Lord your God. Okay, the first commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul. And the second is like it. What is it to love your neighbor as yourself? Right relationship with God. Right relationship with others And so going back to applying this idea of righteousness and justice together and seeing that God is here addressing his people corporately as one people and saying it is your responsibility. To care for others, to think about justice and to do justice, I think is a great reminder for us today, this morning, of what God calls us to do And this is what I mean by saying that is that we we need to be reminded that we do or not do justice with or by our action and by our inaction. Okay. It is so easy for us to think about how agencies or governments or other people are not doing justice, right? It it it's so easy because that's a that's an easy target I can see when it's being done and I can see when someone is being falsely accused or falsely all of those things and say, well that's not that's that's injustice But I think the corporate identity here, as God addresses his people, should cause all of us to, in fact, consider our own lives and how we live And ask ourselves in what ways are we participating in perverting justice? It's a hard thing for any one of us to think About. Again, pointing us to Amos and to and to and to uh Jeremiah and Isaiah and all these prophets, and and there are particular things, especially that God uh Condemns and frowns upon. And one of them is, we just talked about it, defrauding the poor, taking advantage of those that are helpless. That God hates that. Favoring someone because they you don't feel like they deserve God hates that. And in the Old Testament, we see examples where the wealthy are taking advantages of the poor by not paying them. Their wages that are due to them. We read about so many examples in scripture where Those that have authority think that their authority is given to them so that they may oppress those that are poor. But the story has never changed. It's the same thing today And instead of bashing on agencies of or governments, I I really want us to think about ourselves. That Our inaction sometimes is remaining silent when we ought to be speaking up when we see things that are not right. That as a church we can be completely silent about certain things. Maybe because we don't feel comfortable talking about them. But that's not justice. It's not enough for us to just talk about abortion. We gotta have a willingness to talk about racial reconciliation We can't pick and choose. And that sometimes our action is to participate in things that we know are not right. Or vote for policies that we know are not right. And that God holds us accountable. Having said that We also have to be very careful that we don't stir up guilt where it doesn't belong 'Cause sometimes we can guilt each other and say, Well you care about abortion, so why don't you care about this other thing? Or you care about immigrants, why why do you care about that and not the other thing? And that's not right. See We can always do more to love our neighbor, can't we? And so instead of guilting each other about the things that we are or not uh we're involved or not involved, maybe the best thing ought to be encouraging one another to love even more Maybe the best thing we could do is point one another to being salt and light in our communities You don't have to move into the inner city to have an impact in the inner city. We're not called to move to West Baltimore so that we can have an impact in West Baltimore, are we? All of us That's not the call for we're not called to to to engage and be a part of every poverty and and and something eradication in the in the world. That's not the call for us as a church But we need to be willing to look outside ourselves To exercise love beyond all doors and to give generously and to care for those that I need. We must motivate one another to do good by pointing others to the salt and light opportunities that lay out there. They are so many. I love the book that we've been reading. Uh Kevin DeYoung says something that I just caught my eyes and I think it's brilliant. Uh, you know, speaking about motivating one another uh so that we may love even more. He says, love creatively, love wildly, love dangerously. I love it. Love creatively. Love wildly. Lies love dangerously. You you can just feel how those three phrases capture almost anything that you can think about that's going on in our world today, right? Loving even when other people are just thinking, what's wrong with you? How could you love this foreigner? Or how could you love this person that is a Muslim? How can you welcome them into your home when I'm just thinking, how could they? And you know the way we do that is love others with our words. We love others with our actions. We love others with our judgments. And the big one for us, we love others with our attitudes towards them You know doing justice could be the best opportunity for you to meet someone's greatest need Do you know by just caring for someone you may be meeting their greatest need? And I'm not talking about food and shelter, and I'm talking about their greatest need. There is something worse than death, physical death, and there's something better than human flourishing Our greatest need is Jesus. It's the gospel. That's the mission of the church. At the end of the day, we engage in doing justice in order to bear witness. To the kingdom of God that Jesus has ushered by his death and resurrection. The great commission is Jesus was ascending into heaven, commanding his disciples to go into Jerusalem, into Judea and Samaria, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them everything that He had commanded them to do, and surely He promised to be with them. That is the mission of the church. And by doing justice, we are gaining, we are receiving an opportunity to in fact share the gospel of Jesus Christ. To bless his people spiritually and eternally. If we truly believe the gospel of God's grace, We will be transformed to show grace to others in their time of need. Secondly, let's look at a practical example here as we finish up uh verses twenty one of chapter sixteen all the way to chapter seventeen verse one through seven. If you look at verse twenty one uh of chapter six 16 and verse 1 of chapter 17, those two verses look like they're out of place, don't they? Idolatry and sacrifices, and we're talking about justice What's that all about? But a closer look will actually help us understand that these two verses do connect the the devotion or the quality of devotion that God demands of his people That these regulations of idolatry and sacrifices are there to help us understand that the fundamental law for Israel is obedience To God, including doing justice, that He's bringing together that God, Yahweh alone is God to be obeyed, but this is the basic concept for God for God's people, both religion and law They're connected. They're one. So you you you can't obey one, you know, sacrificial stuff and yet not do the other It makes no sense. And here we we we see the preeminent crime for Israel. What is the biggest primary sin for Israel? What are they prone to do Idolatry. I have called you, I have brought you to be my people, and yet you keep running away from me. What's up with that? And so and and here Moses calls it, you know, it's transgressing the covenant of God and given in in real Ways here given an example of this Asherah pose that and other forms of idolatry. You know the worst thing that God's people could do was what Manasseh the king did in 2 Kings chapter 21. Putting an id an idol besides the altar of God of Yah himself. That's a blatant, flagrant apostasy that God hates. And you say If anybody does any of these things, that such a crime undermines the very basis upon which the covenant family existed Just simply destroys what Israel is all about. Their life, their security, the whole nation. I mean, think about it. What is the greatest crime that someone in the modern day can commit during a time of war? Espionage. Treason. I mean y you don't talk about it. You commit you you commit treason? Well shh. You know what's gonna happen to you, right? Death. It's the most frowned upon crime. Now, and then the regulation of the animals without a blemish, which is really God showing his people that it's not just about the priests offering a sacrifice to God The animal matters. Don't mock God. And we saw this earlier last week. Don't mock God by bringing something that does not belong and hold his worship in such a low esteem. Because by bringing something the head of Lemish was in fact, again, remember what the sacrifice was supposed to do, right? It was supposed to bridge the gap between the worshiper and God. So by bringing something that's unacceptable to God, you are actually widening that drift between God and yourself. Do you know what that amounts to? What does it amount to? Idolatry. So bringing uh uh an animal with a blemish before God was in fact idolatry because that's what you're doing: separating yourself from God And so because idolatry is such a primary and horrible and grievous sin before God, he says, Here's the process on how you deal with it in a just and fair way. Three things. investigation or hearing, inquiry, which is investigation by the way actually, and then execution. And the responsibility here is one person No. He may be the one person to cast a stone as a witness, but the responsibility is the whole community. And that was always true when a case was capital punishment, that the whole community had to be involved. There's a special need here for the responsibility for the witness that God is asking that there must be More than one witness, not just one, more than one, to minimize the possibility of false witnesses. Now I was thinking about this, and that's the New Testament has a whole lot to do to say about uh witnesses Matthew eighteen sixteen uh second corinthians thirteen one and uh first Timothy uh I think five nineteen Now I was thinking about this and thinking about the the idea that God is here re requiring that there be no personal and and private vindictiveness from people, the protection of the victim uh against veinful accused accusers I couldn't help but think about the one court that we all like to crucify and accuse people and then start throwing stones at them. You know what court I'm talking about? Jen says no. We all know what this court is. You know that court where someone comes up with a rumor, uh Josiah did this, then people just get on it and it spread and it's sent to John gets it and someone else gets it and before you know it it's wildfire, you know, and no one really ever asked the question, did this really ever happen Who came up with the news? It's the court of social media. Fake news And all of that kind of stuff. It's it's so easy for us to get caught up in that stuff, isn't it? Unfortunately. Just rumor after rumor, some something happened or someone said, and we don't even take the time to go to that person and ask, did this really happen? But we take those things and strengthen them and within no time it's like everybody I mean you're already prosecuted before you have your day in court So by the time you show up to try and defend yourself, lo the story is gone, you it's finished But I think there's also something here about the witnesses that is important and and the whole process of hearing inquiry and execution Again, going back to leaders, those that have been given the responsibility to serve justice, that your work is not to take the easy way out. Justice is not easy, it's extremely difficult. Trust me, we are Presbyterians and we are elders and we deal with these things all the time. It is difficult But because it is difficult, your responsibility is to make sure that you don't neglect your duty, that you do your due diligence, that you do everything you can to make sure that justice is served. I mean you can eat can you think about it? This is capital punishment. So if you make a mistake of lying, this person is dead And that's why, by the way, that's why the per the witness, the person who said, I saw that this person committed idolatry, you come up first, you take the first stone, and you hit them And the whole community comes in so that if we're to find out that you lied, guess what? But you know what else is also huge here that we may easily still miss by looking at all those details? It is this, brothers and sisters. Every sin that any person in that community committed in Israel affected the whole community. And you know what else? They all felt it. And so if they do not deal with that sin, You are going to experience and to live with the sins of your brother or your sister that has sinned. That's why they're given such a Tough language to purge the evil within you. As I mentioned, that's why we have elders, right? See, our elders are not tasked with the work of maintaining the doctrine of our church, making sure that our doctrine is solid, that we're faithfully preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and not heresy. They're also tasked with Church discipline. Matthew chapter 18. To make sure that when they things that are going on in the church That we carefully investigate those things. That we take the time to admonish. If there are censures that need to be given to people so that they may repent, that we do so Well you know else you know what else we do? The most difficult thing for me as a pastor when I think about it is every time I think about excommunication. Do you know what Paul says? Speaking of excommunication, Paul uses the exact same language. In Deuteronomy of doing excommunication. Excommunication is spiritual death And when it's done to those that refuse to repent, it is a horrible thing. It is a horrible thing. Being cut away, being cut off from the body of Christ. Not being able to experience the blessings of God within a community family. It's spiritual death. But you know, it is so important for us as elders to know that that is the last resort. That there is a process, a long process that takes place, and all of it is meant to do this. It's meant to give the offending person time to repent. Because again, God says He's a gracious and merciful God, always abounding in love and mercy, willing to forgive, so that we may come to a place of recognizing what we've done and that we don't want to commit. Spiritual suicide, so to speak. And when that happens, there's always forgiveness. There's always restoration. There's always restoration. and reconciliation. And sometimes it doesn't happen, unfortunately. Justice is hard. So should we do justice then John says yes. I agree. But why? Because God is just, isn't he? I don't know how many of you are as overwhelmed as I am when I think about everything that's going on. How do we even reconcile trying to do justice for the poor, for the immigrants, for unborn children? For whatever it is, w whatever cause makes your heart just, you know, you're like that's that's what I want to care for. And it it's so easy for us to get in a place where we're discouraged Well we think that our efforts are just a bucket of water in an ocean, that it's not gonna do a thing And we may be tempted to even stop and just say, you know what, the church prime the church's primary call is to the preaching of God's word, the sacraments, prayer, and church discipline. That is true. But those things have implications. The gospel has real implications in terms of how we live. He's an encouragement for us this morning. Instead of being discouraged, let's first of all recognize that we live in a broken world. We're never going to take care of everything. But secondly, let's not forget where our eyes ought to be. That on this side of heaven, perfect justice will never be served. That's exactly all hope. That the ideal king, the perfect just God of all, is coming back. And he is going to return and make things the way they are supposed to be. And not the glorious hope. Our efforts might be small. We can't stop. But let us know that our glorious just King will return and bring justice to To the poor, to the vulnerable, and indeed to all of us. To his glory and his honor. In Jesus' name. Amen.