Well good morning. Last week Pastor Josiah began us in in a new series on the gospel according to John, and we're going to be continuing in that this morning. reading from John chapter 1 verses 19 to 34. And in this this passage we'll be introduced to another John, John the Baptist. And so it'll be a a good opportunity for us to hear what he says about the Lord Jesus. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning? Hear now God's word. And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? He answered, No. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Then why are you baptizing? If you were neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet? John answered them, I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing. The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness, I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. Let's pray together. Our Father, we need you every hour. We've just said the prayer that our Lord Jesus taught us to pray together, and in it we we ask that you would give us this day our daily bread. Our physical needs, but Lord, we know so deeply that we need not just bread alone, but we live by every word that comes From the mouth of God. And Lord, we know that we cannot rightly understand your word or know how it applies to our lives apart from the work of your spirit. So, Holy Spirit, we pray that you would open our eyes. Open our ears that we might see and hear what it is you would have us to learn from your word this morning. Lord, feed us from your word, and may we truly taste and see that the Lord is good. And we pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, it seems that we live in somewhat of a celebrity culture where people are obsessed with famous people and following their lives and their relationships. There's magazines and TV shows dedicated to following them. And we follow them so closely that often we we feel like we know them. And it's not just following celebrities, but but people want to have a following. We we all to some degree or another seem to want to make a name for ourselves. This is one of the great things that Facebook and Twitter and Instagram allow us to do, isn't it? to broadcast our thoughts to a watching world that can follow us and hear what we have to say. And there's nothing inherently wrong with being interested in these things. And yet, if we're not careful, I want to suggest that we can become consumed by it. We can be distracted from the things that really matter. And that's really the issue that this passage speaks to this morning. That in a world full of distractions, where everything and everyone competes for our attention, we must keep the right focus And I just want to highlight two things for us this morning, that two ways that we stay focused. We stay focused by keeping the right perspective, and we stay focused by keeping our gaze on the right object. So let's look first. We say focus by maintaining the right perspective. And we see that in verses 19 through 28. Just to set a little bit of the background for us this morning. You remember the the Old Testament ended, and it was nearly four hundred years before Christ came. A long time of silence where God's people were not being sent any prophets, they were not hearing from him to speak his words. And during that time there were all kinds of expectations of a Messiah who would come. One who would come and deliver God's people from their enemies and restore them and bring them a time of blessing. But as as you might remember, there were also all kinds of misunderstandings about who that person would be. Many thought he would be a a kingly warrior who would fight and conquer other nations and restore Israel back to its former glory And during this time, in between the end of the Old Testament and the start of the New Testament, there were also many people who rose up as false teachers who would claim, I'm the one you're looking for, I'm the Messiah. And we read later on in John's Gospel that some of them got quite a following for a little while, and people were taken with them and followed them, and ultimately it amounted to nothing. But then you have John's ministry pop on the scene. You have this strange guy who dresses in camel's hair and goes out and eats bugs out in the desert and baptizes people. But baptism wasn't an entirely new thing, but what was new was the urgency in his baptism, calling them to a baptism for repentance and for the forgiveness of sins. Preparing themselves for the kingdom that was to come. And so, in light of all of this background, it makes sense that the religious leaders of God's people were a little bit curious. And maybe even a little bit suspicious about who this weird guy was and what he's up to. And so they send a delegation to him asking who is this guy? And so they come to him, who are you? And John's answer is shocking, to say the least. The first thing you need to know about me, the most important thing that you need to get about who I am, I am not the Christ. I'm not the one you're waiting for. I'm not the one that you've been looking for. I am not the Christ. Well, John, who are you? Are you Elijah? If you remember the very last chapter of the very last book of the Old Testament, the book of Malachi, in chapter four, verse five, God gives this promise to his people, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. Now, if you remember in the Old Testament, Elijah was one of two people in the Old Testament who didn't die. He was taken up to heaven in a chariot of fire, and he he did not die. And so many of the people had this expectation That the real person of Elijah would return. And John, though Jesus later says he is the one who came in the spirit of Elijah, he's not literally Elijah. He's a new person. And so John says, No, I'm not Elijah. And I asked, well then, are you the prophet? Now there was expectation about this prophet, not a prophet, but the prophet. If you remember back a while back into our study of the book of Deuteronomy. In Deuteronomy 18, verse 18, God promises Moses, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And if you remember, the very end of the book of Deuteronomy ends this way. It says, There has not arisen a prophet like Moses among the people of God whom God knew face to face with. There's this expectation that God would fulfill this promise of sending this prophet, and we read in the New Testament to find out this prophet and the Messiah are the same person. And so John says, no, I'm not the prophet. I'm nobody. Stop focusing on me. I'm not the one you're looking for. He confessed and did not deny that he is none of these. But they won't let them go that easy. They say we we have to give an answer. Someone sent us to find out who you are, and we can't just leave without an answer. It's just fine. I'm I'm just a voice I'm a voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, as Isaiah said. He quotes Isaiah chapter 40, verse 3. And the context of that passage is significant for us because the context is God preparing the people for God Himself to come and to restore them. John the Baptist is saying, I'm that promised messenger who comes to prepare the way, who comes to prepare the way before God Himself comes. And if you read on in Isaiah chapter 40, just a couple verses later, he says, I'm going to send my messenger before I come to prepare the way for me And just two verses later, in verse 5, he says, And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. You see, the significance is that John is there to point people to the glory of the Lord that's revealed in Christ. Just as We saw last week in John chapter 14, and the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. That's such an important theme that runs throughout the whole Gospel of John, that the glory of God is revealed in Jesus. And so they respond to John. They want to know if if you're not all these people, if you're not somebody important, if you're not the Christ, you're not Elijah, you're not the prophet, then what are you doing baptizing? Well by what authority do you do these things? And John again says, You got it all wrong. I am baptizing. I'll tell you later, God sent me. It's on His authority that I'm doing these things But I'm nothing. I just use water. I just give an outward sign. I don't have any ability to to affect the internal change that I'm symbolizing with this water of My role is just to prepare people for one far greater than myself. I'm not even worthy to untie his shoes for him. You think of the context there in the ancient world that people would wear sandals, and it's not just that they would walk around in a dusty, dirty street, but think about the animals that would walk through the street. Street and think about all the things that found their way into this street, and all that found their way onto their feet and on their sandals There's an old saying from the ancient world that says that a disciple must do everything for his teacher that a slave would do, except to untie the straps of his sandals. You've got to draw the line somewhere, and you would never stoop so low as to untie the sandals, the dirty, filthy sandals of your mentor. John says, I'm not even worthy to do that. I am nothing next to this one. He's far greater than I am. John keeps the right perspective. He doesn't think too highly of himself. He's not caught up in all the attention that he's being given. He evaluates himself as he compares to Christ, not to others. He doesn't get distracted from his job, but he faithfully points to Christ as the one who was to come. What does that mean for us? I mean, John the Baptist is a unique figure in the history of salvation. How might these verses apply to us? I think there's a few ways. I think the first thing we can see is Every one of us has a circle of influence that God has given us. Some might have a larger sphere of influence and some might have a smaller, but The temptation for all of us is to use it in order to make a name for ourselves, to build our own reputation, and to encourage people to follow us. But my friends, we have been called to be witnesses for Christ. To go out and not to seek to build our own kingdom, but to build his, to seek to further his. And so these verses should call us to examine our lives and ask ourselves, How am I using my relationships with my family, with my friends, with my coworkers? Am I seeking for opportunities to draw attention to myself? Or am I looking for opportunities to point people to Christ? I think this is a a passage that probably every pastor ought to memorize. There's a common sin that many pastors share is to the temptation to be people pleasers, to want to be everything to everyone and to serve in such a way that everyone loves you and is perfectly satisfied and happy with everything you do. If we're not careful, we can find ourselves having some some sort of a messiah complex, wanting to be everywhere, do everything, meet every need, and satisfy everyone. We need to remember, I am not the Christ. Our job is to point people to Him This is so important for us to remember, but it's also important for you to remember as a congregation, as you think about the expectations you have of your pastors. You should expect us to love you sacrificially. As Paul says, to be willing to be spent and to spend for your souls. Because the Lord tells us that as elders, we will give an account for your souls to the Lord one day. We should be willing to be poured out for your sake. And yet, please don't look to us to do what only Jesus can. Because we're gonna let you down. We are just sinners like you with weaknesses and with limitations. I am not the Christ. Pastor Josiah is not the Christ. We cannot live up to him. The reality is we are replaceable. The Lord can take us home to him at a moment's notice. And the church of Jesus Christ will be fine because He is the head of the church and He is on His throne because we are not the Christ, but He is It's not just a message for pastors, but for all of us. We're all tempted to think that we can be the Savior, aren't we? To meet every need, to solve every problem, and to do it all perfectly, but we can't. We're sinners in need of a savior, and we need the reminder every day that we are not the Christ. God is God, and you are not. And that is good news. There's so many distractions in this world, so many voices telling us follow your heart, chase after your dreams. You can do whatever you set your mind on. Make a name for yourself. Friends, it is all just noise that distracts us from what is most important, from knowing who we are and from living for God. And so we need to keep the right perspective who we are compared with Christ, that we are not the Christ, that we are sinners in need of a Savior. And we need to remember what we're called to do, not to point people to ourselves, but to point people to Him. But we don't just need the right perspective. We need to focus on the right object, and that's what we see in verses 29 to 34. There's a connection from the previous verses. John the Baptist has just been speaking about the one who is to come, and then he immediately introduces us to Jesus. John the Baptist draws everyone's attention to Christ. Earlier he's been pointing away from himself, and now he's pointing specifically to Jesus. He wants us to look to Jesus and to see how much greater he is than John. And to be in awe of who he is. He uses exalted language, highlighting many aspects of Christ's person and his work that he accomplishes on our behalf. As we'll go through this, we'll see that there so much of what he says has much Old Testament background to it that we need to understand in order to rightly grasp what he's saying. The first thing he highlights is Christ's mission. He says, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. It's a clear, concise, decisive statement of why Jesus came. To die for our sin, to take it away, to make us right with God. The significance of Jesus being a lamb is one of those Old Testament references. It shows up all throughout the Old Testament. You see it begin in Genesis 22, where God says to Abraham, he tests Abraham and says, Abraham, you know your son Isaac, your only son, the son you love, the son that all the promises I've made to you hinge on him coming. The son I gave you when you were a hundred years old, good as death. Yes? I want you to sacrifice him. And Abraham is confused, but he he seeks to obey God, and as they're walking up the mountain, Isaac begins to notice what's going on. He says Father, there's wood. I see we have a fire, but where is the lamb for the sacrifice? And in faith, Abraham says, God will provide the lamb. For himself for the sacrifice. And just before Abraham is ready to sacrifice his son, the angel of the Lord stops him and they see a ram that God has provided, and they sacrifice the ram and worship God together. You see it in the the Passover lamb that is killed and his blood is painted over the doorpost in order to spare the people from the firstborn son being killed, and it it leads to the redemption of God's people from Israel. Though the lamb dies and the people go free. You see it in the general sacrifices, day after day around the clock, morning and evening, a lamb had to be sacrificed because it was teaching God's people the reality of sin. And very often symbolically, one would put their hand on the head of a lamb to symbolically transfer their sins to the lamb. The lamb was dying in their place. Finally, you see it in the prophecy of the suffering servant of Isaiah 53. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to slaughter, like a sheep that before its shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. You see, the lamb is a sacrifice for sin that dies in the place of people. The lamb's death is what led to freedom and forgiveness for God's people because it died instead of them. As I said, the sins were often symbolically transferred to the lamb, but the Bible tells us that the blood of animals could never take away sins. We needed one who was like us to die in our place, but he must be perfect. He must be free from sin in every way. He must be God Himself. Church, this is the heart of the gospel. That you and I are sinners. We have corrupt, sinful natures that leads us to have sinful desires and to commit sinful actions. And we need to feel the weight of this. Some of us might be here just overwhelmed because of the shame of our sin, whether sin that we've committed or sin that's been committed against us. But other of us others of us have the problem where we we look at our sin and tend to think, it's not so bad. So we need to be reminded of the weight of our sin. Because our greatest need is to have our sins taken away so that we Can be close to God as we were created to be. We cannot begin to see this as good news if we don't see the evil of our sin. That God would send his own son. To live a perfect life, free from sin in every way, actively obeying God in everything on our behalf, and then suffering in our place. And he holds out the promise that when we come to him in repentance and faith, turning away from our sin, turning to Christ and trusting and resting on him alone for salvation, friends, you will be forgiven. All your sins will be taken away. Every single one of them, no matter what you've done, no matter where you've been, no matter who you are. Jesus stands ready to forgive and holds out the promise that if anyone comes to him, he will never cast them out. He highlights Christ's mission. He highlights his his very nature, who he is. He says, after me comes a man who ranks before me because he was before me. You see, John was born first, he was older. And he began his ministry first. But he is not the greatest. Christ is greater than him because he existed before him. Jesus is a man, but he's not a mere man. He's the eternal Son of God. As we just confessed a short while ago in the Creed, we believe in one Lord Jesus Christ. The only begotten Son of God, begotten of his Father before all worlds, God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten, not made. Being of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made. You see, though there was a definite point in time when the Son became a man, the Son has always existed. necessarily as God himself. He was not created, and he is exalted above all his creatures. And this is the one who John came to point his finger towards He says, I didn't know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing that he might be revealed to Israel Now you might remember John the Baptist and Jesus were actually relatives. So he doesn't mean that they had never met. His point is that he didn't recognize Jesus as the promised Messiah until it was revealed to him by God Himself. And the purpose of his ministry was then to pass on that revelation to others. And that's what John the Baptist does in these verses. He says, He's here. He's come. That's the one you've been waiting for. He goes on and he highlights the fact that Christ was validated for his ministry by being anointed with the Spirit And he gives testimony from Jesus' baptism, which the other Gospels record. It happened earlier than this scene in the Gospel of John. But John the Baptist baptizes Jesus. And we read that the Spirit descended on him like a dove, and the Father speaks. He says, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. The fact that the Spirit descended and remained on him is a sign that validates Jesus' ministry. Again, this is another Old Testament background that explains what's going on. It shows that he's been set apart and qualified for the work that God has appointed him to do. Anointing in the Old Testament was a symbol of being set apart for service to God. The example we have are that the kings and the priests who were anointed for their tasks. And anointing oil was the symbolic reference to the Holy Spirit. You see all of this come together when King David was anointed by Samuel. We're told that Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers And then we read that the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. There's a connection between the anointing and the receiving of the Spirit of God for the task that you've been given. Isaiah brings this out in his promises of the one who is to come, when he focuses on the fact that the restoration and redemption of God's people comes through the king in the line of David, the Messiah who is the anointed one. And if you read on you realize that that Christ is just the Greek word that means Messiah, which means anointed one. The one who's anointed with the We read this in several places in Isaiah. In chapter eleven, we're told that there shall come forth a root from the stump of Jesse, a branch from his roots shall bear fruit, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. Later in chapter forty two, Isaiah says, Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. Finally, the servant himself says in Isaiah 61: The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and to announce the year of the Lord's favor. You see, all of this background is because John wants us to see that all of the Old Testament hopes centered on Christ and are fulfilled in him. He is the one that we've been waiting for. He wasn't just anointed with the Spirit, but he was anointed without measure, without any limitation at all. He truly is the Christ, the anointed one. And we realize that his anointing is not just for himself. God revealed to John the Baptist that Jesus is not just the one who was anointed with the Spirit, but who then baptizes with the Holy Spirit. Over and over again, John says that he baptized with water. He could only give the sign, water baptism being a sign of having sins washed away, the forgiveness of sin. But Christ is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. He gives the substance. He gives the one that can actually bring about the change and can actually cleanse us from sin. Jesus not only fulfills the Old Testament promises of being anointed, he also fulfills the promises that Yahweh will pour out his Spirit on others. This is promised all the way back in Joel chapter 2, where we're told that it shall come to pass afterwards that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. And it shall pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. See, friends, if you are in Christ, the same Spirit who descended and remained on Jesus, though the same Spirit who raised Jesus Jesus from the dead is at work in you. The Spirit is the river of living water who satisfies us and who then flows out of us. He set apart Christ and empowered him for his ministry, and he does the same for us, making us holy and then enabling us to live for God. Everything is centered on Christ. Truly, he is the Son of God. He is the one we need, the one who saves us, the one who satisfies us, the one who sustains us, the one who sanctifies us, and the one who seals us with his spirit. And church, we must keep our eyes on Him. Don't lose your focus because He is your life. And apart from Him, you can do nothing. There are so many distractions in life, and the danger of distraction is that it can become more than just a waste of time If we're not careful, it can lead us to fail to give adequate attention to Christ and to the needs of our soul. So we need the right perspective. We need to always evaluate ourselves and others in light of who Christ is. I am not the Christ, but He is. And we need to constantly keep our focus on Him, remembering who He is, and remembering all that He has done for us, because He is the only one that can meet the greatest needs and the greatest desires of our hearts. So, church, let us continually behold Him. Keep Him in the center focus in all that we do so that we don't get distracted from what's most important. Let's pray together. Not to us, oh Lord, not to us, but to your name be glory. Lord, we would exalt you, Lord Jesus. And we pray, God, that with all the things in this world that Fight for our attention. All the legitimate responsibilities that we have in this world, in the midst of all of us, may we continue to fix our eyes on Jesus. Keep our focus on him, trusting that he is the one whom our soul loves and the one who is able to satisfy and to save. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen.