Good morning. I must begin by admitting this morning that I am, in fact, glad that we are finishing up chapter seven. I guess the laughter means though you also feel the same way that this has been quite a difficult chapter for us at least for me to understand. I was encouraged this week because I I felt as if I was lost as I prayed and studied and studied really hard and trying to understand what Paul is talking about in this chapter and I listened to one of my favorite pastors and preacher and he said the same things that he has been struggling to understand Paul's words. But you know what is great though? Is the fact that we have the Holy Spirit, that He helps us every single day to understand. God's Word. And that's what I'm holding on to this morning. So if you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's holy word? We're reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 25 to the end. Now concerning the betroth, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy. I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a person to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you do marry, you have not sinned. And if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned Yet those who marry will all will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that. This is what I mean, brothers. The appointed time has grown very short From now on, let those who have wives live as though they have none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice. as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy, as though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing away I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife, and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things how to please her husband. I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord. If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed, if his passions are strong and it has to be, let him do as he wishes. Let them marry. It is not sin. But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity, but having his desire under control, and has determined that this is this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well So then, he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better. A wife is bound to her husband for as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. Yet in my judgment she is happier if she remains as she is And I think that I too have the Spirit of God. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we come to you knowing and understanding that though the grass withers and the flower fades The word of the Lord, our God, will stand forever. So would you, Lord, lead us this morning and help us to understand it? In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Now every time I tell people that I'm from Kenya, they always assume and think that I'm a long distance runner. It might be because of my skinny frame, but I'm not sure why they always assume that. So an example about or an illustration on a sermon about s long distance running comes easy with me Yes. And so as I think about this sermon, I think about a long distance runner, and I think about the the many things that a long distance runner ought to be aware of as they start their race in in order for them to be successful. A ton of things have been written about it. What are some of the things that you need to be aware of? Stay hydrated You don't want to die of thirst. Avoid boredom. Just think about a marathon, hours and hours of running. You need to keep your mind focused so that you don't get bored and forget what you're trying to do. Tiredness. Exhaustion. I've run American, so I know how it feels. Distraction from the crowds, from the people following you, from your mental capacities from from your body and what it's telling you, all those things. But I I personally I think that one of the most difficult things for a long distance runner is the ability to maintain and keep one's pace. Because marathon is not, it's not how fast you run, but it's the ability for you to keep your pace so that you don't get so tired so fast. Now the temptation is this when you're running a marathon, the temptation is I want to run so fast. That's me. I want to get this done, so I'm gonna run as fast as I can so that this is all over because it's so difficult The other temptation, which is really, really me, is I want to be done. I'm exhausted, I'm gonna stop, and you guys keep going Much like the Christian life, isn't it? Paul elsewhere captures the picture of a long-distance runner. That's who we are as believers as Christians And that in our lives as we walk with God, we are so tempted to make the pursuit of those things that are temporary to become the ultimate goal of life. And that when we do so, we lose focus on what's really important. So the question that we must be asking this morning as we look at all these verses that we just read And a lot of stuff that we've already covered from chapter from in chapter seven from verses one to where we are today is this. How then as Christians are we supposed to maintain an undivided attention or undivided devotion and commitment to God How can we maintain an undivided devotion to God with all the distractions, with all the stresses, with all the anxieties, with all the decisions, with everything that surrounds us? And Paul is here giving us an answer. A good answer that we ought to remember every single day of our life, and it is this: Paul is basically saying and telling the church: keep an eternal perspective on life. Keep an eternal perspective in your relationships, in how you view marriage, in how you think about life, joy, sorrow, happiness, business, politics, whatever it is. Keep An eternal perspective on all things. And Paul does this in a really beautiful way. And in these verses, we're going to see, he does two things. He says, I want you to be aware of the times that you live in. So discern the times that you're living. And then finally he says, I want you to be aware of the circumstances. Discern the circumstances. Understand the circumstances. that you are in. So we'll begin by looking at the times. Verses 25 through 31. Paul is again reminding the church. We've seen this before. Paul has done this before. He's telling the church, I want you to know as I respond to your question about that word betrothed actually means virgins, not just people that engage, but actually an engaged virgin. So we don't know whether it's both female and male, but we can assume it's both. He's saying before I answer the question for you, I want you to know that whatever I'm gonna tell you Is again not a command, a direct command from Jesus? These are my my words, my advice But I want you to know that these are words that have apostolic authority. This is the inspired word of God. So just because I'm saying I'm not directly quoting Jesus, does not mean that this is not the inspired word of God that you ought to listen. Now the specific questions about virgins we really don't know, but we can assume from what we just read that it's it has something to do with virgins asking the question, should we or should we not be married? Is he addressing the fathers here who are keeping their daughters from being married? We don't know. Is he addressing the fiances that were saying, well, maybe I've changed my mind because back in the day engagements were It was like marriage. It wasn't as we think of engagement today. You couldn't break an engagement. You are almost married if you engage to someone. But we don't know who he's addressing. And so Paul says, I'm gonna give you a counsel, I'm gonna advise you on what to do. And then he says, in light of the current or the present crisis I would like for you to remain as you are. We saw this last week. Paul saying, don't make any unnecessary changes in your life. He says, remain as you are, verse 26. Now, Paul does not care, or he doesn't think that it's important for us to know what the distress, what the current crisis was. He doesn't tell us But what we know is that the church knows very well what the crisis was. So, as Paul says, in light of the current distress that you're going through, he knows that the church understands exactly what they are going through. We don't know, but we can speculate. Now, this is the first century church. Remember, Corinth is a church that is divided. We talked about it In chapters one and two and following, we saw how this church is divided. It could be that the problems the church is facing are problems that are within, but also outside outside the church, within in terms of their fighting The families are being broken apart because the husband is going one way and the and the wife is going the other way. We don't know. Maybe the disunity caused that. But also remember what's going on. History tells us there was a great famine around this time, around the time that Paul is writing this letter. That was affecting people, children and men and women dying of them and calamity. But we also know for a century that the church was highly persecuted. This is the time of Nera So is Paul referring to all of these things? We don't know. What we know is that whatever hardship the church is facing is affecting family life. It's affecting their marriages, it's affecting their relationship, hence the warning from Paul. How are we then to see this present distress, this crisis that is going on? How should we think about it? I think this is the way to think about it I think Paul is right by saying you have a crisis that's going on. I don't think he's making reference to that Jesus is coming now, so this is the end of times. I think he's talking about things that we all go through. We all go through a difficult life But I think it goes beyond that. I think Paul is saying you are going through a tough time, but don't forget that your tough time also includes What God has promised that we will face trials before Christ returns. So He puts all that time together. Hence, verse 29, he says, the shortness of time. Time is short. Paul's answer to the matter is not between right and wrong. Paul is not saying that choosing marriage or not choosing marriage is a matter of right and wrong. It's a matter of right and better. He says it's not sin, but he's saying based on the present crisis, I would like for you not to be married. Paul would prefer for them to not get get married. I mean you've heard this, right? When the high seas are raging, it is no time to be changing ships. That's what is going on here. Don't marry for now. You might be saying, wait. It's time for you to wait before you make that decision. Now we know how that plays in our lives, right? The time does determine Or the times that we live in do determine whether we're going to be married or not. What if your son, who was 18 years old, was in the army and about to be deployed in a pretty dangerous place And he had a young lady that he wanted to be married to. Would you encourage him to be married or would you tell him to wait, not knowing whether he's going to return? Marriage itself is not a matter of right or wrong. Paul is saying in verses 28, it's not sinful. The real problem here for Paul is this. Paul wants to know How are people at the church in Corinth spending their time and energy? Are you spending your time and energy serving the Lord? Or are you spending your time and energy thinking about smaller things? Energy is a big thing, but are you spending your time just thinking about that? And Paul is saying this: listen, I'm gonna give you counsel, I'm gonna encourage you on what I think you should do. You can disregard my advice if you want, but if you do, you will face trouble. That's what Paul is saying. He's dissuading them from marriage to spare them from the hardships that they might be facing physically and spiritually and otherwise. Paul wants the church to know this I want you to live for God, whether you are married Or that you're single? Are you serving the Lord? And in this in this particular passage here in verses twenty-nine through thirty-one it goes Through this poetic language that he says, if life is sad, he's saying, don't be bowed by sadness. If life is joyful, don't be engrossed in joy Don't cling to material things because all these things are coming to an end. They are passing. They are changing and disappearing. So don't wait your don't waste your time on it and thinking about it too much because our life is in some sense contradictory, right? I mean that's what the scripture scripture tells us. We are poor, yet we are rich because we have everything in Christ We weep, we're in sorrow, yet we rejoice because of what God has done in our lives. I love how Matthew Henry summarizes this passage. He says, quote, as to all worldly concerns, they must keep the world out of their hearts. so that they may not abuse it when they have it in their hands. End of quote. See, we cannot treat everything around us as if it was eternal. Marriage is not eternal. There is no getting married in heaven. Our joy here cannot compare to the joy that we were going to experience in heaven. When Christ returns. The grief that we face here is only for a short time. The wealth and the material wealth that we enjoy here is all of these things Paul is saying, they are passing by. So be careful, be careful not to place your hope on that which is temporary. But there's more to life than marriage, there's more to life than singleness, there's more to life than money. Are you ready to get out of this world? Any moment? Do we live our lives as if if God was to call you today, I'm ready to go? See, Paul's poetic language in verses thirty reminds us or the echoes of Jesus' words, right? Blessed are the poor and the weak and the meek and and all of that, concerning our future hope, and that's where our eyes have to be focused. On. That while we may be poor, we are the ones who inherit the kingdom of God. That while we weep today, we are the ones who are going to rejoice forever. That while we may be weak in all of that, one day we will be with the Lord. Being married or single is not really the central focus for us as Christians, is it? What is the central focus for us as Christians? It is being in Christ. Being in Jesus Christ. That is our identity. And I think that's what Paul is pointing to the church here. He's saying, listen, the crisis that you are facing, all the things that you're going through, don't be too attached to them. Why? Because they are all coming to an end. Paul is asking the church, he's asking all of us to have the wisdom to discern the times, know the times. Know God's time, not just the time that we're living, but God's time. And understand the circumstances and know how to glorify God. Avoid putting yourself and others in undue. And unnecessary things that may bring harm to yourself. See, Paul is here pointing to us four things. Right? The brevity of time, time is brief. It's short. The fleeting nature of this age, this age is coming to an end. Only the word of God will remain forever. The rapidity of events That today you're joyful, tomorrow you're weeping, and and the cycle keeps on going. And the brevity of life. We are here just for a moment. But he wants the church to know this. And I think this is for us to hear and to understand that the kingdom of God has come. That Jesus has brought the dawning of the kingdom of God and he is transforming our lives and who we are and what the earth is all about. And so the question is For the church and for us to think so, if the kingdom of God has come upon us, what is our view on marriage, on sorrow, on possessions, on joy, on business, on service? Does that change anything in our lives? Does the coming of the kingdom of God change anything and our views on all these things on life as we know it, does it? Or are we just moving on with the flow with everybody and saying, well, here we are, and let's enjoy life as it is? Or has the kingdom of God transformed your life as it touches your life on how you view your spouse, how you raise your children, and the decisions that you make every single day of your life? Do we have an eternal perspective on all things because the kingdom of God has truly come? We are living in difficult times. And I think it is for us to hear when we hear Paul encouraging a church that is going through a difficult time that we are as well living in dangerous times. Heated political climate. You only have to go to Facebook every single morning and wonder what else is gonna happen There is no truth anymore. It is relative. There is no morality. It is relative. There is no God. I am my own God. A denial of the spiritual world. And you know what the problem with us is as a church we find ourselves becoming so comfortable We forget that the kingdom of God has come. And so we move along with the world and what they're saying and we cry with with the world and we and and we just engage in the world the same way the world is engaging with we become attached To the very world that God is telling us, I want you to live in harmony with the world, not to be completely detached, but I want you to know that you are not of this world Your citizenship is in heaven, and you gotta live in a different way than how the world lives. Because if you live like the world, you're gonna become the world, and that's not you Have an eternal perspective on life. I am screaming at me, not at you, because that's me. I find myself always drawn to the world, and I forget. I forget the times. I forget I'm living on God's time, not my time. What time are you on? Secondly, Paul says this. Before we get to the second, I'm reminded of Martin Luther's hymn, A mighty fortress is all God. Listen to what he says. Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life was so the body they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His Kingdom is forever. Secondly discern your circumstances. Verses 38 to the end. It's really 38, 32 to 38. We'll put it all together In verse 32, he says, I want you to be free from anxieties. Now is Paul telling us, I want you as Christians to live a carefree life, have no concern whatsoever, don't be concerned about anything, you're good to go. Because that's not possible. I would tell him, Paul. It is not possible. Paul is saying this. I want you to live without concerns that cut your service to God. I want you to live a life where you're concerned, but your concerns do not affect your devotion to God. Did you hear that? That all concerns and anxieties and everything else that surrounds us, yes, we deal with it, but should not Should not distract us from our devotion to God. Paul is saying, I want you to have concerns, but I want you to bring those concerns to God. Bring your worries, your anxieties, your heartache, your brokenness, your sin, everything that you've got, I want you to bring it to me. Because it is only in me, only in Christ, that he can resolve all those problems. Paul is speaking as a pastor, as a great shepherd. Such a caring spirit, such a caring heart. And he's saying, I don't want you to be too preoccupied with other things. I want you to be only preoccupied with one thing Living in acceptance of God's will for your life. What is God's will for my life But I must leave all my worries to him. Paul wants the church to be completely sold out to Jesus Christ. See Paul is telling us here in these verses. It seems or it appears it's better for those that are single to commit their lives to Devote their lives to God. For the married people, they have all these anxieties and responsibilities of family life But he wants us, all of us, to please the Lord. That's why he says in verse 34, that those who are married, their interests are divided. They're both wanting to please God, but they're also wanting to care for their families. That marriage brings some extra cares over the world. Our attention for those of us who are married is centered on the desires of our spouses Now Paul doesn't go to the extent of telling us, what do you mean, Paul? What kinds of troubles, what kinds of trials are those who are married face? We know it If you're single, you're gonna leave this place this morning, you can go to a restaurant and eat anything that you want, because you can afford it, you're all by yourself You've got a family of about eight or ten people. You're gonna go sit there and keep scratching your head and then you order the meal and some of the kids don't even like what you ordered Then you're gonna be saying you better eat that food, boy. A kid of course, but we know the reality when the days a hard time in life that our marriages are strained, that's when conflict begins to happen. We know that when you have those children and you love them so dearly and you cannot watch them suffer, as one commentator puts it, he says, children sweeten labors, but they make misfortunes more bitter. I think that's what Paul has in mind here. But you see that while Paul recognizes that it might be difficult for those who are married, he also does not say that it is wrong for you to be married. He's quick to add that it's okay. It's not sinful for you to be made. Because both married and unmarried We're the same. We enjoy the same freedoms in Christ. There's no one that is superior. There's none that is better than the other. The only difference is that the married person has double duty. But this few must please the Lord. If you really want to know that Paul loves and cares for marriages and he's actually saying that you must provide for your family, you read First Timothy 5:8. And he says, whoever does not care for his family is much worse than an unbeliever. So Paul is not saying that that's just because you care for your family, that you don't have to be devoted to God. What is Paul's concern here? You know what it is? Look at verses 35. Look at the verses 35. I say this for your own benefit, not to lay Any restraint upon you not to promote but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord. What is Paul saying? I am more concerned for your spiritual and physical well-being. Paul is saying, I'm not gonna bind your conscience. I'm not gonna put a news on you, I'm not gonna put you on your on the leash and tell you what you should do exactly. I want you to have an undivided attention to the Lord God Almighty. I want you to serve the Lord. I want you to be steadfast in your devotion to the Lord's work and without destruction. That's what Paul is saying here. Whether you're married, whether you're single. And then he ends this passage by talking about the widow. You know it's so amazing that the only way that God releases us from our marriage commitment, the ideal to release us from our marriage commitment. is only through death. Because of our sin, Jesus talks about adultery. Because of our brokenness and sin, Paul talks about desertion. I think it's for us as a church to think through those things that are so difficult. To understand, yes, the only way, the ideal, the the way a husband or a wife is to be to remarry and to be separated from their spouses only through death. But sin, sin, sin destroys our marriages. See, Paul is saying marriage doesn't solve all of your problems. For all of you, those single people. I want you to hear this. Marriage will not solve Solve all your problems. External circumstances will not solve your life problems. Don't be preoccupied, all of us. Let us not be too preoccupied with the earthly circumstances and things that come and go and distract us, but let us maintain our devotion. to God. You know what Paul could have done? Paul could have addressed the question to the church in Corinth and said, you asked me this question, here's the answer. Is that what Paul is doing here? No Paul takes an opportunity as a pastor to love his church. And instead of giving the church specific answers that they might have requested, he takes an opportunity to teach. the congregation what's really important. He's not being overbearing. He's leaving the decision to them to make, but he is pointing the church to one thing. To biblical truths, to the gospel of Jesus Christ, and saying in lights Of God's word in light of the kingdom of God that has come and changed you and made you whole and declared to you that you are a child of God. Keep your eye. On that kingdom. Keep your eye on Jesus. And then you will know what decision you ought to make. What is distracting you this morning from your devotion to God? What is it What is making it so difficult for you to be completely and wholeheartedly devoted to God? My prayer for you is that you would keep your eyes on the prize on Jesus. That everything you think of and do, you will have an eternal perspective. Because that's the only way you will remain devoted to God. Thank you, Lord, for your word this morning. Would you, Lord, help us wherever we're distracted? Wherever we've failed to be completely and wholeheartedly devoted to you. Help us, Lord, to keep our eyes on you that we may not forget. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.