Well good morning again. If you have your Bibles, I'd encourage you to open with me to James chapter five. We'll be reading from James 5, verses 1 through 6. You can find it on page 1291 in your pew Bibles. James, for the last few weeks, has been encouraging us as we struggle with the temptation to worldliness, to love the things of this world, and And for the way that that uh fuel is fueled by our pride and our selfishness in our lives. And he's continuing uh this theme in these verses this morning. And I'll just warn you, brace yourselves because he doesn't pull any punches. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word? Hear now the word of the Lord from James chapter five, starting in verse one. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. For your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you have kept back by fraud, are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. Let's pray together. Our Father, we come before you now knowing how desperately we need your word. Father, we We do not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from your mouth. We need your word to sustain us, to strengthen us, to shape us. Lord, that by your spirit, through your word, you might transform us. to be more like you. And so Lord, as we come before your word, we know that we can't even understand it as we ought, apart from the work of your spirit, to open our eyes, to give us eyes that see and ears that hear. And so Lord, we come to you as your servants praying, speak, O Lord. For your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, John D. Rockefeller is regarded by most to be the wealthiest person in modern history. And he was once asked in an interview by a reporter who came to him and said, how much money is enough? And his famous answer is, just a little bit more. You see, I think we can all resonate with that answer to some degree or another, can't we? That the temptation to love money is not anything new for us. But I think it's important for us to take a step back and ask ourselves, why is it so tempting? Why why is the love of money have have such a a strong grip on us in so many ways? And and not just money in general, but but materialism. more broadly. See, the reality is that you and I are all tempted to one degree or another to pursue our vision of the good life. A comfort, life of pleasure, of luxury and self-indulgence, as James would say. And I want to suggest this morning that the reason that we are so tempted in this way. It's because on a day-to-day basis, we don't live with eternity in mind. In reality, we often find ourselves in our daily lives living as if this life was all there is. And James is warning us this morning, saying that when we do that, we waste our lives. And so his main point this morning is to warn us, saying, don't waste your life by living as if this life is all there is. And he gives us two reasons that we'll look at in turn. The first is that he says, don't waste your life by living as if this is all your there is, because it won't last. And the second thing he says is don't waste your life because one day we will all give an account before God for how we've lived. So let's look first at the reality that we must not waste our lives because it The things in this life will not last. And we see this in verses 1 through 3. James starts off in verse 1 with striking words: Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Before we go too far into this passage, I think it's helpful for us to pause and ask the question, who exactly is James speaking to in these verses? We've seen over and over again that in general his letter is written to Jewish Christians who have been scattered throughout the region because of persecution. And he's writing to address all kinds of issues in their lives, encouraging them to put their faith in action by turning away from their sins, in their their sinful attitudes, their sinful words, and their sinful actions. We've even seen at times that James has been a little bit harsh with them. But I think it doesn't take much in this passage to realize that he's even being harsh for James standards here. He doesn't hold back at all. And I th we ask the reason why, and I think partly it's because his audience has changed. You see, he's he's not writing here to all rich people in the world, and he's not even writing to wealthy Christians. But I want to suggest he's writing in these six verses to wealthy non-Christians who use their position and power to oppress The Christians that he's addressing the rest of the letter to. I think there's several reasons why this is the case. The first thing is he's clearly not condemning wealth per se. He's not condemning just the fact of wealth, but their sinful use of wealth. And the specific people he's writing to, as we'll see, are wealthy landowners who have been hoarding their wealth and oppressing others in order to maintain it. It's so important for us to pause and recognize that wealth is not inherently sinful. You see, too often we misquote Paul and say money is the root of all kinds of evil. But the reality is, Paul says, the the love of money. Is the root of all kinds of evil. Wealth is neither good nor bad. It's how you use it and how you view it. But it's also important for us to recognize that the Bible warns us about the dangers of wealth for a reason. Jesus says it's hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. In the Proverbs, we're given the words, the Proverb writer prays to the Lord, saying, Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God You see, there have always been godly, wealthy Christians in the church throughout all the ages. But wealth does present a unique temptation. It can make it really hard to love God and to trust Him above all else. The reality is it's simply hard to have money and use it well. And he that's the first reason. He's not condemning wealth in and of itself, but the sinful use of wealth. The second thing we see is that he uses this striking language: weep and howl. Those are actually words that show up in the Old Testament, in the prophetic books. And every time those words show up, the context is always referring to the wicked in a context of judgment that's coming upon them. Not only that, but the context that he even writes these verses within fits into the context of the topic of persecution of Christians. He ends in verse 6 by saying they persecuted the righteous one, a reference to the followers of God. And he goes on in verses 7 and following to encourage the Christians in the midst of this suffering and oppression. Finally, we've seen throughout the letter that James isn't afraid to be hard on his fellow Christians. But in the midst of that, he always calls them to repentance. But here it's interesting that there's no call to repentance in these verses. He just hits them hard with the threat of judgment that's coming upon them. Leaving no room for calling them to repentance. And so that raises the question for us, why would James address non-Christians in a letter that's written to Christians? The reality is most of them probably won't even read these words. I want to suggest that the reason is that he's writing to warn and encourage the believers that he's writing to. So he knows that we all struggle with the temptation to desire the good life. He knows that we're tempted to look at the non-Christians around us who seem to be successful, those who seem like they have the good life. They're successful, they seem wealthy and comfortable, even respected by others around them. And it can be so tempted to look at their lives and think, you know, I'd really like a little bit more of what they've got. We can even be tempted to ask it, is it really worth it to follow Christ with all that it costs me? When I could just live for myself and pursue the comforts and pleasures of life. We see an example of this in Psalm 73. It's a psalmist wrestles with this question. He says, I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. They have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They're not in trouble as others are. They're not stricken like the rest of mankind. He goes on and says that it's because of this they're proud and they go on to do all kinds of evil and reject God. He says, Behold, these are the wicked, always at ease. They increase in riches. All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. Have you ever felt like that? All in vain have I followed the Lord and kept my heart clean when I could have prospered and done all these things apart from him. The psalmist is wrestling with this, and as he comes into the sanctuary of God, he realizes their end. He came to see that the wicked will face judgment, and that all they love will not last. And that's what James wants us to see here. He says, For Christians to desire the comfortable life of the world is to be tempted to waste our lives. Because all the wealth and the luxury that we seek after in this life will not last. By calling the rich to weep and howl, he's describing their suffering as being enormous grief or pain. You see, they're not just disappointed, they're in utter despair. Because of the miseries that are coming. That's a reference to the future judgment that comes at Christ's return. And he uses language that points to the fact that this is imminent judgment. It's not some distant, far-off future thing, but it's something that can happen any moment. It's coming upon them now. See, he's saying that the rich have lived with a false sense of security that will one day be taken away, and this can happen at any moment without warning. He goes on in verses 2 and 3 to point out that the things they've trusted in have wasted away and can't last. And he condemns them really for two things in these sections. The first thing is he condemns them, as we've said, because they put their hopes and desires in things that don't last. And he goes through the whole list of it. They their riches have rotten, their clothes have moth-eaten, their wealth is decaying. In fact, he echoes Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount there. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also He's saying they've stored up treasure in the last days, meaning that they've spent their lives chasing things that can't last, and which can't address the deepest needs of their lives or their standing with God. Devoting their lives to things they can't take with them when they die. You see, it's important for us to recognize this because how we live our lives always reveals what we love. How we spend our time, the things we give our greatest attention to, and yes, even how we spend our money always reveals what has control of our heart. And by their use of wealth, these rich people have shown that they have no love for God and no love for their neighbor, but only for themselves. That alone will invite God's judgment because God will not tolerate divided loyalties. As we saw a few weeks back, God can compares idolatry and loving something else besides Him as nothing short of spiritual adultery. God doesn't share the affection of his people. But James also has a deeper criticism to point out here. And it's interesting, several scholars raise the point that at least to some degree James is speaking literally when he says they stored up treasure in the last days and that their stuff has begun to decay. This comes out with the way that several people translate verse 3. In the ESV, Verse 3 says, you have stored up treasure in the last days. But some will translate that verse as saying, you have hoarded wealth in the last days. You see, it's not just that they loved money in the wrong way, but they hoarded it in such a way that they're depriving others of the things they need. You see, some have such little food they legitimately don't know where their next meal will come from. And James is saying: these rich people have so much food stored away that it rots before they get a chance to eat it. Some have only the clothes on their back that are tattered from wear and use, and yet these rich people have so many clothes stored away that the moths eat them before they even have a chance to wear them. Out of their selfishness and their sinful love of wealth, they have begun to hoard whatever they can get their hands on, even if they don't need it or have any use for it. And by doing it, they deprive others of things that they desperately need. That's a sobering thing to think about, isn't it Because we really need to wrestle with this because of the culture and the time in which our Lord has placed us. We live in a culture that encourages materialism and overconsumption. That feeds us to have insatiable appetites for wealth, entertainment, pleasure, and information As one theologian has brought it out, he says, one of the sins for which God condemns these people is their selfish accumulation of money and things. In the Western world, where amassing material wealth is not only condoned but admired, we Christians need to come to grips with this point in James and ask ourselves seriously: when do we have too much? But see the point here is not merely how much you have, but how you use what you have. He's not condemning responsible planning. It's still good and wise to have insurance, to have a savings account, to plan for retirement. Right? These things are all part of being a good steward, because as Pastor Josiah pointed out last week, we don't know what tomorrow holds. The point is that as far as we are able, we must use the blessings that God gives us in order to bless others, not just to keep it all for ourselves. James says they're doing this in the last days, which is a reference to the time between Christ's first coming and his second coming. The reality he's saying is that since Christ has now come and lived a perfect life and died in our place, risen from the grave and ascended up into heaven, and has even poured out the Spirit on his people, now we are in the last days that all these things have happened. And Jesus can come at any time, and every day is one day closer to his return. As we read through the last the New Testament We see that the last days are a day that are to be characterized by giving priority to the Great Commission, going out and making disciples, baptizing them, and teaching them to obey all that Christ has commanded us. Jesus repeatedly warns us as we think about the last days to stay awake, stay alert. Don't get sleepy thinking that it will go on forever because he will come suddenly. You see, they should have listened to the warnings of judgment, but instead they have ignored the demands of the gospel and lived for luxury and self-indulgence. And James says they will be consumed by the fire of God's judgment. The idea there that their wealth will bring evidence against them shows that God will look at the way they've used their wealth and it will be a basis for the judgment of God upon them. There are so many warnings for us to see in this passage, but I think the key point that I want us to focus on this morning is this. Don't envy the rich of this world. Don't copy them by seeking after worldly pleasure, because no matter how safe you keep it, it will disappear. There are so many things in this life to love and to love rightly. We can enjoy them as blessings from God who gives us things to enjoy, but do not let them capture your heart. We cannot live like this life is all there is. I want to suggest that this is one of the greatest diseases plaguing the American church. The temptation to downplay Christ's words when he says, This world is not your home. In this world you will have trouble, and if anyone would follow me, you must deny yourself. Take up your cross and follow me. Instead, we try to downplay these words and try to add Jesus to the good life. Because we're too comfortable and too at home in this world, and that's why so often we struggle with a stale relationship with God. Feeling like our faith makes no difference in our daily lives. It's why we so often see the church being ineffective in its communities, and why we fail to see the gospel changing lives, because church, we don't live like it's true. Too many of us find ourselves like the rich young ruler who come to Jesus asking, What must I do to inherit eternal life? I've never stolen, I've never murdered, I've never committed adultery. We never cheated, but when Jesus says, sell all that you have and give to the poor, if he were to say those words to us this morning, I think so many of us would turn away sad because of our great possessions. James wants us to see, for for a Christian to desire the comfortable life of the world is to be tempted to waste our lives. Because none of it will last. Because the only guarantee we have in this life is that it's going to end. I don't know when, I don't know how, I don't know if we'll have lots of warning or if it will come suddenly, but we know it will happen. And so if we go through life neglecting our relationship with God, serving ourselves instead of sacrificially loving others, then we are wasting our lives. So I want to encourage you this morning, place your first priority on your relationship with Christ. Give him the first of your time, of your energy, and yes, even of your money. Not the leftovers. Ask him to help weaken your grip on the things of this world, to hold them with an open hand So that you can come to love Christ supremely. Because only when you do this can you truly enjoy all the blessings that He's giving you and use them to bless others. James wants us to see the dangers of wasting our lives chasing after things that don't last. But he also reminds us that it's a waste to live as if this is all there is, because one day we will give an account. For our lives. That's what we see in verses four through six. You know, the reality is we never sin in a vacuum. As if we could give in to one sinful temptation without it having an impact on the rest of our lives. One clear impact that it has is that when we embrace one form of sin, it always leads to greater sin. You see that principle at work all throughout Scripture. Maybe the clearest example is King David committing adultery with Bathsheba and in order to cover it up and to maintain his reputation. Eventually he comes to commit murder by having her husband killed, her husband who happened to be one of his closest friends. When sin is undealt with, it always leads to greater sin. And this is especially true with money. Paul tells us in 1 Timothy 6, those who desire to be rich fall into temptation. Into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. You see, that's what we see going on here. That they're so committed to their pursuit of wealth that they've gone on to sin against those they've hired to work for them These wealthy landowners hired many people to cut their grain and to harvest their fields. But at the end of the day, they refused to pay what was agreed upon. This is a practice that is explicitly and directly condemned in the Old Testament. Deuteronomy, Moses tells the people: don't withhold wages for a day laborer overnight because they're poor and they depend on it. In the ancient Near East, in the ancient world, it was important for workers to be paid their wages at the end of the day, because people lived pay-to-pay then just like they do now. To withhold a paycheck could have devastating consequences. It might mean that that family can't have dinner that night because they have no money to buy food. Because of this, it's interesting some writings equate the withholding of pay with murder. It gives us some some helpful insight to how to understand James's thinking here. One of the apocryphal books, the book of Sirach. Brings this out. It says, to take away a neighbor's living is to murder him. To deprive an employee of his wages is to shed blood. You see, the point is by not paying these workers could have life and death consequences for them. This is why James says that by withholding their pay, they have ultimately condemned and murdered them. And James makes it clear, God sees their sin. The cries of those they have oppressed have been heard by the Lord. He calls the Lord the Lord of hosts. A name that depicts God as one who commands the armies of the hosts of heaven. One who is able to avenge his people for the wrongs they have suffered at the hands of the wicked. All of these sinful actions are rooted in the self-indulgence and their desire for luxury. James says they fatten their hearts, meaning that they've they've indulged themselves, denying themselves no pleasure in this life. But they've done so, he says, in a day of slaughter, a day when God will return in judgment to strike them down for their sins. He's going to go on in the next several verses to encourage His Christian audience to patiently endure this suffering, knowing that God will judge their oppressors. But the point that I just briefly like us to consider this morning is this: God sees all that we do Our entire lives are lived before his face. He knows everything we've ever done, every careless word we've ever spoken, and every thought that's ever come into our minds. He sees it all. And one day we will stand before him and give an account for all of it. For those of you who are here this morning and you are not in Christ, you you've never turned away from your sin and repentance and put your faith in Christ. If you're still living like this life is all there is, living for yourself, defining your life by the pursuit of pleasure and comfort and success and wealth. And please hear me this morning. You're wasting your life. Listen to the warning that this passage gives because one day you will stand before your Maker and give an account for everything you've ever done And all the wealth in this world will do nothing to spare you from his wrath and judgment. There is only one thing that can bear the weight of your soul on that day, the Lord Jesus Christ alone. He's the one who lived a perfect life, who died in the place of sinners on the cross to satisfy God's wrath for sin By trusting in him alone, his perfect righteousness will be counted to you. And you can face that day of judgment and hope that comes from knowing your sins have been forgiven. Tomorrow is not a guarantee. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the time to trust in Christ. If on the other hand, you're here this morning, as as many of you I suspect are, and you're a Christian, trusting in Christ, we still have to give an account for our lives. But we can do so knowing that we've been forgiven in Christ, and at the end we'll be received as children of God. But the reality that God sees all that we do should guide us to live in a way that honors Him. We must not waste our lives because our Lord has placed us here to serve Him with every breath that we take. He died for us so that we would live for him, so that we would take every thought captive and be good stewards of all that he's given us, so that on the last day we will hear those words. Well done, my good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master. Do not waste your life by living as if this is all there is, because we will give an account to God. We can resonate with Rockefeller's answer. It's so easy for us to get caught up in the here and now and in subtle ways to start living as if God doesn't exist. As if this life is all there is, to spend our lives chasing after things that don't last and which can't satisfy. And find ourselves living as if God doesn't see or care what we do. We might start cutting corners and making moral or ethical compromises in our daily interactions, forgetting that we will give an account to Him for everything. You see, if we're not careful, we might wake up one day to find that we have wasted our lives devoting ourselves to things that don't matter instead of living for God's glory. I want to encourage you this morning, look to Christ, the author and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before us, endured the cross, despising the shame, and has been seated at the right hand of the Father. His life was the exact opposite of luxury and self-indulgence. For our sake, he became poor that we, by his poverty, might become rich. He didn't take advantage of others, but allowed himself to suffer unjustly for us. He didn't make anything in this world his treasure, but made it his joy to serve the Father in everything. And friends, he did this for our sake, so that we could live for him. And he's given us his spirit in order to make us more and more like him. If you are in Christ, you cannot go on living for yourself. Living as if he doesn't exist. No, you must say with Paul, I have been crucified with Christ. The life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God who loves me and gave himself for me. Church, may the Lord protect us from the temptation to amuse ourselves to death. And may he make it our greatest desire to spend and be spent as living sacrifices for him, all to the glory of the one who we will spend eternity praising. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, we are so prone to wander. We feel it so intensely, prone to leave you, the God who we love. You have saved us. You have spared no expense in coming to our rescue. And we are so tempted to turn from you to satisfy our desire by other things. Lord, we come to you now asking by your Holy Spirit, would you shape us and form us by your Spirit, through your word, to be a people who live for you? Who love you supremely, who are able, out of our love for you and our love for others, to freely enjoy the blessings of this life in a way that honors and glorifies you rather than misusing them and chasing after them for our satisfaction. Lord, we thank you that you have saved us in Christ, that there is no sin which Christ cannot cleanse us from by your grace And we pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us and encourage us as we go from here and reflect on these words. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.