Good morning. We have come to the end of our study in the book of First Corinthians. I can't believe We are done. And so this morning we're considering the final chapter. We're going to read the whole chapter. So if you're able, would you please stand as we read God's word from 1 Corinthians chapter 16 verses 1 through 24. Yeah now the reading of God's word. Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatias, so you also ought to do. On the first day of the week each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collection when I come. Um and when I arrive I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem. If it seems advisable that I should go also they will accompany me. I will visit you after passing through Macedonia, for I intend to pass through Macedonia and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter so that you may help me on my journey wherever I go. For I do not want to see you now just in passing. I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits. But I will stay in Ephesus until the Pentecost. For a wide door for effective work is open to me, and there are many adversaries. When Timothy comes, see that you put him at ease among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord as I am. So let no one despise him. Help him on his way in peace, that he may return to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers. Now, concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to visit with you with the brothers, but it was not all his will to come now. He will come when he has opportunity. Be watchful. Stand firm in faith. Act like men. Be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. Now I argue, brothers. You know that the household of Stephanas were the first converts in Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints. Be subject to such as these, and to every every fellow worker and laborer. I rejoice at the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Archaicus, because they have made up for your absence for they refresh my spirit as well as yours. Give recognition to such men. The churches of Asia send you greetings Aquila and Prisca, Priscilla, together with the church in the house in the house, send you her greetings in the Lord. All the brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be a curse. Our Lord, come. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. Father, we ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit, you would help us this morning to hear your word. Help us to focus on you, for your word is true. It is the word that guides us to believe and to trust in you all the days of our lives. Pray this in your holy name. Amen. Please be seated. And so as we come to this final chapter in our study of the book of First Corinthians, we Come upon this passage that we just read that is a a collection of concise short instructions and news and and greetings that Paul is giving to the church in Corinth. They are such personal matters that Paul is giving to the church in Corinth. It's really interesting that we only that last week looked at the 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And you saw just the the depth of that chapter, the theological conviction that were in that chapter, the the the things that were so difficult for us to even understand, to even grasp And yet from such a high and deep thoughtfulness, Paul is able to simply within a chapter change His mind rather or rather just changed from a posture of this deep theological thinking into personal practical stuff. He's a down-to-earth kind of a man. But we also see something in these passages here that actually sheds light on the day-to-day life of the church. That the church In the first century was not just about these deep convictions and this deep theological or doctrinal things that they were being taught and they were thinking about and they were studying and hearing from Paul, but the church was actually just like we are doing life together. Making collections, electing leaders, praying with one another. And so here, Paul, I think, when he writes this chapter, Paul is writing with this great hope. That all the things that he has talked to the Corinthians about, all the things that he's been encouraging them from chapters 1 all the way to chapter 15, that they would actually pay attention to what he's been teaching them. And that's why he writes to them, saying, I am coming to you. I plan on coming to spend time with you. Because if you have paid attention to anything I've been telling you, then this will make sense. But if you haven't, this doesn't make any sense. Because just like the people in Corinth, we're prone to forget We forget our wives our marriage anniversary. We forget our wives' birthdays. We forget that it's our children's birthday time. We forget when we were sent to the store to bring milk or some groceries at home and we get home and your wife says, Well, where's the milk? and you say, Well, I I forgot We forget the stuff that we're supposed to be doing, but you know what? We also forget who we are in Christ. Unfortunately, we Know our theology so well and sometimes we forget how to practice our theology. And I think that's the encouragement here for Paul to the Church. Do you want to grow? Do you want to hear the message about idolatry and sexual immorality and and resurrection of Christ and your own resurrection, about unity in the church and all these marvelous things that I've taught you? Don't forget. So we're gonna look at three C's as we end this chapter. We're gonna look at the collection. We're gonna look at commendation. And then the closing. In the collection we read in verses 1 through 4, Paul is giving instructions about a collection that was supposed to be taken for the saints in Jerusalem. What is the church in Jerusalem? That was the mother church. That was the beginning. That was the first church as we know it. And Paul really does care about support, about helping other churches. And this is not even the first place, it's not even the only place that Paul writes to churches and asks them to take collection for the saints. He did so in chapter 2 in Acts chapter 24. He does so in Romans 15. He does so in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 And we know from history that the church in Jerusalem was really suffering. They were hurting, maybe because of the famine that had hit Jerusalem. But we know that they had always chronic financial and economic problems. So Paul says, every first day of the week take a collection. And that gives us something that's going on here in the church in Corinth, right? First, that they were meeting on Sunday, on the first day of the week, and we just looked at chapter 15 and saw the importance and the centrality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That for the church, when they met, this was a commemoration. Of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That the resurrection of Christ was central. It was huge. Without it, there would be no Christianity. But it also tells us something else that they were actually making a regular collection to be taken to Jerusalem, meaning they were actually giving this collection to elders to keep and organize and and and be in charge of. But even more That it was actually part of their worship service. Sometimes we tend to think of offering as not part of our worship service. It's just, oh yeah, we'll this is money we're gonna go help the pastor pay his bills. But we don't think of it as as part of our worship service. And so Paul does not even specify to them how much they're supposed to give. He says Give according to your supply. Give as much as God has prospered you. Give it give as much as God has given to you. Again, practicing the Old Testament passage in Deuteronomy chapter 5. fifteen where God commands his people and says, When a slave has been working for you for six years and they're about to be released on the seventh year, don't send them away empty handed But send them with so much generosity. Provide to them as much as you can. Be as generous as God has blessed you. That's how you send them away. And so Paul is saying, every one of you, the poor, you think you're poor, that's okay. Bring your poverty to God. If that's all you got, he says, according to how God has prospered you, whether little or much, bring it. Because giving is not a matter of principle, it's not just a matter of impulse Just deciding, well, maybe today's going to be five bucks. But it's a thoughtfulness that goes into it that we know how much God has blessed us and we're giving back that which God has given to us. Was because back in the first century there was really a sense of mutual help in the community in the ancient world. The Greeks had what's called eranoi or associations, so that when someone fell into evil days They would actually come together the community would come together and they would give uh an interest-free free loan to help someone that fell in bad times The Jewish synagogue synagogues had someone who was always on duty to collect money and food and stuff that was brought into the temple, into the synagogue, sorry. To help those that were poor. What is Paul doing? Paul is saying, listen, Christians, listen, brothers and sisters, I don't want you to lag behind. I don't want you to be left behind by the Jews and the Greeks. I want you to Be on the forefront of being generous to one another. But Paul is actually going even deeper. He's saying that this collection is supposed to demonstrate your unity with one another Can you think of it? Paul is asking a Gentile church in Corinth to help a Jewish congregation in Jerusalem. Paul is saying, I want you not to just think of yourselves as if you're the only part of the body of Christ. You belong to a larger body of Jesus Christ. Can you think of it? Especially with the Jews and the Gentiles, the one really not really getting along, especially when it came to accepting Christ and Christianity, how much this was so true for them. For the Gentiles to help the Jews in Jerusalem There's something to be said when churches come together and bring their resources together to help a need that one congregation cannot meet. There's something to be said about the sense of unity and oneness that brings us together when we corporately, not just yet grace, but when we join our churches in our denomination, other Baptist churches and other Churches that we can work together. And especially when we join other churches that we wouldn't necessarily think of them as our close brothers and sisters. Something that breaks those barriers and brings us together and reminds us of the unity that we have in Christ Jesus. We are an army of God. We are one family of God. And so Paul has taught the church in Corinth what it means to love. He says, now I'm giving it an opportunity to show, to practice love. And to share with your brothers and sisters. in Jerusalem. See lovely things in life are not those things that we can extract from others. Lovely things in life are those that are an overflow. Of our hearts when we give from our hearts. Paul uses a different language elsewhere of this collection. He calls it fellowship. Fellowship, the idea behind fellowship is regarding all the possessions that we have that God has given to us as things, as possessions, whether it's material or otherwise, as things that we ought to to give. And so the question for us is not how much can I keep? The question should always be, how much can I give? See, Paul is not speaking of things that he doesn't know. Paul had learned the secret of contentment. He says, I'm content in all things where when things are difficult, when things are easy, when things are just the same. Paul was content enough to be a tent maker. Paul was content enough to go without food But he also knew that when the churches blessed him so much and gave him abundance, that abundance did not mean how much can I keep for myself, but it meant how much can I give to others. It is a privilege. It should be a privilege when the household of God gives to those that are in need. Because when we give to the Those that are in need, especially in the household of our community of faith, we're making a sacrifice to God. You are not simply just giving to your brother and sister, you are giving You're making a sacrifice to God. But we also must be reminded that our money can go farther than we ourselves can go sometimes, right? Isn't that why we give to missions? And support those that are doing work that we would love to do. See, I love the beauty of this church in Corinth. It was an international church, but an interdependent church. Do you know how many Roman provinces are mentioned in the passage that we just read here? About five of them. Galatia, Judea, Macedonia. All these places, Akaiah, all these places that the gospel, the power of the gospel, it penetrated into all these areas. that were of different cultures and lifestyles and all of these things and and Christians especially Paul was actually taking advantage of this of this growing economy and and infrastructure that were traveling and I mean look at the movement that Paul describes here. Traveling was becoming even easier, but Paul is actually here trying to cement the relationships between the Christians in Jerusalem and also in um in Corinth, as we mentioned But we must remember that this was not just about resources. It wasn't just about money. What is Paul doing here? Sending Timothy back to Corinth and for him to come back And for a young, timid, reluctant, Timothy who always needed encouragement because he never felt like I always identify with Timothy. He never felt like he could do it. But you know what? Why is Paul here sending Timothy to them? He he's saying, look, he might be young and reluctant and needing encouragement, but boy, this man can serve you. He's gonna be instrumental to your ministry. But this is also not a one-way traffic relationship that's going on here, is it? Is it just Paul that is Asking for this collection and giving all these things known. Look at what's going on here. What does Paul say in verses 15 through 18? Who are the people that are refreshing the spirit in ministry? Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Akaiakus They're the ones who are coming to minister to him in Ephesus, not to mention the work that Priscilla and Aquila were doing, welcoming people into their home and always, whether they were in Corinth, whether they were in Rome or Ephesus, they always had the church meeting in their own house. They became the center of Christianity, if you will. They were helping Paul. It's a mutual relationship. It's a it's not a one-way What a blessing it would be for us as a church in the West to recognize the spiritual riches of the so-called third world countries. You know, sometimes I suspect that we feel like we're the we're the only ones who are able to give money to the churches that are struggling in in Africa and South America and Asia. And sometimes we're blinded. Sometimes we're blinded by the fact that those churches have got as much to offer to us as much as we think we have. anything to offer. I think at times we might need to repent. Well we've rejected their help. The Church of Christ, whatever it is, regardless of how poor financially it is, has something great to offer to the kingdom of God. And that should never be neglected. And so for us, we might be the ones giving money, but man, maybe we need to be listening to their theology of lament. We need to be listening to some of them preach the gospel as one of them stands before you preaching the gospel. Then in verses five and nine, Paul gives his plans to come and visit. But look at what the plans are. Paul says he is involved in some great work in Ephesus. What is Paul doing? Paul was actually using the synagogue in Ephesus to uh as a hub for Christian ministry. For three months he taught there, and then for two years he was giving daily lectures there. And and we're told he was doing miracles, he was doing a lot of great work. But Paul also faced great opposition. Remember we read earlier on, not in this chapter, where Paul says that he fought with wild beasts in Ephesus? That's the reference here. He was confronted with evil spirits at one time, actually burning books of magic art that were so rife in Ephesus. Paul came against the great group that is called the Guild of the Silversmiths, led by the one Demetrius himself. These guys were were making silver statues of Godath or Times And so as Paul continued to preach the gospel, you can imagine what was going on. People were started worshiping the living God, and they were like, well, we don't need those silver gods We don't need them. All we need is God Himself. And so it affected their business. Of course, Demetrius and his guys grabbed Paul and his associates and they dragged them into the amphitheater and they beat them senseless. See, Paul is reminding us of what happens when we truly proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. When we stand for the truth of God, what happens? See, the gospel goes and affects every aspect of life, political Economic, social. And when we begin to call out idolatry, when we begin to oppose oppressive, harmful things that are going on in our world, in our community, in our government, guess what? We're gonna be opposed. But Paul is also reminding us that opposition does not mean that we're outside of God's will. Sometimes when we face opposition, we feel like we're outside of God's will. God, I'm not gonna do that because I'm being opposed Opposition can mean opportunity. God does not call us to a life of comfort and smooth sailing. I always repeat it: Jesus loves you too much to let you be too comfortable. So sometimes God calls us to doing some difficult, hard things in our life. Overcoming opposition is part of the opportunity that we have in Christ. So Paul is, verse 6, is not committing himself to coming, but Paul wants to come and stay longer, not just fast, pass through like he was was passing through in Macedonia. Why? Because Paul's Paul knows something, something that we ought to know, something that is so important for us to always hear Truth is best modeled. There is no substitute for modeling truthfulness. When other people see what you commend and you living the life that you're actually commending people to live, oh it is powerful. So maybe Paul wants to come and stay with them because he really wants to model the truth for them. He really wants to show them what it means to live for Christ, to follow him, to be content, to say no to sin. To give. But he also wants them to help him on his journey. Provide money, provide resources, provide prayer, provide company. Then secondly we look at the commendation that he gives. It gives the way I'm gonna look at it is we're gonna look at verse 10 and to 12 and then skip thirteen and fourteen and look at verse 15 through 18. He commenced Timothy. Again, we said Timothy has the disadvantage of youth. The situation in Corinth as we've been looking through this book is so difficult, isn't it? It is so difficult for young Timothy. I mean, it is so difficult for Paul, who is an experienced apostle. Can you imagine how much more difficult is it was going to be for young, timid, reluctant men? But he commends Timothy to them. He says, respect him. Don't respect him because of who he is. Don't respect him because of anything he has to do. Respect him because of the work that he is doing. He's involved in the work of God. Just as I am. So he says, respect him. Do to him as you would do to To me. That's exactly what Paul is saying. And maybe Paul expected Timothy to actually rebuke the church with the letter that he had sent to the church. Can you imagine just what a difficult thing this was gonna be for Timothy? To remind them of all those things that we've seen Paul telling the church. He's afraid they might attack him. They could attack him as revenge for the teacher, for Paul himself. So he says, don't treat him with contempt. And then he commends to them, Apollos. Apollos here might seem to us as a wise man. We really don't know the reason why Apollos decided not to go. But maybe he stayed away because remember, there was disunity in the church. And there were people that were attached to Apollos and wanted to Woo hoo, you're a man. And Paul says, I am not coming. Maybe he's staying away because sometimes it's best to stay away when you know you're going to bring disunity in the church. We don't know. Paul doesn't tell us. And then he commands the household of Stephan, Stephanus. Why does he do that? He said it is because they were devoted to the service of God's people, to the service of the Lord. And he uses an interesting language. Look at verses 15. He says that they were the first converts. We saw that language somewhere else, but it was actually with the language of um first fruits. And what did we learn about that? That when you see, or when the first fruits were given, it was actually a promise that more was coming. That God was promising that He would bring even more conversions. And then he commends Fortunatus and Archaicus because they were fine models of Christian love, of Christian service. We don't know much about these guys. Their names suggest they might have been slaves, especially Fortunatus and Archaicus. Freed slaves. Stephanas was a man of means, so he might have been their master. But look at Paul is not looking at their status here. Paul is looking at their service to God as a reason why they should be leaders or they should be recognized as leaders in the church. See the early church, in terms of leadership, leaders were not necessarily always chosen out of appointment. It was because they were marked, or those that were marked by their service for God. What a different way of looking at leadership today Because how do we elect leaders? What what do we normally think when we think about leaders in the church? Educated Socially upward, wealthy. Whatever it is, whatever the the worldly criteria we use. What does Paul say? What does Jesus say? Whoever wants to be the greatest of all must be the servant of all The leaders in the church are those that give themselves to the service of others. And such gifts can only come from God. Who gives us grace, who equips us so that we may love one another. And then finally we look at the closing verse 13 through 14. Paul gives Five imperatives, as if he's talking, it's a commander speaking to his soldiers. He's saying, Be alert. Always, when under attack, stand firm in your faith and don't be moved. In times of battle, play a hero's part. Fight for your king like a well-trained soldier. And then the role changes. When you think about those within the family or faith, act like a comrade, be a loving friend. Because the truth is there must be the courage within our Christian community, a courage that never retreats, but a love that never fails. But why do we need to be on guard? Why do we need to stay alert as God's people? Need to be careful not to judge each other on the basis of our social status. We need to always be thinking of one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. Be on God that we don't become complacent with our sin. Not to be tempted by idolatry, sexual sin, greed. See, brothers and sisters in our Christian walk, we'll always, we will always be tempted to be entertained by things that are lesser than Christ Himself. And that's why we must be watchful every day of our life. You and I must every single minute of our life be watchful. Because Satan is waiting in. And he says, be courageous in the face of strong opposition and in difficult situations. It is part of following Christ. Don't give up, but be trusting. Don't give up even when things are extremely difficult, even when you have no answers to what's going on in your life. Don't fear because God is with you. He is with you. So he says don't fear. Fear. You will face death, you will face trials, you will face loss, you will face all kinds of things, but don't fear. God. is with you. Then in the final series here in verses 19 through 21 it gives this greetings and a special mention here of Priscilla and Aquila. It is interesting that he sends greetings from this couple because history tells us there were no churches in the first century. Until third century, that's when we start seeing church buildings. But wherever Priscilla and Aquila were, they always welcomed people into their home. They made their private home to be a place where the church met Their home was a center of Christian love and light. They were welcoming guests. They were welcoming people because they knew that Jesus Christ was the unseen guest in their home. That home was a center for those that were sad, for those that were tempted, for those that were needed a haven of rest, for those that needed peace, for those that were lonely. They were the friend of the wayfaring stranger. Oh Lord, would you please help us to be such as Prisca and Aquila? He encourages the he encourages them in verse twenty to greet one another with the holy kiss. This was a a tremendous uh an awesome ancient custom where they before prayers and after the prayers and just before the sacrament they would greet with one another with the holy kiss It was a symbol that they sat together at the table in perfect love, that they all belonged to one another. It was a reminder, especially for this church in Corinth. Can you think of it? For a church that was struggling with so much disunity and jealousy and envy, for them to gather together and remind each other of who they were Greeting each other with a holy kiss. It was more than an expression of friendship. This was a symbol. It was a sign of reconciliation and of peace. It actually came to be known as the kiss of peace, or simply the peace. Of course they lost this tradition that the church grew and out of private homes and became less intimate. And then the greetings, we might think of them as just greetings. Oh, he's just sending greetings out there. But you know what? Those greetings that we see here are actually a great deal. They strengthen the unity of the church. Can you imagine receiving greetings from the church gathered all over the walls here at Grace Reformed Presbyterian Church, being reminded you belong to a larger party of Of the church of Christ. You all are together. You are one with Christ. And then how does he end his letter? With love. Love from God and love from Him. the church. He's been hard on them. He's been really hard on them. But it's because he loves them. So what do we take away then? Having studied the first sixteen chapters of First Corinthians, here's my encouragement for us. Yes, we forget. But you know what else we do? It is so easy for us to take our theological convictions and doctrinal beliefs and Yet forget who we are in Christ. It is so easy for me to know the sovereignty of God and predestination and all those wonderful Theological stuff that we love and yet not love, my brother and sister. It is so easy for me to know what sin looks like and what sin is all about and yet Cheat on my wife. Hate my brother. Be envious. Be jealous. It is so easy for me to know the loftiness of God's majesty that He's brought the church together, that we are together united by Jesus Christ and yet not be united. with my brother and sister. So here it is for us, brothers and sisters. Don't you forget. Don't you forget who you are in Christ But don't you forget to live. Your life, our life must be persistent and consistent. With all calling. And all calling is that God is keeping us together, He's holding us together until He returns. Let us pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we truly ask that you would be a blessing to us as we've heard your word and been encouraged by the message setting through 1 Corinthians. I pray that you would help us not to forget. Who we are in Christ Jesus. That you're calling us to live a life that is worthy of our calling. May this be true of us all. In Christ's name. Amen.