Sometimes of God's people. We feel totally, utterly alone. We feel like God is totally absent. And the psalmist cries that out, but it's only one psalmist. Psalm. Out of 150, the Psalms end with the reality that God exists, that God is there, that God cares, that God loves, and that God will ultimately rule today. These Psalms encourage suffering saints to take their pain to God. You know, some psalms Psalms encourage us to pray our tears to God. You know, how long, O Lord, Psalm 6, why have you forgotten me? Some Psalms call us to pray our fears. to God, like Psalm 86. Help me, O Lord. Some Psalms encourage us to pray our anger. to God. You gave us up to be devoured. You sold your people for a pittance. That's a Psalm 44. The Psalms teach us that the God of the Bible wants a true, authentic, personal relationship with us that includes coming To him with our anger, to come to him with our disappointments, to pour out our angry and disappointing hearts to God. The God of the scriptures wants the real you. He wants the good, the bad, the ugly you. He wants the wounded and the bruised. And the confused you, for such coming to him are expressions of faith that is very precious to our God, who tells us in Psalm fifty-six that He stores up in his bottle our tears. Today we'll be considering briefly praying our doubts to God from 73. You've heard uh the passage is r uh read and I uh there's actually twenty-eight verses in here and I thought the whole Psalm was gonna be read. Uh but I'm not gonna read through it. I'll just give you the core points that we uh from the passages that we read. But let's pray that the Lord would meet us in this time. Holy Father, we thank you for your word. Your word is perfect. It revives the soul, Psalm tells us. Psalm 119 or Psalm Psalm 19. We thank you that your word is trustworthy. It makes wise the simple. It gives joy to the heart. It gives light to the eyes. Would you work your perfect word into our lives and hearts to build your people up, to make us wise, to give light to our eyes, to increase our joy in you? Revive any souls that are weary in this place, even through this weak vessel, we praise in Jesus' name. Amen. So what do you do with your doubts? What do you do with your doubts about God? Uh what do you do with your struggles to trust and to believe in the face of hard questions that you can't account for? For. But more, what do you do when you feel alone and confused in a world of injustice and what feels like unchecked wrongs that keep haunting. Some years ago there was a Merrimax film produced uh it produced a movie titled Doubt, uh which revolves around St. Nicholas Church in the Bronx of New York in 1965. There, Father Flynn, a charismatic priest, was trying to make the school more progressive. And removed some of the school's strict customs which had been fiercely guarded by Sister Boulevard, played by Merle Street, uh the iron glove principal. Using a young male student. And she sets off on a course to a personal crusade to unearth the truth and to remove father from Flynn from the school. She did not have the hard facts to prove her suspicion, but she had a moral certainty of what was right and wrong, and she was determined to do battle to uncover the truth. The movie shows a woman struggling, while struggling with her doubts, was determined to present her doubts To press her doubts until she resolved her doubts. But, friends, what if your doubts are not about A priest, or a pastor, or a spiritual leader, who you know have feet of clay and weak hearts and can fall from grace. What if your doubts are about God Himself? What if you have doubts about God's justice, about God's goodness, about God's presence? Well, Psalm 73 shows us a man who while oppressed with his personal doubts about God was determined to present Will happen in our lives that will cause us to doubt God's justice, to doubt God's goodness and His presence. And when this happens, when people get overwhelmed with their doubts, many times people turn away from God because of that But others, mostly of religious folks, will tend to deny or suppress their doubts and hard questions. They think good Christians can't ask such questions Because it seems rather disrespectful and demanding. So they stuff it. But they too have turned away from the God who exists because they haven't really Embrace the God who is. This Psalm shows us that there is a third way. There's a gospel way, a transformative, redemptive way to deal with our doubts Don't cave into your doubts. Don't let your doubts rule you. Don't deny or suppress your doubts, but pray. Pray your doubts. Bring your doubts to him. Unload your doubts to God. Here God shows us that he wants us to bring to him. The struggle of our souls. He waits to heal and to resolve our doubts, and he wants to give us strength Asas, uh who was the writer of this particular psalm, has this conclusion. Surely, and he opens it up with this: surely, most certainly, without any doubt, God is good to Israel, to those who have pure hearts. Now he doesn't mean that they're morally perfect, but that they are sincere. That they are willing to, in humble submission, to lay their hearts out, their doubts before God. Regardless of all of the confusing hard things that are happening in our lives, this does not change the emphatic reality that God is good. That's what his conclusion is. That God is still good. Some you know, in our church uh we would say, God is good All the time God is good. And so God is still good and will be good, and He will do good to His people and to each person who sees That's the defining conclusion of the psalmist God is good. But the rest of the psalm shows us how he arrived at that conclusion. And it reveals to us and to anyone with sincerity of heart how to find this God who is good. So the first thing, God wants us to express and lay our doubts before Him. God wants us to reel us in our struggles, to bring our haunting questions. So the psalmist he unloads, he he basically unloads his heart of doubts to God about his justice. or his goodness or his presence. And he talks about the prosperity of the wicked and the oppression of the righteous. Uh you know, Asaf was uh apparently the the the the the music or the worship leader in Israel. Very significant job. I'm sure he spent huge amount of time. But um somewhere along the l the along his ministry his part got really cut uh that almost caused him to lose his faith. Uh he envied the arrogant when he saw the prosperity of the wicked. So he becomes uh somewhat jealous um and uh he starts to look at the wicked They have no struggles, no worries. They're healthy and strong. They're free from burdens that a hardworking, diligent, normal person like me goes through And one version says, they speak as if they rule in heaven. Their mouths lay claim to heaven. And God does not respond. God seems silent. They are literally getting away with murder. And God is nowhere to be found. That's what he is sensing. And so there's this growing movement. He sees like there's followers, you know, they're benefiting from this injustice. Therefore, their people, in verse 10, turn to them and they drink up waters in abundance. And so at one time the psalmist concluded this in verse thirteen. Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure, in vain I have washed my hands at Innocence. All day long I have been plagued. I have been punished every morning. So he he looks at the situation, he looks at his own life, he looks at his the work of his faith, and he just feels like, you know it It's it's not paying off. I have followed, I have sacrificed, I've been faithful, and I just can't make sense out of why this is happening. God, why don't you doing something? In the message version, it says in verse 13, I've been stupid to play by the rules. What has it gotten me? I almost slipped, he says. And we probably know of people, maybe you can identify your own experience. Here's a Christian businessman was laid off six months before his retirement The company he worked for somehow managed to finagle it so that he lost all of his retirement benefits. And he honestly was angry to God. God, that's not fair. How could you let And maybe you've experienced horrible injustices in your life and you came to assimilate question about where was God. A missionary is forced to come home to treat his wife for cancer just when he was beginning to see people coming to know the Lord. He had to leave the work undone without any replacements. He says honestly, God, that's stupid. That doesn't make sense. Why have you allowed this now? Have you ever Ask hard questions to God. You watch a news com documentary about the devastating drought in the third world country There's a mother cradling her dead baby, crying out in anguish. You can't understand her words, but you imagine that she's saying something like, God, why did you let my baby die? All we needed was a little rain. Why did you let my baby die? And you begin to wonder how a good God could do such a thing, allow such a thing. Have you ever been in those places? The psalmist says, but as for me, my feet almost slipped. I had nearly lost my foothold. Some people say that we should never ever ask questions to God about our struggles like that. In Islam, actually, you can't ask Allah. You can only accept whatever He brings. In the Quran, uh there's a verse that says, He cannot be questioned as to what he does while they will be questioned. It says Allah knows what is best for us and when it is best for us to get. No matter what happens, Allah can never be questioned. In fact, it is us who would be questioned on judgment day about everything we did in this world. That is is What we find in the scriptures is that we have a God who wants our questions He invites us to come with our questions. He wants us the real us. So we find John the Baptist, who's in prison, suffering. You know, and uh he sends his disciples to ask about Jesus, are you the one who has cu was to come or should we expect someone else? And what does Jesus do? Does he say, You don't have any right to ask that question? He turned away, he says, How arrogant can you be? He didn't say any of that. You know what he said? He says, Go back and report to John what you see in here. The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cured, and the deaf hear And the dead are raised, and the good news is preached to the poor. Blessed is the man who does not fall away on account of me. That's the God that we have. That's our Savior. That's our Jesus. That is our God. So let's learn from John. No, how do you how do you take your questions, your hard questions to God? There's a difference between doubt and unbelief. Yeah, in Christ he makes it this he makes it a distinction between doubt and unbelief. Doubt is I struggle believing. The unbelief is I won't believe. Doubt is honesty. Unbelief is obstinacy. Doubt is looking for light. Unbelief is content with the darkness. And so Jesus accepts and he welcomes and embraces honest doubters. And that's why when Thomas says, I'm not going to believe until I tell you. the nail pr nail prints in his hands, you know. Uh that's where the demon possessed uh father or the father of the son with the demon possessed He says, I believe, help my unbelief. Christianity is not so fragile that it can't stand up to hard questions. And maybe that has been a struggle for you. Life does not make sense sometimes. You have doubts, you have questions about God's justice, about his goodness, about his presence. Will God do right? Will he deal with evil? Will God be merciful and loving to his children who trust him? Will God be present in my life? Will God give me strength to see my See me through the hard times? Will he? Can I really count on God? Or is this just some bunch of religious baloney? And what does the psalmist tell us? Ask away. Bring your doubts and your questions to Him. But secondly, the solution to In doubting God, we find that He brings resolution. God wants us to bring our struggles and our doubts to Him because He wants to heal, He wants to resolve, He wants to Answer our doubts. And so in verse 16, he says, When I tried to understand all this, it was oppressive to me till I entered the sanctuary of God. Then I understood their final destiny. I could not make sense, the Dhamma says, of all of this confusion. Until I entered the sanctuary of God. My small, limited, myopic perspectives got blown up when I entered the sanctuary of God. And what did we find out? God was not absent. God was not not caring. God was being patient. God was waiting for people to repent, giving people space to see their sin, their wickedness, their rebellion, and turn to him. If not, God would be judging all of us. And so his faith is renewed as he walks into the sanctuary. This is the axis, this is the climactic resolution in this psalm where everything builds to this point. It's this Hinned verse till I entered the sanctuary of God, everything was oppressive until then. In the sanctuary everything became became clear and exposed. In the sanctuary I was confronted with my with the larger picture of reality. In the sanctuary I got perspective. I could not see any of this on my own. I needed to get outside of myself. I needed to enter into the holy place of God's presence to be able to get the answers. And he found them Have you ever been so deeply confused about what God was up to? And you just couldn't figure it out that you just were at the end of yourself? But then maybe God met you in that dark, low place. Uh I can remember in the uh seventh year of uh the ministry of church planting at Faith Christian It was a year that fifty percent of the congregation decided not to worship their any longer. So I was watching a significant movement of people, friends, uh half were our leaders. Uh and I'm trying to figure out how do you you know how do you pastor this church at the intersection across the divides of race and class and and I you know I just felt like a family I felt like a failure. Uh and then our first convert, our first deacon, uh Steve Stahl, uh uh quite became schizophrenic. Uh we had to help him to an assistant living framework but within two weeks after that uh he jumped off the forty first street bridge over the Jones Falls extreme. expressway and I had to identify his body. And um I remember I was just I was done. You know, I said that's it You know. And I remember walking into the sanctuary, uh, you know, nobody else was there, which was which was good. And I'm just cr I'm screaming out to God. Says, is this what you called me to? Is this is this it? You know, I you know I brought my family here, my wife in here, my kids Here uh you know you know, this is what you brought me to? Um and in the midst of that crying out to God just sh Laying out my anger to God, my questions to God, I felt the Lord speak to me, and I felt him saying, Craig, am I not enough? Am I not enough? Okay. And it's like, what was I disappointed about? Yes, I was grieving for Steve and what happened. happened to him and the people that left. But what I was grieving about is that I had different metrics of what success looked like. You know, of what proper fruitfulness looked like. And I felt like a failure. And God wasn't asking me to be successful. He was asking me to be faithful, to follow Jesus. You know? And that was a huge turning point for me uh in in the ministry of faith. Is was am I going to follow Jesus regardless? And so maybe you've been there, but let me tell you, when you get there, Jesus will meet you there. And he will And so that's what we find here. And the last thing is that God, our our strength in our doubting God says, So finally, as you bring your heart question questions to God and he meets you in that space, he also wants to overwhelm you with his grace in those places. Uh so in verse twenty-one he recaps the Resolution. When my heart was grieved and my spirit embittered, I was the senseless and ignorant. With you. You hold me by my right hand, you guide me in your counsel, and afterwards you take me to glory. I mean, this is the ultimate reality. This is it. Okay, for all of us here, this is our ultimate reality. We have this defining reality that God Himself Is going to care for us and take us, and he has an eternity prepared for us. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Verse 1 26. The ultimate life transforming reality is that God is everything. God is our success. If I have God, I have everything. Earth has nothing on God. God is my inheritance. God is my present reality. God is my destiny. My eternity My assurance and glory, nothing else can I rest in. Nothing else can offer what God has given me So it it reminds us my suffering is temporary. Uh my suffering will be swallowed up in the experience of God, who is our ultimate reality. And our problem is that we often make a bigger deal about what's going on in our present state, our present earthly experiences. We make that a bigger deal than the ultimate realities of God's promises to us, His presence to us. And so we just need uh to uh just to to take these the psalm and the points of the psalm uh to bear in our hearts that we would be a people That would take our doubts, press our doubts to God, cry out to God, allow God to speak to us in the midst of that, and this is to remind us once again that He is our ultimate reality. And so as we you know as we think about it, you know, this is our struggle pretty much every day, is it not? Uh that we struggle uh believing uh you know uh I believe. my unbelief. How does Jesus help our unbelief? Well, that's one of the reasons that Jesus gave us this suffering This supper, you know, wasn't just to be a once-in-a-time deal. It is to be as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, uh You know, Jesus is present to reinforce to you that you have a you have a Savior. Uh you have a Lord that has fought and has gone to hell for you, uh, so that you can experience And so who is this supper for? It's for anyone who has uh trusted in Christ. Uh it's not for uh just the members of Grace Relays. But for anybody who has come to Christ, who's turned from their sins, seek and seeking Christ as their only Savior, following his Lord Uh and if you've done that today, uh and you are part of his church, then he welcomes you to this table. If you haven't done that, there are prayers in the bulletin I just encourage you to uh to read those and uh that you could come to this table as a member of God's family. I know that any of the members and the leaders of here would love to talk. Talking about how to come to know uh this savior. Um so apparently uh there's let's see. Okay. I'm just trying to get my bearings here. Okay. So the wine, the dark, uh the dark is the wine. The the light is the grape juice. Uh there's gluten free crackers here. And uh so just you know you come up as you will uh Uh you can come up alone, you can come up with families, you can you can just come. Uh whenever you want. Uh you don't have to wait. Uh generally uh you come up In the middle you go back to the sides, you guys all know this. Uh so let's invite each other to the table.