Today, it's it's Easter Sunday. He has risen. He is risen indeed. And we're gonna spend a few minutes looking at a passage from Romans chapter 4, verses 20 to 25. And so if you have have your Bible with you and just encourage you to take it out and follow along as we look through this passage together this morning. Let me pray for us while you find that passage and then we'll go ahead and jump on in. Father, you are worthy of all of our praise and all of our worship, all of our adoration. Lord, we thank you that you have spoken to us through your word. by your spirit that we might know you. And and Holy Spirit, we we know that as we come to your word, we need your help. We can't understand your word the way we should. without your help. We can't uh rightly apply it to our lives without your help. And so Lord, we ask that you would speak to us, that you would open our eyes, that we might behold wondrous things from your word, O Lord. We we know that we Do not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from your mouth. And so we come to you hungering and thirsting for more of you, asking that you would speak to us a timely word this morning. applying your word to our hearts, filling us with greater love for you, greater hope in our risen Christ. And we ask that you would speak to us in this time, for we're listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Well So our text for this morning is Romans 4, verses 20 to 25. So hear now God's word. Speaking of Abraham, Paul writes, No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God. fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness But the words that was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses. and raised for our justification. This is the word of the Lord this morning. You know, it's it's Easter Sunday. As as you all are aware, and it it's the while every Sunday is Resurrection Sunday in the sense that every Sunday is a celebration that we have a risen Lord as we gather to praise his name. This is the day in the course of the year that we set aside to give extra focus to the the resurrection of Christ. And as we consider the resurrection, I think it's it's important for us to remind ourselves that while The resurrection is a essential of the Christian faith. It's also one of those doctrines that's really hard for some people Those who tend to struggle to embrace the Christian faith also tend to struggle to embrace the doctrine of the resurrection, that Jesus has died and has risen again to live forevermore. There's all kinds of ways that people seek to explain away the doctrine of the resurrection, right? The earliest one we see shows up in Matthew 28 as As Matthew reminds us that right after the resurrection, the Jews themselves came up with a story that Jesus didn't raise from the dead, that the en the tomb was empty only because the disciples stole Jesus' body Which of course doesn't really make much sense in the New Testament, right? Because why would they be willing to suffer and die for something they they knew was a lie, right? The only reason they were willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel is because they firmly believed in a risen Christ Others explained it away in different ways. Our our Muslim friends and and several others would say that Jesus didn't rise again on the third day simply for the fact that he didn't actually die on the cross. It only appeared as though he died, and so uh it may have appeared that he raised from the dead, but Someone who didn't die can't truly rise again. A third option might be that someone say that the resurrection is more spiritual. Jesus was spiritually raised from the dead. He lives on in our hearts. His spirit is alive. forever. And in contrast with all of those things, that the teaching of Scripture is crystal clear, right? Scripture teaches a bodily resurrection, that Jesus physically raised from the dead. He truly died and truly rose again. And I think as Christians, we know that that's so important, and we firmly believe that that's what Scripture teaches, and we hold on to that in faith. But I think sometimes it it might be a a little bit difficult for us to answer the question, why is that so important? But practically speaking, what what significance does the resurrection have in in your life and and my life on a daily basis. And so I think that's the question that that Paul in part is addressing this morning for us, that he's getting to in in this passage. So uh I just want us to see that that Paul is driving to this point by saying the resurrection matters. Because there's no salvation without it. The resurrection matters because there's no salvation without it. It's the same idea that he brings out in other places, like 1 Corinthians 15. Where he says that if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you're still in your sins. But if in Christ we have hope in this life only, we're of all men most to be pitied. The resurrection matters because there's no salvation without it. And I just want us to look at three things from this text this morning as we walk through it together. I just want us to see the context of what Paul's saying. I want us to see how he connects it with our lives. And then finally I want us to see how it's all centered on Christ. So the the context w We're jumping in here at the end of Romans chapter four, and Paul's been developing an argument throughout the whole passage. And even before that, in the first three chapters of Romans, Paul goes to great lengths to make the case that Every single person without exception is a sinner in God's eyes. That we deserve God's wrath. That whether you're a Jew or Gentile, it doesn't matter. No matter who you are, you stand guilty in God's eyes as a sinner. We've all turned astray There's no one who does good, no one who seeks after God. Every one of us is corrupt and fallen. And yet as he gets to the end there of chapter three, he holds out that hope that there is the free gift of God, salvation that's found in Christ alone by faith. But that that kind of raises the question in in Paul's mind and in in the mind of his readers. What do we do with Abraham? That great Old Testament saint, the the first of the special people of God, right? God calls him out from all other peoples, and he's the start of the people of God. He's the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. Surely, if if anyone could have earned favor in God's eyes, it must have been Abraham, right? Paul goes on to say, absolutely not. But the whole point that he's driving towards in this passage is to say that Abraham was justified by his faith, not by his works. Abraham didn't do anything to earn God's favor He couldn't do anything to make God love him. He didn't do anything to set himself apart from the rest of humanity, that God would set his favor on him He was simply saved by faith, not by works, and it was counted to him as righteousness. The background there comes from several places, but especially Genesis 15 and 17 where God comes and says, Abraham, I know that you're a hundred years old. I know that your wife is barren, that you have no children, but I promise that I will not only give you a land to call home, but I will give you offspring, descendants, a multitude, as many as the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashores. And Abraham trusted in this promise of God. And that's where Paul picks up in verse 20, where we said, He said, No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God. But he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. Now, I don't think Paul is saying that Abraham never had a moment where his faith was weak. That he never had a moment of doubt. I think he's saying In all of it, his posture was, as Augustine says, faith-seeking understanding. Right? He always had a posture of believing in God. He never fully turned his back on God, saying, I give up. God is never going to keep his promises. No, I mean we can see that he he had moments of doubt, but it was always always this this mindset like the man who came to Jesus saying, I believe, help my unbelief. Right? He cries out to God. He says, not, I don't believe you. He says, what can you give me to show me that you're going to keep your promises? Because I know you're faithful, but my eyes can't see it. And we see there that his faith grew stronger through this trial. He grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God. Isn't that true in your own lives as well? So often it's through the difficult seasons of life that God is is most near to us, that He draws close to us, that He strengthens us and and holds us up and grows us in our faith. He He has this way of Bringing us to our knees, stripping away everything else that we like to trust in, and reminding ourselves that we really do depend on Him for everything. In Him, we live and move and have our being And he has this painful and yet wonderful way of strengthening us through the hardest moments. It's like the great hymn, How Firm a Foundation. He will sanctify to us our deepest distress. I think that's a real comfort to me in this season where all kinds of things are turned on their heads in terms of the normal course of life, and yet it's it's a time when the Lord can really strengthen our faith as we're trusting in Him. We grow stronger in our faith through trials. And we see that he trusted God because he trusted that God was able to do what he promised. He was going to be faithful to keep his promises. And I think one of the things that stands out most clearly about this is that He trusted God's promises in contrast with all that his eyes could see. I mean things things looked pretty grim for Abraham When he was being made these promises, right? We already said he's a hundred years old, his wife is barren, he has no children, and by all standards that we can look at, there's no reason he should expect to have children. And yet he didn't put his trust in what his eyes could see. He didn't put his trust in his experience or the evidence in front of him. He trusted in the promises of God. And that's such an important reminder for us because his faith is connected to the Word. It's connected to the Word of God and his promises. He doesn't have a general, vague, confused faith. Right? Abraham's posture in life is not let go and let God. Not not assuming that that God is automatically going to give him a comfortable life because he follows God. No, he's he's trusting in the promises of God and he's holding tight to those promises even when he can't see any light at the end of the tunnel. Because he's trusting, as Paul would say, that that God is able to do far more than we can ask or imagine. He couldn't even see how God might bring about the promises, and yet he held on in faith. that God would do so. And that's such an important reminder for us that we must have our faith, trusting in God, even more than what our eyes can see. Because so often my experience in life, and I think your experience in life Just seems at odds with the promises of Scripture. That's one of the reasons I'm so grateful for the Psalms, because that's pretty much what most of the Psalms are in this altar. It's it's David or someone else just crying out to God saying Lord, here's this list of all the things you've told me about who you are and all the promises you've made to me, and here's this list of terrible things that are happening in my life, and I can't reconcile them And yet I'm trusting that you're still God, and I'm trusting that you're still good. It's a wonderful model for us to show us how to cry out to God, voicing our complaint in faith. And that's the same thing that Abraham has done. His faith was connected to the Word of God as he trusted in God's promises. And that's why Paul reminds us there in verse 22 that this faith was counted to him as righteousness. He didn't do anything to earn it. He simply clung to the promises of God, and it turns out that was all he needed to do. His faith was counted to him as righteousness. But maybe the most wonderful thing about this passage is not simply that we get to step back and look at how great Abraham's faith was, but that Paul connects it to your life and to my life. He's been building to this this point throughout all of chapter four as as we read through Romans. To say that this story of Abraham is not just about Abraham. Right? Abraham had great faith, but it's not just about Abraham's faith. But Abraham really stands as an example or a paradigm for all of us. And maybe just as as an aside, one thing that we we see here that I think is important for us to be reminded of. We see that the words that it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. The Old Testament, specifically, and Scripture more generally, is relevant for your life and my life. We're living in a world where what C. S. Lewis likes to call chronological snobbery, right? Everything that is old is considered to be outdated and irrelevant. Your phone might be obsolete in six months, but Paul here is saying scripture is always as relevant to your life today as it was when the ink was so wet on the page. God has spoken through his word and his promises hold up for all time. This book is ancient, but it is as relevant today as it always has been. It's as relevant to your life as it was to the people who it was originally written to. that all these things that were spoken in Scripture were spoken and recorded, written down, kept for all time, so that his church might have the words. Cherish this book and trust in the promises that you find there. But even more than that, what he says is the connection is that you and I are saved in the same way as Abraham. Realize people in the Old Testament weren't saved in a different way than you and I are saved now. We were never saved by works. No one since the Garden has ever been able to claim that they can earn God's favor by keeping his laws and his commands We were always saved by trusting in the promises of God. Salvation has always come by grace alone, through faith alone. We're saved in the same way as Abraham. And the connection is we're saved in the same way because we're saved through the same promises. That's I think maybe the key thing that we should see in in this section of the passage is There's one covenant of grace working out through all of Scripture. It's unfolded in different ways in different times. We're getting given more details as the story goes on, and yet it's the same promise. Abraham was promised land, he was promised offspring, he was promised a blessing. And yet Hebrews tells us that the land he was hoping for was not a piece of land in Palestine, but the New Jerusalem, the city that had foundations, whose designer and builder was God. The offspring that he was hoping for was not merely physical descendants. It's the children of faith who are the children of Abraham. But even more than that, the offspring Paul tells us is Christ. He was always hoping for the coming Messiah. He didn't have all the clearest pictures necessarily that we have now, but he was always hoping for the deliverer that would come, the same one that was promised in the garden, that would come to defeat the serpent and to roll back the curse of sin We've always been saved trusting in that same promise, and yet now on this side of the cross, you and I are so blessed and privileged to have all the information. We look back. on Christ and all that He's done by living for us and dying for us and rising again, and we see the same promises unfolded in in greater clarity that we can look back on, saved in in the same way as Abraham, the same God The same promise, and yet we have more details. And so he's he's driving this point home, connecting it to us But then he he pushes it on even further in these last verses and shows us that all of it is ultimately centered on Christ. All these promises ultimately find their center in Christ. He says that Jesus is the one who has delivered up. for our trespasses. He was delivered up for our sins. And we we pressed in on this on Friday in our our Good Friday service, but This passage assumes the reality of sin, doesn't it? It it assumes that you and I have all sinned in God's eyes. That that every one of us stands before God guilty as a rebellious sinner who have turned away, turned aside and gone our own way, living for ourselves. That the reality, that the painful hard work that Scripture gives us is that in and of ourselves, when God looks upon us, sin makes him see us as filthy And any efforts that you and I make to clean ourselves up is like when Isaiah says it's it's like cleaning yourself off with a filthy rag. All it does is smear the dirt around. It doesn't actually take away anything or clean anything up. The reality of sin is clear. And yet what this passage says is that Jesus was delivered up for our sins and for our trespasses. He died as our substitute in our place. Satisfying the wrath of God upon his shoulders as he died on the cross, taking the penalty that you and I deserved, dying in our place. And yet, I think what's so strange and so fascinating about this passage is that he he doesn't end there. Right? Because the passage in my mind would have made sense if he just said, you know, Jesus our Lord who was delivered up for our trespasses, period. And yet he goes on. He says he was raised for our justification. It's a strange phrase because normally you and I associate our justification with the cross, with Christ's death for our sins. And here Paul associates it with Christ's resurrection. What is what does he mean there? I think the point that he's driving at is to show us that the resurrection is the proof of our salvation. It's the the proof and the verification that God has accepted the sacrifice of Christ, that he really did atone for our sins. He really did satisfy God's wrath when he died on the cross. It's the proof that we've been forgiven. I love the quote that William Hendrickson says in his commentary on this passage. He's talking about all the passages in Scripture that point to the truth that it's God the Father who raised Jesus from the dead. And he said, does it not seem as if these passages are calling attention to the fact that God the Father must have been satisfied with the atoning sacrifice that Jesus had offered. Here you see if if the Father saw something lacking in Jesus' death on the cross He wouldn't have bothered to raise him from the dead. But the reason that Christ has been raised is because his sacrifice was sufficient, that he truly paid for our sins and satisfied all of the wrath of God for his people. There is no sin left for you to be punished for if you're in Christ, because Christ has paid for every last one of them. Your past sins, your present ongoing struggles that you deal with every day. And your future sins, every single one of them that you will ever commit until you take your last breath, all of them have been fully paid for by the blood of Christ. And the resurrection stands as the great proof of that fact. But I think it even goes a little further because later on in Romans, Paul will say in Romans 8, right, who can lay any charge against God's elect? It's God who justifies, who is condemned. Because Christ Jesus is the one who died and more than that, who was raised, who is indeed interceding for us. You see, I think Paul also wants us to see that it's not just that the resurrection is proof But the resurrection is also the reminder that we have the risen Lord standing in the presence of the Father, interceding for us in heaven, praying for us on our behalf. You sin. Every time you fall, every time you turn away from God, you have the Son of God standing before the Father saying, Father, I know this is the 37th time he's done that this week. But just remember, my blood has paid for that sin. My blood covers that sin. There's nothing left for your wrath to be spent on. I have paid for it all. He is mine, he is yours Jesus is standing before the throne of God, interceding for us always. He ever lives to make intercession for his people. As I was thinking about this passage and especially that point. My mind was turned to the great hymn before the throne of God above. I just want to read those words to you so you can hear that that same theme unfolded. Before the throne of God above, I have a strong and perfect plea, a great high priest whose name is love, whoever lives and pleads for me. My name is graven on his hands, my name is written on his heart. I know that while in heaven he stands, no tongue can bid me thence depart When Satan tempts me to despair, And tells me of the guilt within, upward I look and see him there, who made an end to all my sin. Because the sinless Savior died, my sinful soul is counted free. For God the just is satisfied to look on him and pardon me. Behold him there, the risen Lamb, my perfect, spotless righteousness, the great, unchangeable I am, the King of glory and of grace, one with himself, I cannot die My soul is purchased by his blood, and my life is hid with Christ on high, with Christ my Savior and my God. Friends, but without the resurrection, you and I would never know for certain that we've been forgiven. And yet when we look back, not just on the cross, but look back on the empty tomb and see the the risen Lord. We know that our sins have been paid for. We know that we are justified in God's sight when we have faith in Christ. We know that we've been forgiven because we have a Savior who ever lives to intercede for us. Why is the resurrection so important? Because it secures our salvation. It gives us proof and assurance that you and I have been forgiven. That there's nothing left to do except continue to trust. in Christ with the faith that we've been given. But the resurrection also reminds us that this calls for a response, right? You can't hear the message of the gospel and remain neutral about Jesus. The message of the gospel is that he is King and Lord, the one who God has raised from the dead, and the one who's coming back as a judge. It calls us all to respond. Knowing that every single person who has ever lived will bow before Christ and confess him as Lord, either willingly or unwillingly. It's a call to kiss the Son. Lest you perish under his judgment. So this is a passage that calls us for all who who don't know Christ, who aren't in Christ, to respond in repentance and faith, turning away from living for yourself. And living for Christ, putting your trust in Him alone, knowing that if you do that, there's nothing else to do, but everyone who comes to Him will be safe. No one can snatch him out of the Father's hand, but He will hold them secure and raise them up on the last day. Because he has been risen. So for those of you who who know Christ, who have already turned from your sins and put your trust in him This is a passage that calls you to rest in knowing that God has been faithful to his promises and he will continue to be faithful to his promises That we have a risen Lord who is now seated at the right hand of God, ruling and reigning over all things, even when our experiences might not always seem like they match up with the truth of God's word. We have the promise of God, and we can look back on the evidence of a risen Savior to know that God will keep his promises that he is in control, that he is ruling, that he is subduing his enemies, making them a footstool for his feet, and that one day, friends, he's coming back again to return. And when he does, he will come and bring the new heavens and the new earth. He'll wipe away every tear, he'll heal every hurt, take away every sin, and we will gaze upon the risen Lord for all eternity, worshiping and praising his name. All because he is risen. He's risen indeed. Let's pray. Our Father, we do thank you so much for your word We thank you that you love us. We thank you that you care for us. And we thank you above all that you raise Jesus from the dead by your Holy Spirit ever to live and make intercession for us. That we have a risen Savior, not just on Easter morning, but every day of the year every day of our lives, that we can trust in knowing that our Savior lives. And we pray that that would fill us with a great hope and great confidence in you this day. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.