Well good morning. If you have your Bibles with you, I encourage you to open to Psalm 118. If you're using your pew Bible this morning, you can find that on page 649. Psalm one eighteen is a is a really important psalm. It's a really uh psalm that's it's packed full of so much. And we're we're actually going to only focus on the second half of this psalm this morning. We'll be reading from verses 19 through 29 at the end. And it's a psalm that recounts God's deliverance. And that's what you see in these first eighteen verses if you read through it. The psalmist is speaking and calling the people to rejoice in the Lord and praise God for his His steadfast love because he has delivered the Psalmist out of his difficulty and his hardship. And that that deliverance that he's experienced at God's hands has is what leads into verse 19 where he begins to speak of the things that we're going to focus on this morning. So if you are able, I would ask that you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now the reading of God's word from Psalm one eighteen, starting in verse nineteen. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them, and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray. Give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for He is good For his steadfast love endures forever. This is the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we Thank you. Indeed, you are good, and your steadfast love does endure forever. And we know that we need it each and every day. And we are so grateful that you care for us and that you provide for us, Lord. And we thank you above all that you have spoken to us Through your word. We pray, Holy Spirit, now as we come to your word, that you would open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things. For we know, Lord, that apart from your work in our hearts, we cannot profit from your word as we ought to. And so we pray that you would give us understanding, showing us what it means and how it applies to our lives, and we pray above all that you would be honored and glorified by what we see through your word. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. You know, there's an old joke that that's told in in church circles and It's the s the story of this man who's who's living in a town where a really bad storm is coming. And they they get news that the storm is coming and that everyone needs to uh evacuate and leave the town. And the man's neighbors are piling into the car and say, you know, we have we have room for one more. Come with us and be safe. The man says, no, no, no, that's okay. God will save me And a few hours later the man has uh gone upstairs to the second level of his house because the water has begun to flood and rise in the area. Some people come by on a boat and say, we have room for one more. Come in and we'll save you. And the man says, no no, that's okay. God will save me. And still a few hours later the man has now climbed up and he's sitting on his roof because there's there's no more room in his house. It's all full of water. And the delivery the the rescue team comes by with the helicopter and and shout, Come, come to us, we'll save you. There's room for you. The man says, No, no, thank you. That's okay. God will save me. Well, sure enough, a few hours later, the man dies and finds himself in heaven. And he comes to the Lord and says, Lord, why didn't you save me? And God responds and says, What do you mean I I sent you your neighbors? I sent you a boat, I sent you a helicopter, what else would you were you looking for? You see, the man in this story, he he knew that he needed deliverance. He knew that he needed to be saved, but the deliverance he was offered looked different than what he expected, and so he rejected it. And I think if we're honest, we can find ourselves in life doing the same thing, can't we? Life is hard. It's a life full of suffering and pain. And beyond that, it's a life where we constantly struggle with the burden of our sin. We find the longer we live the Christian life that we are our own worst enemies. We can find ourselves saying like Paul, I don't do what I want to do, and the things that I want to do are the very things I don't do. Who can deliver me from this body of death? We know that we need God's help. We need his deliverance, not just with the big things, but even in the little ordinary things of daily life. But very often we find that his plans are very different from what our plans are. The Lord is faithful to deliver, absolutely. But often his deliverance looks different than we expect. And so that faces us with the question: will we embrace God's deliverance? Or will we resist because he hasn't done it our way? This is the challenge that Psalm 118 addresses for us this morning. And it teaches us that God is a faithful deliverer, and that we must respond to his deliverance with joyful praise. And I just want us to see two things briefly this morning. We should praise God because we share in Christ's deliverance. That's the first thing to do. And the second thing we see is that we should praise God even though that deliverance comes in unexpected ways. So let's look at verses 19 to 25. We see that we we praise God because we share in Christ's deliverance. Verses 118, as I mentioned, is a cycle of verses where the psalmist recounts God's deliverance. He was distressed and persecuted by enemies from every side, and the Lord has delivered him. And it's in verse 19 that we begin to see the psalmist's response to the deliverance that God has worked. And in order to fully understand what's going on in these verses, you need to picture in your mind a festival procession. The psalmist isn't by himself, he's being followed by a crowd that's with him, accompanying him in his journey to Jerusalem. And he's going in order to take part in in the festival and also to praise God for the deliverance that he's worked in his life. So he's not alone and and much of this psalm functions as a dialogue back and forth between the psalmists and and others who are speaking to him. And so he comes to the gates of the temple, which are here called the gates of righteousness. And the dialogue begins. The psalmist says, Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. And the crowd responds to him saying, This is the gate of the Lord, the righteous shall enter through it. You see, it's important to understand that claim that only the righteous can enter. You see, the temple is God's dwelling place. To enter the temple was to enter into the presence of God. And as you read through the Old Testament, you see there are all kinds of restrictions for who may enter and who may not enter the temple. The the people had to be ceremonially clean. They had to follow the ritual code of holiness laid out in books like Leviticus. They had to follow the very strict food laws and guidelines. Couldn't touch blood, couldn't touch dead bodies, for example There were all kinds of things that they had to do on a daily basis to be clean so that they could enter God's presence. And we see all of that is designed to teach them that sin defiles us and that God cannot be in the presence of sin. But beyond this, they had to be morally pure. Right? The common everyday Israelite could only go so far into the temple. They could come into the outer courts, but in terms of the temple proper, only the priests could enter in. And then if you consider beyond that into the most holy place, the holy of holies. Only the high priest was permitted to enter that room, and that only once a year. They had to come, not on their own grounds, they had to come bringing a sacrifice to offer for their sins. You see, this whole setup served as a reminder with sacrifices around the clock to tell the people you are not righteous enough to enter God's presence on your own. And so this response to the psalmist's claim to open the gates of righteousness is almost a question posed to the psalmist. Are you fit to be in God's presence? And that's where we see an important thing in verse 21. The deliverance that God worked for the psalmist was the vindication and proof of his righteousness. You see this in other places in Scripture. Proverbs 1529 tells us, the Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. Psalm 34 tells us the eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry. The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth. When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of their trouble. And so when the psalmist says to the Lord, I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation He's pointing back to his deliverance and saying, Yes, I am righteous. God's deliverance was a vindication of my righteousness. That's a point for us to remember, right? Our righteousness is found not in ourselves, but in Christ alone. And if you are in Christ, when you cry for help, you can be sure that the Lord will hear your prayer. He listens to your prayers and he will answer. But this psalm tells us that his his response might be unexpected. And that's what's happening here. If you notice, this psalm is actually anonymous. It's unusual in a lot of Psalms because very many of them say it was written by David, and even go on to give us an account of the specific situation in David's life that explain why he wrote the psalm. But this doesn't begin with any title of any kind. It's completely anonymous. We don't know who wrote it, and we can't be sure. But what we can be sure of is that the psalmist is writing here as someone who personifies the people of God. His deliverance is not just a private affair. It has an impact on the whole nation in the same way that the deliverance of a king spells all kinds of things for the people's lives The people needed a deliverer, but as we see in these verses, they weren't expecting him. Verse 22 tells us: it's the stone that the builders rejected that has become the cornerstone. The picture behind that is is the building of the temple. And the the you can imagine the stones in the building of the temple that would be get would be rejected. Not beautiful, not impressive, maybe they're misshapen. Don't look big enough to serve for the purposes that they they're needed, and so they're cast aside. But this particular stone that was rejected by the builders ends up having the most important place in the entire building Another way to translate cornerstone is to suggest that it's it's the capstone, the stone in the top of an arch that holds everything in place and gives structural integrity to the whole building. Something that's placed in a significant and strategic location in the building for structural purposes. You see, we see God often provides for us through unexpected people, doesn't he? That can be hard to accept sometimes, I think. Instead of the people that we look up to, he he often uses people that have less than us. Who have maybe we think they have a weaker faith in us. They don't know all that we know. They haven't followed Christ as long as we have. We know the type of people that we're eager to accept help from, right? Those we look up to, those that we want to be like. And yet God often seeks to humble us by giving us the help we need from those we might not expect it to find it from. It's not unusual for God's deliverance to come through unexpected people. And this verse, verse 22, is one of the most quoted verses from the Old Testament that shows up in the New Testament. It shows up all over in Acts and in 1 Peter and so many other places. And every single time it always points to Christ. He is the Messiah who came to deliver his people, but that deliverance didn't look like they expected. He wasn't a mighty warrior. He wasn't physically impressive He he came and made astounding claims that he had authority equal with God. And it's because of all these things that the builders, otherwise known as the religious leaders in Jerusalem, they rejected him and killed him. But he is the one that God brings deliverance through. He was exalted in his resurrection and given the place of highest honor. He humbled himself, taking the form of a servant, and God has highly exalted him, bestowing upon him the name that is above every name. He is the only one who is truly righteous, who actually is able to enter God's presence on his own merit. And his resurrection proves that his sacrifice for sins was accepted, and that through Christ we can have access to the Father. And so Peter tells us: as we come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, we are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood. To offer sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And the response that we see in these verses is to praise God because He is the one who has accomplished this amazing thing. We see this is the Lord's doing and it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. You see, the the plan of salvation was God's plan. And that's something we should step back and just be in awe of, isn't it That God would send his son in order to save us is an astounding thing. And so it's right to celebrate that day. The fact that this is the day that the Lord has made reminds us that we celebrate this day not just once a year on Easter, but every day, every week on the Lord's Day as we gather to praise God, remembering the deliverance that we have in Christ. Because his deliverance is our deliverance. And so, just like they do in verse 25, we rejoice not just in what God has done, but in the one that God has exalted. They say, save us, we pray, O Lord. Oh Lord, we pray, give us success. This is a prayer for the building up of his kingdom. for the establishing of his kingdom and for the blessing on the one that's been delivered here. And what's fascinating is that those words save us in the Hebrew is hosannah. It's almost like they're saying, God saved the king. That's the equivalent of this expression that they're saying here. And the good news for us, church, is that God has saved our king. Christ bore our sins on the cross, and he has been raised and exalted and given an eternal kingdom that will never end. And that's good news because Christ's deliverance is our deliverance. And it's the guarantee of the deliverance for all who trust in him. He paid the penalty for our sins. He died in our place to deliver us. from God's wrath, to satisfy God's wrath and to reconcile us to God that we might have access to the Father through Christ. The Spirit. Our hope is linked to Christ. There is salvation in no one else. There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we may be saved. He is not a way, but the way And the truth and the life. And Christ is reigning, and we have the hope that one day we will reign with him for all eternity. And so we can rejoice in the one that God has exalted. The second thing we see here is that we must rejoice in God's deliverance, even when it comes in unexpected ways. The psalmist draws near to the temple, and as he gets close, he's greeted by those who say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the The next verse we see actually it's the priests that are responding to the crowd that's accompanying him. And they say, We bless you from the house of God. The procession is part of the Passover festival. Psalm 118 is part of a a smaller collection within the Psalms known as the Egyptian Hallel, which uh is is Psalms 113 through 118. And it's this collection of psalms that was sung every year by God's people in celebration of the Passover. It's a fascinating thing because as you you read the Gospels and you see that on The night that Jesus was betrayed, it was when they had sung a psalm they went out to the garden. More than likely it was Psalm 118 that he was singing the night before he was arrested. And so this psalm is linked to the Passover, and that explains the sacrifice. Verse 27B there is notoriously difficult to translate. It's difficult both because of the words that are used in the verse, but also because of the the customs that we are aware of associated with bringing sacrifices. And it says that there's a the way it's rendered makes it sound almost like the sacrifice is being bound to the altar. And that's not something that shows up anywhere in the Old Testament. in terms of a command that God gives for how sacrifices are to be carried out. And so probably the most helpful way to understand this verse is saying something along the lines of bring the sacrifice bound to the horns of the altar. The festival, as we said, is linked to the Passover. And if you remember the Passover celebration, it takes place the very first Passover in Egypt as the people are about to be delivered. God has sent plague after plague after plague, and Pharaoh has repeatedly hardened his heart. And so finally the Lord says, Since you have hardened your heart in response to all of these signs that I've worked, I'm going to send a final plague to deliver my people. And it will be to strike down all of the firstborn sons in the land of Egypt. But God provided a means of protection for his people. They were to take a lamb to slaughter the lamb and put the blood of the lamb on the doorposts of the house. And when the angel came through in the nighttime, he would see the blood on the doorpost and would spare all those in the house. And so this time of of Passover is celebrated each year at the high point of the Jewish calendar, and it's it's a time of rejoicing. Because God has delivered his people. And it's a joyful time, but it's also a time that as we see in this psalm where something unexpected is going on. You see, it's no accident that Christ came to Jerusalem to lay down his life during Passover. Luke 9 has this fascinating scene during Jesus' transfiguration. Where he goes up on the mountain to pray and takes a couple of his disciples with him. And as he prays, we're told he's transfigured before them and appears in some of his heavenly glory. It's described as his clothes and his face shining brighter than the sun. And Luke tells us during that time that two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure from the Which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. They spoke of his departure, that he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem. What's so important to understand there is departure is actually the Greek word exodus. Just as the death of the Passover Lamb led to the deliverance of the people in the Exodus, the death of Christ, which he accomplished at Jerusalem, led to our deliverance from sin in a second Exodus. Jesus is the fulfillment of this psalm, but no one could have imagined that the sacrifice he brought was himself. Derek Kidner, one theologian, he highlights it this way. He says, What those who took part in such a ceremony could never have foreseen was that one day it would suddenly enact itself on the road to Jerusalem. Unrehearsed, unliturgical, and with explosive force. In that week when God's realities broke through his symbols and shadows, the horns of the altar became the arms of the cross. And the festival itself found fulfillment in Christ, our Passover. God does deliver, but He often delivers in ways we don't expect, doesn't he? Who could imagine that God, who cannot suffer, who cannot die, would enter into our brokenness and shame in order to suffer for us and die for us as a man? To die in the place of sinners. It's an astounding thing. The crowd thought the triumphal entry was the coming of the Lord in glory, the day when he would come to fully establish his kingdom. But what they would never guess is that he would be the sacrifice that he came to offer, coming to lay down his own life. That's so good for us to remember because it's through Christ that we have been delivered from the penalty of sin and our justification. A one-time definitive act once for all in our lives. But sanctification is different, isn't it? The process of being made holy gradually, bit by bit, every day of our lives, for the rest of our lives. A slow, lifelong process as we're gradually delivered from the power of sin in our lives. And ultimately, our hope is that one day we'll be delivered fully and finally from the presence of sin. Once we stand face to face with the Lord in glory. But this side of heaven we we still bear the scars of sin, don't we? Not only the sins that we've committed and felt the consequences of, but the evil that we've suffered at the hands of others. Sometimes we find ourselves wishing that God's deliverance from sin looked just like justification. In an instant, completely delivered in every way, and yet in God's providence, it's been a slow, long process. But that doesn't mean deliverance won't come. Often the gospel can be so familiar to us that we can overlook the shocking nature of God's plan. patiently, gently, shaping and forming sinners into saints throughout the course of our whole lives. But we also deal with this on a daily basis in our lives every day, constantly looking to God to deliver us from the struggles of everyday life. And when we pray for deliverance and help, you and I often have a very clear idea of what that help ought to look like, don't we? So for some of us it might be more money or a better job. It might be healing from a disease or an injury, or it could be a relationship that we long to see restored We have countless needs, and praise God that He hears us, that He encourages us to come to Him with all of our anxieties and fears, and that He knows our needs before we ask. There is nothing wrong with bringing our knees to Him and asking Him to deliver us from our circumstances. But I think if we're not careful, you and I can end up in a place where we find ourselves looking for the wrong deliverance. We can desire to be delivered from our circumstances more than we desire to be delivered from our sins. Sometimes that can lead us to start making demands of God. Not just that he helped us, but that he helped us in the way that we think best. But God's not limited to our shallow perspective. He sees the bigger picture. And his deliverance often comes in unexpected ways. You see, it's often God saves us through our struggles rather than merely from our struggles. The circumstances that we desire so badly to be delivered from just might be the very thing that God uses in your life to teach you of your need for Him, to teach you to live a life dependent on Him and not in your own strength. To reshape your desire so that you come to love Him more and more. We see this only in Paul's Thorn in the Flesh. He says, three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in weakness. Paul goes on to say, For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, Then I am strong. Is that how you feel about God's deliverance? I have to confess, it's not how I feel most of the time. Trials are hard. Suffering hurts. But the mysterious way of God's deliverance is that He doesn't always spare us from the bad things as much as we may wish He did. Often He instead uses the bad things in our lives to make us into something beautiful. That means we can still cry for deliverance and still rejoice, even when it doesn't look like we expect. Because Christ's coming secures the blessing of God's presence. Look again at verse 27. We see the Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. That sounds almost exactly like the great blessing that the Lord tells the priest Aaron to give to the people of God. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. That's the great blessing that we have in Christ, the hope of living forever in God's presence, where peace and justice reign. Here and now we have God's favor on us. He is our God, and He loves us and delights in us. And His salvation is rooted in His deliverance and unfailing love. See, no one could have expected that this psalm would some someday play out in real life. But that's just what happened as Jesus came riding into Jerusalem on a donkey. The crowds knew that they needed deliverance, and so they greeted him with the words of this psalm. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. But in just a few short days, the shouts of Hosanna would turn into cries of crucify him. Crucify him. Because the deliverance Christ offered didn't look like they expected. We all struggle with that, wanting God to deliver in a way that we see fit. But as we look back on the triumphal entry, we can do so in hope that one day, brothers and sisters, there will be a triumphal return. When Christ will bring the fullness of the deliverance that He purchased on the cross, and death will be no more. Neither will there be mourning or crying or pain anymore, because all of these things will have passed away Christ will wipe away every tear from our eyes and will heal every hurt, even the deepest wounds that we've experienced. He will right every wrong, and we will finally have that full, glorious deliverance that we so desperately long for. So let us this morning rejoice together in God's deliverance because He is coming soon. I will give thanks to the Lord, for He is good, and His steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray together. Oh God, you are good, and your steadfast love endures forever. We praise you that you are a delivering God, that you are a God who looks upon the the sinfulness and the brokenness and the pains and stress and struggles of your people. And does not turn away with a blind eye and a deaf ear, but that you entered into our brokenness and shame, Lord Jesus, in order to save us and deliver us, and that one day, Lord, you are coming back. We long for that day, and we pray, Holy Spirit, in the time until then that you would continue to shape us and form us into the people that resemble Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.