Good morning. Uh we we continue to prepare ourselves for the uh our missions conference that's coming up at the end of the of this month and I hope you're all getting excited about it as I am and uh it's a wonderful time for us not just to simply hear from our missionaries but it's also a time for us to um Learn from the Lord and understand what God is calling us as a church corporately and also individually in terms of what He wants us to do as we participate in his mission uh for the church. This morning we as we continue in our missions month study uh of selected passages. Passage for this morning is from Acts chapter 1 Verse 8. I'm going to read verses 6 through 8 for the context, but if you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's Word this morning? Now read from verses 6. Luke writes and says, so when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. And in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. The word of the Lord this morning, Father, we pray for this, your Holy Spirit. To come upon us this morning. He's our comforter, he's our guide, he's our strength. He illumines your word so that we may understand it. And not just understand it, but he compels us. To be able to obey you. So, Father, we pray, make open, reveal your word to us this morning that we may live not just in its understanding. But we may walk in the way that you're calling us to. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. So last week we talked about what it means to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. We talked about As a church, we're called to be a people, to be a church that go out into the nations, that go out into our neighborhoods, that go out into our communities and proclaim this word of God. And I think it was a good time for us to understand what the church has been called to, and the the primary purpose of the church is to proclaim the Word of God Now we didn't talk about specifics last week and as I said we were not uh supposed to be talking about specifics, neither are we going to do that this morning But I want us to consider something that's very important as well. It's one thing for us to know that we're called to proclaim God's word. It's another thing to know or to ask ourselves, then, how can we be effective communicators of God's word? How can we be effective witnesses of Jesus Christ? Again, no specifics. We're not talking about methodology here of how to do evangelism. We're not talking about strategies for church, go over missions uh committee and the missions this and that and and how we can go out into a community, go out into the nations, go send out missionaries and all of them. We're not talking about the specifics even though you can apply those things that we're going to be talking about this morning. But we're basically talking about what does it mean to be an effective witness of Jesus Christ as a church, as individuals, as a community, as a people of God. And we're going to ask ourselves three questions this morning. Because I believe for us to understand how we can be effective communicators of God's word, we must first of all understand what is the nature of that mission that we're involved in. Because unless you know what the nature of the mission that you're involved in, then you're not going to be able to communicate well, right? But secondly, what is the extent of our mission? What is God calling us to, and how far can we go with that mission? And then finally, what is the purpose? Why are we doing this for? What is the end goal for us to be engaged or to participate in God's mission? for his church. And this morning I'm gonna use one of the commentators that I've really learned so much from William Barclay, man who died a long time ago, who speaks about the three aspects of what it means to be a witness. What does it mean to be a witness? So that's where we're going to start as we look at the nature of our mission. And so in addressing this question of what is the nature of our mission that we're participating in to, we must ask ourselves, then what does it mean for us to be witnesses of Christ? And William Barkley says that for us to understand what a witness means, he gives three definitions which we're going to look at. But one of them is you think about it, who is a credible witness? Who is a credible witness? When you go into a court of law, when someone is asked to come up and give a witness to something that they experienced or they saw and they're supposed to be giving a witness. Does someone say when you're opposed with a question by a prosecutor or defense lawyer, they ask you, do you know this true? Do you know this to be true? Do they say, I think so? That would not be a credible witness, would it? You would have to say with certainty and assurance, I know this to be true. And so this commentary that says that one of the ways that we're going to know that we're true witnesses is we must be people that speak the truth. So a credible witness is one that speaks the truth. And what are the disciples here being called to speak about? Jesus is about to leave earth. He is about to end his ministry, which is not the beginning of his ministry, but in fact the beginning of a greater ministry, that of ushering in the kingdom of God. of God, but he's commanding his disciples and telling them to speak, to be witnesses of his truth. What truth are they supposed to be speaking to the people? It is the truth about the life of Jesus Christ, who he is, and why he came and what he did. It is the truth about his death, that this man came and lived a perfect life and went to the cross and died for the sins of men and women so that all may come into the kingdom of God. It is the truth that he did not remain in the grave for all those days, but on the third day he rose again, defeating death and Satan. And sin. It is the truth that he is just about as the following verses tell us in verses 9, he is going to be at his father's right hand, and the truth of that he is coming back again for his church. That's the truth that they're supposed to be declaring to the people. But there's something here that we see as as Jesus is telling his disciples to wait for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. There is something we we have to see in this passage that tells us that The people knew, the disciples knew that there was something special about the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Go back to the Old Testament, the prophets You know, talking about the Holy Spirit. Joel says, When the Spirit of God comes upon you, your sons and daughters will prophesy and do all these great things. Isaiah 32 talks about the Spirit of God coming. Ezekiel, all the prophets speak about this Holy Spirit. And for us to be able to see that the inauguration of the kingdom of God, the ushering in of the kingdom of God is coming by or through the Holy Spirit. He's the one who brings forth the kingdom of God. And so as the Holy Spirit came upon Jesus as was being baptized, he came upon him and blessed him and anointed him and equipped him for public ministry. It is here happening as well as the disciples are about to begin this public declaration and proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ that the Spirit of God is coming upon them to equip them to empower them so that they may be communicators. of God's word. But we may wonder, as the verses we read in the context here, when they were asking Jesus about, okay, so now that the spirit is is about to come Does this then mean, because we know the Old Testament prophecies, we know what you what was prophesied, that the coming of the Spirit was supposed to usher in the kingdom of God. Does this then mean That now that you're telling us that the Spirit of God is about to come, that the kingdom of God is about to be realized. Is this it? This is now the kingdom is about to take shape. We're about to defeat the Romans right now and be done. But the disciples are here misunderstanding the nature and the relationship of the kingdom of God and the Holy Spirit. Because to them they're they're looking at they're expecting this political, this territorial, national kingdom that's about to come. And if you if you think about it in the general sense, the Jews are in fact thinking, oh boy, this is the time. This is our time. We are going to have a special place in the kingdom of God as God's chosen people. Go back to Matthew 20. The sons of Zebehi, where when they come to Jesus and they know he's about to die, and what do they ask Jesus for? Man, are we gonna have a special place, you know, when you get up there? Trying to prepare for themselves a special place. For the Jews it meant world power. We're about to conquer the nations right now. It meant achieving the impossible. Think of it. This tiny little Palestinian country with very little people, with all the other nations surrounding them, being able to conquer and become a world power That Jesus was, now that he had come and the Spirit of God was nigh, that he was about to enter into history, he was about to make things happen, and the kingdom of God was about to come. Now the Romans are gonna be done And he's been going forward. Jesus is now alive. He was dead, but he's performed this great miracle. He's alive What else are the disciples waiting for? There's nothing else to come other than the kingdom of God being realized right now This is it. He's alive, and the spirit is about to come. We're about to have our special place. But Jesus is here in this passage that we read trying to correct the misunderstanding. The disciples are failing to understand that the kingdom of God is not just A territorial, geographical, national kingdom. The kingdom of God is a spiritual kingdom. When Jesus comes declaring that the kingdom of God is near, he's talking about a spiritual kingdom. That's the character, that's the nature of God's kingdom. It's not a kingdom that's that's that's found on a on a on a geographical map as the kingdoms of old. It instead is a kingdom that is defined by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one who defines God's kingdom. Listen to how John Stott in his commentary in the book of Acts defines what the kingdom of God is. He says, quote, the kingdom of God is his rule set up in the lives of his people by the Holy Spirit. It is spread by witnesses, not soldiers, through a gospel of peace, not a declaration of war, and by the work of the spirit, not by force of arms, political intrigue, or revolutionary violence. End quote. That's the kingdom of God. It is a kingdom that is founded on peace and love, not power. When we pray the Lord's Prayer, what do we say? May your kingdom be done here on earth as it is in heaven. It is a kingdom that is founded by God coming and his will being perfectly fulfilled and done here in in his people, in the lives of people. And Jesus is saying he's coming to equip. To help his disciples to know and to understand what this kingdom is all about so that they may be perfect and better communicators of his word They are supposed to be declaring his fame and his glory to all the nations, not just simply thinking of this narrow-minded geographical political situation that they're thinking of themselves. If you back up in Acts chapter 1 verses 4, we read that Jesus is actually commanding the disciples to wait in Jerusalem. The verse that we just read in verses eight talks about Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the end of the earth. It's important for us to consider that little city And all those cities and talk about it because Jerusalem is an important part of what Jesus is telling the disciples here. And it actually makes sense the disciples will be asking the question that they're asking about the coming of God's kingdom Why? Because Jerusalem is central to understanding the Jewish people and their lives and how they view the promise of God to rule and bless his people. That's the focal point. Why? Because they were promised in 2 Samuel chapter 7. that a king from the Davidic clan would come and rule. Where? Jerusalem is the city. So to them they're waiting for this king from the land of David to come and rule his people. And so they're thinking, you are the king of the Jews, aren't you? You are the king of all peoples, aren't you? And you are related to David, aren't you? But it also helps us to see because if you think about the history of Israel, anything that was associated with their with their future as a nation and what and where they were going to be was always associated with this city of Jerusalem. But if you really think about it, this passage talks about Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the end of the earth. What does that correspond in our own minds today? Think of Jerusalem as your home city. Baltimore. Relay? Arbutus? Hell for whatever you want to think of it. Think of Judea and Samaria as our country, our nation. Think of the ends of the earth as foreign lands where we send missionaries to. I think there is and missionaries and mythologists have talked about this a lot. This verse has been hammered hard to talk about missions. You think about it How do we have concern for the far-off lands that we do not know anything about? And yet we don't care about our own community where we are. How is it possible for you to have so much compassion for what you have no clue? And look around your own community and know It's a special task for the apostles here because they are equipped to do so. Jesus is here equipping the disciples to to go out and inform and enable people to see the the the life of Christ, to experience his death and and resurrection, bringing many to To Christ. What does Jesus mean by saying the Holy Spirit will come upon you and you will have power? Power to be witnesses. What does that have to do with anything? I think it's about communicating God's truth That they will know how to communicate God's truth in a clear way. That their message will not just be a message that's filled with empty rhetoric, but it'll actually going to be a convincing message to the people. But not just that, that the Holy Spirit in fact goes forth and prepares the hearts of those that we speak to. So that they're able to be open and receptive to the message of Christ. That the Holy Spirit's work comes to convict us of our sin, that He convicts us. That the Holy Spirit comes to apply the work of God's redeeming work on the cross. But not just that, but he also compels us to go and tell people about what he has done in our life. See, we always like to think of the Holy Spirit as the one who comes and you know and convicts my sin and tells me who I am and what I've done and and and all of that and he's gonna help people hear the gospel. But what about the Holy Spirit working to compel you to go out? And be a witness of Jesus Christ. See, John starts saying this, it says that salvation is given to be shared. You cannot be experiencing the transforming life that you are living now and not be convicted. And compelled to go and tell it as we sang this morning, to go tell the old, old story of Jesus and his love for us. It is clear from the book of Acts, the whole book, if you spend time reading it, that God is showing his saving acts through his son Jesus Christ. He's saying that that message of his life, death, and resurrection must be proclaimed and believed if people are to enter the kingdom of God. The only entryway into this kingdom is through faith and repentance. No other way. And yet we are the ones who are called to go declare that truth, to go tell that truth. That's omission. To declare that message with conviction, with assurance, that God is with us and that He is the one who makes our message to be effective. Secondly, we look at the extent of our mission So William Barclay talks about the the the truth being being witnesses has to do with us telling the truth and understanding what that means, understanding what the kingdom of God is and and its nature. Secondly, he speaks of Being witnesses as this, we are not just mere proclaimers of God's word. We are people who go out and do You cannot claim to be a witness of Jesus Christ by your mere words. You've got to show it with your actions as well. Tell us the story of Sir Henry. uh Morton Stanley, who met uh the great uh missionary David Liv Livingston in Central Africa. And this is what Sir Henry Morton had to say. He said, if I had been with him any longer I would have been compelled to be a Christian And he never spoke to me about it all. Never. Because his testimony was so irresistible He walks the talk, as they say. Let me ask you a question. Let me ask myself a question. Is my life a living testimony of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ? Put it another way. Do I live, work, speak, act, think, dream? In a manner that reflects someone that has been transformed by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a life that is bearing the fruit of the Holy Spirit Put it even in a different way. In a more deep theological, deeper way. Are you living your life as if the Lord Jesus Christ is your Lord? In every aspect of your life, financial, your emotional, your your work, your every aspect of your life, does that reflect That Jesus Christ sits on the throne and he is the only King in your life. Not just showing up on church on Sunday. Not just saying a prayer when you wake up in the morning. But I mean in every way you live your life Some of you know Brendan Manning, one of the great Catholic poet, writer, blogger, Christian. I respect the man. He he's now passed away, but this is what Brian uh Brendan Manning had to say about Christianity and atheism. He says the greatest single cause of atheism today is Christians who acknowledge Jesus with their lips Walk out the door and deny him by their lifestyle. That is what an unbelieving world finds simply unbelievable. Let that think in for one second. How are you living your life? And as we think about our witness being both our words and our actions, they also have to go beyond where we are into where we're not, where we would not like to go. And so Christ's vision for the church is that our are it's not just about our immediate community, it's not just about relay, it's not just about uh just about our Buddha's and Health Hope and and Kittensview, it's not just about Baltimore, it's not just about the US, it goes beyond where we are. See the disciples are here having a very narrow and nationalistic aspirations to return Israel to this great national independent country. But Jesus responds to them and shows them that you are supposed to be equipped by the power of the Holy Spirit to go into all nations, not just Jerusalem, not just Judea, not just Samaria, but to the end of the earth. To proclaim the message of God. You know, Acts 1. 8, that single verse is actually the table of contents for the book of Acts, if you really think about it. Chapters 1 through 7 tells us the story about the, you know, so they received the Holy Spirit in chapter 2, and then Peter preaches the most amazing sermon, and he preaches several of them So 1 to 7 describes the events that happen in Jerusalem. Chapter 8, we're told of the scattering of the disciples throughout Judea and Samaria. And then chapter 9, we have this great evangelist, Paul, who becomes a believer, gets convicted, and then he Starts his missionary journeys. He ends up in Rome, but we know that the impact of his ministry goes far and beyond the tiny little country of Palestine See the kingdom of God's rule is over the international community. It's not just about the Jews. It's not about a few people. It's about all people. All people from every race, nation, rank, and there are no barriers when it comes to the gospel of Jesus Christ. See the the final consummated kingdom, as scripture tells us, looks like this. But people from every language, every tribe, every tongue are gathered before the Lord. Honoring him and proclaiming his glory. See, when you really think about the Sumerians, if you go back to John 4, you realize what kinds of people they were. They might have been close and distant to the Jews, but who were they? They were the despised people. Jews did not like hanging out with them. They were enemies. And yet God is telling us, by us I mean us here. But there are those people that we may not consider as people that we ought to share the gospel with, to whilst they may seem as lost causes. To us they may seem by I don't understand them. I don't know who they are. They they're them and we're us But do we spend time asking the Lord to break the barriers that divide us? Do we ever ask the Lord to divide? Or rather to break the ba the walls that bring separation between us and the people that we really should be sharing the gospel. See, being a witness of Jesus Christ means that we demonstrate we demonstrate God's love to others, to our neighbor. To the stranger, to those people that we don't like, to those that we like, to those that look like us, to those that don't look like us It's only in God's kingdom that princes and paupers can sit down together and share the same meal. Only in God's kingdom. And that's what we're being called to be a part of. You know it's one thing for us to can you imagine telling people how much God loves them and yet look away when they have a need How do we demonstrate God's love to others with all words if we cannot do it? With our actions. Steve Corbett and I can't remember the other guy's first name, but his last name is Fickett, wrote a very awesome book called When Helping Hurt He has a quote here on what the task of the church is, and I'll read it. He asks, What is the task of the church? He says we're we're to embody Jesus Christ by doing what he did and what he continues to do through through us. Declare using both words and deeds that Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who is bringing in a kingdom of righteousness, justice, and peace. And the church needs to do this where Jesus did it, among the blind. the lame, the sick, the outcast, and the poor. End quote. Listen to what the Apostle John says in 1 John 3:17. But if anyone If anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him Little children, let us not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth End quote. Thirdly we look at the the end goal. Why are we doing why are we involved in this mission of God? Why should we be effective committee Indicators of God's word. So we look at the end of our mission. Again, William Barclay says the third meaning of a witness is, in fact, the same word that's used of a witness in the Greek is the same word for a martyr, for someone who dies for their faith. Exactly the same thing. And so Jesus is saying, you are called to be martyrs. You're called to die for your faith. Saying that a witness must be willing to do anything to be loyal no matter what the cost. No cheap grace here. See the disciples are called to be witnesses or martyrs because they've been with Jesus. They've witnessed what has happened to Jesus. They've witnessed the him being crucified. They've seen him rise again to life. They've seen the all the troubles that he's had to go through. But there's also another aspect of that. The book of Acts gives us an idea of what's going to happen to them. You're gonna get beaten. You're gonna get jailed. You're gonna get hated by people, despised. You'd be shipwrecked. You go hungry. You have no friends That's the cost. But what are the disciples asking? What question are the disciples asking as we read this morning when they came together? They're asking about the kingdom of God. Can you tell us? Give us an idea of when this is going to happen. We want to know what is the time. And yet they have a job at hand. And that job includes Dying for their faith, suffering for their faith. See, the disciples, just like us, they must fight before they triumph. So you see, it's easy for us to wonder and be curious about the kingdom of God and ask what blessings await me when I enter into the kingdom of God? What crowns am I going to receive when I enter the kingdom of God? And then stop to wonder what does it take for me to really enter into that kingdom, to be a part of that kingdom. You know what it means? To be a part of that kingdom being means you have to be willing to be a partaker of Christ's death, whatever that means for you. What is the greatest thing for us to understand? The beginning or the end? Is it easier or more difficult for us to know that the Son of God will one day return to take his church and reign forever or the time that that will happen. You think about it See, in asking the question, the disciples are thinking they're asking such a great and profound thing, and yet Jesus gives them something that's even more greater about the Holy Spirit. About the kingdom of God and the mission of the Holy Spirit. He's basically saying, either way, the secret things belong to the Lord. But what has been revealed to you is enough, and you need to be content with that. And that's hard. The theologians call it the Iridian, the not yet, which is where we are, right? The Pentecost and the And yet we are in this tension, this limbo, if you want to call it. Before Christ returns, what do we do now before he returns? What are we doing as a church Are we just speculating and trying to think about when the time will come and the crowns that you're going to receive and all of that when we have work at hand The tension may be there, but we have a job at hand. We cannot stop until Christ returns. We have to call people to repentance and to faith to believe in the gospel. Because that's what ashes in the God's kingdom. No, he never said it would be easy, I wish he did. He never said it would be easy. But that living in that tension before he returns, I mean how many people have left their comfortable homes and and gone on to mission fields? How many people have had to die Because they were proclaiming this message. How many people have left their high-paying career jobs only to become pastors and priests and other things? How many people have let go of family and friends and moved to far land just because of this message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I pose it to you, church. What is God calling you this morning to give up What is God calling you to do for his kingdom? Because I know he is asking every one of us to do something for his kingdom. It may not mean living here. It may not mean sacrificing so much, but I know that there's a sacrifice that God is asking of every one of us for the purposes of his kingdom. What is it for your life? What is it? And if you don't wrestle with that, you need to go back home and start praying hard. If I don't wrestle with that, I need to really ask myself, what am I doing? How many movies have we seen about the apocalypse? About end times and you know we we're just caught up in all this asking ourselves, when did this happen? When when is Jesus coming back? And yet, this is the time of refreshing. Yet, this is the time that the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit need to be experienced in our own lives, in the life of this congregation. in our communities as we declare God's word to all. What is the goal? Why do it See, the goal is to bring the nations into the kingdom of God. It's to participate in God's mission of redeeming a broken world. So that all who are called by God's name may come and worship Him and enjoy Him forever. That's the goal. Okay. Land the blame. As Santos said. So how can you, church, how can I be an effective witness of God's truth? How can we reach to our community and the nations with word and deed and bring a healing to them? How can we persevere as martyrs, as witnesses of Christ in doing so while we wait for Christ's return? God has an answer. And here's his answer. His answer is this it is not by might, it is not by human wisdom or power, it is not through eloquence and smart Mission strategies even though they work, but that's not how they're supposed to work. It is only by the power of the Holy Spirit He and he alone can empower us to be the people that he wants us to be and to be effective communicators of his word. So I ask you, church, to join me this morning. Seriously asking you to join me this morning because this is my prayer. And here's the prayer. That we cry out to God. That we cry out to God and ask for a fresh outpouring of His Holy Spirit. Do you need that, church? Do you feel like me? Because I know I need it. A fresh outpouring of his spirit and say, Come, Lord Jesus, by the power of your Holy Spirit, would you give us courage? Would you give us strength? Would you give us confidence to go out and participate in your mission? to heal a broken world by being Christ's witness in word and deed. And I'm able to pray this. Lord Give me power. Give me power to go where I don't want to go. Give me power to do that which I'm so afraid of doing. Lord, give me power to serve those people that I never want to serve and I don't desire to serve them. Give me power. Power to welcome and to wash the feet of the alien and the stranger in my own community. Give me power, Lord, I pray to love those that are lovable. Give me power to speak words of life and comfort. Give me power. Power to pray. Power to pray. And pray some more for the lost. Father, I pray that this would be not just my prayer, but the prayer for your church. That you would fill us with a fresh outpouring of your Holy Spirit. That we would be reminded that we have been empowered by the by him to go out into all nations. And to share this beautiful, wonderful truth that you have come and you have redeemed us, and you are coming back. Pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.