Alright, so you found John chapter 20. As uh we continue. Last week we heard about the resurrection, and today we're going to talk about encountering our risen Lord. Encountering our risen Lord from the scriptures that we read, the text for the day. Starting at verse 19 to the end of this chapter. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors were locked. where the disciples were for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now Thomas, one of the twelve called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, we've seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see his hands, the mark of the nails, and the place, and place my hand finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands and put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that by believing you may have life in his name. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this portion of your word. And I pray we would uh enjoy it and learn from it, and you would speak to us through it. In your son's name. Amen. In in high school, I was involved somewhat with the Young Life ministry, and there was a one of I learned a song that I didn't learn in my church, but it was a song that was a very popular Young Life song. that came to my mind as I looked at this text and the song it simply says, Have you seen Jesus my Lord? Have you seen Jesus my Lord? He's here in plain view. Take a look. Open your eyes. And he'll show it to you That's the way that bed course went. How do we encounter Jesus? How do we see Jesus? How do we encounter him? How do we know he is present with us? This passage today is going to shine some light on that topic. I want us to understand that Jesus gives us assurance of his divine presence. He comes to us He comes to us. We encounter him because he comes to us. Our sermon series title, we're calling it Come and See. Come and see. We could title this this uh passage, Come and Touch. But the title of this series is Come and See. And in John 20, we have John's account of the resurrection of Jesus, and today this most famous of the come and see moments, the come and touch moment. I want us to look at the Holy Spirit. I want us to look at the Holy Moment. I want us to talk about the Holy Word. Jesus comes to us in these ways. He comes to us through the Holy Spirit. In holy moments and in his holy word. First, Jesus is present with us as we are filled with the Holy Spirit. Look at the text here in verses 19 to 23 And it says this is the evening of that day, the first day of the week. This is the this is resurrection evening, okay? This is a corporate gathering. He he told them to go and meet. Uh uh on that resurrection, we go go and tell the disciples and gather together. And so there's a there's a corporate gathering among God's people. And let's look at what it says. It was the first day of the week, the doors being locked Where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them. Do you catch that? The doors were locked. He didn't just walk through the door. He didn't just open the door. The door was locked. He walked through the door somehow. It was there present among them. There's something here that John wants us to understand about this new body that Jesus had. But of course, they knew the doors were locked, and so he's among them, and he says, peace be with you. And they realize it's, you know, the shalom that great Hebrew greeting, but this is Aramaic. He said, Ple peace be with you And um and he he says, Here's my hands, here's my side, and they realized that with this interesting resurrection body, they could still see the scars. They could see the scars. And they were glad until they saw the Lord. And he says again, peace be with you. He says it twice. Peace to the saints gathering on the Lord's Day. This is the resurrection evening. He greets them with this divine blessing of peace. The Holy Spirit brings peace. Holy Spirit brings peace. Peace of mind. Philippians 4 talks about the Holy Spirit guarding our hearts. until the day of Christ. Let the peace of Christ guard your hearts. Colossians talks about let peace be an arbitrary, a referee in your heart. Peace, the peace that Christ gives, that internal peace is what he asked them to have. No, the Bible also talks about an external peace, a kind of peace between people This internal peace, there's also uh a reconciliation of external peace. In in Ephesians chapter two, where he talks about uh well Paul talks about the the division of Jews and Gentiles, he mentions the fact that um Jesus is our peace. He is our peace. He's the one who brings uh together people who are uh would naturally be at odds with each other The Holy Spirit brings peace. The Holy Spirit also brings power. Power. You probably are familiar when you when you hear about the Great Commission, you think about the Gospel of Matthew that talks about all authority giving to Jesus. to to him go and make disciples? You probably think about the Gospel of Mark maybe. It talks about well the Gospel of Mark commissioned is kind of interesting. He talks about thing certain things gonna happen some th they will speak in languages and and and and and they'll handle snakes. That's that's an interesting one and that's even uh of the very um disputed commission in the Gospel of Mark. In the Gospel of Luke, the great commission is that repentance and faith will be proclaimed to the nation starting in Jerusalem Repentance and faith in Jesus in chapter 24 of chapter Luke of the Gospel of Luke. Acts 1. 8 is another very popular commission, the Great Commission. The Spirit will come. You'll be witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the world. So the Spirit will come with power. But this passage right here, verse 21, is John's great commission. Okay? This is John's commission. And this this is John John says this, as the Father has sent me So do I send you. That's his great commission. The other commission, it's it's very it's very different than the others in the way it's worded And this is this was the resurrection night. Jesus in the Gospel of John is the sent one. He's the one who's sent, the one who's sent from the Father. Even in chapter one, he's the one who's the incarnate one, who was the word made flesh. He was with the Father in in in in creation. He's the one that the Father has sent into the world, that the Spirit has sent to the world. He's come into this world. He's the sent one John Stott has a great b uh uh sermon on this passage, this part of the passage. He talks about uh that being sent was he there's three things about the sentness of Jesus. One, it was central to who he was, it was core to who he was. Core to his identity was the fact that he had been sent from the Father. He didn't do his own will. He came to do his father's will. He came on a mission to seek and save those who were lost. He was sent. The other the second aspect is that he was sent w uh uh uh with compassion. He had a compassionate sending. He went he sent because he saw the compassion of human beings who were like sheep without a shepherd. This his sentence involved compassion in the way he dealt with people. And then Stud says that his sending w w was a costly sending. It cost him a lot. It cost him the glories of heaven. And then when he came to earth and And it it cost him being misunderstood. And ultimately it's gonna it cost him his his life. His sending was a costly sending And and and and what John Stott and I need to remind us is that it's gonna those same three things should be true of us as God's people. It should be core to who we are, that we are sent people. It should be central to us We send we we're sent to go into a world with compassion, with compassionate speech, compassionate uh service And we be reminded that our being sent to the world, it's a world that hates God and hates the people of God, and there's a cost. There will be a cost if we go into this world to proclaim the gospel of Christ and live the gospel of Christ. So Jesus is sent, but as a sent one, he doesn't just send us with a task to do. He empowers us to do that task. the Holy Spirit. In the book of Acts, if you really love the Word of God and want to study it, study the phrase the filling of the Holy Spirit or fill with the Spirit in the book of Acts. It's an interesting study. You will find that the filling when the filling of the spirit happens, people open their mouth and they speak words about God, about Jesus The filling of the Spirit is a spirit of witness. It leads to witness and to articulation and speech that gives glory to God. And here again, he breathes on them. So this is a precursor to what happened in the Pentecost. This is the happens before the day of Pentecost. This is a kind of a foretaste of it on that. And th th th th this is not the ultimate final conclusive filling of the spirit that the church had. This is a foretaste. And so he breathed on them. So when on in Acts 2, when Pentecost happens, I'm sure part of what happened to them is they they connected it with this passage here that happened in the upper room. That this spirit, the one who empowers them for ministry, empowers them for service, is the spirit of Jesus. Because it was his peace breathed on them. He said, receive the Spirit. The Holy Spirit. Thirdly, the Holy Spirit is peace, power. Thirdly, the Holy Spirit is a spirit of Forgiveness. You see how the text, the end of that text is, he says, look, those who sin should forgive will be given. Those who retain will be retained And again, that's a the the way that's worded is kinda interesting. The idea is that when that that he gives us the power to understand the gospel and and and and to to declare that when someone believes the gospel, they truly are saved, and when they disbelieve the gospel, there's the warnings that we have that they are not saved. He gives the church, the leaders of the church, and the church obviously the power to do that, to make those kind of declarations. So the Holy Spirit is a spirit of forgiveness. And I I I was thinking about this. I was I want to talk about um what happened about five years ago in the city of Charleston, South Carolina. Maybe you know this story. Um I I I was thinking about it all week a day this week d this morning, well last night when I saw what happened in Baltimore and in Frell's Point, I said, I should read this from my book, from the book the chapter in my book. So there's a book oh you get a copy of it Book called Um Heal Us the Emanual. Can you see that? It's a book maybe it was written about five years ago by 30 pastors and leaders in the PCA I was blessed to be one of them and I wrote a uh in that I'm gonna read an excerpt from that book, but it's a good book. It's called Hill's Emanuel, and it's a very relevant book for the things that are going on right now in our world with so much tension about issues of race. and justice. But I uh i in part of my chapter I I I I was thinking about the um the Charleston nine they call it. Let me just read this these couple paragraphs, these four paragraphs. Uh the ch this is about the Charleston tragedy in June of 2015. It took me back to that morning in 1963 to the conversations that followed. I had just been talking in the book about the church bombings in Mississippi Okay, that's why I connected that. So two days later, two days later in June, after hearing about the the the Charleston trash D I watched the news in amazement as the family members of the nine Emmanuel AME Church victims spoke words of forgiveness to Dylan Roof. The man who had senselessly killed their loved ones. You remember the story. He walked into their Bible study, a Wednesday nible study, and he had he he prayed with them, he read the Bible with them, and when it was over, he pulled out a gun and shot them all. That's what happened His name was Dylan Roof. So they said the loved ones of the of the nine victims, they said their faith in Jesus Christ compelled them to do so. Quote, I am very angry, but I must forgive. God have mercy on your soul. That's what they said to him during that hearing That was their general message. Afterward, the usually cynical reporters were beside themselves as they discussed the responses of the family and sought to understand how anyone in their right mind could respond with words of love and forgiveness in this situation. I was also spelled out as I watched it downstairs. When it was over, I shook my head in wonder, awe, tears, and praise. What had I just witnessed? These relatives with total honesty and raw emotion had understood and articulated before the world the simple biblical facts That our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ had said, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive you your trespasses. Matthew 6. 15 As I sat there and listened, I thought about several things. First, there's the obvious amazing power of the gospel of Jesus, the Son of God, who indeed, who is indeed a mighty Savior and King. Then I pondered the difficult but effective ministry of Reverend Pinky, who was one of those who died, who was able to disciple his congregation to have family members react in such a godly manner. I then thought about my mom's ancestors, who were pastors, church planners, after the Civil War, and into the 20th century But most of all, I morbid again as I thought about the historic African American Church. The existence of the African-American Church is a miracle. Think about it. Europeans brought Africans to the shores of America through the horrific middle passage across the Atlantic. We were oppressed through the institution of chattel slavery, while the oppressors encouraged us to embrace some notion of their God. How asinine, how ridiculous, but how incredible the sovereign plan of God as Joseph stated to his brothers. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. Genesis chapter 50, verse 20. My ancestors had to forgive their oppressors, the very oppressors who had taught them a distorted unbiblical view of Jesus. Yeah. Somehow we learn to declare, Father forgive them, for they do not what they do. There's an excerpt from that book, Heal Ultimate. It's been said that to err is human. To forgive is divine. And that's true. It takes divine power. To forgive. The Holy Spirit gives that kind of power to people. The church is a spirit-filled sent missional community, and the individual believers are to be spirit-filled sent missional followers of Christ. To whom are you going? For whom are you praying? Who in your life needs the Jesus that you proclaim to know? We never feel as close to the Lord as when we're sharing the faith with people who need Christ. Second thing He is present with us as we encounter him in holy moments. I call these holy moments. This is a holy moment for Thomas Now Thomas was absent from church. Now people call him doubting Thomas. I don't like that phrase. I think he was just discouraged. I think he just was discouraged. He was so discouraged he didn't show up to church. You ever been so discouraged you want to go to church? Okay, that's all. So though he was discouraged and he missed church a week later, Jesus makes a special visit. Jesus seeks out Thomas. It's an amazing thing when you think about it. Verses 26 to 29, we have a highly personal visitation by Jesus. And it's followed by a highly personal confession by Thomas in verse 28. Here's what Spiser's Bible commentary says about Thomas. In John 11, 16 and 14, 5, Thomas appears as a loyal outspoken, rather pessimistic person who was uncertain of the future, but closely attached to Jesus. Much the same picture emerges from the episode presented here in our text. He was absent from the gathering on the first day of the week, though he must have been in contact with the rest of the disciples afterwards. So he wasn't here on Sunday, but he was in contact during the week, and now the next Sunday comes And they're gathered and Jesus shows up because Jesus knows that Thomas wasn't there and Thomas has had some questions. A personal visitation by Jesus. And then comes this verse 28, this personal confession by Thomas, my Lord and my God. Not just Lord and God, personal, my Lord, my God That's the holy moment for Thomas when it all clicked for him. You know, in the Bible we see many people having holy moments. Gosh, we I've listed it probably I could list A dozen holy moments. Think of think think of Jacob Jacob when he wrestled with God. Think of Moses at the burning bush. Think of Elijah, he heard a still small voice. Think of Job. Is he encountered God in Chapter thirty-eight and God comes to him? Think of Isaiah in the temple. Think of Daniel in the liar's den as Is is is is someone is there that that he didn't know was going to be there, that fourth one. Think of think think of of of Elizabeth when somebody when John kicked in her in her belly. A holy moment for her Think think of Peter in the miraculous miraculous catch of fish. He saw this is this is not just a carpenter, this is Jesus the Lord who knows where the fish are, and he goes, Depart from me, I'm a sinful man. Holy moment for him. Think of Paul on the Damascus road. Throughout Scripture. Think of John and Isle of Patmos. On the Lord's Day, he has a vision. All through Scripture. Holy moments where people encounter The Lord. God comes to us. God comes to us. The scriptures are full of these encounters. God is seeking out people who will believe, who will follow Him, who will trust in His faithfulness and His promises. We looked y months ago about Jesus seeking out the woman at the well. He saw her out and he had a conversation with her Holy moments. I'm sure each of you who know Christ have had holy moments. I looked back to my to my again the church of my origin where I was uh a few weeks ago for the funeral of Meridian Hill Baptist Church. Different building, but the same congregation on a Sunday morning, just a simple Sunday morning, but there was it was not a a normal Sunday morning. There through the through the ministry of of of the Sunday school teacher, the ministry of the pastor, I met Jesus. I encountered Jesus. I was baptized that night. God used people, but it was not just people. It was an encounter with the living God that happened, that changed my life. I look at my I look at my my days in anniversary, the my freshman year, a c a conference in at College Park Um where I I I it became clear to me that if Jesus is is your Savior, he's also your Lord. And if he's your Lord, it means you need to f Follow him and discipleship is not an option for those who say they follow Jesus. It became so clear to me. It wasn't just through the words of a man named Dave English or Tom, but it was God who met me there Divine holy moment, divine encounters. I I think about uh Ur Urbana, 1979, Urbana Missions Conference where where the great late great Billy Graham preached and he preached to to to university students. He gave the gospel and then he gave a call to people to come to to follow Christ w no matter what that meant in your life. No matter what where God would call you to serve. And I was on University's staff and but I I heard that call and it wasn't just the words of Billy Graham, it was the words of God to me. And so I stood up And said, yes, Lord, I want to follow you whatever that means. Little did I know that across that gymnasium was a woman named Terry Morton, my girlfriend, who also stood up Little did I know that within two weeks we'd be engaged. Divine encounters, divine encounters. God needs us in special ways Verse 29 is kind of a transition statement. It's a transition statement. And it takes us to our third statement, the statement about. . . about the blessed are those who see who who don't see but yet believe. Jesus is present with us as we see him in the pages of the Holy Word. The Holy Spirit The holy moments, but his holy word. He comes to us as we look at his word. Again, the verse verses 30 and 31. Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Written in the book. Written in the book Jesus, the living word, came from heaven. And he was the word made flesh, dwelt among us. And he came during that first century generation for the people during that generation. But it's clear that there was no obligation for Jesus to appear in every generation. That was not the plan. The plan was that he would come during that generation and disciple men who would be witnesses of what happened, and they would write it down, and it is written in the book. And John is one of those witnesses These are written so that we may believe. So that we may believe. This is the key passage. It's a key passage, this phrase. It summarizes the entire book of John. Think of it. The Spauser's Bible commentary says this. These last two verses of this chapter are really the conclusion of the gospel. It's an epilogue coming in chapter 21. They summarize its strategy, subject, and purpose. The strategy is to use selected works of Jesus as signs They illustrate his character, demonstrate his power, and relate to him relate him to human need Seven of these signs have been narrated in the Book of the Gospel of John, exclusive of the final sign, the resurrection, which which was the ultimate sign, the eighth one Each one involved a human personality and showed how the power of Jesus can be applied to human emergencies. These signs were performed in the presence of the disciples so that they were attested by sympathetic and competent witnesses, as well as by those who happened to be present at the time. Whether friendly or hostile to Jesus. The criteria for selection seems to be magnitude, varied individual significance, and effect both on the disciples and on the public. The signs in the Gospel of John are pointing to something. They're pointing to the reality that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. The signs in the Gospel of John, changing water into wine, healing the royal official's son in Capernaum, healing the paralytic at Beth Seda in John 5 Feeding the 5,000 in John 6. Jesus walking on water in John 9. Healing the blind man from birth, John 9. The raising of Lazarus In John chapter 11. Seven signs. There's seven AIMs in the Gospel of John, and there's seven signs. Signs. On Route 1, as you go up Route 1, there's a sign that says um I think it says um I-695 to Towson n no north to Towson and then I guess there's an arrow pointing you to get on the right rap, okay? So if you're going up route one up route one and you're going towards the beltway, um, and you see that sign What you're supposed to do if you want to go to Towson is to take the left turn and then get on the railway and go to Towson. The sign is pointing you to Towson, but the sign is not Towson You don't go to the sign, park your car, say I've arrived. No, you have not arrived. The sign is pointing you somewhere The seven signs of the Gospel of John are not just for themselves. They're pointing us somewhere. They're pointing us to a reality. And the these signs are written so that you may believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God and might have life in his name. That's where the book is headed. That's where the signs are pointing to. And now John summarizes. If you didn't get to get it, he says, here's what it was all about. It wasn't just those individual episodes. They were pointing you to something. And this is what they're pointing to, that Jesus is the Son of God, and that believing in that fact, you have life. Abundant and life eternal in his name. That's the destination. That's the destination The signs point to the good news that by simply believing in his name, you'll become a child of God, you'll be born again, you'll have this eternal life. John clearly wants us to get it Verses 29 and 31. Those who have not seen physically can see with the eyes of faith because of the word, okay? As Jesus is displayed in his word. We can see the truth and believe the truth and follow the truth. Peter, who was there in that encounter years later, wrote this in 1 Peter chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfeigning, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for our salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. So he's saying there's a certain faith that that is giving you a a certain salvation that's that that's that that is yours if you keep believing in Jesus Christ. And then he says this in 1 Peter 1. 8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you did not see him, you believe in him. Do you see what he says Jesus does not show up in every generation. But upon the testimony of the holy apostles, they know we are able to see Jesus our Lord and know that He's real And that his salvation is real. And as we hold on to that hope, that salvation, that eternal life, will be ours by faith. Though you have not seen, though I have not seen him with my eyes, literally I love him. I've trusted in him. I'm following him. I've given up my life to him I believe in him. And the verse goes on, and rejoice with joy that's inexpressible filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Why do we believe the scriptures? Why do we love the scriptures so much? Because they point us to Jesus. Without the scriptures, we would not know what we know about the Son of God. The apostles have been faithful in giving us the record. That we might believe. David talked about the power of God's word. Ripped you Psalm one nineteen, the longest passage of the Bibles A couple verses from actually two verses. Psalm 119, verse 76 and 77. Let's look at those verses and think about this principle. The word of God, you see, reveals the character of God. Listen to this. Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant. Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant. He said, You have some promises. How do I know that? How do you prompt you God who has promises that reveal to me your steadfast love? How do we know that steadfast love? Because Because of the promises of his word. And then the next verse, that your mercy come to me, that I may live. For your law is my delight. Same thing. How do I know the mercy of God? How do I see the mercy of God? How do I experience the mercy of God? How do I know what's real? Because it's written in his word. Your law. So that's why we love we we love the law, the word of God, because it gives us the truth about who God is He reveals this gospel to us that he is a God who is loving and kind and gracious and slow to anger and quick to forgive. The word of God So John has a few personal things that he wants to tidy up for his listeners in that first century and for us. And so there's a whole nother chapter that Eric's going to deal with in the next couple of weeks. Some great stuff in that chapter. But his argument really climaxes here. The rest is kind of epilogue. And let me review what we've seen in this passage before we close. Jesus comes to us in gathered worship when the Holy Spirit fills us with his peace, his power, and his message of forgiveness. He comes to us particularly in gathered worship. That was the first day of the week. And I trust you're committed to regularly gathering with God's people. I know you are. I know you're eager to get back together and worship. And some of us are going to hold back because some of us are going to enter We'll we'll watch it virtually, but but when we when God's people gather, special things happen. God promises to show up. Secondly, Jesus comes to the individuals In holy moments. Don't miss the fact that Jesus didn't just show up on that next Lord's Day. He showed up and says, Where's Thomas? Let me show Thomas. He's personal. That was a holy moment for him. God gives us holy moments. If we're alert, if we're aware, if we're watching, look for the holy moments in your life that bring encouragement and strength to our faith And lastly, Jesus comes to us through the Holy Word of God, through the Holy Word of God. I trust that you're committed to taking in his word daily, to reading it, listening to it, meditating upon it, sharing it with others. Through the Word of God, we encounter the living God. Have you seen Jesus, my Lord? He's here in plain view. Take a look. Open your eyes. He wants to show it to you Let's pray. Father God, thank you for this passage, this unique passage, uh the re the resurrection night and then a week later. In your encounter with Thomas. Well, there's this great lessons here. Help us to to embrace the lessons here, to reflect upon them, to live them out in our own life, to seek To be faithful witnesses to you, to seek, to to to to to to see and the encounters that you give us. Blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God. Help us to be people who want to see you and know you and and experience you in in in many ways. And help us to do that, Lord, knowing that if we just open up your word and give it the time that we should give to it, we will see you and understand you more clearly. Bless this word, this message to our hearts. May it Encourage us, challenge us, strengthen us that you are God in Jesus' name. Amen and amen.