Was an hour still taking the house around here? The king's coming. And when they spoke to him day after day He would not listen to them. They told Haman in order to see whether Mordecai's words would stand, where he told them that he was a Jew. And when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage to him to him, Haman was filled with fury, but he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone. So as they had made known to him the people of Mordecai, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai Mordecai throughout the whole kingdom of Haswirs. In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King of Haswaris, they cast pur, that is they cast the Then Haman said to King Hasaris, There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed Their laws are different from those of every other people, and they do not keep the king's laws, so that it is not to the king's profit to tolerate them. If the king let it be decreed that they be destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who have charge of the king's business, that they may put it into the king's treasuries So the king took his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman the Agadite, the son of Hamadatha, the enemy of the Jews. And the king said to Haman, The money is given to Hamadatha. Okay, be given Then the king's scribes were summoned on the thirteenth day of the first month, and an edict, according to all that Haman commanded, was written to the king's satraps and to the governors all over the provinces and to all the officials of the peoples, to every province in its own script and in every people in its own language. It was written in the name of King Hasserus and sealed with the king's signatory. Letters were sent by couriers to all the king's provinces with instruction to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate all Jews, young and old, women and children. And to plunder their goods. A copy of the document was to be issued as a decree in every province by the proclamation to all the peoples to be ready for that day. The couriers went out hurriedly by the order of the king, and the decree was issued in Susa the citadel And the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was thrown into confusion. Come on, how many kids are a VBS? Forty-nine kids of EBS, awesome. How much money did we raise? And that translates into how many meals times four. So yeah, fourteen hundred meals. That was good. Um, it was pretty awesome. Glenda's good to see you back again. We prayed for you many times. Last time I saw you you weren't looking this good. Much better. Okay, we are in Esther. We started Esther this is week three so chapter three um just motoring through a chapter at a time approximately I want to remind you of someone who wanted order at all costs Who hated creativity? He wanted things done always right all the time. And of course, I'm talking about President Business or Lord Business as he eventually was called in the 2014 Lego movie. Yeah, okay. Okay, so he's the evil genius, President Lord Business, right? And he sends out his micromanagers. And his eventual goal is to freeze everything with his secret weapon, the Craggle. Crackle, right? So this movie is Cool because it's about the power of one. The power of one person. One person. One special person. You guys remember Maybe in the 2000s there was this thing called the demotivators. Because there are all these inspirational posters, and then this was a poster line or postcards of demotivators. Uh so this one was it was a picture of a snowflake and it said, You are special, just like everyone else. I'll try to find some more of these. This is Good. Um so in the Lego movie rules are good. They can be good, but the goal is to not always go with the pack Some rules enslave us, disempower others, especially if they're made by rules by tyrants like Lord Business. Tyrants like Lord Business or tyrants like me or you. We have a dilemma in our house right now. I want to tell you about and get your counsel Um I have been buying um Ben and Jerry's ice cream and I put it in the freezer. There's only so much room in the freezer and sometimes when I go to get these ice cream, my ice cream It's gone. There's someone sneaking in the freezer, and I just want to have the chaos stopped. No more If you can hear me in the the sound of my voice, get your um Ben and Jerry's. If only I were kidding, um But you know, I do think it's true that we all c can be tyrants, right? You you just think of uh when you were a tyrant at the dinner table, you may not leave this table until every Every scrap is done. And what happens? Sometimes little girls fall asleep at the table because they don't want to eat it. Right? Um I don't want to hear another word in the back seat. If I hear another word, we are pulling over. None of us have ever said that, no So we can all be tyrants. In other words, Esther is for us. It's for us here in Maryland in 2025. It's for us in our daily lives. Our messy rooms, our disappointments, our joys, our health, our food choices, our laundry, our yards, our faith. It it's involved in the things we're doing to earn bread and earn a living. It's it's involved with our our apathy or our morality, right? It's everything. And the question is, is God listening and am I special? It's God listening in my special will Lord business have his way and annihilate everything So this book takes place in Susa, which is in modern-day Iran, in the 480s BC. God's people are displaced in Persia. And one of them was a girl named Esther. Her Jewish name was Hadassah, but she had been hiding her Jewish lineage according to her uncle Mordecai, so they were keeping it on the DL of who they really were. But in chapter two, Esther becomes queen. Through some strange circumstances Circumstances, God's providence, this Jewish girl becomes the queen of Persia. Xerxes Queen. And so this is her story. It's the story of God's people, but that also means it's our story. Because we are God's people. And chapter three is a dark, dark moment. in the story. And there always has to be a dark moment. If there's gonna be a big rescue and a big redemption, there has to be a something to get rescued And so chapter 3 starts about five years later from chapter 2. And at the end of chapter 2, if you go back and look at it. Um Mordecai discovers a plot that is being hatched to try to kill Xerxes And he discovers it and reports on it. And the king gets saved. And they say, we're never going to forget. We're going to record this. We will always remember this day. But they for gods. And so we read in chapter three, after these things King Xerxes promoted Haman the Agagite, the son of Hamad Hamadatha, and advanced him and set him above all the officials who were with him. Haman the Agagite, uh this is Agag, who was the king of the Amalekites, who were enemies of God's people. So instantaneously It's not like Xerxes is some awesome person, but an amalotite, the listener to this, the reader of this will be, oh no, this is bad, this is bad, this is bad And of course Haman was promoted while Mordecai was forgotten. It should have been Mordecai, right? But he was passed over, and we mentioned before that maybe we've all been passed over. over. You didn't get picked for the position. You didn't get picked for the prom. didn't get picked for the pastorate. I know tons of my buddies have gotten to the last two or three and then not been chosen to be the pastor of where they wanted to go. But God ordains all for good. It's one of the things we keep telling ourselves, right? So what happens next? And then and all the king's servants who were at the king's gate bowed down and paid homage to Haman for the king King had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage. This is interesting. Mordecai won't bow down to Haman. And the question I think is why not? Like he's been hiding all along. So why don't you just keep going on what you're doing, man? Because what happens is not it's not just bowing down, verse 3. Then the king's servants who are at the king's gate said to Mordecai, why don't you trigger Transgress the king why do you transgress the king's command? And when they spoke to him day after day, he would not listen to them. They told Haman, in order to see whether Mordecai's words would stay in, for he had told them that he was a Jew The very thing he had told Esther not to do. He goes and does it. And so you know you sort of play this out as like maybe he just Finally snapped. Obviously, Haman's not a super awesome dude to be around. And after being humiliated time and time again for whatever reason, he says, Forget it. I am not doing it anymore. And guess what? I'm a J. Oh, I shouldn't have said that. He does. Maybe he thinks that it's not going to be a problem because he knows Esther is the queen It's a dangerous decision, really. Um because then we read and when they spoke to uh he and then when Haman saw that Mordec Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage to him, Haman was filled with With fury. But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone. So as they had made known to him the people of Mordecai, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai Mordecai throughout the whole kingdom of Xerxes. Two things here. His decision, Mordecai's decision, is going to affect a whole lot of people And these guys sound a lot like what we're going to read about in Pharisees, don't they? We don't like this people, we don't like this guy, but we're going to like cover our tracks. and go through legal channels, right? And so Heyman throws the dice and it randomly, by chance, hits a certain date, and he then he announces the plan. This is Verses eight and nine. Then Haman said to King Xerxes, there is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples among the provinces of your kingdom. Their laws are different from those of every other people, and they do not keep the king's laws, so that it is not for the And if it pleases the king, let the king let it be decreed that they be destroyed. This is the plan, this is the date, the king's Said, this sounds great. No problem. The money is given to you, the people, to do with it what it seems good to you. So the king took his signet ring and gave it to Haman. Okay. So the he Heyman's talking about their breaking of the laws. This has not come up. It does not appear to be a big issue. Uh certainly Mordecai and Esther haven't been sir in the waters. Okay? And and the Persians are a pretty accommodating people. Sort of like the Romans. It's it's the idea of as long as you pay your taxes and realize I'm the king, do what you want. And and when you have that accommodating position, it makes assimilating a lot easier. So they are used to being fairly uh loose with all of this. This is not like Daniel's refusal Right? It's not directly impacting the king at all. But Haman doesn't care. Heyman says we can get 10,000 talents of silver if we do this. And records would show that around this time the the state budget, the empire budget would be about fifteen thousand talents a year. A year. So we can get two-thirds of our yearly budget by one policy decision. This is called smart management. It's called pragmatic logic. It's called the bottom line. And so Haman gets the power and the authority of the king with this ring. What he says goes. Everything is at his disposal. And the king says, Do what you want. So then the scribes write it out. This is verse twelve and thirteen, right? And what they're writing out is this. Verse thirteen. Letters were sent by all couriers to all the king's provinces with instructions to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate all Jews, young and old, women and children, in one day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, Which is the month of Adar and to plunder their goods. We are talking annihilation. We are talking genocide. Now of course this was 2500 years ago. And we're way past things like this, aren't we? Only thirty years ago, eight thousand Bosnian Muslims were slaughtered, men and boys. We know about Rwanda in the 90s, 500,000 Tutsis. And the goal of that massacre was to spare no one Go back a little further. Nineteen seventies pole pot one point seven million Cambodians. Slaughter, killing fields. People don't even know how many people Stalin killed. Ten to twenty million, guess that Six to eight million of those were from organized crop failure failures, so they would starve to death, not have to waste resources, mostly in Ukraine. But twelve to fourteen million were killed in terror Campaigns in the course of the Holocaust, eleven million Jews killed from nineteen forty one to nineteen forty-three, estimated about twenty twenty thousand Are still alive survivors. But here's one I probably have mentioned, and it's estimated that after 1492, when our good buddy Columbus sailed the ocean blue that the indigenous populations from North America, Central America, and South America went from 50 million people, indigenous peoples, 50 million people, to eventually 1. 8. And then we also have human trafficking. Currently, statistics of twenty twenty five, twenty-seven point seven. six million people. Um that goes in two categories, forced labor, of which one third are female and two thirds are male, and sex trafficking, which three quarters are female and one quarter are male. Mayo. Maybe I should be thinking about this whenever I get upset about the Ben and Jerry's and the ice cream. That's not a big problem, is it These chapters belong in the Bible because the Bible is an honest book. But we all ask when we read chapters like this, or when we look at histories, I'll just read Why let Haman get power at all? In my opinion, this would be an awesome Wonder Junction BBS. We're really now wondering what's going on. Why is this happening? Just think if Mordecai had bowed and kept quiet like he'd been doing, we would not be reading about annihilation. But we have this story and it's important for us to tell these stories like this. I think as we know, we've been talking about this as a church since I That it's important that we would write these stories, make these movies, author these books, create these songs, make art, make memorials, right? And not just bury everything that it's all fine. It's not all fine. We need to cry and fight and wonder and weep But there's not a lot of that here in chapter 3. Chapter 3, the last word in RESV is confusion. Confusion. The decree is out, it's all in motion. And and the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was thrown into confusion. Confusion. They are all these two guys are at the local pub, all in a day's work, no big whoop. We just push the annihilation button. It's It's fine. High five. And we're reminded that God allows evil to exist. God even allows evil to seem like it's winning. Right. Someday, and it has already been told in the scriptures up to Esther. They would have known this. That it has been told that someday all will be made well All will be set right. All will be dealt with. We will know all of the things. Nothing will go unknown. We talked about this in BBS on Friday, that Jesus is coming back to set all things right. Amen, right? That is our great, great, great Great hope. But it's not true yet. And God allows us to sit in confusion and anguish and despair while He still tells us there is hope. Because God's people are at war with a great adversary, right? It seems impossible for them to win. There's no way they can get out of this And that's been true time and time and time again. Haman is trying to kill every single one of them In John ten we read this. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. There are Real enemies, aren't there? There are real devils. There is a real Satan. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. But see, that's John 10 What's John 10 10 B? But I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. Have it to the full. It is not yet over. Maybe God hasn't come when we wanted. Still true, often true. He doesn't always come exactly when we want, right? He could have come in Esther chapter 3. Jesus could have come. He could have come in Genesis chapter 3, right at the very beginning. Boom, let's deal with this immediately. He could have come in Luke, whenever Herod sends out the decree to kill all of the boys, could have come then. So Haman gets his moment, Satan gets his moment, and we have to band together. It's God's community. One of my favorite sermons, uh Pastor Ray Cortiz uh uses an illustration about um AA meetings. And at this one AA meeting a new lady came, she was the first time. And and the person who was relaying this thought, well she was probably very beautiful Uh but that's not true right now. And she told her story of shame and guilt, the awful things she had done. She didn't want to live in the streets anymore, but she didn't know how to change after all. And she was crying and crying and crying. And the woman next to her didn't have a lot to say, but she pulled her in close and hugged her and said Just this. It's okay. You're with us now. You're with us. We're together. That didn't change her situation immediately. It didn't evaporate her pain. It didn't erase her story. But she was not alone. She was embraced, right? We call this sharing our poverty with each other. We share our poverty with each other when we're honest with each other. Pull each other close. We become a community. And so here in our text today, one person, the power of one person, to sentence a people to death To harm, to hurt, to annihilate. And so what do we need? We need one person to stand up. Haman has his day sure, but the day of redemption is not yet come, but in It is coming, right? Our people, these people need a hero. They need a redeemer. They need a king, an officer who renders different verdicts, right? They need a king who doesn't make captives but sets captives free. Amen. And after all, we also know one other key piece of information. That would have already been in the waters, which would have already been written. 1633, Proverbs 1633 says, The lot is cast into the lap, but is Every decision is from the Lord. A row of the dice. Who's in charge of the dice? God's in charge of the dice, right? And even better, maybe, is twenty two twenty-one one The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord, and he turns it wherever he wills This is one of our big hopes, isn't it, right? And that means Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton Bush, Obama, Trump, Biden, Trump, the Lord's in charge of all this However we want to pull our hair hair out for whichever any of those gods. It's true in Iran It's true in Israel. So back to the Lego movie The Power of One, right? The power of one bad guy and the power of one good guy We need a good guy. This story needs a good guy. We got the bad guy for sure, right? And so we wait in this chapter for the future chapter. But we don't have to wait. We are in the future. We know who comes to save his people. They were waiting for him, but we have seen him. But but it's still true, we still wait, right? It's not all just a base So wherever you see yourself in this story, right? Remember a couple things. There's a real evil There's a real King Jesus, and you're with us now. We can walk together no matter what's going on. To me that's something to really to wonder about. And so we're gonna finish our sermon today singing about wonder. So we're gonna sing Let Us Love and Sing and Wonder. It is hymn number one seventy two, but it's gonna be up here, right? We can stay seated. This is a this is a part of the sermon. Let me hear Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us praise the Savior's name. He has washed the love of under. He has quenched my time as flame. He has washed us with his blood. He has washed us with his blood. He has washed us with his blood He has brought us nigh to God Let us look for us in it as well. Called us by his grace, has called us, give us easy and gave us eyes. He has washed us with his blood He has washed us with his blood. He has washed us with his blood. He presents our souls to God. Let us single temptation. Threatened our two, for the Lord are strong as ovation. All this is the conquerors' crown, He washed us with his blood. He washed us with his blood He washed us with his blood to bring us home to God. Let us run the greatest. Join and point to mercy store Went through crazy Christ and Christy Just his mouth and death no more. You washed us with his sun. You washed us with his sun. He washed us with his word as the good away to come. Of the saint has thrown on high, be they trusted in me for us. Throw their breezes through the sky, thou hast washed us with thy blood. They have washed us with thy blood, thou hast washed us with thy blood, thou art worthy No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mist