To Ethiopia, over a hundred and twenty seven provinces, in those days, when King Ahazareah sat on his royal throne in Susa, the citadel, in the third year of his reign, he gave a feast for all his officials and Servants, the army of Persia and Medea, and the nobles and governors of the provinces were before him. While he showed the riches of the His royal glory and the splendor and pomp of his greatness for many days, a hundred and eighty days. And when these things were completed the king gave for all the people, President Sue to Susa the citadel, both great and small, a feast lasting for seven days in the court of the garden of the king's palace. There were white cotton curtains and violet hangings fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rods and marble pillars, and also couches of gold and silver On a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother of pearl, and precious stones. Queen Vashti also gave a feast for the women in the palace that belonged to King Ahazareus. On the seventh day, when the heart of the king But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command, delivered by the eunuchs. The king became enraged, and his anger burned within him. Then the king said to the wise men, who knew the times, for this was the king's procedure towards All who were versed in law and judgment. The men next to him being Karshina, Shefthnar, Admatha, Tarshish, Maris Masena and Memekin, the seven princes of Persia and Medea, who saw the king's face and sat first in the kingdom. According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti because she has not performed the command of the king Ahazareus delivered by the eunuchs? Then Memekan said in the presence of the king and the official Yes, for the queen's behavior will be made known to all women, causing them to look at their husbands with contempt, since they will say King Ahazareus commanded Queen Vashti to be brought before him, and she did not come. This very day the noble women of Persia and Medea, who have heard of the queen's behavior, will say The same to all the king's officials, and there will be contempt and wrath in plenty. If it please the king, let a a royal order go out from from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it may not be repealed that Vashti is never again to come before King Ahaz And let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she was to all the royal provinces, to every province, in its own script, and to every people in its own language, that every man be master in his own household, and speak according to the Thank you. Please be seated. Good reading. Lots of names and places. Whenever you get the chance to read and you come up, just make up as best as you can. And it doesn't really matter. Um we're not recording this for a proper Hebrew pronunciation We obviously are uh switching gears. We've been bouncing around a bit from uh Fruit of Spirit and then Meals with Jesus. and then Anchor of Hope going from different texts. So we're going to go now through two books of the Bible all the way the rest of the year, Esther and Revelation. Exciting stuff. All will be illuminated and revealed. I was sitting at Cafe Plaid, one of my hangouts in Norman, Oklahoma, around 2009 or ten. And I was with a friend and I remember saying, God isn't saying anything. We had been talking about whether or not I should leave RUF and plant a church, which was a normal thing that for RUF campus ministers to do. It's sort of the pathway that most of them most of us And um I'd already been doing campus ministry for about seventeen years. I was coming up to turning forty, which isn't the death nail of that in any sense. But Julia, she was about to turn forty and six months after me, uh she was thinking, I don't really want to hang out with eighteen year old girls anymore. Need some different combos. Uh which made I had been trying to plant a church in Springfield, Missouri where I grew up grew up. I had been to tons of meetings I've been driving back and forth. And it's weird to like drive to a place and meet strangers and try to talk them into liking you. And wanting to give you money, and wanting to follow you, and wanting to plant this church together. It's a very odd experience. Needless to say, I didn't do that. And I was asking the Lord, what do you want me to do? Show me the way. And he was saying All I could figure was he was saying, figure it out. Do what you want. Sometimes he that's okay. There's no bad choice necessarily But it felt like silence. I wondered if God would speak, and I also wonder, what am I listening for exactly? How would He talk to me It's interesting, I was then now just in making the sermon thinking about moving to Baltimore, which was a way more dramatic decision, but it was a lot simpler. Julie said we're moving to Baltimore. Okay. I guess the Lord spoke through her. He had been talking to her. It just came that way, right? And so I don't know, can you relate when you've had times where you didn't know what to do? Should I take this job? Should I Should I quit this job? Should I accept this invitation? Should I decline this invitation? Should I marry this person? And we ask, Lord, are you listening? Are you speaking? So if you've ever had that thought, the book of Esther is for you. The book of Esther is for me. It's obviously an interesting book because it's in the Bible, but it's it's interesting too because it's at least semi-off topic. There's no prayers. There's no visions. There's no miracles. God isn't even mentioned in this book Which is a little weird. It's one of the reasons why some people have thought that it shouldn't be in the canon. None other than Martin Luther didn't think it should be on the canon. And I think that's because um we often think when we read the Bible, which makes sense, we want the drama Right? We want miraculous births. We want the Ten Commandments at Mount Sinai. We want the crossing of the Red Sea and the plagues. And of course we want David and Goliath and Solomon in the temple, uh Joseph and Daniel and the Meet Shak Shadrach and Abendigo, right? Visions, dreams, interpretations, miracles, but it feels like we're living in Esther, doesn't it? There's some amazing stuff that happens in Esther, but it just feels like we're on our own. Plat. I don't hear God. What should I do? But Esther tells us God is at work. God is always at work. So we get our bearings in Esther, right? Our history. This is sort of meanwhile in another part of the country, another part of the world, right? We're a long ways from Jerusalem. We're in Susa. This is 160 miles east of Tigris. It's a capital. It's now the city of Shush in modern-day Iran. Which is certainly in the news. A king Ahuristes, which is King Xerxes. You may have heard That. Xerxes is a a name that means ruling over heroes. This is one of the great Persian kings, emperors of all time. It's reported that he's eight feet tall. Strikes fear in everyone. They say he had a million soldiers. Probably not a million. Million soldiers. But he had 10,000 of the immortals, especially trained soldiers, and they strike fear in everyone's They completely annihilate anyone in their path, right? Now in Jerusalem, the temple had been ransacked. And the people had been displaced, right? The golden era of the kings is long gone. David was probably 700 years earlier. But disaster after disaster after disaster. And it will never be like that ever again. Some people had returned to Jerusalem, though. This is where we get the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. Nehemiah rebuilding the walls. Ezra rebuilding the temple and the law. These two go together. It's around this same time. These are some of the last books of the Bible to be written. I was thinking about this that it could be that Ezra was one of the very last books of the Bible written. It comes up early in your Bible, but its dating is late. And so I wonder sometimes if the author was writing a story where God wasn't explicit So we have uh King Xerxes in uh Susa, 483 BC. The Persians are huge, they're amazing. Now remember if you've heard of King Leonidas and Thermopylae, the 300, this incredibly dramatic moment when the Spartans came and they held their ground in this exact one spot against the Persians. They ultimately were defeat defeated, but they held back the Persian army in a in a great moral victory at least. That happened in four eighty, just a few years Later. Confucius died in 482. Sophocles wrote Oedipus Rex around this time. Herodotus is a historian around this time. Socrates was born in 470. Pythagoras Died in four ninety-five. There's a lot going on in this time in the world. But meanwhile In Susa. All of that that's going on is ignored. But we still have King Xerxes, who ruled from India to Ethiopia. It's a big swath. And he's at his summer home. Beating the heat. Time to get away. The author talks about extravagance and opulence. When Alexander the Great came into Sousa a hundred years later It's reported that he found twelve hundred tons of gold and silver and two hundred and seventy tons of minted coins. That's Some wealth, right? The fabrics, the goblets. It's all very impressive, isn't it? And then Xerxes is super cool. And drinking was according to his edict. There is no compulsion, for the king had given orders to all the staff of his palace to do as each man desired. A fine Esther isn't even in the story yet. But the author who's written this book, there's a wink and a nod because the author knows what's coming. Right. sort of know what's coming, but we want to put ourselves in the position where we maybe don't know what's coming. But this is good s storytelling because I will tell you, fifteen years later King Xerxes will be assassinated. Fascinated, murdered, by his own royal bodyguard, a powerful Persian official. But we're starting earlier at the height of Xerxes' power He seems like a good guy, he's in control, you can all do what you want, and we all like to follow leaders like this. We still do. Okay, so all's good, and then no big deal, they say, let's see the queen On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded these dudes to bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown in order to show the peoples and the princes her beauty For she was lovely to look like. Let's bring out Queen Vashti a little parade. Let's see that moneymaker I'm the king. Nothing bad's gonna happen, right? A lot of people think she's only supposed to wear the crown. Just the crown. Nothing else What could go wrong? Seven days of these guys all together with no women were going to bring in a lady. What can go wrong Why would she object to this? This frat party. This bachelor party. Queen Bash is like, nah. No way. Not gonna happen There's a song um called You Set Her Off and it says some people think that women are as fragile as a flower But she was as fragile as a bomb. And you set her off. So Queen Vashie doesn't give a big speech. She doesn't like come in and throw a bomb. But she says, No way, forget it. I demand dignity and respect. Yeah. Go, Queen Vasty, right? But there are power dynamics at play. Still true, right? Still true. Power dynamics. It's not easy to say no, but she did. And of course, King Xerxes is like, everyone can do what they want. Unless they don't do what I want. You can do what you want as long as what I want. Is that doing what you want? No. So he gets enraged. Verse 12. But Queen Vasha refused to come At this the king became enraged, and his anger burned within him. We have a huge problem on our hands. What are we gonna do? This is embarrassing. I've been upstaged. This didn't happen in private in front of all my people Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times, according to their law, what is to be done with Queen Vashu? Because she has not performed the command of the king delivered by the Eunuchs. He's appealing to the law, but he is the law. He makes the laws. Right? What shall we do? This cannot happen. What's gonna happen to our homes? This is anarchy. We cannot have this happen. So Verse 19 If it pleases the king, let a royal order go out for him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Med, so it may not be repealed that Vashti is never again to come before the king It is vast. All women will give honor to their husbands, high and low alike. May it be so No more disrespect. We will legislate morality. This is how it's going to go down And of course, all the women in the land smirked and smiled, feigned But the Empire had striked back. We cannot have this. We need absolute obedience. There's no debate, there's no discussion, absolute fealty. We don't even know what had happened to Queen Vashti, why This day this happened? Maybe there'd been a whole backstory. This would be a good mini-series, right? What's going on with Queen Vashti? How do we get to this point this day? What happens to her? Why is she putting her life at risk now? But she refused, and if she hadn't, we would not have this book. Right? It had to happen right at this time, right now, because there's someone else who's gonna get brought in. Long? But but I think it's important to remember that God's people are still at the center of the story, right? But they're not exactly in it. They're sort of in it And sort of not in it. Um, because God's people have been scattered. We we're gonna talk about the Persians, but we're also talking about God's people. eight fifteen. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, your God, or be careful to do all his commandments and his statues that I command you today, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you. Same book same chapter verse 36. The Lord will bring you and your king whom you set over you to a nation that That neither you nor your fathers have known, and ye there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone. Verse sixty four. And the Lord will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other, and there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone Which neither you nor your fathers have known. God has judged his people, not just the Persians, not just the nations, his own people, right? Now, uh King Xerxes, unbeknownst to him, has his own problems, which is always true. Right. Um King Xerxes thinks he's got it made. He's a number one, King of the Hill, Top of the Heap. He's got his empire. He's about to crush the Spartans, right? We'll make movies about this. I think we need to pause a minute and just think about our own empires. They're not the same as King Xer In any sense, right? But we have minions who weep make do stuff. We have our own little empires. I don't know if you've ever built your own house. Like you think about all that you want. This is gonna be where I get to plan. When I when we bought our building at City Prez, like I get to put stuff in here. What do I want? I told you there's that Uline calendar. Uline sells all the stuff you need in any building, right? I mean it's this thick. It has everything. I can't even explain what all it has. And I would look through that thing lusting over This trash can lid. You know, this cellophane wrapper to put in on this thing to go in this deal. Oh, I love that magazine Because I wanted to build what I wanted to build. Down to the smallest thing And as we know, when you build an empire, it might come crashing down. Seems like it happens Quite a bit. But still I'll try. I'll still try. I'll be a better king. I'll take goblets for all my drinks. That's great I can ignore my corrupt heart. So in other words, God isn't working with good people, is he? Not working with good Persians and he's not working with good Israelites. But he is working You can all feel unconnected, but he is working and he was at work at Cafe Plaid that day, wasn't he? And he was at work at Fell's Point when I got told we were moving to Baltimore, right? And he was at work when I decided to go to seminary at Covenant Seminary. And he was at work when we had four kids. We were going to have three kids. We moved to my parents' basement. I graduated from seminary. I didn't have a job. And within two days, Julie said, I'm pregnant. This is not going good I don't have a job. I'm living in my parents' basement. This is the fourth child. What are we doing? Where is this going? God is at work then. God is at work all the time. In class, in our jobs, while we eat, while we mow, all the time. And the good news is we have a king. It's not Xerxes, right? Jesus is our King. Jesus is kind and compassionate. He's engaged. He's loving, He's respectful, He's dignifying, He's serving, He's not humiliating. He loves and respects women, and he dies in battle and conquers sin. And he sets the table and invites us. It can seem underwhelming. We don't have fancy goblets, do we? We could, I guess. It's very simple. It's profound though, right? It's consecrated elements At this feast for all of us, men and women, old and young, his body and his blood spiritually transformed with our faith, a feast of love and sacrifice, because the king shares himself And he extends his kingdom. It's a big difference between what Jesus is doing and what other kings do. He's not building an empire, he's building a kingdom. Right? A kingdom not built with flesh and blood. A different type of kingdom. A spiritual kingdom that has actual people in it. It's not only spiritual, it's physical and spiritual And so when we come over and know that Jesus is our King, we pledge allegiance to his kingdom over all. We respect and pray for and honor our mayors and governors and senators and congressmen and president, our bosses You have the people over us, but we pledge allegiance to the king and his kingdom. So it can seem pretty stormy out there. One song I like to hear when it comes on is stormy weather. Um I looked up the lyrics. Oh, where'd it go? Stormy weather. Uh I walk around heavy hearted and sad. Night comes around and I'm still feeling bad. Rain's pouring down blind Minding every hope I had. This pitterin patterin beating and spatterin' drives me mad. Love, love, love, love. This misery's just too much for me. Not the best rhyming of all time, but uh I can't go on. Everything I had is gone. Stormy weather since my man and I ain't together. It keeps raining all the time. Keeps raining all the time. Stormy weather My man's not around. Where's the king? It feels stormy. That's different though. I've mentioned this song before. I hate the song. I'd rather go blind than see you with him. Okay, these two people have very different perspectives. One is it's sad out there, I'm gonna sing the blues. The other one is I'd rather not see I'm going to stab myself in the eyes so I can't see anymore. That is not smart. It's way smarter to say, I long for the day when we can be back together. So I can see you when you show up again. There's going to be a sunny day ahead. It's coming. Hopefully for us, it's the next Sunday when we can see him When we can touch him, when we can taste his meal, so that we forget that he's here. We can feel so much like he's not speaking to us. And you know, um this is always difficult to mention But in the concentration camps, the Germans built the Jewish people so close to the scripture. Right, so close to the Torah, so close to the law, but they banked on Esther in these terrible places You can find the book of Esther written on the walls. They would get together and quote the book of Esther as their promise. That when God felt very far away, He was still there all along. Is there hope for an exiled pe exiled people, for a displaced people, for a wandering people? Is there hope for me today? I think what's tragic is these dear people in this terrible tragedy, of course, one of the worst things that's ever happened. They didn't have Jesus Jesus. They had the book of Esther. They did have the book of Esther, and that's important. We have the book of Esther. But the book of Esther points to a coming A coming king who has already come, who they didn't know about, who they couldn't put their hope in. That's the tragedy of that story For an excide peop excide people, for displaced people, for a wandering people, for a people that don't always listen, we have a king We have King Jesus. And that is our great hope. In the midst of when it feels like we are not being heard or God is not speaking, we have Jesus. And we have all those notes that you wrote, right? And that you can remember. And you may need to call someone and say, remind me of what's true. Remind me of what's true. Great King, a great protector. We have King Jesus on our side. And he's in charge of all of it, even when we don't always know what he's doing, which is a lot of the time He still got us. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments in silence, thinking about what the Lord is speaking to us, listening to the Holy Spirit