There's another thing that you don't know that he didn't say, and that is I don't hear. Um I try to listen and uh I try hard to listen, but I don't hear. So mask make it particularly difficult. Um both of my ears are assisted in their hearing capacity, but they still don't hear very well. So uh if I you find me ever asking you to repeat yourself three or four times, uh it's just me. I've got both ears that aren't quite working. It is good to be with you. I have followed you as a congregation for actually a number of years. And as a congregation, you followed me. I want to say thank you publicly for the group of men that you sent to reconstruct the basement of the International House. Those of you that came, you probably didn't find me like this. You found me in my jeans and my work clothes, laboring there. But thank you. Thank you for your engagement. in our lives. The International House is just two doors away from our house, so it's very much a part of us. Yesterday I actually welcomed uh one of our new residents from China. we will next month in the month of January and January we will have two more doctors coming from Turkey. We right now have a doctor uh staying in the house from Egypt. We have uh a uh a uh a doctor and wife not a medical doctor but a PhD and his wife uh there from India. So we sort of embraced the world, and you as a congregation have been able to walk with us as we embrace the world. uh the ministries of Jacob uh Jason have continued on a weekly basis and we're profoundly thankful for that. So thank you. Thank you for the privilege to walk with you and uh in many different ways many different ways of our lives and now this part of your life. I want to uh read from our text this morning and back up and uh read the whole of it. um not the whole whole whole of it, but much of it that is been before you and will be before you even next week. It comes from Isaiah chapter nine. And uh as we read Isaiah chapter nine again, and as you put again into the context the names that which the child is calling We're going to just try to get our arms around the passage one more time. There will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtha. But in the latter time he made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nation. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness on them the light has shined. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy, and they rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they depart. For the yoke of his burden and the staff on his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Midian. For every boot of the trampling warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire, for to us A child is born. To us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, and Prince. With justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do This. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for your word that comes to greet us again this morning. Thank you for your word that holds us, that takes us, that carries us through from week to week. Would you allow this word to dwell in us as we dwell in the world? So, Father, come now. Speak to us. Give to us your spirit that we might behold your face, the fullness and the glory of your grace. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Because this morning we're going to look at the one attribution That is given of many in this text. Everlasting Father. I want to look at another text and give a little bit of context to the particular attribution we're going to read. Look at. And that's John chapter 10. John chapter 10 begins this way, it doesn't begin, but I'm going to pick up this way in verse 22. At that time The Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. Now, if you're really familiar with your Jewish calendar, you know that the Feast of Dedication just happened at Hanukkah. So it's Christmas time, right? It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered around him and told him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you're the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered, I told you, but you don't believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you don't believe me because you're My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father Later in John chapter seventeen again Jesus says that and he prays for us that we might all be one, even as he and the Father are one, so that the world might believe that Jesus was Now there's a there's a line that you probably all of you have heard, but you may not know where that line comes from. And that is this line. The child is the father of the man. The child is the father of the man Well it actually you haven't heard of it. Well, some have, some haven't. It actually comes from Williams Wordsworth, a well-known poet. But that's only one line out of a very brief poem that he wrote. I want to read it. Uh it's My Heart Leaps Up. You might have wondered if he was also listening to Mary's Magnificat My heart leaps up when I behold a rainbow in the sky. So it was when my life began. And so it is now that I am a man. So be it when I grow old, or let me die. The child is the father of the Wordsworth actually got it fairly correct that the The child is father to the man. It's the child that we come together around Christmas. But it was the father, the child, and the father So I want you to think through that with me. It was the promise of God to the people I don't know what you think about when you think about this Form. Maybe you think about your father. Your father. You're we all have earthly fathers, don't we? Or we wouldn't be here. We all have a father, we all have a mother. So when we come to this text, you think, well, I wonder if this everlasting father is like my father. And the trouble with that comparison is that maybe your father was abusive. Maybe your father was absent. Maybe your father abandoned you So you come to this and you think, I don't want that for an everlasting father. On the other hand, maybe your father was a hero And you think every day about things that He said or taught you or things that He provided for you. So you want to think, well, that's the kind of everlasting Father that I want. The best your father might have been, your earthly father, doesn't begin to compare to your heavenly father, to the eternal father, the worst father you might have had Is just a reflection of the darkness that God has brought light into to give us an everlasting Father. Yes, think about your earthly father. I think about mine all the time. I watched him as he went from this life to eternity He had an oxygen mask on, sort of like all of us have on today, but it's not an oxygen mask on your face right now. His was clear. I could see the steam in that oxygen mask as he breathed, and slowly that mist disappeared. And I know that with the disappearance of that mist, my Father's Spirit also disappeared But here's the thing. The things my father taught me haven't disappeared. They stuck with me And actually I look a lot like my father. And my sons look a lot like me. Pity this all. And and worse than the looks, you know, the heavy eyebrows that uh worse than all of that is that we actually share some of the same character qualities That bothers me the older I get. It's like, oh no. That's my earthly father. Throughout history, much of our world has been formed by understanding of Our Father, our eternal Father. Westminster Confession of Faith gives us a definition of God And I have to marry that definition of God together with this text of everlasting Father. Because the Westminster Confession asks the question, what is God? And the answer is: God is a spirit. Doesn't walk on earth. He's a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. It's hard for us to get our head wrapped around infiniteness or eternalness or unchangeableness because in our experience everything changes. Nothing is infinite and nothing is eternal. But there are some other things that the Westminster Confession And shorter Catechism talk about God that we do share in. We understand something about it. We actually share in these other attributes, and they're called the communicable attributes or the attributes of God that we share in. As amazing that as that is. And as this. He's a spirit infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, his wisdom, his power, his holiness, his justice His goodness and his truth. And there's something about all of that that we experience in our lives. So rather than have you look at this text and think about your earthly father I want you to think about the character qualities of your eternal Father. And begin to think back In history, in your history, to your earthly father and to earthly fathers that you have known. And begin to say, This is what God promised. This is what I've experienced. How much greater is God's promise? So, God is the Spirit, He's eternal in His being. Now what in the world is being? That's simply an eternal identity. An identity. We have identities. We have identities that we choose, sort of like the clothes we put on That may sound strange to you. You think, well I don't change my identity. Well I have a grandson and uh Damien at is he five or is he six now? I've lost track. Um uh i either seven. Uh see i that's the problem. Life keeps changing. You can't keep up with it. Even the grandfather can't keep up with it. Well Damien goes to his closet and he decides what he wants to be. So one day he'll come out of his room and he'll have his his black jacket on and his glasses on, he'll have a uh uh uh not a microscope but uh uh you know a little magnifying glass in his pocket he is Damien the spy Next day he comes out of the door and um he's a ghostbuster. And the next day he comes out of the door and he's a superhero. You never know what's going to come out of the door. He puts on his identity as he dresses. And I'm afraid that sometimes we shift our identities almost like that as well. We decide what we're going to be or what we would like people to see us as. No, we haven't really changed There's another kind of identity, and that's the given identity, and that's the identity that others give to us. And we often live with that identity, and that is sometimes a painful identity. So if you've had a history, a history maybe of abuse, you may see yourself as an abused person If you've been a privileged person, you may see yourself always as a person of privilege, as one who has a right to do whatever you want. What others see us as is critical to our own understanding of our identity, of our being. So when we think about an eternal Father who gives us a being, an identity, what is it? It's an eternal identity. He actually gives us an eternal identity, not a temporal one, not one that changes when we get up in the morning and say, I want to be a spy, I want to be a superhero. Not one that looks back and says, I've never done anything good. I probably never will. No, he gives us an identity that says you're mine You are my, you belong to me, and I will walk with you forever. You will never see the mist in front of my face go away. I will live with you forever. That's my eternal father. It's your eternal father. We may betray him He's not going to betray us. You might sin. He's going to forgive you. You may run away. He's going to hold you. He gives you an identity. He walks with you in that identity. You may feel ashamed When you feel ashamed, choose his identity. Choose his honor. That's what happens when we come out of our bedrooms In the mornings. And we feel we feel ashamed. We take on his glory. The glory of an eternal Father. It's a Father that lasts. He stays with us. He doesn't go away. He doesn't orphan us. He's there That's our being. He doesn't grow old, he doesn't grow feeble. But he's not just a God that gives us identity. He's not just a god of identity An eternal being that is being in our lives. Uncertain and when we change. He gives us understanding of what is and of what isn't and of what is it is to come. Our earthly father gives us ideas, gives us history. We're thankful for that But our eternal Father gives us something far more, a greater wisdom. As a congregation, you have been and you will be always An exploration of what God's will and God's purpose for you is. Right now, you're focused on a pastoral call. But there can be other challenges. And in those other challenges come, as a congregation, collectively as well as individually, we need God's wisdom. We need the eternal Father to say, I will walk before you. I will guide you. I will give to you words of wisdom. Wisdom is not just more knowledge. Wisdom is to know what to do with the knowledge. How do I walk? How do I live? My everlasting Father Gives me an everlasting inheritance. Maybe from your earthly father you expect to get an inheritance Or maybe you think, nope, the only inheritance I got was what I got when I left home. I don't know what kind of inheritance you'd get you might think. But you have an eternal father that gives you an eternal not four one K an eternal inheritance And it's wise. It's eternal wisdom. It's eternal presence. And it's not just being and wisdom. But his power. Because he is our everlasting ability. He's the one that gives to us the strength to get up in the morning To walk through the day, when our natural self is wavering, when it gives in, when sin breaks our will Our everlasting Father gives us the power to return. That is his inheritance. He renews our image. He gives us that strength and that power every day. Because he is our everlasting Father that gives us an identity, that gives us wisdom, and that gives us power Power. But our everlasting Father is more than just that. He's holy. The God who made us is ever making us, ever remaking us. When we break down, he remakes us. The maker always knows how to fix and how to remake. Well, mostly. Our eternal maker knows that. I was working yesterday on the international House trying to put a new appliance in. I thought, I did this the first time a couple years ago. Where did I put that wire? Uh it's behind the wall somewhere here, but I don't remember where. What did I do? I was the maker And now I had to be the fixer, and I had to rediscover what it was that I made. But we have an eternal Father who is our maker, and he is our remaker, and he doesn't forget what he did And what he's going to do. He doesn't forget our pathway. He is holy. And he's going to guide our choices. More than anything else, that's what I want you to think about the holiness of God. It's making the choices to go and to be and to do what God wants you to go and to be and to do. Make those choices. Our earthly fathers, yes, they give us a model to follow, and maybe it was good, maybe it was not good. Our eternal father Does more than just point to Christ. He gave us Christ. He gave us the Son. That is the Father and allows us to be remade by the Spirit that He's also given. What a present. What a gift. What a wonder. Do you yearn for the Father's holiness? in your life, to make the choices that your everlasting father wants you to make, to walk the way that your everlasting father wants you to walk Do you year that his imprint would be so clear in your life that people around you would say, Whew, tell me about But our everlasting father is more than holy He is also just. He brings fairness and mercy or goodness. Not in a moment. That's the way we administer fairness. I hate to think of all the times as father I have mediated between my children. Fortunately, they're now grown and they mediate themselves. But I can think of times where I solved arguments and and I didn't solve them at all. I just brought a a momentary you move I know you've never done that. Well I did that as a father. We have an everlasting father that gives Justice. Now what we'd like of our everlasting Father is to say, when I say you move, then He, my everlasting Father, makes you move. We'd like to do that to the whole world, wouldn't we? Make the world do what we want it to do. But my everlasting Father is a just Father, and he takes into account the flow of time. Not just the moment. He's my just Father. So although we live in a moment, God doesn't live in that moment. He lives beyond that moment as well as in the moment My earthly father gave me biases. He gave me entry into certain social spheres. And you probably received some bias from your father as well. Either you reacted against it, or you take it with you in your life. We have an everlasting father. It doesn't just give us bias. But he actually brings about wholeness to our perception of the world. He brings balance in the midst of a broken world. He's the only one that can do it. Because he is just. Because he's just. But my Father, my everlasting Father, is more than that. He's ever Everlasting in his being, his wisdom, his power, his holiness, his justice, but is also his goodness. Did you have a good father? Did he provide for you Maybe well, maybe not so well. Think about that. I have an everlasting father Who is good? His character is good. He brings mercy and joy to me because that's who he is The problem is, I often walk away from his goodness. I often take his goodness for granted. I don't embrace his goodness. I remember the embrace of my human father. I don't have it anymore But I will always, and you will always have the embrace of your everlasting Father. And it will not be an embrace that simply seeks to mold you, to influence you, according to some broken way of the world. According to what satisfies your earthly Father's sense of need. Your everlasting Father will give you an embrace That keeps you. It allows you to know that you are loved. No matter what the world tells. No matter what the people around you say. You love So that's the question. Does anybody see that love that you feel from the Father? Does it get conveyed to the people of God In other words, does His goodness actually flow through you? God's goodness. But God is also truth. My everlasting Father is an everlasting truth. So he gives me an everlasting eternal standard for what is and what is not. Uh what's right, what's wrong, what's worthy, what's important. He gives me an eternal truth. Doesn't change. I waver. I waver in knowing what's true, what's not true. I listen to the news to know what's true today, what's not true And and then I've got to figure out, well, was that true? Just because I heard it? Was it true? Because somebody said it was true? Does that make it true? What's truth? I live my whole life sometimes trying to figure out is that right or is that wrong? There's only one truth that I can know is true. True truth. That's God's truth. And I have an everlasting Father that says, I will give you true truth. Now, do you know where in the Bible it talks about wearing masks in COVID-19? I don't know where it is. If you do, please show me. So, wait a minute. Is the Bible actually going to be God's truth for every need and every circumstance? Am I going to find a chapter and verse that tells me this and tells me that? No. God's truth is bigger than my moment. It's to give me guidance, to give me his wisdom. That's his character again, isn't it? He's wise. He's truthful. It's right. It's correct. So he doesn't tell me one thing sort of like uh abortion is bad and then tell me, well, it's okay for uh for you to disrespect women, gender. He doesn't do that. We have leaders that do that. But God doesn't do that. God's truth abides. His standard is clear, it's consistent. You can rely on it. So the question again is, does your life reflect the everlasting Father? Do others seek the everlasting Father because you do? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, everlasting, and unchangeable In his being, his wisdom, his power, his holiness, his goodness, his truth. Think about it. Live like it. And celebrate it He is your everlasting Father. The people walking in darkness have seen a great life Light. On those living in the land of deep darkness, a light is dawned. You've enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest. As warriors rejoice when they divide the splendor. For to us a child is born, to us a son Is given, and the government will be upon his shoulders. He will be called a wonderful counselor, the mighty God, and the everlasting Father. He is yours. Let's pray. Loving, everlasting Father Thank you for coming as a child to walk among us. Everlasting Father, walk with us this week, we pray. We would yearn that your justice, your truth, your mercy, your goodness