So with that, uh do you want to turn with me from Mark Chapter Two? Mark two. I'm gonna read the first uh twelve verses of this chapter. When Jesus returned to Capernaum after some days it was reported that he was at home. And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door, and he was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why did this man speak like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise, take up your bed But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. Father, I do pray that your spirit would be with us, that we might um behold beautiful things in your word, and that the beauty of grace and the power of grace uh would um d uh just be needed into the the the corners of our hearts that still haven't wrestled with it, still haven't come to understand it. And that you would use this time Lord to enable us to more effectively Uh participate in your mission here on earth. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Yes. So I'm now being recorded. I better behave. Okay. Uh eternal friends. Did you did you have a a best friend growing up? Uh back in your childhood, can you can you picture that person? Who who's your best friend growing up? Um I had a best friend growing up. We met when we were three. and quickly became best friends. Um in preschool we colored together and I remember punching a kid who threw sand in his eyes Okay. Um in elementary school uh we rode our bikes together and um uh went home from school at the bell. In high school, uh we stood studied together but also learned how to smoke cigarettes. Um in university uh we matured a little and started to dream about life ahead. Uh we've been friends all our lives. Uh we're friends to this day. I hope that we'll be friends till we die. But a great sadness in my life is that that's where our friendship will end. Uh we will not be eternal friends. He doesn't know Christ. He is outside of uh Christ. We are not destined to spend eternity together. Um what can I do about it? Let's look at the story. Let's look at this story. It's about Jesus, a paralyzed man, and I think the greatest small group of all time. Okay? Jesus the paralyzed man in the greatest small group of all time. I I want to work through the story together And then I'll note a couple of points of application at the end. But first, can we just enjoy God's word together? Let's enjoy this In verse 1 we read Jesus uh gets home, he gets back from a work trip trip, if you like, and quickly word spreads and a crowd gathers. Verse 2 tells us that the whole house is packed. Wherever Jesus goes, people swarm like the paparazzi. Every seat is taken. It's standing room only. All the fire codes are broken, my wife would be unhappy. Um and into this crush of humanity and intensity and no doubt sweat, Jesus begins to preach. And Uh not just as a preacher, but as a believer, wouldn't you have loved to have heard that sermon? You know? I love you know whenever the Bible says Jesus was teaching them, and I love Jesus' preaching because people are either amazed or offended. And I hope you'll be one of the two after this, right? Well, outside, if you look at verse three, we read that five men arrive. Four of them are standing in the sun. and no doubt uh glistening with sweat from the strain of their journey and they're rubbing life into tired hands and uh then lying on a mat we see the cause of their fatigue. A fifth man who is A paralyzed. Now, just imagine for a second what life would have looked like for a paralytic in Jesus' day And some two thousand years ago in Capernaum. Imagine what his life would have looked like. His whole life would have been lived on this map, three feet wide, six feet long. Someone would have had to feed him, clothe him, carry him, clean him, uh turn him to keep him from being covered with bed store bed stores. He has No money, no job, no influence, and no hope, no future. But He does have one thing going for him, doesn't he? The greatest small group of all time. The greatest community group of all time. His friends arrive in verse 4. Isn't this funny They arrive and they realize that they're they're a little bit late. Okay. Jesus is already preaching. The cards already got. This is a good lesson. If you're late for church, you should still come. Okay. 'Cause you just never know what's gonna happen, right? Um so they arrive, um they're late, the house is packed, they can't even get it through the door And then one of them, um, uh you g you got a crazy friend, you know, a friend who who suggested you go skydiving that day, right? Well, the crazy friend says, guys, I've got an idea. Let's climb up onto the roof, let's bust a hole in the ceiling, and then let's lower this Joker in like that scene from Mission Impossible. Right? Okay. And I love that guy. I love the guy who came up with that idea. But the guy I love even more is the one who said Yeah, that's a great idea. You know like shoo how come one of them should have said that is a terrible idea? Well, that friend's not there, right? That friend didn't show up that day, and it's just As, well, they climb up into the roof and literally the Greek tells us they begin to unroof the roof. Well, let's imagine the scene, the rest of the scene from inside the house as it begins to unfold. Jesus is preaching Uh in this humid hush, the congregation is listening intently, but then become distracted by a noise from above. At first everyone just tries to ignore it. But then dust begins to sprinkle down, right? And a little harder to ignore. And there's a little more noise and a little more conmotion. One after another they kind of start looking up. And then a shaft of light comes in, right? Uh the dust particles dancing in its wake. This hole gets bigger and bigger. Everyone looks up until four happy p faces appear in the gap. An amazing scene The faces disappear for a moment, everyone exchanges quizzical looks, and then all of a sudden our fifth man appears in view, being lowered down into the middle of the room, right in front Of Jesus. At this point, I don't know, we wonder how Jesus how Jesus will respond. Yeah. One preacher says like you know, we know from personal experience that public speakers don't like to be interrupted. Okay? Um it's no accident that Jesus came to earth before the invention of the cell phone Right. Um the Bible calls it in the fullness of time, right? That's when he came. Um you know we wonder what will Jesus do now that he's been interrupted by this crowd? Will you have an impatient look Will it be a word of rebuke? All eyes are on him. But Jesus doesn't seem the least bit flustered Jesus doesn't even seem a wee bit annoyed. He doesn't focus on the things that we focus on. Jesus never judges a situation. He never judges a soul by its cover. And so it is here. While everyone else sees dust and interruptions, inconvenience and imposition. Well everyone else sees those things. Jesus sees something else. See in verse 5 See what Jesus sees? Jesus saw their faith. Jesus saw their faith Jesus looks down perhaps at the paralyzed man who looks back up at him. You know, this is the only angle the paralyzed man has ever known, looking up at people from below. And then Jesus opens his mouth in verse 5. You see it there? Son, your sins are forgiven. Son your sins are forgiven. All your mistakes, all your shame, all your guilt. You don't need to worry about that anymore. I have made you right with God. After Jesus says these simple words, your sins are forgiven, there's silence in the room. But verses six and seven tell us that there isn't silence in everyone's heart and mind. See what the scribes say? Some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like this? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? Silence in the room, not silence in the heart. The Pharisees, yes, the scribes. The spiritual giants of the day. They're never late to church, and they're never slow to judge. And yet again we encounter them in this text. And yet again we find that you know the Pharisees, they're nearly always precisely right and completely wrong all at the same time. Right? Precisely right. Who can forgive sins but God alone? Amen. That is a good word. We can only be forgiven by the one that we've offended. We need forgiveness and assurance of that forgiveness from God. So Pharisees Preach it at that point. You can forgive s but s sins and all along. Absolutely, you're right. So they continue. Why does Jesus speak like that? Why does Jesus speak like he's God, Pharisees? Because he is. Because he is. Never let anyone tell you that Jesus never claimed to be God. He he did. All the time. Not just in the works he performed, but in the things that he said. Jesus knew that no one could forgive sins but God alone And so when he pronounces forgiveness of sins, he's self-consciously aware of the claim to being divine. And since Jesus is God, I love this detail, precisely because they're wrong because he precisely because he is God, he hears their silent complaints. Isn't that great? Verse 8. Immediately Jesus perceiving in his spirit, they these things weren't spoken out loud, they were just thought, and Jesus perceived in his spirit that they were thinking this way, uh, said to them Why do you question these things in your hearts? Verse 9. Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk? First of all, how unnerving must that have been That's a terrifying moment. You're just thinking something and Jesus called you out in it? You know? I mean wouldn't that be the most it'd be so awkward, right? If I just did that now. Eric! I know what you're thinking, okay? And I'm gonna tell everyone right now. And but your thinking is unholy, right? I mean that like you're e you're glad that even you're glad that even for illustrative purposes I picked on Eric, not you You're like um what what an unmasking moment for these Pharisees. And then they face this question, which it's easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk. He's saying, um, you don't Jesus is saying, you don't think I have authority to forgive sins. You don't think I'm God. You think I'm all talk. Well, I'm going to show you I'm going to show you. Look at verse 10. Jesus says, that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. See the connection that's been made here? Jesus saying, that you might know that I am God, that you might know that I can forgive sins as an illustrative um kind of accompaniment to that larger truth He said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. I wonder what's going through the paralytic's mind. Um it's been a crazy day already. You know? It's been a really crazy day. Uh he's being carried goodness knows how long. He's be I also wonder if his friends took his opinion. Like what was his opinion on the Lord the Risp? I don't know. Um and Uh then he's found himself in the middle of this dispute. I mean, you know, this is really this is s socially awkward situation for this paralyzed man, okay? Uh he's been brought there by his friends, now there's arguments going on and like he's just right. Um and now Jesus asked them to do what he knows is impossible. Jesus asked them to do what he knows is impossible. And it's going to take out an act of it's it's a volitional act. Jesus says, rise, get up, go home. It's not like uh when Jesus gives sight to the blind They have no sight, then they do have sight. Right? That that that that m they're they're sort of passive recipients, if you like, of of the miracle. He has to do what he knows is impossible. The lame don't walk, but somewhere within him, a little bit of faith flickers. As he looks up to Jesus, that face bursts into flame. And he tries He tries to get up, take up his mat, and go home. Atrophied muscles suddenly become strong. These unused joints fill with oil and he stands. And he looks at Jesus and for the first time in his life, eye to eye. Not looking from below, but standing eye to eye. And immediately He obeys his command. Isn't that great? Immediately what does he do? He gets up, he takes up his mat and he goes home. He scoops up his mat. And he walks out in front. He doesn't stick around for brunch. Okay, he is he is gone. He is healed and he is out of there and his world has enlarged from three by six to as far as his feet will carry him He is out of there. And so the passage ends. It's gloriously understated, isn't it? Verse 12. They were all amazed and glorified God, saying Well we've never seen anything like this. Yeah. Right? I mean I can't imagine you have. You know? Um an incredible scene. They are overcome, they're astonished, they're astounded. And see how they glorify God. their wonder gives way to worship. Worship of Jesus, whose works are without precedent. The Bible is awesome. What an amazing story. What an amazing story. Couple of points for this morning that we'll then unpack with more application tomorrow morning. A couple points from this morning though. First of all, don't uh let's not gloss over the fact, point one, that everyone needs forgiveness. Everyone needs forgiveness. Amidst the wonder and the glory and the dust and the spectacle, let's not miss the profound spiritual reality that it's strange. It's peculiar. Jesus is very disarming. And it is strange and it's peculiar. Is it not that in verse 5 the first thing he says is, son, your sins are forgiven. Now, don't let the we know how the story ends, okay, but but let's uh let's act like we're there in real time. Um when when when he says, Son, your your sins are forgiven, what's the paralytic thinking? It's like, that's not exactly why I came. You know? That's this wasn't the plan My friends didn't carry me here, we didn't big bust this hole on the roof and lure me in and have this whole situation so that you may say my sins are forgiven. That's not why I'm here. I have a more immediate problem. And Jesus says, No, you don't. No, you don't. Your greatest problem is in fact your spiritual problem. He's saying you think you know the main problem of your life, but you don't. I know you have problems. I know you're suffering. And I'm going to get to that. Okay? We do know the end of the story. He gets there, but first He says, you need to realize, as one preacher says, the main problem in a person's life is never their suffering, it's their sin. Main problem in a person's life is never their suffering, it's their sin. And Jesus is saying, um I'm not here to put a band-aid on humanity. I'm not here just to paper over the cracks. I'm not here just to heal you so that you can walk yourself to hell. I'm here to meet your your deepest need. Jesus looks down and he sees more than a broken damaged body. He sees a broken damaged soul. Jesus sees past the physical to see the spiritual and he speaks a word to save his soul. Everyone needs forgiveness and and and we just gotta remember, like the paralytic, um our struggles might be real. And one of the things that's challenging about like swooping in to speak for a morning is I d I don't know you. So I don't know what your challenges are, and I don't know what your struggles are, and I don't know the heartache and grief of the last um week, month, decade, more. And I recognise that if your life's like mine, uh for for all of us, there are those things There are those struggles, there are such sufferings. Life is not easy for us. But Jesus would challenge us here to understand that whatever is wrong with our lives, our deepest problem is in fact Our sin. Our deepest problem is our sin. Uh applies to all of us. None of us are better. None of us are worse. We're all before God will are we're all the same. uh made mistakes uh full of regrets in need of forgiveness and jesus says it's okay it's okay um Son, your sins are forgiven. Daughter, your sins are forgiven. That we come to God, as one writer says, God loves you as you are, not as you ought to be. God loves it as you are, he's not as you ought to be. And that's good news, because no one in this church is as they ought to be. From the preacher to the views. Um we're all a mess. And don't you wish we could say um that that was only true in the past? You know, like before we knew Christ or when we were younger, right? Well That's not how it goes. That's just not how how it goes. That our sin and our shame and our guilt is still with us. We are creating it anew every day. And sin is amazingly creative. Uh there's one way to be forgiven. There are a million ways to sin. And Jesus comes and says, it's okay. Can you feel the lightness of grace that you don't need to deny you've made mistakes? You don't need to Pretend you have things together. You don't need to act like a good Christian. You can say, hey, part of my life is still a complete mess. And Jesus responds, Your sins are forgiven. Your sins are forgiven. One of our new members who became a Christian at our church a few months ago. uh wrote this in her testimony and it's beautiful because she comes uh she has she has no faith background so she has like she has no theological knowledge or information. She's um I I love that um she she's the one who asked me uh we're we're I was I mentioned Abraham one day and she was like, Who's Abraham? And I was like, Yes. I love it, right? So she said this in her testimony. I believe Christianity can be summed up in one sentence, spoken to man by God. Let me love you. God already loves us, but we continually resist. We're like angry cats fighting a hug. But he doesn't leave us. To me, grace is letting go and accepting that redeeming. Now, no theological training and brilliant theology. The good news of the gospel uh the th the bad news of the gospel is we all need forgiveness. Now God doesn't weigh in us, He pursues us. He pursues us. He initiates. He moves toward us that we might receive forgiveness. And that's true of us. And if you believe it's true of you, and the reason I want the reason I'm The reason I I I I need to harp on how it's true of me and you need to harp on how it's true of you is that you only remember it's true of everyone to the extent that you remember it's true of yourself. If you fall into a kind of uh spiritual um spiritual malaise where you don't really understand your sin or the beauty of your forgiveness. Uh you know that and it's so easy, isn't it? We live so much of our spiritual lives so sleepy, uh kind of m in a kind of mediocre kind of Christian Christian experience, then you won't look at your co-worker and your heart won't break for the fact that they're outside of Christ Because your heart isn't really rejoicing that you're inside of Christ. You won't drive on these roads and see all these cars and think of all these souls that need the gospel. You know your awareness of how much other people need the gospel is dependent upon how much you know you need the gospel. And the same is true for me. Everyone needs forgiveness. It's true of me. It's true of us all. And because it's true of us all, it's true of the world. It's true of the world. Point two though. Um and the last one for today. Um I'm unusually not late. Okay, good, let's go. Um Everyone needs forgiveness. Point one, point two. Everyone needs a friend. Everyone needs a friend to carry them to Jesus. So who's the hero of this story? Answer Jesus. Right? Jesus is the hero of every story. And that's true Of all stories. That's true of all the New Testament, and it's true of all the Old Testament, too. Okay? Don't get me started on this, but I've, you know, um, all the law and the prophets speak of him Every story whispers his name. Um there better never be a sermon uh that doesn't end with the fact that Jesus is the hero of the story. I have one sermon, one punchline Different setups. Okay? Jesus, Jesus, hero of every story. But after Jesus, second to Jesus, friendship. is the most powerful and I think the most beautiful thing in this text are friends who who carried their friend to Jesus who did the rest. The paralyzed man was paralyzed. He couldn't get to Jesus without help. His healing and his forgiveness were entirely dependent upon him being brought by someone else. He couldn't make it to Jesus alone. And you know if you're a Christian today, it's because someone carried you. It's because someone carried you to Jesus. It might have been a parent, it might have been a family member, it might have been your local church, it might have been a youth group leader, a friend, a college roommate, or someone else. worth remembering those who influenced us. It's worth pausing to celebrate them. Who are those people that that brought you to Christ? But here's the point. Um everyone needs forgiveness, yes, but everyone needs a friend to carry them to Jesus who will do the rest. And As we think about making eternal friends, as we think about how we participate in God's mission here on earth, I just want us to stop and reflect that We all have friends who will never make it to Jesus unless we carry them to him first The call of this text is to be the wild man who suggests you bust a hole in the roof. The call of the text is to be the second friend who says. That's a great idea The call of the text is to do what it takes to carry our friends to Jesus. There are people in our lives who can't make it to Him alone, and Jesus is calling us to carry them to him. As we look around, don't you find yourself being you know sometimes we're the Christians who just you know bury our heads in the sand uh become maybe Super involved in church and church activities and find that that's where all our friendships are built. Now look, big fan of community, very important, but it shouldn't be the only friendships you have Right. We we we should have friends, yes, in the church and we should have friends outside of the church. We don't want to be those believers with their with their heads buried in the sand who don't have meaningful relationships with others who don't know Jesus. Uh we also don't want to be the you know, we don't bury our heads in the sign. We also don't want to be though um you know it's not all that helpful if you have lots of friends who don't know Jesus and you're exactly like them. Right? If they're your drinking buddies, that's also a problem. Right? Um that there's there's um it's another big temptation for Christians, not to bear a heads in the sand, but to be more like the chameleon, you know, so uh when you're in the office you're the same as them, when you're hanging out, you're the same as them. You find it hard to have any kind of witness for Christ. And and what Jesus is calling us to do is be the kind of friend like before who who cared about their friend, who understood his needs, and then who weren't put off by the watching crowd, who did what they had to do to carry their friend to Jesus. So I just wonder um Who are the people in your life that need you to carry them to Christ? Just let me pause for a second. Let the Holy Spirit work work in our hearts. Who who are they? I mean names. Faces. uh stories, uh needs. Is it family members? Isn't it so hard with family members? Uh so often it's the hardest. Um right now we have our my in-laws staying with us. Um they don't know Christ, uh they have no interest in spiritual things, and I find it really hard to share the gospel with them It's also been a quick sidetrack. It's also been very uh it's been a powerful illustration in my life of how evangelism is the work of the Holy Spirit. Right? Because I have honestly I have shared the gospel with people and just done a horrible job of it You mean stumbled over my words, felt awkward, felt self-conscious, felt like I was doing like you know, I felt like I'm gonna be the first guy who has to apologize to Jesus for witnessing for him. Um and then I've seen people come to faith in those moments. Then I have shared the gospel with my in-laws like a freaking boss, right? Like like a pastor on a roll, like a man on a mission, you know, like summing up the gospel and all its beauty and being like, yeah, let's go and they just look at me. You know? Why? 'Cause it's not bad start. Um but so often family members it's hard. Okay. Um maybe it's not a family member for you, maybe it's a a friend. Um maybe it's a person you grew up with. Maybe it's a colleague or a co-worker. Who are who are these people? We want the Spirit to do that work in our hearts where we start to see those around us who don't know Christ, see their need, see their greatest need is forgiveness. and be the people who are self-prepared to carry them to him How do we go about this? That's what we're gonna talk about tomorrow. I have like six ideas. From the text. You know, we'll see how much time we have to. If I end up only preaching three, it's because I spoke way too long. Okay. Right? But a few ideas. Uh to help us um think about How we go go about this work of evangelism, how we go about making eternal friends. Let me pray for us. Father, we recognize that our own spiritual condition is desperate. We want to remember where where you found us. You didn't uh Find us halfway to you. You came to the very bottom and gave us life by your grace. You have addressed our our our deepest needs. You have set us free by your grace. And now, Lord. We want that awareness, that gospel awareness, the bad news and the good news of the gospel to be real to us so that we we realize, Lord, that the need of of those who still don't know you. of our family, of our friends, our colleagues, of those you've placed us in positions of of relationship with. be uh agents of change in their lives. We want to be like these these four friends who do what it takes to carry those who are far off to your son. Who will make them well. Give us faith. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.