Good morning. This morning we as we continue with our study of the book of Deuteronomy, we are looking at chapter 22. Um so if you're able Would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy and inspired word from Deuteronomy chapter 22, verse 1 through 12? You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and ignore them. You shall take them back to your brother. And if he does not live near you and you do not know who he is, you shall bring it home to your house And it shall stay with you until your brother seeks it. Then you shall restore it to him. And you shall do the same with his donkey or with his garment, or with his or with any lost thing of your brothers, which he loses and you find, you may not ignore it. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them. You shall help him to lift them up again. A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord your God. If you come across a bird's nest in any tree or on the ground with young ones or eggs and the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young You shall let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long When you build a house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring the guilt of blood upon your house, if anyone should fall from it You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole yield be forfeited. The crop that you have sown and the yield of the vineyard, you shall not plough with an ox and a donkey together You shall not wear cloth, cloth of wool, and linen mixed together. You shall make yourself tassels on the four corners of the garment with which You cover yourself. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you asking for your Holy Spirit to guide us, to illuminate our hearts and minds that we may hear it, understand it, believe it, and above all be transformed by it. Pray this in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, this morning I do have a confession, and it's a true confession. I may be smiling, but it's a true confession Uh a while ago I got a text from my wife and she told me that my neighbor who lives right across from my house was moving and I celebrate it Now it may be it may sound funny and it is indeed a little funny, but I I've had to pray about this because I was happy because I did not like my neighbor I was happy because my neighbor did not make it easy. Not that my neighbor is supposed to make it easy for me to love them, but they made it extremely difficult for me to love them. Here's the reason. At 2 a. m. my neighbors would be playing loud, and I mean very loud music, outside Not inside. Outside. Now for parents of a young baby who are trying to sleep and it's two o'clock in the morning, I need my sleep. A couple of times I say I tried to say hello, I tried to wave, and they ignored me. And so I did what a broken sinful man, which is I, would do. I gave up. I gave up trying, trying to even speak to them. And so when I received that text message from my wife, I celebrated when I got home and actually saw the moving trucks coming and going, I said, Yay Now let me make something clear. I I I'm not sure I don't think at least I don't think if I ever saw them in need or if they asked us for something, I would have said Do you remember all those nights you play loud music? I'm not quite sure if I would have turned them away, but here's the problem. The problem is I did not care enough to initiate something I did not care enough to even want to know if they had any needs that I could have met for them. In short, I was a bad neighbor. See, the passage that we just read this morning, which is a continuation of all these rules and regulations that God is giving to his people. Here is a regulation or here are regulations and and and rules that seem unrelated. They really do seem like they are unrelated, right? But they are not And there's because there's a unifying message here. And the unifying message is this: that God's people, covenant family of God, must live as good neighbors. They must understand what it means to be a good neighbor. Because God is loving. Because God is generous. And that's that's what He's demonstrated to His people. And so He he's basically telling them with all these rules and these regulations, by the way. If you notice all the rules that we read and have seen that we were given a command or a rule and the punishment for not obeying, there's none here Because really how do you tell when someone is being a bad neighbor or not? How do you punish that And so the unifying factor here is just two things which we're going to look at. God wants his people not to live selfishly, and God wants his people not to live carelessly. That's what it means to be a good neighbor, not to be selfish and not to be careless, because love draws no boundaries Love has no boundaries. So verses one through four, if we can go through it real quickly, we see here that love must rule in all relations. It's not just in terms of loving your neighbor and caring for your neighbor, but also the natural classification and arrangement of things. And so we'll look at the animals and the relationship between the donkey and the ox and all of that But the uh the obligation here is that God's people must be willing to help one another when someone is in need. And this law, this regulation is actually uh an extension of Exodus chapter twenty-three where uh God was commanding his people to show compassion or to help especially your neighbor. And here in Deuteronomy, Moses is actually extending, if you will, that rule and in place of Enemy, and actually I should have said enemy. In Exodus, it's actually talking about helping or showing compassion to your enemy. And here in Deuteronomy, he's replacing that language or enemy to your neighbor. And actually even uses an interesting language here that the whoever is next to you is your brother. If you will, your brother or your sister. It's not just an uh your friend, but this person is your brother, your sister. And so he gives illustrations or examples if you will. It's not just the neighbor, but also their property, their their animal. And so the idea is your you know your neighbor's animal shouldn't suffer just because You think less of them or you don't really like them. So the the the the the rule that we always or the the cliche that we use finders keepers really did not apply here For God's people, right? They do not practice that because to hold on to your neighbor's property that doesn't belong to you was in fact breaking the eighth commandment Was stealing. So stealing was not necessarily applicable only to when you went and stole someone's property and took it by force. It also applied to holding on to stuff that doesn't belong to you So if someone discovered a neighbor's animal that was in trouble, again we read here, they must assist the neighbor regardless of whether this person is an enemy or not. The point is they must take care of one another. but also respect each other's property. There's a reputation here and through verse one all the way to four. There is a phrase, the language that's be that's being repeated Do not ignore it. Do not ignore it. Do not ignore it. You know that that that Hebrew language is very curious for us to consider because it means it simply means do not hide yourself. Do not pretend not to see. Do not look the other way. The fact that w when we see trouble When we see something going wrong, that does constitute an unavoidable obligation to help. When we see something that is going wrong, or someone who is in crisis, it's not time for us to say, Whoa, I'm busy, I'm going this way. It constitutes an obligation for us to help. Especially in the covenant in the i in the in the in the covenant of faith. And we see that in the New Testament, right? We're with Paul and Jesus. The idea is the covenant family is always supposed to be taking care of one another. Now that doesn't negate the fact that we're called to go out and care for others outside of the Covenant family, but especially so in terms of those that are in the uh c in the c covenant uh of of God. And so Moses is encouraging his people not to make claims that they are beast That they have an excuse not to assist, not to help, especially when you're in a position to do so. See, helping your neighbor is gonna cost you something, right? It's gonna cost you time, energy, and effort. You are probably not gonna get something back, are you? Probably nothing. But your neighbor needs it. And God commands that you do it And excuse me, we want we may want to ask ourselves the question, why why is it that we find it easy to withhold help? Towards those who need it. Wha why do we find it easy sometimes to withhold help? I think sometimes we become apathetic or we have an apathetic attitude towards stuff that's going on around us, right? I mean I I I know I get overwhelmed sometimes just hearing about uh addictions and alcoholism as as as Joan was we're sharing with that this this this morning and and just every all all kinds of brokenness going on, poverty levels and just keep on And it's easy for me to say, I don't want to get involved. Okay? It's easy for me to say that's none of my business. I got my family, I got my stuff to do, and all I need to do is just take care of that. That's none of my business. Everybody should just mind their own business and do their own thing and help themselves See the love, God's love demands that we we c we don't hide. We cannot hide away even from the evils of our day. We cannot hide away uh or hide or look the other way uh or pretend not to see that there are problems in our community. There is homelessness and drug abuse and And all these things. You know, it would be tragic. It would be completely tragic if we leave if we lived our lives as as if these things don't affect us, even in the church. Because truth be told Those things are real, even in the church, right? They are real. Christians are struggling with some of these things that we talk about as if they are just on the On the outside, whether we're unaffected by alcoholism or home or homelessness or uh bad living conditions and all those things, those people may be right here And so we are affected. So what do we do? We pray. We pray for wisdom. We pray for an understanding. We pray that God would allow us to be informed as to what's going on, and especially when people are in crisis We extend our helping hand. That's what we do. There's a familiar example that we all know so well, right? In in Luke chapter ten. Jesus is responding to this man of law, and he tells him a parable. It's the parable about the Good Samaritan. And we're told two men walk by after this man was attacked by robbers and a priest goes by and looks the other way. And a Levite walks by and looks the other way. It takes a Samaritan. Who had compassion on him, who did not look away, who did not pretend not to see what was going on. He provides assistance. And Jesus answers the question and says, go and do likewise. Show mercy to those who are in need. You see, loving others means simply caring for them, caring for what they have. And we at times when we wonder why bother, why bother to do something about it There's the golden rule idea here, right? Today might be me who is going through a difficult time Tomorrow or today, I may be the one who's going through a hard time and wanting my neighbor to look my way and see me. And that's important for us to always remember. It takes personal effort. It takes initiative. And I'm glad the perfect example for us is God Himself took initiative to show us mercy and kindness, right? God is the one who initiated salvation. We do not have to go looking for it. We do not have to ask for it. God had a redemptive plan for us. As I mentioned, it means providing for those who are in Christ, it's not hiding, nor looking the other way, because God does not want us to live selfishly or to ignore them. See, I I believe that God is here asking his people not to live selfishly because he wants his people to enjoy all the benefits of what it means to be God's people God wants his people to enjoy all the benefits that is given to them, the land that they're about to possess All the fruit from their land, all the all the joys of being God's covenant people, possessing this land that they've yearned and longed for for this long. And so he wants them to practice being good neighbors because that's the only way they're going to enjoy those blessings. And so that means if we're not going to live selfishly, it means that we have to make sure that we pursue not just our interests but other people's interests. Paul talks about it in Philippians too. Giving the example of Christ himself who laid down his life. And that's what we're called to be as Christians, right? Not to pursue our own interests but that of others. Can you imagine a church? Can you imagine a community? Can you imagine a nation, a world where everybody sought their own interests? I'm sure I would not want to live in such a world. That's a chaotic world Secondly, don't be careless. So we go to the second part of these regulations in verse 5. All the way to twelve and I'm gonna put all this together. And again, they seem to be unrelated. Verse 5. Uh the first is about trust dressing, or so we it appears And and the rule here, which is a man shall a woman should not wear a w a man's garments or or or man do the same uh doesn't really apply only to clothing. We we may think of it as it's this is just about clothing. Actually Leviticus does talk about it as well. But it applies to other things, including ornaments and weapons and all this stuff. But we must also note that this is not about fashion or style Now I've heard that the people who advocate talk about you know women should never wear jeans or something like that. This has nothing to do with it. This is not about fashion, it's not about style. Two probable reasons. Again God, we're not told why God gave these regulations. You will not find it. It's not here. It doesn't say why. It just states the regulation and let's move on. You go figure it out. It just says don't do it No reason given. No per no no reason given. So two probable reasons. One, um as much as this may sound so strange to us, uh it there had to be some serious moral issue at stake here. Again, remember the seven Canaanite nations, right? All these nations and why God was punishing them, using his own people Israel. Why? Because of their wickedness And so you read through history and you realize that there was some transvestite uh practices that were being done, you know, uh the whole exchange of clothing and stuff like that. And so God's people are about to possess this land and live in this land that was Corrupted, if you will, by all these nations and their horrible uh sexual immorality, and God is saying, I want it to be different I just don't want you to do that because that will mean that you are taking upon all these other sexual and immoral things that are rife in Canaan. And so he wants them to remain pure, to maintain not just the purity of heart and purity as it regards to uh sexual immorality, but also sanctity of distinction between the sexes, because that was that's what God made. Men and women. Okay? Again, second reason. It is also likely that the exchange of clothing closer to that first reason was also part of some pagan cultic rites In fact, there's an example that's given in ancient Near East where uh if a couple desired to have a child, they were asked to exchange their clothing for the man to wear his wife's clothing and vice versa And and then this would create this magical thing that they would actually conceive. Again, God may be telling his people, again, we're just thinking here and not really sure why but God may be saying to his people which is true and this is the biblical concept trust in me if you want to have a child Don't depend on some pagan magical thing that is going to happen when you cross-dress that that's going to help you conceive. Trust in the Lord and pray. That's the first rule. The second one is against killing the motherbird. Verse 6 and 7. The way this rule is set up, it looks like it was Uh during times of extreme hunger and famine where people are just looking for something to eat. And so if you're driven by hunger and you find this bird with Eggs and and young ones, he says you can take the young ones and the eggs. You can eat them, no problem. But don't take the mother bird. Don't kill it. Why? Again, if you kill it, you're killing the source or the supply of the of your food Don't cut off the food supply. God wants his people to preserve life, to care for what God has made, because all things do belong to him, right? And the fact that we're all we're stewards of what God has given to us A really big application for us to hear from this fact Because we're stewards, we're not called to plunder and abuse everything that we have because we're driven by greed And that is so true of the modern world, isn't it? That sometimes we're just driven by greed, not because we desire to to do things or to make things or to provide, but it's actually greed that drives us One person put it this way, long-term prudence should set limits on short-term greed. Thirdly, another rule, bless you Bless you. Conservation of human life, verse 8. Um you see in the East, actually even to this day, when they build homes, the roof is always a flat roof. Right? So there's a flat roof that was and and they could use that upper room, if you will, as an additional room, as a bedroom, entertainment and stuff like that. So you can imagine if it's flat It's an accident waiting to happen, right? When people are up there, especially if you're entertaining. Ha. And so he says, when when you build this Your roof, make sure that there's a parapet, make sure that there is this low-lying protective wall, okay? On the edge of the roof So that children or your visitors or people that are coming into your home don't fall and then you're held accountable for indirect homicide. Did you know the building plans and permissions began with God? It's right here. I didn't write it. God giving regulations. I love it that the God of Israel is concerned about the conditions in which people live as well as human life. I love it. Sometimes we just we spiritualize everything. You know, we just think that God only cares about you know just things that are happening in terms of spiritual stuff. God doesn't care about how people live and Making sure that we do things right so that we protect people from harm and danger. He does. He says it See, at the heart of this is the Christian can concern for the well-being of others, especially as it pertains to everyday living. How are people treated? At places of work? Do we care about the poor? People that are living in horrible, difficult conditions? Do we raise our voices and cry out to God and pray for them and seek to assist in any way that we can God cares and we should too. Again, we can't hide ourselves. We can't hide from issues of homelessness and horrible living conditions What about us as a church? What do we do to make sure that we protect our children and everybody that comes here? Again, God cares about that Verse 9 through 12. I'm gonna put all those together if you allow me. Says don't mix stuff that don't belong together. That's really the idea. Don't mix stuff that don't belong together. I mean d don't don't even try to to sow different kinds of seed in between the rows of grapes Or in the vineyards. Don't do that. Don't put dissimilar animals together for ploughing and oxen, don't don't do it. Even more. Don't wear garments made of different material. Linen and wool, mix it. Let me see how many I'm mixing. Different governments here. Don't do it. I love it. Or if that's negative, the positive is, but you can saw tassels on the corners of your cloak. These twisted threads on puzzling, isn't it? God, what are you talking about here? What are we what are you telling us to do here? See Two things we must first recall that every item was that was given to his people was of particular importance So the cloak, the whatever you're wearing at the time that it was given. But we must also do something else. Secondly, we must do well to look beneath the precise detail of this regulation to the underlying principle dictating this regulation. What do I mean? I'm gonna give us three of them. Probable reasons why God may be giving these rules. One, God is simply telling his people, I want you to be different I want you to be different. Certainly I'm sure there were some religious or cultic issues going on here with the mixing. Actually, the if you see drawings of Egypt like ancient drawings of Egypt and and their gardens, you see in their vineyards with grapes there's like vegetables in there. So that's that's how they did their farming. God is just simply saying Don't do it that way. Don't mix that stuff in it. He wants his people to be different. Um, and this may be a very visible and practical way that God is urging his people not to mix their faith with some pagan neighboring people. I I mean as I think about that, I I just think about what we're called to be as Christians, right? What are we called to be? We are called to be different from the world that we live in. Paul says in in Romans 12, right? You are not supposed to be conformed to the to this world. But being transformed by the renewing of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. We're called to be different. Secondly, these rules remind the people to be obedient. So be different, but also be an obedient group of people. See I don't know, because we're not told. I don't know if they understood what this regulation meant. We clearly have no idea, because we're not told But that that's not that's not the purpose of it. Your goal is not for you to understand everything that God does. You're called to trust it So instead of arguing with him, instead of asking why, grumbling and all these things, first of all, remember God is not me. So God would not forbid anything for them not to do unless he was harmful to them. So when God tells us not to do stuff, sometimes what do we do? When we read scripture and we're told do this. We go like, oh wait, but why but why should I do that? Or sometimes we even think that God is somehow not on our side. Listen, friends, God is always on our side. He's always at steps, not a step, steps ahead. And so when he says, don't do it, Before we even start like grumbling and complaining, we should go right and do it because we know that God loves us and He cares for us and He means well. And so if He says don't do it, He knows it's bad for you. No one good thing does he withhold from those whose walk is blameless, right? He does not withhold anything. I connect that with the wearing of tassels on their cloak because do you know the cloak was the most that garment was the most important thing for God's people. You know that It was a garment by day and a blanket by night. They always had. It was the one piece of clothing that you did not put away. 24-7, you headed. And so you're reminded, you God is reminding you your constant faithfulness towards Him. And He tells us in Numbers chapter 15. When God commands Moses, he tells him, the Lord said to Moses, speak to the people of Israel and tell them to make tassels on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and put a quart of blue on the tassel of each corner. And here it is, it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of the Lord. To do them Not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, which you are inclined to whore after, you shall remember and do all my commandments and be holy before the Lord That's why. And then finally, so God is telling me to be different, be obedient, but be compassionate Be compassionate. Giving the example of the ox and the donkey. I mean if you put the ox and the donkey together, what happens? The donkey is gonna suffer. It's not I mean you yoke them together. The donkey is gonna die. First of all, that's not what a donkey is meant for They're transportation animals. The ox is meant for plowing. And so God is basically saying, be compassionate. Care for the weak Those who cannot help themselves, those who cannot do the things that you think that they ought to be doing, don't put them together. And there's also another idea going back to being different as well, because remember, the ox was clean for the people to eat, right? What about the donkey? Remember we talked about this? It wasn't, it was unclean. So again, don't mix what is clean and unclean together. Isn't it refreshing, friends? To know that the Bible, this God's word talks about the very mundane things of life, everyday living, regulations, building plans, what It is God's word. I don't know how this applies in your context. I'm sure it does. What does it mean for us to live Not just considering our own interests, but the interest of others. How does it mean for us not to live carelessly? It's very possible for us to talk about this and hear this message, hear this. That If I am not gifted with my hands or doing stuff or going to help my neighbor get his cow out of the ditch, but that's never gonna happen unless you live next to lavender. We may think, well, I guess this doesn't apply to me because you know I I have a bad back or I have a bad something and I really can't do to go assist my name. You know There are several ways that we can miss the point here. While all those things are good, I want to encourage all of us this morning That sometimes living selfishly means living selfishly with our time. You know, uh our neighbor may not need They're lawn mode. Our neighbor may not need practical, tangible things for them to be done. Our neighbor may just need a listening ear. They just want a friend to listen to them See, living carelessly is not just putting stuff that protects children and they come to my house and visit me to make sure that so and so doesn't fall and hurt themselves. Living carelessly sometimes as a neighbor is not watching what we say. Our homes may be safe, but our words may not be safe for a neighbor. In terms of what we say, and if we're encouraging them. So let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Not to be like me as a bad neighbor, and I mean that. But to be good neighbors, to love one another To not look the other way, to not pretend not to see, but to see others when they are in need. You know what I missed most in my incidents with this neighbor? I may have missed to help them with something that they may have needed, but I may have missed an opportunity to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ with them. If I had only looked their way and not the other way. May God have mercy on us. And allow us to be good neighbors. Lord Jesus, we do thank you for this day, for your word that you give us today. Encourage us, build us up, and Because you've been merciful and gracious and loving towards us, Lord, continue to nudge us on as we live for you, that we may continually in our lives be able to extend the same uh attitude towards others. Pray all this in your name. Amen.