27 of 1 Samuel. There was a chapter that was missing that was that we did not look at, which was chapter 26. Chapters 24, 25, and 6 are actually Group together. They have the same theme. So as we'll be speaking this morning, you will hear certain similarities to the sermon that you heard on chapter 24. So we're reading from verses 1 of chapter 26, and I will just read to verses 20. If you are able, would you please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word? Then the Ziphites came to Said Gibeah, saying, Is now David hiding himself on the hill of Achailah, which is on the east of Joshiiman? So Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Zith with three thousand chosen men of Israel to seek David in the wilderness of Zith, and Saul encamped on the hill of Hekilah, which is beside the road on the east of Jeshyim. But David remained in the wilderness. When he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness, David sent out spies and learned that Saul had indeed come. And David rose and went to the place where Saul had encamped. And David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Nar, the commander of his army. Saul was lying within the encampment while the army encamped around him. And David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Joab's brother, Abishai, the son of Zeroiah, Who will go down with me into the camp of Saul? And Abit Abishai said, I will go down with you. So David and Abishai went to the army by night, and there lay Saul, sleeping with within the encumbent, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head, and Abner and the army lay around him Then Abishai said to David, God has given your enemy into your hand this day. Now please let me pin him to the earth with one stroke of the spear, and I will not strike him twice. But David said to Abishai, Do not destroy him, for who can put out his hand against the Lord's anointed and be guiltless And David said, As the Lord lives, the Lord will strike him, or his day will come to die, or he will go down in battle and perish The Lord forbid that I should put out my hand against the Lord's anointed, but take now the spear that is at his head and the jar of water, and let us go. So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul's head, and they went away. No man saw it or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep because a deal Deep sleep from the Lord had fallen upon them. Then David went over to the other side and stood far off on the top of the hill with a great space between them. And he and David called to the army, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Will you not answer, Abner? And Abner answered, Who are you who calls to the king? And David said to Abner, Are you not a man who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept watch over your Lord the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king, your lord. This thing that you have done is not good. The Lord as as the Lord lives, you deserve to die, because you have not kept watch over your Lord, the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's sphere is and the jar of water that was at his head Saul recognized David's voice and said, Is this your voice, my son, David? And David said, It is my voice, my Lord, O King. And he said, Why does my lord pursue after his servant? For what have I done? What evil is on my hands? Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant If it is the Lord who has stirred you up against me, may he accept an offering. But if it is men, may they be cursed before the Lord. For they have driven me out this day that I should go I should have no share in the in in the heritage of the Lord saying, go serve other gods. Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth, away from the presence of the Lord, for the king of Israel has come out to seek a single flea, like a like one who hunts a partridge. In the mountains. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we ask for your blessings if you would lead us to hear your word and to delete it. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know if you've watched the movie or not. If you haven't, I wouldn't really recommend that you watch the movie. But the movie is called Death Sentence. A film that was done in 2007. It's a violent and disturbing film about Nick Hume, played by Kevin Bacon. Initially he was a mild-mannered executive with a perfect family and perfect life and perfect job until one day, one night when he was was coming from a hockey game with his son. His car breaks down in a very dangerous area and he witnesses the brutal uh uh death of his son at the hands of a sociopathic gang. The event changes Nicyum forever. He is embittered with grief He eventually comes to a disturbing conclusion that he must go to any length at any cost to avenge his son's death. And so after the desire for vengeance has infected and consumed his life, he gradually becomes like the evil characters that first victimize his dear son. The film really shows the the evil of such proclaimed self-vigilante justice and what it could do to the lives of people You know, in our lives we're tempted in the same way. Maybe not in certain hard, difficult, violent, disturbing kind of an idea, but when we take revenge That we so often forget that we are becoming the very enemy that we hate so much. When we return evil for evil, that we are turning ourselves into the very beings that we hate so dearly. But even more that we are in fact taking God out of the equation. And what equation is this? We're basically telling God that He is incapable, He is not capable of delivering us. Of doing that which he promises to do upon us. We must wonder when we're reading through the pages of 1 Samuel Of David a man that is being pursued by this enemy that seeks to kill him, to destroy him for no reason. We must wonder, was David ever tempted? I'm sure he was, and we read that he was Tempted to take matters into his own hands and take revenge and become like Saul. The same thing that goes into our own hearts and minds when our faith when our faith is so severely tested When when when we feel that God has promised justice and yet it's not here. When we feel that God has promised us so much and and good things, good health and finances and peace and a good politician to come and save our nation And yet we feel like all these promises seem to be delayed. And our crime maybe today, maybe every single day of our life is this. Why, oh Lord, how long? How long, O Lord? These verses are teaching us this morning that though that might be what we feel and think, Yet we must wait upon God, because it is only his promises that are true, and only he can deliver on his promises And so we see that the first thing that we have to do as we wait upon the Lord is is one simple thing which is very difficult for us to do. From verses one to twelve we learn that we must resist the temptations, take matters into our own hands, and do that which is right. Right. There, as I mentioned, similarities between chapters twenty-six and twenty-four. They're striking similarities. In fact, it it sounds like Dijahu, what David is going through It has led some scholars to actually argue that chapters 24 and 26 are telling the very same story, only in a different way. As Mark in the Gospel, Matthew tells the same story, but in very different language. Oh, it's not so, because as we shall see There are clear differences. And David might be experiencing the same thing that's happening to him, but the way he reacts in chapter 26 is actually very different from the way he acted in chapter 24. But we are again in a yet so familiar story as the Ziphites, this group of people, they're still spying on David And telling on Saul, telling Saul and reporting where David is hiding. Remember in chapter twenty-three, verses nineteen, the Ziphites were doing the same exact thing. Going to the king, hoping to gain favor from the king and telling Saul, hey, this is where David is hiding. Come and get him. But here the story changes In 24, Saul was the aggressor. Here, the hunter has actually become the hunter. Because we're told it's actually David who is hatching a plan to go towards Saul's camp. Here, Saul had approached uh David to try and kill him, but it is David the recruits Abisha, his nephew actually. She he is he's a son to to David's sister On this dangerous mission, David is the aggressor, and why is he being the aggressor here? David wants to approach Saul maybe once for all and ask this man, why are you pursuing Why do you seek to kill me? What have I done to you that you want to destroy my life? Verses 5. And then Saul and his men were told they're sleeping on the camp. And there's one thing that stands out as we're told this story, right? Verses 8b. There's a sphere that is just pinned on the ground right by the head of of Which to me I think heightens the whole story, doesn't it? Because we must wonder as as as David is approaching Saul, you must ask yourself, man, David, you got a chance with his own sphere, just like you had taken Goliath. Sword, you have his fear right here. You can just spin him down and you are done. Abishai the nephew though will not make the same mistake as the man had done before when they asked David to kill Saul He remembers that story so well, so he says, You don't have to do it, brother, nephew, uncle. You don't have to do it. I'll pin him down once, not even twice. Just one time and the job is done. Think about the sphere and think about the jar of water In fact, Saul's spear has been such a dominant symbol in this story. Remember it? Saul sitting under a tamarisk tree, what is he holding in his hand? Saul walking, when David is playing beautiful music, trying to get the evil spirit from Saul's mind, what is Saul be? A spear. This spear is so symbolic in this passage because it actually represents the king's royal status. Without that spear, Saul is nothing It's an instrument of aggression, of wickedness towards David. That's the symbolic meaning here. And then the jar of water that David takes is this is the source of sustenance Can you imagine in the wilderness with nothing else? What are the two things that you need the most? A sphere to protect you and a jar of water to keep you alive. Without violence, without touching him, without doing anything, David disarms the king. And it's actually a proof that David is showing to the king that I was by your side over you and I could have taken your life just like that. But faith. Faith, which is what David has. Faith maintains patience. Abisha was in his mind thinking, oh man, this is such a great commando raid. We're going to raid on this man. We're going to take him out and destroy him. We will live in peace. But David whispers in his ear and he tells him, We will not touch the Lord anointed this day. Because God Himself will take care of him. When David responded in chapter 24 that he will not touch Saul, he basically just said, We will not touch the Lord's anointed. Here he adds information. He says, You know what? Because we will not touch Saul, because I know God will take Elihazin. He could die in war, he could die of natural causes, or God Himself could strike him down right this moment Verses nine through eleven. David has grown deeper in his understanding, a deeper restraint Of how he ought to react, to respond. David has learned a vital lesson, especially from chapter 25, as it was dealing with the foolish man, uh Nabel. And as one Ralph Davis notes, he says, Yahweh can be trusted to handle both fools and aggressors if such matters are left in his hand. That is what David has learned here. God will take care of Saul's destiny. It's not upon me to decide It is a faith that informs. A faith that informs. I mean, David is he is looking at God and he he knows that God is not limited in any way with his possibilities that are by his side, with the methods that he can use to take care of the situation. He presents three of them there. But David knows that the one thing that we must do is trust him and leave such matters in his hands. Why? Because God is the one who is adequate and sufficient To take care of such matters. But while David could imagine all these possibilities and the things that God could do, David doesn't know. He has no clue which one God is going to use. Does he? No. He says he could do this, he could do that, he could do the other. He doesn't know when, he doesn't know how, he doesn't know what. But there's one thing he knows is required of him. What is that? Verses 11 He says, but God forbid that I should touch the Lord's anointed. David knows that the only requirement that he has to do for this one particular time is obedience. That's what God required for me to obey to trust and obey as we sing so fondly. He was not to strike Saul and achieve the kingdom by force. It was only to obey. David sees God at work. He knows that God is truly at work in my situation. He's doing all kinds of things to make sure that I survived, to make sure that my promise to become the king will be achieved. But David is unaware of the specifics of how God is going to make that happen. David isn't aware of the intervention of God, the tiny little details of how God is going to bring that to fruition. Especially, especially because we probably did not think about it, but we saw right there that God had put the soldiers and both Saul into deep sleep That is how God is intervening in this situation, making Saul helpless in his men as we all go through life, don't we? You sit here this morning and you know for sure that God loves you, don't you? You sit here this morning and you know that God is truly involved in every detail, the very essence of the Of your life, every aspect of your life, God knows it all and He's involved in your very life. But how many times do you actually become aware of God's abiding hand in your life? Rarely. Hebrews 11:1 says, Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see. What we do not see The nature of faith is this, that faith in our lives is not always seeking for evidence, for evidence to see God's moving hand in our lives continually. But faith, the nature of faith is this: it is actually continuing to trust God, even when we do not see the very specifics of how God is working in our lives. Our problem though is what has been commonly called as utilitarian individualism. What does utilitarian individualism say? It says I'm always seeking For personal success, a vivid personal experience or personal feeling. So that even when we show up at church on Sunday morning, we are always looking for personal fulfillment. What am I going to get out of this? We're not looking to our faith to trust God to trust what He's doing in our lives. See, we might not know that God We might not know how God will resolve our pro our problems and the things that we go through, but we do know that we call to obedience, as I mentioned, not to sin. Just because you're going through a difficult time, just because you're going through a hard time, does not give us license. To take matters into our own hands, to sin, to break God's law. You know, the truth is this, church, the truth is this: that God's ways will always baffle us. Frequently, most of the time they will always baffle us. We're just scratching our heads or taking the hairs out of our heads, just trying to figure out what God, what are you up to in my life? But you know what else is also true, equally true? It is this that God's will, God's will is always sufficiently clear for us. Isn't that good news? That you are baffled? How God is going to work this situation in my life and yet He says, but my will has been given to you. It is very clear for you to follow me, to obey me in the meantime. That's all I require from you. Trust me. Faith will wait. A question. Has Saul not learned the big lesson that God was never going to give David into his hand? He keeps on suing this man over and over and over and over. When are you gonna get the truth? When are you gonna get the reality that God is never gonna give this man to your hands? Until we think about our own lives, until we think about what sin does to our lives, and then we realize, oh boy, Saul is just like us. Because that's what sin does to us, isn't it? Sin is irrational. Sin makes us do irrational things. Even when we know we're gonna get caught, even when we don't we know so well that what we're doing is wrong, we find ourselves doing the very same thing that we so hate to do. Don't take revenge. Oh yeah, I'm gonna do it. Respond in kindness. No, I don't want to be kind. I know it's wrong, but I'm still gonna do it because our depraved nature is always, always ready to sin. It it goes against your impulse. My impulse is to strike my enemy. My impulse is to return hate with hatred. My impulse is to do that evil that people seek to do to me, which is sin. I rarely, really remember what God tells me to do in His Word. I really, really want to constantly have the Word of God in my heart and mind that would be able to restrain me and help me to understand that this is. This is not how I am supposed to respond. Kindness and love and justice and goodness and joy and peace. That is what I'm called to. What else do we learn here? God we should not force God's providence. That's why that's why David is not going to kill David. Uh it's Saul, sorry. He's going to spare Saul's life because he's not trying to force God's providence upon his life David has grown in his grace, in his understanding of God's control, God's sovereignty. He understands that God is good, that God is just That God is wise. And that will help David to respond. To wait. To choose, to wait upon the Lord. God, you will take care of this thing. What a great thing for us to understand that when we know that God is sovereign, that He's good, that He's just, that He's wise, and because we know of His greatness and His power and His capabilities to rescue us, that we're able to say, Lord, I will wait. I will not take matters into my own hands. David restrained against killing Saul on this second time. I should mention. Was not because David was a pacifist. All you gotta do is ask Goliath, okay? Ask the Amalekites and the Philistines. They will tell you. There was no pacifist. He knew how to kill. But the reason why David waits is this. It is because he understands that trusting in God and his promises Trusting in God and his promises would only come in God's own time, in God's own way. It was not for him to do. Do we believe that? Second thing and last thing. So we must resist the Secondly, we must look to God who vindicates us and not take reason. Verses 13 to the end. We only read through twenty twenty verses twenty, but actually if you continue reading through twenty-five, you see Saul responding and actually blessing David and telling him you are going to become King, you'll be successful. You do all these things, and he makes promises that I will not pursue you anymore, and all of that. Just a few verses that we do not read. So David says, I will not take revenge. But I'm gonna do something though. Other than taking the spear in the jar, Abner, I'm gonna humiliate you And you're gonna feel it. And the rest of the soldiers. So he calls him out. Of course, David is smart. He goes into a higher ground, you know, where he knows I'm safe. Nobody's gonna catch me. So and then he calls him out, Abner What did you do? You did not protect the king. You are failed. You deserve to be court-martialed. Sure Ben and his dad know something about that. About the vows that soldiers take when you're in the you protect you you fail to protect Your king, the Lord anointed? You deserve to die. You deserve to be executed. And David is not joking. It's not a it's not funny. I mean we might laugh about it, but it's not funny because he's standing there and saying, look what I got I'm holding a spear and a jar of water. Someone came into the camp and tried to kill the king. But David continues. He when Saul hears his voice talking, he says, Is that you, my son? And David continues to plead his his case. He says, Saul, why? Why are you pursuing? And he says, if it is God that is making you pursue me, remember, God has sent an evil spirit to Saul to torment him. So David is thinking Maybe God has done the same thing. It could be. But if it's God, please make a sacrifice to Him and may He forgive you. If it is men, let them be cursed because they are doing something to me. They're destroying my life David is here lamenting that they are that Saul is chasing him from Israel, from his own people, from a place that he could worship God and make sacrifices from the sacred ordinances of God. He's now living in the wilderness. With pagan people where he he doesn't have the corporate worship, if you will, of God's people. Why are you doing this to me? But I think there's something so powerful though that that David points Saul to making a sacrifice to God to atone for his sins I cannot stop thinking that David is actually seeing or it's a foreshadow, looking forward to the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ Himself. John 1 29, right? Look to the Lamb, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of man, the sin of the world That David is actually appealing to Saul and saying, Look, there's a common ground, a common mutual place that I can take you to And it is this a mutual confession of sin and a mutual forgiving for forgiveness of of of forgiveness of sins or a mutual forgiving grace of Christ that is presented to you, of course, in the Old Testament, but we're reading it from The New Testament perspective. Because you know what? That is where we take those who have offended us. Where else do you take those who have done injustice to you? Those who have sinned against you. There is only one place. As Christians, it's not the course. It's not that you were right and they were wrong. It is not a smack in the head. It is not a kick. It is not an insult. We point those who have offended us to the forgiving grace of Jesus Christ. We tell them what their sin is, but we don't leave there. You do not leave them there. You point them to the one who is able to reconcile them, who is able to forgive them, and who is able to restore them. That's how we respond. If you want to take revenge, point someone to the cross. And then Saul admits that he's sinful. I mean David has taken him to the place that he couldn't argue The common ground. And then he admits his sin. He says, I have sinned against you. Verses 21 through 24. But we haven't read on the booty. You can read them on your own. But this response is actually filled with invitation. He says, I want you to come back because I'm not going to pursue you anymore. It's filled with a confession. I'm sorry. I have sinned against you. It's filled with with a promise. David, you will be successful, whatever you do. It's filled with a rationale. It is the hope that saves holds. That's the hope that saves holds. And it is this that as David leaves David will remain with God, and he knows that for sure. Because God is the only one who is going to vindicate him. It's not Saul It doesn't matter what Saul says. It doesn't matter what his confessions are. Whether it's sincere or not, it doesn't matter. David says, I am going to remain with God Unfortunately, sadly, we act not like David, but like We can so readily grieve and confess our sin. With no problem. Call me a lie, I'll tell you I'm the biggest of all. Call me an envious man, I'll tell you every single day of my life But I stop there. Because I do not want to go deeper into the true condition of my heart. I don't want to go deeper into true repentance of dealing with the reality of what my sin has become. The reality and the depth of my own prophet. confess. We find it easy to just confess to say, oh yeah I'm a sinner. What you didn't buddy about it Do you ever ask yourself the verses that we just, you know, we David tells Saul to send a young man to come and take the spear Okay. Why did Saul agree to take the spear? A spear that was the emblem of his aggression towards David. You know why he took the spear back? Because there was no retentance. He would have just simply told David, I don't need that spear. Keep it. Because that is the weapon that I'm seeking to destroy you with. I don't need it. Destroy. Bury it. We don't want to bear your sins. On a carry. Yeah, I'm a sinner. But I'll carry. I don't want to give it to the one who's able to take it away. I'm carrying my own spear in my heart. And it keeps from stabbing me. Time and time in time The only one to be trusted is the Lord, verse twenty-three. David is only going to place his trust in him and say, May God deliver me from all my tribulations. May God deliver me from all my distress. Saul's vows and confessions are irrelevant. It's the last time that David is going to see Saul. Do you know that? They will not meet again until Saul dies in chapter 31. David goes with the Lord. But David goes doing this. He goes hoping and praying and trusting in the one who is able. To save us. The same way. When we're going through trials, our call as God's people is to go hoping and trusting. But there's something I want to note here In verses 23, David says something that is so powerful that we gotta think about as we end. David actually tells us that he he has acted righteously by not killing Saul that he has acted faithfully by trusting the Lord. And then he says, But I'm relying on God's reward for my righteousness and my faithfulness. I'm holding on to God's righteousness and his faithfulness. But you know something? A time would come when David and his people would fail in their faithfulness and their righteousness. A time would come that David would need to place his hope on someone and something much bigger than his own failed attempt at being righteous And at being faithful. A time would come when David would only have to place his hope in his greatest son, Jesus Christ, which is what we must do. He is called the righteous one, the faithful one. He's the one who perfectly fulfilled God's demands for righteousness and faithfulness enough. So that we may look to him to be vindicated, not in anything that we could do, but in him who is able to do much more than we could do. And that safe faith Faith will wait, but faith will only wait if our hope is in this David's greatest son, Jesus Christ himself. Because you know what he says as he vindicates us, he says one thing that we need to be reminded of this morning. If you're struggling in your waiting and wondering, well, when is When are things going to be made right? He says that he reminds us that he has not forgotten us. That he has not forgotten his word towards us. That he has not forgotten the promises that he has made for us and that it is enough. It is completely, sufficiently enough for us To know this one who knows when we need encouragement in our lives amidst trial, and he reminds us every single day to keep on trusting in him. Because he is the one who vindicates it. Are you trusting him this morning? You need to wait upon him And have the peace that he gives when we trust in Him. I hope that's what we'll do. Father, we thank you this morning for your word that reminded us yet again how much we need to wait upon you and take matters into our own hands Father, with this message, your word continue to sink deep into our hearts and change us, mold us, make us to be those who look only to you. We pray this in the name of the Father. Vibdistan with the Holy Spirit. Amen.