We continue our study in the book of Deuteronomy, and this morning we are in chapter 24 We're going to look at the first five verses of Deuteronomy 24. If you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word. Read the first five verses. When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her. And he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, and she departs out of his house And if she goes and becomes another man's wife, and the latter man hates her, and writes her a certificate of divorce, and puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband who sent her away may not take her again to be his wife, after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord And you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you an inheritance. When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army, or be liable for any public duty He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife for whom he has taken. The word of the Lord this morning. Lord Jesus, we do again come to you. And echoing the words of my brother as he He prayed for all the needs, and now we pray for your uh guidance, for the Holy Spirit to guide us as we as we hear your holy word. Uh Father, only a frail and weak man presents uh this word to his people Yet your word is perfect and holy and true. And so I pray that you would apply it in our hearts, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated When things in life go terribly wrong, when things in life, and they do at times, go terribly wrong, there's a sense that we have in our hearts. That we feel alone, we feel vulnerable, we feel weak And broken. And sometimes there seems to be no place for us to turn to for help. Sometimes there seems to be no place to turn to for protection, for stability, for security. It's an understatement to say that sin makes a mess of things, isn't it? It's a truly an understatement to say that sin makes a mess of things. Sin complicates life. And when our selfish desires and our pride and our self-centeredness Takes center stage in our life. We can easily ruin our own lives, but also the lives of others. And this is so true when it comes to issues of marriage and relationships and divorce, isn't it? And looking at today's passage, a difficult passage we must add, of a woman that seems to be tossed and turned and thrown into one man after another, it's it's discouraging to say the least It's hard to even acknowledge that such things do happen, but they do happen. But I do think that there is so much encouragement that we can take from these verses, and the encouragement is this That even when sin brings so much mess in our life, that even when sin complicates life, we have a God who does not leave us on our mess. We have a God who actually does provide a way for us to maintain and to handle those difficult situations because they happen. A God who doesn't leave us to sort out all of our messes on our own, but He walks us, He walks with us, He holds us, He carries us, He lifts us, He He embraces us. A God who is concerned for a woman who is involved in a broken marriage, but also a God who is concerned who who provides for security and stability for a couple that just got married. So I want us to look at verses one through four together and then verse five on its own. Uh there's only one legislation in verses one through four, by the way. And so I want us to see how God protects those that are vulnerable. Again, the situation that is assumed in verses 1 through 4 is this: that this man has power, has complete authority to decide when and how to divorce his wife. The reasons given we do not know. They're really hard for us to determine. But the point of this text is not to talk about grounds for divorce or reasons given for divorce. The point of this text is to basically be realistic Sin happens. Divorce happens. So if the if the man divorces his wife for whatever reasons that may be, it leaves the woman vulnerable and weak and lonely and insecure. And so she needs some kind of protection. And one way to do that is what God is providing for here. Give her a certificate of divorce to protect her. And we shall see how that looks like The language that is being used here is quite interesting. It says this man takes a wife and then she finds no favor in his eyes. Verse 1. Because he has found some indecency in her That language of indicity can mean a ton of things. One thing could be nakedness. Now you may say, nakedness? You're gonna divorce a woman because See, expose herself, or it is hard enough and terrible enough, but in the Old Testament, nakedness was supposed to be covered. Well, even today, supposed to be covered. And exposing such things brought shame. Uncleanliness. It was an offense to do so. We must realize that this The indecency or whatever she's done cannot be adultery. Again, we've been studying the book of Deuteronomy, right? What is the punishment for adultery? Death. So the man wouldn't be divorcing his wife, he would be taking her into the circle, and everybody comes in and they stone her to death It's it's some kind of a shameful, indecent thing that's unspecified, but it might it must be an an an unacceptable behavior. But no Also, the fact that this passage doesn't criticize the man for divorcing the wife. So clearly the He must have taken an action that was in some sense justified. We don't know. It could also be that the woman finds no favor in her husband because of some physical deficiency. She's not able to have children. She cannot bear children. Again, it's very difficult for us to understand or to to be certain what it means, yet it appears that divorce was entirely the point that I'm trying to make, the divorce was entirely left to the man to decide Uh now we we know how this was a debated issue, even during Jesus times, right? When when the teachers of the law come to Jesus and they're trying to trap him and get him to uh talk about grounds for divorce. You know, under what circumstances can a man divorce his wife? And there was two schools of thought. There was one that was way more relaxed in terms of how they viewed what grounds are are there for people to to be divorced. And they could say, well if a woman burns her husband's dinner, yeah sure. If he wakes up one morning and decides I don't like her face, yeah, sure. All these things may sound comical to us, but it was true that there are some that thought that that's those were grounds for divorce and then there were others that saw it as you know a strict law as Jesus would say, that allowed for divorce only to happen in cases of adultery and abandonment You know, unlike the mod the modern society where marriage and divorce is actually regulated by law, in the Old Testament, even as we're reading this particular passage, there are no documents. Uh marriage was a purely domestic affair There were no documents that showed so-and-so are married and then together. There was only one document. And that was that bill of divorce. An official documentation uh that showed and protected the woman from charges of adultery uh uh and offense as we saw that is punishable by by death But there's something else that we need to realize as we're reading this passage as well that helps us to see just how what's going on here and how we can apply this in our day, that God's people are on the plains of Moab about to possess a land that is that's occupied by these seven tribes as as we've seen the nations of of Canaan and marriage and remarriage and marriage and remarriage and divorce It was a rampant issue. I mean you can be married today and tomorrow you got another wife and you divorce the other one. It was just happening left, right, and center. It was the the order of the day, so to speak Again, as we saw last week, God is still asking his people and saying, my standards are not the standards of the nation that you're about to occupy. You are not to be like the nations of Canaan. You are supposed to be following a different standard. For you to get into marriage and think that you can have an excuse or simple reason to say, oh, I don't like her no more, so I'm gonna get out. That is not to be of you And so if this woman, as we're told in verses two and following, if we're giving the premise of what's going on here that she's married and then she's divorced and then she remarries, or the her third husband dies, uh And this is the only legislation here. Again, this passage has nothing to do with grounds and all of those things. It's about this one particular law, and it is this That first husband cannot go back and marry her once she's been married to someone else You cannot do that. And verse 4 is actually curious. It tells us the reason why she cannot go back to her first husband is because she's been declared defiled. Now what does that mean? Now the sense of development has to do with uncleanliness, right? So doing anything that is that that is unclean That's unacceptable in the holiness sphere uh sexual immorality is one of those things that someone can become defiled and unclean But what about the fact that this first husband had given a document in a public manner that was witnessed by all and basically shames her By giving her that certificate of divorce and saying, you are no longer mine. You can go. You're divorced. So we can ask the question, does the department arise from whatever caused the first marriage, even though we're not told? Or is it caused by the fact that she remarries, so she marries someone else? That doesn't seem to be the problem here. The issue seems to be the return to our first husband, which introduces a new element. And someone put it this way, and I think I agree with them It seems that in some sense it is legalizing in practice, so to speak, in practice, a form of adultery, of wife swapping. You remember what Jesus says in Matthew 5. 32 when he's interpreting this particular law? What does he say about marrying a woman that's been divorced? You're committing adultery. You're committing adultery. And so the defendant here has a little to do with the fact that the husband has publicly rejected his own wife and and this kind of of adultery as well. That the husband has publicly rejected his wife means that he's forfeited his rights to marry her because he has shamed her He has driven out of his home. And so in essence, he needs to respect her second marriage. You gave her a certificate of divorce. Respect and honor that marriage Because a woman is not some kind of a marital football to be passed on to one man and another and come back. She's not some kind of a property that that that needs to be disposed of and then reclaimed any time you wish to give to do that Give her the dignity that she deserves. And I think this law is really d is communicating to God's people that divorce should not become an easy thing for you to do. This is not something that you need to be playing with. It's not something for you to abuse. Don't legalize it. Don't legalize it in effect. Don't legalize a new form of committing adultery. Don't legalize a new form of committing adultery. And verse 4 continues and says that the purpose of this restriction is to keep from sin the land which God will soon give his people. See in in the real world, which is the world that we live in, divorce happens, marriages fail. That's the truth. And we cannot shy away from that. But we must go back to Genesis 1 and ask ourselves what was God's intention for giving us the institution of marriage? What was it That God gave us or instituted this marriage for man and woman, for one man and one woman to be married together for life until death to them apart. And that's the standard. That's the highest standard that Jesus sets in Mark chapter 10, verse 2 to 12. I wish you could read the whole chapter, but i i in Mark 10, Jesus is actually pointing to his people and saying, Listen. When a man marries a woman, you become one flesh. You are united. You become one flesh. And no one should separate them. That's God's desire for marriage. To become or husband and and wife to become one. You know, I I think that's why it's so important for the church. to be involved when it comes to these matters because divorce is difficult And if we're going to follow the highest standard that Jesus sets, the church has to be involved when people are having marital problems That we seek to do everything that we can to bring about reconciliation and restoration. That has to be the first thing that we think of, it has to be the first thing that we do, it has to be the only thing that we seek to do. Regardless of what has happened, we must seek at all costs too. Go for reconciliation and restoration. Now, having said that, and as Jesus answered those that were trying to trap him and said, Moses gave you this law because of the hardness of your hearts, we do know that some people do reject. The law of God. Some people do refuse to repent. And so when adultery and abandonment and all those horrific things have been done, and someone has refused to repent, then it leaves the church no choice. Other than to accept sin has messed up that which God meant to be a good thing But when that happens and divorce is rightly granted on biblical grounds, here's the encouragement. God says that I will not leave you alone to sort out the messes that have been created by the offending sinner. God says I will carry you through it. God says I will heal the wounds that have been caused by such a horrific thing. I think that's the encouragement we we find here. But the standard remains. See, I really believe that these laws are not just protecting the woman, they're not just protecting the marriage, they're not they're also protecting the family as a whole. See in a culture where a man could do I mean again this this is just such a man centered text, isn't it In a culture where a man could do everything that he wanted to ruin his whole life and his his wife's life and his family's life and still go ahead and divorce the woman He had to think twice before he pursued divorce. Because this certificate was to be legally obtained and authenticated. He had to think twice. Think twice before you go there. But I do think there's actually a broader application to this law in our lives. More than just m uh protecting the woman and the marriage and the family. And I think every time we think about marriage, we must think about Christ and His church. That's how the New Testament Ephesians 5. That's how this the New Testament presents the picture of marriage and Christ and his love for the church. And I point you back to the Old Testament and the prophets. And think about Jeremiah, think about Isaiah looking for a certificate of divorce that God was going to give his people and found none. Think about Hosea. Hosea, who refuses to divorce his wife, his unfaithful wife. Why? Because once you give that divorce, you can't come back to her. But if you feel the student soldier, it leaves room for him to actually bring her back Now, now, now just stay with me again. Think about that and think about Christ and His church. Think about who we are in the presence of God. Who are we? We are the unfaithful spouse. We are the unfaithful bride that keeps on running this way and wanting to run away, run away from our husband. But God view says, I am your faithful covenant keeper, I am the one who will be faithful to you, and I don't do away with you irrevocably. I don't just go like I don't like you today. But think about this woman. Think about this woman who finds no favor in her husband. Think about this woman who is undesirable. Think about the church. Think about yourself. Every time I stand before the presence of God and I confess my sin, I cannot even look up because I know who I am Undesirable. And yet God says, nothing, absolutely nothing, can make you undesirable before me because Christ has paid for your sin, then you can come. You belong, you can find favor in me. You may be unfaithful. I am your faithful God who perseveres even in your undesirability. And maybe undesirable in the eyes of many And yet by God's grace he is willing to not only take me back time and time again. But he's willing to protect me from harm and danger. From those who may want to take advantage of me. Isn't that beautiful? So if that was a difficult case, look at a positive case. Verse 5. Look at verse 5. Glorious. When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife, whom he has taken. I wish the church would have given me one full year when my son was born to just stay home. I'm sure that was my wife. See, you don't mean it's making laws for both worlds, isn't it? When divorce happens and terrible things happen, this is how you ought to handle the situation. But also provision for a young man that's that's been joined together with his wife, and the law says you Brother, you are not going to serve in the military. Stay home with your wife. And not even just that. Don't even go serve in some other public office that may send you far and then beyond. The legislation is really offering a counter to the first four verses. Now again think about the context here. Think about the military that is serving uh in during this pre-exilic uh time. Who are they? They are not professional soldiers. They are not, by the way These are farmers and peasants. These are just normal, average, life-doing people that that are just waiting when they're called upon by their by their nation to go and serve And so to them they they're not thinking about okay I gotta make plans as to when I get married and and get home and all of that like a professional soldier would be thinking. They're not because that's not who they are They are living life in a normal sense and then they desire to be married and so they marry. A clear indication here, right? That God's design for humankind does include marriage and marital life. That's it But I do think this is also a law that is in fact protecting marriage and family. It really is protecting marriage and family. By by making sure that this young man does not die prematurely, an untimely dead uh untimely death. uh while he's serving. But the man has freedom. Freedom for his household because for God Marriage is the basis for a flourishing home. Marriage is the basis for a flourishing community. Marriage is the basis for a flourishing nation. Family is at the heart of what God is doing in people's lives It really is. And he cares about it. I love the language here in and different uh uh i uh you know different translations use different language of you know make yourself make your wife happy or glad And it really does have to to do with marital bliss, right? That's a real thing. It's a it's a God given thing. But it's not just this feelings and and emotions that make us well that that is part of it too because they are from God, right? But I do think at the heart of it is the strong foundation that God wants to build for a married couple God wants to build a strong foundation so that this might lessen the possibility of marital problems. Build that marriage. Make it strong, at least in their first years of marriage. Let them be united. So that when life gets tough and it will get tough, they can look back on what on the foundation that they built upon Now there's so many applications. There's so many modern applications that we can think of, you know, thinking about building a strong foundation for your family, for your marriage. And it's it's a sad thing to you know to to think about all the absentee fathers and mothers that are not present, not just for their children, but for one another as well I'm not seeking to build that strong foundation that God wants for a family, for marriage. To lay those foundations so that when life gets tough, you can go back to that. Again, as I mentioned, this law really does show that the uh family and continuation of one's family was more important than holding a public office. Get your priorities right Again, he's a he's a uh an encouragement for all of you who serve and who do some difficult jobs for some of you who've said no to going on a on a business trip that would take you so far away from your family Or because you are asked to go somewhere and you said, no, it's my wife's birthday or anniversary or my child's this and that. Listen, it's not in vain. When you make those ultimate sacrifices, when you make those ultimate sacrifices for your wife, for your husband, for your children. It's not in vain. So God is also providing For the couple here, that this this idea of mutual love for one another. I think we must accept, even as you said, you know, that sin complicates life and sin messes life. Sin takes advantage of separation. Sin takes advantage of separation sometimes. And so again, the provision is he is If you just get married and you disappear, who knows what's going to happen? Someone may give in to temptation and destroy a marriage even before it starts. So again, God is giving them an opportunity to foster their bond of love. So friends, what encouragement can we get from all this? And as we've said and talked about it, sin complicates life It messes things up. And I know that some of us here have been hurt. I know some of us here are wondering when they will ever heal from the wounds that they have because there has been divorce in their families I know some of us here are hurting really bad because we feel undesirable, because we've been left Alone Weak and broken. I know some of some of us are angry and frustrated Because they just can't understand how someone's sin has affected their life. I don't know where you are. I don't know how you pray. I don't know what you are asking from the Lord, but I know you do ask, and I know you do pray. He here's my encouragement to you, and I know there's many of us here. Here's my encouragement. Simple but powerful. Listen, you are not undesirable. God can use your vulnerability as well. Listen, God's commitment to you is assured God's faithfulness to you is assured. You can take that to the bank. That he is going to be faithful. To you. That regardless of what message other people have done, God is going to protect you. He is going to provide for you for all that you need so that you may do life. Even if you have to be single, he is going to do it. So take heart Don't be dismayed. And here's an encouragement for those of us that may not identify with this passage because it's talking about divorces and all of that. Listen. You are no different either. Sin affects every facet of our life. And every single day is a struggle for us to come before God and wonder and ask the question: God, am I good enough for you? God, do I belong to you? God, who am I? And you may feel weak and alone and unprotected. He's an encouragement for you as well. The faithful God of the Old and the New Testament never changes. He will remain faithful. So where do we go? We can go to God, all of us, and there find his favor. And there find grace. There find comfort. They'll find strength. There find joy that only he can provide. Precious Lord Jesus I would be pretending if I was to, even there, to claim that I would understand what it means. To be left by a loved one in the sense of a broken marriage. So Lord, I pray for my friends here That may be dealing with fresh wounds of brokenness that has happened because of sin. God, I can only ask for your hand to come and heal. Heal them. Lord, I pray for all of us who know what it means to be unfaithful, what it means to be sinful, what it means to feel undesirable, what it means to be vulnerable, what it means to be weak and broken. We all know it well. Would we, Lord, come to you and in your presence find favor? Would we come to you and in your presence find the comfort that only you can provide Help us, Lord, to hear this word and to believe it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.