That we sang. Psalm forty six. And uh if you had read through the Psalm in advance, you would have sort of felt those songs and those hymns rising to us. our hearts again, but um we might have to sing them all after we're done today, and that wouldn't be bad either. uh and to gather our hearts around that. The Psalms, and especially this one, I'll just give a little introduction before I read it. Um the introduction is written uh uh to the choir master of the sons of Korah. Uh many of our psalms were actually songs, not just psalms, but songs. Most of them in fact And they were sung. But there is a sense in which the singer is not you and me, uh, although we can certainly sing them back to God, both speaking them and singing them literally as many verse of the psalms have been put into modern music today. But they've been music throughout the years. The real singer though in the Psalms is Christ himself. And he sings into our hearts. So when we sing a psalm back to God, we are simply returning to him what he's already sung to us. There is the antithermal making of music, if you will. Those of you that make music well, bless you. Because people like me have to sing from our hearts, not from our mouths. And I'm glad I can do that. Not everybody can sing well from their mouth. But this Psalm, Psalm 46, has an a uh just a very amazing structure. And In in a moment I'll ask you to stand and and I'll read it uh for us. But what we need to see is that God speaks These things often in times in our lives that are full of pain, full of hardship, full of difficulty. This is one of those songs. And he sings it to us that our hearts might be made new, not broken. He reminds us of the brokenness, but he also reminds us. That in him we have a fortress. We're going to make a fortress today. Not just a sheep It's gonna be something a little more substantive than a sheet. But we all like to make fortresses. And usually we use the stuff around us to make our Fortresses. We make our relationships our fortresses. We make our families, our homes, our jobs our fortresses. We make our goals our fortresses. And we somehow think that in that fortress we will be strong. And what we usually find is We fail. We cannot make a fortress to hold us. God makes our fortress. He is our fortress. So we're gonna make a fortress this morning, and I want you to crawl under it with me. Let's see Psalm forty six God, God Is our refuge and strength, a very present help and trouble. Therefore we will not fear, although the earth gives way Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though the waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms taught her. He utters his voice, and the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah. Come. Behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolation on the earth. He makes wars to cease to the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow, shatters the spear, he burns the chariots with fire. Be still Know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah, let's pray. Father, turn our eyes to Jesus For you have made a fortress for us. You have been a fortress for us. Draw us into that fortress Through the work of Christ Jesus. That we might dwell in your presence. Hold our hearts when they're heavy. Hold our minds when we can't think. Focus our eyes even when they're full of tears. And we might see Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. You may be seated You'll note that this psalm is not only sort of tight and condensed, but it ends each section with this word Silah. I haven't taken a moment to talk about that, although a lot of the Psalms we've been looking at have that word in it. And um some of you may wonder what in the world is it? It doesn't make any sense. There's no English word that I know of. Well the truth is that uh Bible scholars don't very well exactly know what it is either It might have been sort of a musical notation. You know, when I when I look at the bars of music Not when they're on the screen because we don't have the bars of music, but if you read music, where there's a lot of stuff on there uh that you don't actually sing. You know, there's this squirrely little S that has lines through it and a big C. You don't sing those things. They just tell you where you ought to be singing, if you know about it. And there are lines on it and dots and You don't sing the lines in the dots either, but they tell you how to sing if you know what to do. And some of the notes have holes in 'em, and some of them are solid and some of them have tails and I don't quite get it all, but You know, if you know what you're doing, you can sing better. Well, silaw is like a notation a musical notation. Exactly how it functioned, uh nobody really quite knows. But there's been one suggestion that it was a pause, a rest. And if I remember back to my music appreciation that's the hat under the chair or the hat on top of the chair, right? See I you know I I learned something from musical. I just never learned to sing. If that sea law is there to pause or to rest, then when you see a sea law in the book of Psalms, ask yourself the question, what is it there for? Ask yourself the question, what should I be thinking about? What should I pause and meditate about? Because there's something special here that this word tells me to take a break and think about it. So the psalm is full of sea laws. Think about it. There's one translation that I didn't read it this morning, but It's called Young's Literal Translation. And I'm actually going to sort of build around that translation. I'm not gonna read it, but I'm gonna build around it because the translator has started every verse with a different word. And the word actually helps us understand the movement of the psalm. So, in for example, when we go through it. If we look at it, look at verse 1 and 2 and 3. The words there would be, fear not. Or God, actually, we're going to start with God, but then fear not. And roar. And see what. So there's something about the fears that we fear not. And the fears roar in our hearts. The second section, I just jumped to it just so you see it. See the structure structure of it. Is river, God, trouble, Jehovah, Selah. Gives you a good sense about where it's going. The third section is his works, war cease, desist, refuge. There are more words than that. But in Young's translation, each verse actually starts with those words. So it brings to the front where the psalmist is going in his song, where God, in other words, is going to go in singing to us. So the first section trouble. Trouble threatens. There's a mountain that I have been under a number of times. Excuse me. I'm still struggling with that cold. The mountain is in Congo And that particular mountain a few years ago erupted. It's a volcano. And I knew a lot of people who were in the town of Kivu. It was at the base of the mountain. Not very close to the base, actually quite some miles away. But when that mountain erupted, the flow of lava went down the mountains so rapidly, so wide, that everything in the path of the lava erupted into flames. And it actually came right down the main street of town. And and so the buildings on both sides, didn't matter if they were made of stone or metal or wood, didn't matter. They just burst into flames. It was so hot. And that flow of lava came right down next to the house of a good friend of ours and next to uh the hospital that he had built. It was the main doctor in. His house was on the edge of the lake. When that flow hit the water, it stopped. It went and it turned to rock. That lake. He will stop the lava flow in our lives. And that's what the psalm is about. In pain, in struggles, and we have them. And I know. Many of you are feeling the weight of those pains. And it feels indeed like an erupting volcano. And the lava flows down into your life, and you wonder: will surely not everything be just devastated in his presence? Just like we've watched this week, as the weather system has gone through first islands, flooded them, left nothing in its wake. And finally it goes up and hits Canada, same thing. People have lost homes. They've lost their livelihood. Some have lost their lives. And the lava flow seems to be endless. So whether I'm talking about a mountain and And the heat of lava, or whether I'm talking about the water that is so turbulent, so fast that it drowns everything, there is a force in our lives. That seems nothing can stop it. That's what the psalmist is talking about. And in it, and the psalmist begins with this: is God. God. God is our refuge. You and I try to make forts. When we're small, a fort was okay. We can make it in the living room. We could take the cushions and put them up and put a sheet over top. And when we're in church, we can take a sheet and put it over the ends of the pews. But truly, in our lives, we take everything that we think is important to us and we make a refuge. We find our value in those things that we've done. And when those things fall apart, it's like we have no place to go. There's no hope. There's no direction. So the psalmist says, God. God is our refuge strength. Very present, not somehow present, but very present. Help in trouble. Maybe you feel like God's far away. The pain, sometimes the screams. But the psalmist says God is present. Therefore, because he's present, I don't need to fear. Fear is something that comes out of my heart. I do it naturally. It's a response. Of course I fear. God says, I do not need to fear. Although the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, just like I described. Though the waters foam and roar, though the mountains tremble, God. Think about it. Just think about it. Think about God. Whatever you're facing right now, think about what God has done, what God has promised, who God is, and why He is your fortress. Section two, the river. The river whose streams make glad the city of God. The holy The book of Revelation describes that river again. River is used throughout scripture. Sometimes foaming, as in the earlier verse. Excuse me again. But in the book of Revelation, we have a river. It flows out of a tree, a tree that bridges the river. And the river and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. So God gives to us this glorious picture of a river that flows with healing. It's healing for us. It's hope for us. It's the holy habitation of the Most High. It's where God dwells. God makes the shelter. God dwells in the shelter. And he calls us to the fortress in Christ. God says, Get in my shelter. Christ is there You will find your presence. And that's all the body of Christ ever is. It's a bunch of us Under a tent, in a shelter, in a fort. And we're gathered together because there there is safety in Christ. Hope. God says, Gather, come to me. It's the river that makes the city of God glad So come to the fort and be glad. Allow that river of Christ to flow in you, to flow through you. Drink from the river, as we say. Drink from it. Stay by the side of the river. That it might make you glad. God is in the midst of it. You won't be Moved. God will help when morning dawns. I know of very few struggles that end in the morning. Can you think of any? Have a sleepless night? Is it over in the morning? Or is this a sleepless night? Right. I coughed all night all night last night and I'm still coughing this morning. So, what's the point of the psalm? God will help her when morning dawns. Is he saying the struggle is going to be over when morning dawns? Or God will help? When the morning goes, God will help, and He does help. He gives to us His presence I remember I think I've shared part of the story with you years ago when W was kidnapped. I'd done all that I could do. Everything that I thought should be done. And that negotiation went back and forth. Until finally I received a letter that it didn't matter what my answers were, there would be another mistake. Debbie would be killed. And I went to bed that night. Thank you, Joan. I see that. It's not morning. It's in the middle. But I'll take another one. Thank you. I appreciate it. I got up the next morning and nothing had changed. I reflected on the fact that When I went to bed, I had a threat that I would receive Debbie dead That what I had done was a failure. All of my negotiation hadn't done anything. The shutdown of all the missions hadn't done anything. And that's how I went to bed. And I got up the next morning, and it was the same thing. Nothing had changed. There was a gentleman who stood next to me. I thought he was ancient. But then remember I was twenty-four. He was uh probably somehow well less than I am today. He was probably a young sixty-seven or something, I don't know. He had just retired. He looked at me and he said, Carl, sometimes The light doesn't dawn until after the darkest time of the night to sleep. And see what God will do. And it was the next morning. I got up and there wasn't anything different. The few hours passed, and still nothing different. Until about noon, when the messenger that had been carrying the notices and the letters between me and Debbie's captors came back into the compound I was and gave me another letter. It didn't tell me that I was about to go out to an appointed place and find W, it just said she would be released. Well that made my heart glad, but on the other hand, I had no idea where or if I should even believe the letter. So there I was morning. In mourning, what I found was that God was sufficient That even if the circumstances didn't change, God was sufficient. And he would be sufficient. And if it meant completely seeing my life upside down, God would be on the downside of the up, or the upside of the down, whatever it is when life is upside down. God would be there. There. God would hold me. So God is in the midst We do not need to be moved. He helps us in the morning. The nations rage. The kingdom's daughter. He utters his voice and the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us The God of Jacob is our fort. And God's fort doesn't slip off the end of the pew. God's fort holds us. It protects us. It keeps us. It flows in us. It reminds us in our weakness that He's strong. Third section. If we are in Christ, in the fortress, receiving from the flowing of the river, we Come to this third section. Come. Behold the works of the Lord, how He has brought desolation on the earth. He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, shatters the spear, he burns the chariots with fire. Be still And know that I am God. Can you be still? In the midst of pain, in the midst of uncertainty, can you be still And what does it mean to be still? It's not going to sleep. It's not somehow losing touch with everything. As a congregation, we look for God's next pastor to lead. And it may be an anxiety moment. Maybe anxious enough to where sometimes we think, well, maybe I just need to go somewhere else, or it's already a pastor. God says, be still. And know that I God be still Why? Why can we be still? Well, verse 8 says, Come and behold the works of the Lord. What has God done? What has God done for you? What has God done for grace? What has God done through grace? What has God done through your life, through your relationships? Look back. Anticipate that what God has done, so God will do. God has worked. He is working. He will work. And that's why the psalmist says, Come, behold the works of the Lord. He protects us, he keeps us. These things that are devastating, we do move through them. Look at the worst things that have happened in your life, and two things Things are true. One is probably worse things gonna come. That's real encouragement, isn't it? You're welcome. But God doesn't change. He has been with you. He is with you. He will be with you. And these horrible things that gather around us like tempests will cease. They will end. And when they end, they end in God because God is our fort. Is there any truth greater than that that you would wish your children or your children Children to know. I can't think of another thing. That God is your fort, and that God calls you into his fort. Through Jesus. And Jesus will rest with us in the morning, in the evening. Evening at the end of the struggle. We're watching the wars. Cultural wars, political wars, violent wars, bombs bursting. So we look at verse 9, we think, wait, really? Is God making the worst seas? Or are they just getting worse? Think through history. We've always had wars. And people die in wars. And we have wars in our life. And they scar us. Maybe you've had surgery. Major surgery. I've had a couple of them over the last couple years When you go to the surgery, first thing is they put this ridiculous gown on you. Cover your head. And then ultimately a nurse comes in and says, Do you know why you're here? Yeah? Uh what's the procedure that's going to be done? It's like I sure hope you know. Uh because I don't even know the name of it. But yeah, there's gonna be some sort of a surgery that's gonna be in this part of me. Oh good. Then the doctor comes in and asks you the same questions. It's like I really hope you know. So there I was, wrapped up in my funny gown. Doctor comes in, asks me the question, they roll me out on the gurney, and uh get me in the operating room, I look around, look you know, like every operating room I've ever been in. And uh they start the IV and the nurse asks me, How do you feel? And I look at her, I said, Well I feel about six hours later I woke up. My head was all bandaged. I had no hearing. It was gone. And the pain was intense. Nasama says it'll all end. Well sometimes it ends in a Different way. And all of you know that this thing eventually got put on my head where they took my hearing out. So that I had something to hear with. But it all started back in the operating room when the doctor said, You know what's gonna happen to me? Yeah, I'm gonna lose my hearing. I'm gonna put a hole in my head, another hole in my head, and um put a plate in there and maybe I'll be able to hear. A year and a half later I still couldn't hear. And you know, today I still don't hear very well. But hear better than I used to. And there's a hope that I'll learn better. God is our refuge. He is not a surgeon that comes in and says, Well, what'd you like for me to do today? Do you know what's going to happen? No, sir. I don't know. Do I have to know in advance how much it's gonna hurt? No, you don't have to. It just hurts. And so Scripture says, God is our refuge. And He is the He way. That allows his healing waters to come into our lives when everything is broken. When everything is upside down, when we do not know the way forward, God is in our midst. And he gives to us Christ, who dwells in us, that we might know his shelter. Be still. Think about it. Be still And know that I'm God. Because the pain that you experience now, you can't see it. You can't imagine it. But the text tells us that that pain, that turbulence, that melting of the mountains Will bring about the exaltation of God Himself. And so the psalmist says in God And about God, I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. Why? Why is he going to be exalted? Because in my weakness, in your weakness, Is his strength. God is exalted. The Lord of hosts is with With us. The God of Jacob is our fort. I urge you, come with me. Let's pray. Father, we need you. Every day we need you. Today we need you. Lord Jesus, would you flow to us and through us and draw us into this fortress? It is God. We give up. It seems too much sometimes to bear. Would you stop the flow? And give to us eyes that we might behold that in the midst of the things that we call pain. When we reach out to you, when we dwell in your fort, you will be glorified Not what we did, not what we thought, not our great faith. Because we don't have any of that. But you, O God, glorify your name Use our weakness, our simple calling out to you, I need you. Rest and give me rest. Give us rest. We your people Your city, the place where you dwell, your fort. In Jesus' name. Amen