First of all then I urge that supplication, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life. godly and dignified in every way. This is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires that all be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is a testimony given at the proper time. For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying. A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. I desire Then that in every place the man should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarrelling. respectful apparel with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire, but with what is proper for women who possess godliness with good works Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exerc exercise authority over a man. Rather, she is to remain quiet. For Adam was firm formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. Yet she will be saved through childbearing If they continue in faith and love and holiness with self-control. Amen. Thanks, Joan. Please be seated. Raise your hand if you like being in charge of the A lot of you are lying. Joan likes being in charge. Thank you for being in charge of me, Joan. I don't mean bossing people around, Joan. I like being in charge. One of the very hardest things when you are a pastor is listening to other people's sermons. Because you always think, oh, I could have done it better. It's a very arrogant thing to think. I've tried to stop doing that as much. Um and that's true in a lot of things. You you see something go down, you're like, I could have done that better. I would have organized this room better. I would have cooked this meal better. I would have handled that conversation Better, right? Because we like being in charge. And so 1 Timothy is a book that's uh we're talking about leadership, not just officers In the church. The word for elder that we use for elder is a word that means shepherd. Okay? We've titled it that name, but it means shepherding people, pastoring people. The word for deacon, we call people deacons, it just means service. Right? So we're all shepherds. We're all servants even if we don't have the officers, right? So we're not just only talking about church leaders, we're talking about work leaders Relationship leaders, meeting leaders, and we're all followers too. We have to be good followers and good leaders at the same time Because all leaders have to follow. So we're looking at Paul and Timothy, Ephesus, long time ago, trying to pull it in today. I only have two points. The first is on following. And this is one of my least favorite passages in the whole Bible You know, skipping around a little in Isaiah. I didn't cover every word of Isaiah, did I? Would love to do that here. It's a little bit more conspicuous, isn't it? It's my job to teach you what this says, whether I like it or not. And I don't want you to get distracted from the main point. Okay? The main point isn't the thing I'm going to talk about first. And this is an easy place to get distracted. And that's because we're going to start with the second half of the whole thing starting in verse eight all of this stuff that Joan read and we listened to and now we can read for ourselves the point is Jesus It should be believable and beautiful. I'll probably talk about this a lot. One of our goals is that we would talk about Jesus enough that he would be believable. and beautiful. Our lives can show the same thing in some small way, paling in comparison. He first talks to men, and we're going to talk about that next. But right now he talks to women, and his first point is modesty, which apparently was an issue. That doesn't seem too shocking. But he's really talking about how much things cost. Fanciness, not skimpiness in the same way. The emperor's wife would wear a dress back then that would cost $200,000. Right? In this time, women would spend a year's salary on a fancy dress. To impress people. Just like now. Kate Middleton, her wedding dress cost $400,000. You can buy a dress from this Japanese fashion person that's made out of five carat white gold and has a thousand pearls for $8. 5 million, it can be yours. Wow. Extravagance. Extravagance. People probably didn't have that type of extravagance, but they wanted it. Now there's another issue Going on because this church in Ephesus was doing a good job of ministering to a lot of type of people, including prostitutes. Who are looking for business. So that is a part of the mix, okay? So Paul writes something. He he's writing and saying church isn't the red carpet. Church isn't a music video. Church isn't a country club. So I work with some churches sometimes doing some consulting a little bit and trying to help them. I was in a church in the South and everybody dressed like it was a country club. And it was intense. Like if you wore jeans, someone would talk to you. We were there, I was there with someone else, yeah. Shorts, not even no, no, okay, shorts. Um W one of the other guys I didn't wear a jacket, but he didn't wear a jacket and he was told that was inappropriate Well so like why aren't we wearing tuxedos? I mean come on, there's a there's another level level up, right? So it's just like you know Church isn't the same as going to the pool. And it's not the same as going to the prompt. We can be normal, we can wear what we want, and it's fine. I'm not going to be the fashion police Uh every year when I did RUF, we went to summer conference in um Panama City, which was a really fun week for everybody, and I would tell everyone Bring two swimsuits, a modest one and a more modest one. Because I don't know what your definition of modest is, right? It's fuzzy. A lot of this stuff is um so cultural We sort of know, but also we gotta remember where we learned what we think is modest from It's a little fuzzy sometimes. Our goal, all of our goal, is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. That includes in what we wear. Because it's everything. It should be non-distracting. And then Paul says: true beauty is not in what we wear. It's in godliness, grace, Christlieness. So we have to be careful because this part and the next part, so much of what we think Immediately is is enculturated. Not from the Bible, from the way we've been raised, from what we've been taught, from what we see, from our families, from our parents, from our culture. So the next part is this. Learning design. This learning design, this passage has been ignored, dismissed, and misused. Ignored, dismissed, misused, probably more than anything else. Misused. It's not talking about inequality. It's not talking about power. It's not talking about leadership potential. Because, goodness gracious, we all know. I have to say it out loud. I don't wish I didn't have to, but of course women are leaders. Of course. They're equal. Loved by God, created by God, given dignity and respect just in the same way. 100% needed. And this is not at the center of the things that we need to argue about. We can disagree even on this for sure. This is not in my big wheelhouse I'm not fighting for this very much at all. But it appears to me that the Bible teaches that for whatever reason It's rooted in creational design. That's all I know. The Bible says that women cannot be elders or pastors or preach from the pulpit In my opinion, that's what it says. Now there's a lot of other stuff, a lot of other stuff. Women have been told they can't do. I don't think that's true. We are all to be learners. And in ancient societies, and still today, right? Women are not allowed to learn everywhere. It's still true, especially in these very traditional cultures. I don't know how we started on that path, but that is a path. I'm glad we're not in that place right now here But Jesus had women disciples about Mary and Martha, certainly disciples. They weren't apostles, but they were disciples. Sitting at Jesus' feet is not engendered. We can all follow him together. We need each other, of course. And I stand by this. It's certainly not a perfect record in any sense. Don't hear me over overdo it. Christianity has been good for women. You think about the place, the the world, it's very it's been attractive to women because it's different And in this text, we're seeing that something's happening as women are coming around and learning and growing and discussing. And it gets crazy. Right? It gets crazy because they're all talking a mile a minute. Like a classroom of excited people. And apparently in this church It got unruly. Loud. They were taking over. And so it wasn't good to learn that way. No one would be able to learn that way. If everybody was in charge. For all leading and no no following, we don't get to do it. But see what happens is we just immediately read these verses. I I mean I don't know how not to do it I I grow up in this world. I don't grow up in a different world. So this is we read these words and you go to stereotypes You go to stereotypes, you go to madmen. This is how traditional marriages and relationships between men and women should look That is not saying that. Have you seen this little uh trend going on now called Tradwives? traditional wives. So there's this thing called Trad wives, right? I can't believe I'm talking about this. It's so silly. So the so What what's happening is women some women for whatever reason I I don't even know if this is right or wrong. I just know it is, are basically dressing up and acting like the nineteen sixties. is still what we're doing today. So they're they are super duper housewifing it. Like cooking in dresses. Is that is that stereotypical? I don't know. But somehow they think this is what it it it should be. You know, uh we should go back to when things were that way The nineteen sixties? Really? We should go back to that? Think about all the things that were happening in the nineteen sixties. Oh, the nineteen fifties, same thing. W when do we go back to? Well, he's going back to The very first two people. And I would love to talk to Paul about this. Can't wait to. Paul. Uh Adam was a transgressor too, yo. What are you talking about? How are you pinning on this on her so much? I mean, she transgressed. I don't get it. I I'm happy to tell you when I don't understand stuff. I don't want to stand up here and act like a no-it-all in any sense. I don't Paul Paul somehow is rooting this in a creational order. So to me that means this matters more than just like this was a problem only in Ephesus. I don't think that's true. But certainly this can be a problem with men all not being submissive. But Adam was formed first. I don't know why Adam was formed first. It matters somehow. I don't know why, but it matters. In the fall Messes up leadership. The fall somehow creates this battle between all people, between God and man. between men and women, between men and men, between women and women, between children and their parents. He is focused on this one though It's not based on merit or goodness or capacity or ability. Somehow this goes all the way back to Adam and Eve, and the fall messes up leadership. And men have handled this terribly. Terribly. Leadership is not supposed to be for ruling over people. Oppressing people, diminishing people, minimizing people. Leadership is designed for flourishing. Loving. And then Paul throws in this verse fifteen She will be saved, saved through childbearing. I told Bethany, good job. A lot of you have succeeded in this. You it's a ticket to heaven and I don't get that pass. I was e even just like two days ago, I was sitting and I was and a pregnant woman walked by and I you have this policy, right? Never comment on a pregnant woman. Ever. Never ever comment on it ever. Have to see the baby coming out to say, oh, are you pregnant? That's the only way you can say are you pregnant. Are you pregnant is a sentence you should never say. Ever. This is a this is a rule. So I saw her walk by and I didn't say it to her. I was like, wow. I was talking sitting next to somebody and I said, what's it like to grow a human inside of your body? I don't know. It's fascinating, it's crazy, it's amazing. When we accept that God has given us what He's given us He didn't have to make you your gender. What's it like to be the other one? Don't know. Somehow, in his complete sovereign providence goodness, he said, you're gonna be this one. You know also he said, you're going to grow up in this family. You're going to grow up in this century. You're going to grow up with this amount of money in your family. You're gonna grow up with this amount of education at your d at your disposal. Not everybody has all those things, right? Could be it could be totally different. Imagine if you same person in Mongolia Um When we accept that God has made us and and He's given us then roles to play. then then we aren't saying that's completely incultured. It's also biblically shaped and made. Then that brings about goodness in our lives and in the world. It brings out blessings. It brings peace Gentleness, fruitfulness, multiplying. Be fruitful and multiply I was reading this week that Japan, for the eighth year in a row, has their newest low birth rate It's dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping. Because they have you know they don't have a ton of space, so they sort of have this policy. Uh but it's not just now the policy, it's it's the thinking people are they don't know people that have more than one child Now they only know people that have no children, really. The most you would have is one. Wow, it's a huge family, one They're worried about money, they're worried about the world, and it's just a super big problem. They're not gonna have people. You gotta make people have people. So that the government actually has made a government app, a dating app, made by the government. What's that like? The least functional dating app in the world I would imagine, right? Let's turn that over to the government. I'd love to see Biden and Trump's dating after they would make. I can't believe I just said that. The Prime Minister of Japan said this is the greatest dilemma we face in our nation. The birth rate. Okay. Women's ordination is not going to be a big fight for me. I have a lot of more fish to fry than that one There's a lot of exasperation about this topic. But the improper use of any principle does not Invalidate the proper use of a principle. And all of us have to listen and learn and be submissive to the teacher. When I started at OU after I got residency I started taking classes at OU as in my thirties. I have to be submissive to the teacher. I cannot disrupt the other students who are also paying to be in this class. That's not fair. That's not how learning works. We need to respect our leaders, especially when they're acting respectably, and leaders follow. We all follow God's design so we can live in freedom, not fear. And God has given us certain things for us to steward with each other and respect his sovereign and is good. So we're all humble. We all need each other. We are so similar to each other. So similar. And that little bit of difference is pretty profound. Let's not make too much effort. Okay, second point. Get off of that. Goodness gracious. Pleading. Leaders plead. Leaders ask for help. Leaders pray. Leaders need resources. We all need mentors or cohorts. Help. And we all should be leading others and mentoring others and helping others, right? And the ultimate helper that we all have is the Lord. So we pray and talk to him. He's in charge. We're living and serving under others, but ultimately living and serving under him, right? But he calls them to pray for authorities, kings, magistrates, caesars, presidents, governors, mayors. You know, that means they're praying for Nero, who burns Christians at the stake, sends them in the lions, and blames Christians. For destroying Rome. God is still in charge. One of the reasons I love going sailing is I'm out of the country during the elections. Amen. It's beautiful. It's amazing. I'm not watching the news. But we pray: your will be done on earth as it is in heaven Prayer is foundational for the believer. It's basic. It's not an add-on. We are called to talk to the Lord as a person. All the time, about all the things. And I was making a joke about all people, eight billion people. It's going to take us 250 years to pray for 8 billion people. But I think he means all types of people. Okay? We pray for all people, all types of people. Because our natural tendency is to only pray for people just like us. We vote for people like us who will help us. We pray for people like us. We support people like us. We associate with people like us, we go grocery shopping with people like us. And so, you know, back in this time, we have this big Jewish Gentile thing. Going on. It's very prominent throughout this New Testament. So that's a very that was easier for them to see and understand. But we're supposed to pray for all people. I've been talking to you about cherries sometimes. Cherries, you know, the dive bar Well, because I've been I'm working on this project with this guy who wants to play Pulitzer before we work on the project. So now I know a lot of people that I wouldn't normally know. And they know me. And I have drug dealers who know my name. And I think like me. I don't know, maybe they don't. I'm not their customer, that's for sure. I think they would protect me. Or I don't know, I'm going to get stabbed in the back. I don't I don't know. But it's it's sort of weird to walk up there And know people to pray for that aren't my normal people. It's awesome. Scary. All types of people. I I cannot change that I am this tall, I have this colored skin. I am male. I am heterosexual. I can't change that. But I can be around people that's different than that. I'm about to go to a general assembly where everybody's exactly like me. It's sort of gross. I'm gonna sit in a room with twenty-five hundred white male heterosexual Presbyterians. Oh gosh. That's why I'm saying you want to take my place, come on. We do not have the diversity cushion down on this. But we all can be kind and welcoming, patient We can walk into places we wouldn't normally walk into. Know people we wouldn't normally know. Because we're rooted in Christ, right? W we can pray for people who are different stages of life than ours. Divorced, not yet divorced, remarried. Never married, several marriages. We can pray and know people who are struggling with their homosexuality. Of course. I don't understand what that's like. I can pray for people who are incarcerated. I've never been in jail. Mental health problems, physical problems, people who are spoiled rotten. Unwed mothers, Republicans, Democrats I was reading about a r a restaurant bar who suffered a hate crime. They took out an ad in the paper. And the ad said, hate is not on tap here. We are for anybody who wants to come in. Hippies, hipsters, elected officials, lawyers, mechanics, lesbians, straight people, whoever you are, just come on in. Have a drink and be cool. That's pretty good for a church too, isn't it? Come on in. Hate is not on tap here All are welcome. I can guarantee you that we'll pray for you. No matter what. And we're trying to reach out into the world because we're not bunkered down like doomsday preppers. Like no one can get to us. We go out and we welcome in, right? And the biggest thing we're praying for is salvation. Which is an impossible prayer request for everyone. But it's not impossible. God desires all kinds of people to be saved. He doesn't have a type. There's no real demographic. And he gets what he wants. So we pray for the salvation of everyone we know. And the big thing to not get distracted on is right here in verse five. We can get distracted on the others. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man. And who is that? The man Christ Jesus. Who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time. There is one God, a mediator. And so what do we need? A reconciler, a purchaser. The truth of the whole matter is a person. The solution is a mediator. And honestly, we all mess all this up. We all mess all this up. I don't know what to tell you how to be a woman. I don't know what it means to be a man. But we all need good news. We all need hope at the right time, not because we deserve it. Not because we deserve it, right? Not because you were a proper, very modest person. We all have to submit to God's will. And God's ultimate will is for us to know him and love him Him, to be reconciled to him. Jesus did it all. He was delighted to submit to the will of the Father, so you could be ransomed, purchased. He took the very nature of a servant to go to death on the cross. And then he was resurrected. Amen. So we can sit under and learn under Paul. We can ask Paul questions. Yo, Paul He tells us he's not lying. He's an apostle. So we need to sit underneath him and try and figure it out as best we can or be confused together at least The real scandalous news in this passage is that we can be saved. We can be ransomed. God saves sinners. Immodest ones, insolent ones, out-of-control ones. Purchased. Purchased. This beautiful uh commercial several years ago is for Guinness, the beer. And there are these uh all these guys playing wheelchair basketball. Having a great time and everything, right? Remember this one? You can tell they're buddies and friends, but they're going at it. Um and at the end, only one of them actually is handicapped. They all get out of the their wheelchairs. But the one of them who they want to play with. They want to play with him. He can't play with them unless they're in wheelchairs, right? So they handicap themselves. What we do most often is we go to other mediators, don't we? Drugs, grades, sex, clothes, work, education. We also often get mad at the way God doles out stuff. Could have been taller or shorter or skinnier whatever we wanted to be different. We can pray about that. We have a mediator. He takes supplications. sessions. He takes Thanksgiving too. So we can pray for all the people that we know to be saved. It'd be so awesome, wouldn't it be so awesome? But it's all for God's glory, because He's in charge, not you, not me. Not me either. Not you either. Let's give it to him. You take it, Jesus. God to give it to you. Amen. Amen. There are different ways to respond.