Good morning everyone. Our passage this morning comes from Nehemiah four, verses one through twenty. Yes. Stance. Great. Thank you. Now when the Stan Ballot heard we were building the wall, he was angry and greatly enraged. And he jeered at the Jews, and he said in the presence of his brothers and of the army of Samaria, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore it for themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they finish up in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish and burn out uh burn ones at that? Tobiah the Ammonite was beside him, and he said, Yes. What they are building, if a fox goes up on it, he will break down their stone wall. Hear, O our God, for we are despised, turn back their taunt on their own heads. And give them up to be plundered in a land where they are captives. Do not cover their guilt, and let not their sin be blotted out from your sight. For they have provoked you to anger in the presence of the builders. So we built the wall, and all the wall was joined together to half its height for the people had a mind to work. When Sembalat and Tobiah and the Arabs and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites heard that the repairing of the walls of Jer of Jerusalem was going forward and that the Breaches were beginning to be closed, they were very angry, and they all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem, and to cause confusion in it. And we prayed to our God, and set a guard as a protection against them day and night. In Judah it was said, the strength of those who bear the burdens is failing. There is too much rubble. By ourselves we will not be able to rebuild the wall. And our enemies said, they will not know or see. It see till we come again I'm sorry, till we come among them and kill them and stop the work. At that time the Jews who lived near them uh came from all directions and said to us ten times, you must return to us. In the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in open places, I stationed the people by their clans, with their swords, their spears, and their bows. And I looked and arose and said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, Do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord, who is great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes. When our enemies heard that it was known to us and that God had frustrated their plan, we all returned to the wall, each to his work. From that day on, half of my servants worked on construction, and half held the spears Shields, bows, and coats of mail. And the leader stood behind the whole house of Judah, who were building on the wall. and held his weapon with the other, and each of the builders had his sword strapped to his side while he built. The man who sounded the trumpet was beside me. And I said to the nobles, and to the officials, and to the rest of the people The work is great and widely spread, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another. In the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Our God will fight for us. Let me just pray for us that God would uh shine his light upon us and give us the glory of his presence. Father, thank you. Thank you that you speak into our lives and you give us directions Thank you, Father, that throughout time and history you have met your people in the midst of disgrace, in the midst of pain. In the midst of suffering, in the midst of wrongness, and you have shown them your rightness, and you have shown them your encouragement and your glory. So, Father, we ask this morning that you would show us Jesus, that He would shine in our lives, and that you would rebuild us in Jesus. Jesus' name we pray. Amen. It's good to be back with you. And it's good to return to the book of Nehemiah. Some of you may have forgotten or didn't know that we were I were in the book of Nehemiah, but we're back in the book of Nehemiah. Uh I didn't finish that book. It's uh still got a lot more. So uh if I live long enough and you live long enough maybe we'll be able to look at more chapters in the book of Nehemiah as well. But I want to remind you how it started It started with Nehemiah hearing about the pain, the turmoil, and the rubble that was in the city of Jerusalem. And it wasn't just the fact that, you know, stones were on top of stones, or logs on top of logs, that the whole thing had been destroyed, but it was the lives of the people that had been broken down. That was really this the distress that Nehemiah was addressing, and that's what he heard. And God put in his heart to rebuild not just the walls around Jerusalem. Not just the bridges or the gates or whatever else was in there, but to rebuild the lives of the people that had been in such distress. And so the first three chapters were about him not only going to the king, but then finally going to Jerusalem and motivating all the people to begin building. And they began building And we understand that they had actually built the wall to half its height. Approximately The place that we found the children found a bridge this morning about half its height. And uh It was fragile. It didn't take very much to knock it down, did it? Because there was nothing that connected that bridge except the weight of the logs themselves. So Nehemiah was laboring with a people, and this process of rebuilding was not just the picture of the rebuilding, which was the building of the wall, putting one stone on top of another, setting the gates and the bars and all of that under place that we read in the first three chapters. But it was more difficult to actually build lives They were deeply discouraged. God calls you and he calls me today to look at our lives. And it's not always a pretty picture. We look at the lives, our lives, the lives of our families, and we think, actually, it's not always a pretty picture. I wish it looked better. And so there are some rules for rebuilding, just like I asked the kids. What do you do? What do you do when somebody threatens to knock it over? Knock your life over. What do we do when somebody comes along and says, You made those choices? You did those things? You said those things? Oh. Jesus can't possibly, God can't possibly have anything to do with you. And so we write ourselves off because we've listened to others. And indeed, our lives that don't ever get built I want you to think through this text with me and think about the very simple rules that God reveals to us in this text And the first really opens up for us in the first seven verses. So if you've got your Bibles, open up to Nehemiah and just look at this text as we go. go through it. The first seven verses begin with this these words from Sandballot, the enemy who jeers at the Jews. He mocks them. And he says, in the presence of his brothers and the army of the Samaria, in other words, there was this great threat that was around. And the Jews knew, the builders knew that they were surrounded by an unfriendly world. And if that doesn't describe you and me in our world today, I don't know what does. We're surrounded by an unfriendly world. And we hear the jeers of the world. And what are the jeers? What do you think you're doing? What do you think you're saying? Will you restore your lives? Will you restore the church? Will you restore God's kingdom? What a silly, stupid thing to think you can do. That's what Nehemiah heard. That's what the people heard. And that's often what we hear. It is this mockery that actually goes to our very sense of identity. And our identity is all about what we can do, about who we are. And that's why it's a little intimidating, and I know it's intimidating to the Boys this morning to try to build that bridge. Confession. I've built it many times And when I made that yesterday, I had to practice it about five times before I got it right. It's not hard, I kept telling myself. I can do this. I'm not totally stupid. I've watched it built. I've built it myself. I even made the logs. I can but you get my point. We're building our lives And we tend to listen to the evil one around us who says, You lunkhead, you spiritual infidel, you cannot do that. And we agree with it. It's like Well, I guess it's true. I say the wrong things, I think the wrong things, I don't do the things I ought to do. Sin is all through me. No, I I probably can't live a righteous life before So I listened to it. And the Jews were building, rebuilding, and they had to listen to that. Sometimes our identity is actually built up in our shame, the sense that I can't do it That's what I believe about myself. Sometimes our identity is built up in the fact that I'm really not able, that I'm really not moral. And there's no way that I can be successful. So I am a practical failure. I believe it. And when I believe it, I have turned my eyes off of Jesus, who has given me a new identity. And I turn my eyes on myself. I look in my mirror and see my ugly face in that mirror. I don't see Jesus. And what Nehemiah had to recognize was that there was something deeper inside of the people that he had been sent. To rebuild. And verse six tells us a very important shift. Verse six says, So we built Let me find it again here. We built the wall, and the wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a mind to work. They simply turned off what Sandbala was saying And they listened and they watched what God had done through them and through Nehemiah. They refocused their identity on who they were. and who God had called them to be. And I want you to see that as the first rule. When you're trying to rebuild your life, when we're trying to build, rebuild a congregation, when we're trying to rebuild a witness and a testimony, decide Who you are and to whom you will belong. If you belong to Christ, then focus on your labor and on your purpose and have a mind to build Because of who you are. It's the first primary rule it gives that this text gives to us. The second is this. There was confusion about what they were doing, and that confusion was not just The disarray of the stones or the logs as you look at them all over the floor this morning, but it was really deeper It was about an understanding, a fundamental understanding of who they were. Look at verses seven, start starting at verse seven. When Sandbalad and Tobiah and the Arabs and the Ammonites And the Ashtonites heard that the repairing of the walls of Jerusalem was going forward, and that the breaches were beginning to be closed. They were very angry. And they plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem to cause confusion in it. Just confusion. It's amazing what confusion does to us. It takes, it distracts us from the task at hand. So if the people all had a mind to build, the next strategy was to distract them. So that they forget what they were there for. We can come to worship and be confused about how our lives are to be rebuilt. And about what God wants us to do. We lose track of the directions. And that was all that was happening in Jerusalem at the time Their enemies said, we will move among them. Now the enemies were angry. They plotted, but what they plotted was confusion. Nobody will know who's who. Nobody will know who's a friend and who's a foe. Who is working, who's not working It's going to look, everybody's going to look the same. And sometimes in our lives, it's the same way. Sometimes as believers, we are in that package where we don't know who is who. And we get confused. Somebody says something that sounds a little Christianly. We think, oh, they must be, I must be like them. They must be like and the next thing I know, no, no, they're taking me down a totally different road. Helping me to listen to something I shouldn't listen to, helping me to do something I shouldn't do. And so I get confused. Well, who is really a follower of Jesus? Who is it that really is rebuilding our life when all of us have nicks and dents and scrapes and our lives are sort of falling apart? All of us are that way. So who is it that I'm in this with? Confusion. And Nehemiah looked at that confusion and he said, We need protection. Verse 9 We need protection. We prayed to our God and set guard as a protection against them night and day. So we protect our families. We protect our lives. We protect what we listen to. We protect what we say. We protect each other. We protect our worship. Protection is important lest we become totally confused Now some of us may struggle with this little name that is better uh associated to certain personality types. And sometimes when you get really confused, you say, well, don't mind my ADD. Everything will be fine. Well blame all of my confusion all of your confusion on ADD. Well, it's not all about ADD, although maybe that's an extreme a d demonstration of what happens when we get confused. I don't remember where I was. I don't remember what I was doing. And so I need to protect against that. How do I protect my mind, my actions, who I am against just being confused? I pray And I prayed that God would protect me. Now there was a protection means that Nehemiah pulled into this, and you know what it was. He said, listen, we're going to organize ourselves. So that we recognize that there are threats out there as we build the wall, and we're going to have to start carrying not only our tools to build, but our weapons to defend. I want to suggest that it wasn't crazy of Nehemiah to do that, because then it became very clear who was really on the building team and who wasn't. If you weren't carrying a weapon and a trowel, you weren't on the building team. If you didn't have the tools for defense and the tools for building, you weren't on the building team So the very way that it was organized made it very clear who was on the team and who's not, even though everybody might have looked alike. They might have all been living moving in the city. But now they had a way of protection. Simple So, rule two, pray for your protection. Yes, you will work and you will protect each other, but it is fundamentally Christ in us. In you, around us, with us, that protects us. And as we seek to put on what Christ calls us to do and to not do, We define who we are, and that definition gives us protection. So, go to pray for your protection. Rule three and circumstance three was uh that when I'm building my life, when you're rebuilding your life, when we're rebuilding a congregation, discouragement often comes. I don't know uh but what all of us don't have uh we might have a really short memory, but it's really easy to think back of the immense discouragement that the years of COVID brought to us individually, as families, and as a church. Nothing that used to work worked anymore. And somehow that sense of discouragement has lived with us. Churches across the U. S. have simply crumbled because of the sense of discouragement. We're not together anymore. We're no longer progressing. Everything seems to have fallen. So this deep sense of discouragement, look at the discouragement in this chapter. Verse 10. Verse 10 begins this way. In Judah it was said, the strength of those who bear the burdens is failing. There is too much rubble. By ourselves, we will not be able to rebuild the wall. If you don't see in that the words of deep discouragement. And if you can identify with that deep discouragement, then you've missed the text and you've missed your life Because we look at our lives and we simply say there is too much rubble. I can't deal with the intergenerational failures of my family. I can't deal with my aunts and uncles, my sisters, my brothers, my father, my mother, my whoever it is in my family that was dysfunctional and left that dysfunctionality in me. It's too much I'm just looking at my family. Now I'm going to look at your families. Just imagine how I get to multiply the dysfunctionality. And it's not funny. Because it's painful and it discourages us. I get deeply discouraged because I simply say of my life. There is too much rubble. That's what brought Nehemiah to Jerusalem to start with. That's what set him off on his journey when he listened to his brothers who said, Oh yeah, the people that are back there, they're in deep weeds And I'll tell you, the city is destroyed. There's rubble everywhere. It's not just the physical city. It's not just the bridges that have been knocked down. It's their lives. They don't know who they are anymore. They don't know what God has called them to do and be There is so much failure, so much moral failure, so much relational failure that the rubble is too deep to walk through We get discouraged. When discouragement overwhelms me, I can no longer hope. So hope goes. There's nothing to hope for. I'm simply discouraged. Emotionally becomes too much for me to bear. I can't rebuild. I look at the pain around me. I don't even know where to where to begin. And so that sense of overwhelmingness is deeply with inside me. Nehemiah said, verse 14. I looked and arose and said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people: Do not be afraid of them. Remember. The Lord, who is great and awesome. And fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, your homes. Remember. Remember not only who you are, but whose you are. You belong to a great and a mighty God. You are a part of a family. And we are part of each other. We belong to Christ. We belong to the family of Christ. And that was simply what he said, remember. Remember the Lord Remember your family. Remember your home. And if there's a weakness, go to the weakness. This is a profound insight that And gives to us here in terms of how he managed it. We tend to go towards strength because we like to be surrounded by strength We like to be struck we like to go to a place, many people like to go only like to go to church in a place that it seems very successful. A lot of people, a lot of programs, a lot of stuff. So well, I don't want to go to a place that's, you know, hasn't got their act together. I don't want to go to a family function where everybody is dysfunctional. I mean, why in the world would I want to do that? So here we are, Nehemiah says, listen, remember whose you are, remember who your family is, and if there's a weak spot on the wall, go to it. Well the weak spot was people. It was a people weakness. It wasn't just a stone weakness So when we built the bridge and the boys put in first one extra leg And you remember I asked him the question, what happens if I let go? So what it will fall. Why? Well, because it had a weak leg So they went and got another stick and stuck that other stick in the wrong way. Says, well, is that really the right way? Well, no. Well then let's put it in right. So here it is, God brings it before us as exactly what what Nehemiah was doing. He says, when you are discouraged When you're discouraged in rebuilding your life and building the church and rebuilding anything that God wants, remember that Christ holds you. And Christ keeps you. And remember his purpose. Remember those that are around you. You're not an island. It's not just you and God. It's not just you and Jesus as my best friend, and forget about you. No. We are the people of God. And if there is a weak spot in us, we need to go to that weak spot. Remember who's We are. We belong to Christ. And we belong to each other. That's the commitment we made when we became a part of this country. That we would bear each other's burdens. We would go to the weak spot. So rule three is remember Fourth, in this text and context, were the threats. I want you to look at verse fifteen with me Verse fifteen picks us up. When our enemies heard that it was known to us, and that God had frustrated their plan, we all returned to the wall, each to his work. From that day on half of my servants worked in construction, half held the spears, shields, bows, coats of mail, and the leader stood behind the whole house of Judah. who were building on the wall. Those who carried the burdens were loaded in such a way that each labored on the work with one hand and held his weapon with the other, and each of the builders had his sword strapped by his side while he built The man who sounded the trumpet was beside me. And I said to the nobles and to the officials and the rest of the people, the work is great. It's widely spread, and we are separated on the wall from one another. the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet rally to us there. So there were physical threats. Physical threats that they had to deal with It was not just the emotional threat, not just the mental threat of who they were, uh of the fact that they uh if a fox jumps on this wall it'll break it down, the mockery. It wasn't just that. It was the physical threat as well. And so we think in our lives, what are those threats that seek to destroy? to weaken, to overthrow every effort. Often it's not a physical sometimes it is a physical something that comes against us. Uh maybe a bill. you know an overwhelming bill. A bill that comes into your mailbox and just a piece of paper. How does that threaten anybody, right? Well, it is a threat. Because how do I pay it? How do I deal with it? So that little physical piece of paper that seems so insignificant in the grand scheme of things carries a great deal of weight. And I become threatened. by the finances that are around me that are I just feel like they're going to overwhelm me. I become threatened by many things that actually Work together just like this bridge work together positively, but then it becomes a negative working together. I I'm discouraged I see this bill comes in, whether it comes in physically in a piece of paper or even worse, it comes in on my phone and I see it and I can't get rid of it. It just What do I do? How do I rebuild? How do I rebuild? Well, God was at work. Have to see what he's done. And that's what's displayed here. Nehemiah said, Listen, look around you. Look at the ones that are carrying their weapons. Look at the ones that are protecting. Look at the ones that are building. Look at the wall that's growing. Listen, listen to the sounds of building, listen to the sounds of encouraging, listen to the sounds of God at work So watch. Observe. God works by using us. That's the lesson of this chapter. God worked by using his people. His people who were discouraged. His people who were In rubble, their lives were in rubble, but he used them. He used them step by step, little by little, and they moved as they looked, as they listened, they moved into the weak areas. where they were building. There was a diversity of calling and gifts. Do you remember the first three chapters? There's a perfume maker. Who was building a wall, not exactly what perfume makers do. There was a goldsmith who was asked to build gates. Not exactly what goldsmiths do. It wasn't a gate of gold. So these diverse gifts and even things that weren't gifts, God says, I will use. I'm sure the goldsmith thought himself I think I just go back to my little room and make gold rings. But that wasn't the need. The need was to build a wall. And then he could build gold rings. And so the goldsmith had to be out there at the moment with everybody else. Nobody was in Island. So verse twenty. Verse twenty sort of puts it in a very clear way. In the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Watch and see what God is doing. Listen for the sound of distress. And when you see what God is doing, you hear the sound of distress. Respond. Come. That's the rule. It's pretty simple. Listen. Listen to the voice of Christ, who died for you, who was the sacrifice. When you see your life in disarray, listen to the voice of the shepherd, who says, Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Listen to the voice. And respond. The rules aren't hard, are they? And not very hard for building a bridge. We'll see if the boys can do it. If you're smarter than they are, you try it. See if you can do it. You can teach them about it. But the rules are pretty simple. Decide, decide who you are. You are a child of the king if you've been redeemed in Christ Jesus. Pray for your protection. That God would protect your mind, your heart, your ears, because you are in a hostile world. That you might hear and see and do the things that would give glory to God. This is the second rule. The third rule: remember whose you are, that Christ holds you. You don't just hold yourself. And even though we are called to hold each other, we only hold each other because Christ holds us. It's his strength, not mine. It's his strength in you that holds me, it's his strength in me that holds you. It's Christ's strength. Remember it. Remember our families. And listen. Listen to the voice of the shepherd who calls. Even when you do a dumb thing. And we all do dumb things. That doesn't make us dumb people. But it makes us people that do dumb things. When you do something dumb, something sinful, listen to the voice of the Shepherd, who says, I love you, I will hold you, I will redeem you, I will make you to be a bridge between two worlds. Between those in the kingdom of darkness and those in the kingdom of light, I will use you. And keep on. Keep on keeping on. Don't stop. The builders didn't stop. These four rules happened daily as they continued to build. And we will come eventually. To that verse that says, In fifty-two days the wall was rebuilt. You can do it. Because Christ is in you. Let's pray. Father. Show us again who we are and who you are. Show us again whose we are, to whom we belong. Give us ears to hear, give us hearts to press on. For truly, Father, we seek to clear the rubble from our own lives, for the lives of our families. From the lives of our children or our grandchildren, from the lives of our fathers and mothers, and to stand before you, redeemed by the Father, hear our confession And we invite you to open your hearts before Christ. Confess