Well good morning. We are continuing on in our study of the gospel according to John this morning. And if you have a Bible, I encourage you to open to John chapter 11. We'll be reading Verses 38 to 44. And in case you haven't been with us as we've been going through this chapter, we've been looking at the this story of Jesus raising his friend Lazarus from the dead. And we've spent two weeks so far in this chapter seeing kind of the backstory. And today is the day that we finally get to the climactic point when Jesus actually raises Lazarus from the dead. So I'd invite you, if you're able, to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now God's word. Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we come to you now in this time, hungry, needing you to feed us from your word. You tell us that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. of God. Lord, we need you, not just every week, not just every day, but every hour. We need you to strengthen us. Lord, we pray now that you would sanctify us in the truth, trusting that your word is truth. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God stands for us. forever. And we pray, O Lord, that you would use this time in your word, Holy Spirit, to open our eyes, to help us to see what you would have us see, to hear what you would have us hear, and to change us that we might live for you and love you more. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I'm not sure if you've ever thought this as you read through this chapter of the Bible and as you get to this portion of the story. And I'm not sure if you ever thought about it, but This is not how I would tell this story. Think about it. This is now our third week in John 11 because the story is so long. We we spent so much time getting the backstory. We we hear how Jesus received the news of his friend Lazarus who is sick, how he deliberately waited, not in spite of his love for him, but because of his love waited until Lazarus died before he even sets out to journey to Bethany. And how he he gets there, we hear all kinds of conversations that he has with Martha and her sister Mary. We hear we we even get a glimpse into The inner life of our Lord, him being deeply moved in his spirit, we see a glimpse of the emotional life of our Lord that shows up maybe nowhere else in Scripture, that he wept. A picture of his true humanity. There's so much that John gives us in the backstory leading up to this miracle. And then the moment that the climactic time comes when Jesus is going to raise him from the dead, we get Just about nothing. Six short verses. John gives us the least information at the most important part of the story. No flowery language to draw out what it might have been like to wait there, hearing you know, the moment of silence after Jesus speaks before Lazarus comes out. Nothing like that. No description of Lazarus' experience, by the way. Lazarus says nothing. He doesn't come out, he doesn't publish his book, Four Days in Heaven. It is interesting that everyone in the Bible who goes to heaven and comes back is silent about it. That might shape our understanding of the heaven literature that we see in our day. He doesn't give us anything. There's not much information about him that's given to us. He he shows up a couple places in scripture, but really not a whole lot given to develop this guy and his character and what happened to him. It's told just In great simplicity, there's nothing given to satisfy our curiosity. And I think that's because curiosity can often distract us from what matters most. You see, what we need to know has been recorded for us. That Christ is the glorious Son of God and that we are meant to focus on Him. The point that this passage teaches us is that when Jesus shows us his glory, we must respond in faith. And I just want to walk through the passage, just kind of looking at three different scenes for us: Christ's conversation with Martha, Christ's conversation with his father, and Christ's conversation with Lazarus. So Jesus there in verses 38 to 40, he comes to the tomb, and the text tells us that he's deeply moved again. What we saw last week The context of that, that the language in the original refers much more than just that he was stirred up in his emotions, but it's actually anger. You might translate it that Jesus was indignant. And we saw last week that that largely had to do with the fact that he was angry at the reality of sin and the havoc that it wreaks in our world, the pain of death and all that happens, and praise God that he came to do something about it. He comes to the tomb and we are told that it's a cave with a stone rolled over, and Jesus just simply says, take away the stone. Simplicity again. But I want you to notice Martha's response in verse 39. I think there's a couple things for us to see there. First, the way that John records this is done in such a way that it magnifies and enhances the sign that Jesus is about to do. We're told that he's been dead four days. Now th there's a Jewish belief that that shapes some things going on here possibly that that many suggest that there was a Jewish belief that that the spirit of a person after they died would kind of hover over the body for about three Three days, almost looking for an opportunity to re-enter. And only when it became clear that the person was dead and that the body just started to decay, that the soul would leave and depart. We're not entirely sure if that belief was prevalent at the time of Jesus' earthly ministry, but if it was, that would definitely shape the reason that John gives us these details. At the very least, it shows that Lazarus was pretty clearly dead. He wasn't just taking a long nap. And the fact that the text draws that out for us, Martha is worried that there's going to be an odor. Right, without being too graphic, Lazarus has started to decompose. Jews in this day would not have embalmed their dead. And so four days was plenty of time for the effects of death to set in. It magnifies the sign that Jesus is about to do. But I think maybe even more significantly for us. Notice Martha's unbelief lying behind this statement. Of all the things that might be going on, she clearly does not expect Jesus to raise her brother. She thinks that Lazarus is in a situation that's beyond hope and beyond help. But just remember her conversation that she just had with Jesus a few verses ago. Verses 21 to 27, I'll read it for you. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection. And the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said, and yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. It's only been a few minutes since she said that she believed that Christ could do whatever he asked from his Father. That she believed that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. That she believed he's the resurrection and the life. This was a climactic confession. And five minutes later, she's utterly hopeless. Because in her unbelief, she can't bring herself to hope beyond what her eyes can see. Does that sound like you? Sounds like me more often than I'd like to admit it. You see, Martha is an example for us that that proves that you can truly be a Christian and yet approach life with all its problems and struggles in unbelief. That you can have salvation in Christ, have the Holy Spirit living inside you, and yet live practically as if God doesn't exist and if the gospel isn't true. How often do you and I find ourselves in situations that we think are utterly hopeless? In the midst of conflict, in a strained relationship, not seeing any way for the Lord to bring reconciliation? Dealing with a chronic illness or pain, the doctors can't figure out at all what's going on, and there seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel. A loved one you're praying for who doesn't know the Lord. Their situation looks beyond all hope. Struggling with a persistent sin that you've been dealing with for decades and seeming to never get over it. Problems at work in school that won't seem to go away. There's so many ways that we can find ourselves in a hopeless situation, just like Martha is. But notice how Christ responds. Didn't I say that if you believed you would see the glory of God? You see, Martha couldn't imagine anything coming out of that tomb except a bad smell. We often view our struggles as similarly hopeless, with no way out, no hope for anything to be done, and yet Scripture tells us we have a God who's able to do far more than we can even ask or imagine. And it's encouraging us that we need to live like that's true. Expecting God's work. When you and I are embroiled in the midst of a conflict, trusting in the gracious promise that we have a God who's in the business of reconciliation. That when we're dealing with sickness and pain, the God we pray to is also the great physician. That when you pray for unbelievers longing to see them come to faith, that we serve a God who loves to save sinners. And draw them to himself. It's not a blanket promise that God will do whatever we want, is that we can name and claim whatever we wish in life. God doesn't always give us specific promises. For healing or specific problems to go away in that sense. But he does promise that he is there in the midst of it. He promises that he is at work for his glory and for our good. That he hasn't left us or forsaken us, and that he's not letting us go through these things because he doesn't love us, but because he does love us and is at work in our lives. And we can approach the struggles We have in our faith with great confidence that God is at work, expecting Him to do something glorious, even though it might not look the way we think it should Martha's been struggling in her unbelief, but she begins to trust Christ, and so they remove the stone And Jesus then prays. And I just want you to see three significant things that we see in this prayer. The first thing it shows us is a glimpse of Christ's relationship with the Father. Notice he starts off, he doesn't say our father, but father. It wasn't unusual for Jewish people of the day to speak of God as our Father collectively, and yet that individual, intimate personal connection with God as my Father is something that's unheard of apart from Christ in the witness of Scripture. He is unique as the only Son of God. He has an intimacy with the Father, equal as the Son. The exact imprint of God's nature, the one who upholds the universe by the word of his power, the one in whom the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, the one who makes the Father known to us, saying to Philip, How long have you known me and you don't know that if you've seen me, you've seen the Father? Equal to God and His being, the same in substance, equal in power and glory, and yet in His role as our Redeemer and as the mediator During his earthly ministry, submits to the Father's will and does everything that the Father has given him to do, and only that. We see a glimpse of Christ's relationship with his Father. But we also see that Jesus here prays as if the sign has already happened. Did you notice that? There's no request here. It's only thanksgiving. I thank you that you have heard me already. It's as if Jesus has already asked for Lazarus' life at some point that the text doesn't reveal us. We see that in the beginning of chapter 11 when Jesus has already decided that he's going in order to raise him from the dead. And Jesus prays in such a way that expresses confidence that God has heard him. Doesn't that give you such confidence in your own prayer life? The promise of the gospel is that in the Holy Spirit, we share in the Son's relationship with his father. Christ gives us confidence that we can come before God in prayer, coming before his throne of grace in confidence that we'll receive the grace and the help that we need. And so when we come in Christ's name, we have confidence that the Father will hear your prayers just like he hears the prayers of his son. Truly, we can cast all our anxieties on him because he cares for us. This passage gives us an encouragement to pray like Jesus in confidence that God hears us and that God answers prayers and will work. The third thing about Jesus prayer is that he he prays not for himself, but for others. He prays in such a way that shows that he desires to show that he does the will of the Father because he's been sent by him. He wants other people to believe in him, to recognize who he is, and that he's been sent by the Father. It's no accident. That there's a connection here between Martha's statement, whatever you ask from God, God will give you, and then Jesus coming later and saying, Thank you that you've heard me and given me what I've asked. It reminds us again that this miracle is not about itself. It's a sign that points to Christ as the Word who became flesh and dwelt among us, the one in whom we have seen his glory. Glory is of the Son from his Father, full of grace and truth. Christ was sent by his Father in order to make God's glory known, so that the earth would be full of the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Jesus spoke to Martha, to his father, and now he turns and speaks to Lazarus. It's amazing in its simplicity, isn't it? Lazarus, come out. Up you go. The response is immediate. Lazarus comes out still wrapped up. And Jesus just says, untie him and let him go. Effortless. There's such a drastic change that takes place in a few short verses. Notice that Lazarus starts out the passage being referred to as the dead man. A couple verses later, he's walking out of a tomb alive. The whole structure of the text is designed to emphasize Christ's power and his glory as the one who brings the dead to life. And does it with utter simplicity and ease. You see, the same God who created the world by the word of his power, speaking the universe into existence, saying, Let there be, and there was That's the same God who now stands before the tomb and speaks, and a man who was dead comes to life This is Christ's most amazing sign and miracle that we read about in Scripture. Everything else pales in comparison. There are seven signs recorded in John's Gospel, and every single one of them is impressive. Designed to reveal who Christ is. He turns the water into wine. He heals the official son. He then heals the paralytic later. He feeds the 5,000. He walks on water. He heals a man who's been blind from birth. Every single one of these display Christ's divine power and authority as the Lord of all creation, and yet none of them as clearly as Lazarus, where Jesus simply and effortlessly brings the dead to life. Simply by speaking. When we see the sign this way, we see that the sign is pointing us to Christ's glory. But it's also a picture of what Christ does in our lives. You see, scripture is clear. Sin is not merely a sickness or a weakness that we struggle with. No, Scripture tells us we are dead in our sin. Just like Lazarus, it's as impossible for us to repent of our sins and trust in Christ as it was for him to raise himself from the dead. We are dead in our trespasses and sins, but the beautiful promise of the gospel is that God has made us alive again in Christ. Lazarus' resurrection is a picture of what it looks like for a sinner to be brought to faith in Christ. It's a reminder that we must be regenerated. We must be born again. We must be brought to new life in Christ. The heart of stone must be Taken out, and we must be given a heart of flesh, transferred from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of God's beloved Son, passing from death to life. Friends, have have you experienced this change? It might have been a radical change in your life and you know the precise moment when it happened. It may have been gradual and and all you know now is that you're different than you used to be. I was blind but now I see. I was lost but now I'm found. Maybe your testimony is still different, and you never knew a day when you didn't know Christ. And yet, as you examine your heart, you know that you have a love for Christ that's not natural for a sinner to have. That you love him even though you can't see him, and that because you love him, you love what he loves and you hate what he hates. That to you, holiness is beautiful. That sin is despised. You long to be free of it, not because of its consequences, but because you hate dishonoring the one whom your soul loves. Have you experienced this change? Have you been born again? Friends, I I pray that you have, because if not, there's no amount of church attendance, no amount of of Bible reading or serving or giving or generosity. Or kindness or charity or anything else that will do you any spiritual good unless the Lord Jesus comes to you by his Holy Spirit through his word and says, live. The good news is that's what he does. You and I have have no power to save ourselves any more than a corpse can bring itself back to life. But Christ is in the business of saving sinners and raising the dead. He promises: ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you. And the beautiful thing is that He doesn't just tell us that will be found if we search for him. He's told us where to look. He's told us here. Where the gospel is preached, where the sacraments are administered, where God's people gather together in prayer. Ordinary things that are attached to extraordinary promises. That in every place where I cause my name to be remembered, I will come to you and I will bless you. Same way that you find a doctor in a hospital, God has promised to be found by those who seek Him through the ordinary means of grace. Faith is a gift. It's something that must be given to us. We can't make ourselves believe. But the one who's able to give says that if anyone would come, I will not fast him out. I will raise him up on the last day. Come to Christ. Ask him to bring you life and to give you faith. If you're here this morning and you're thinking about this change and you say, I I have experienced this change. That's something that's that's true of me. Then we should long to see this happen in the lives of others. This is what we should be about, bringing Jesus to someone so that he might raise them from the dead. Seeking opportunities to proclaim the gospel with confidence that the one who sends us out to make disciples is also the one who has the power to raise the dead to spiritual life. And more than that, he's the one who promises, I am with you always, to the very end of the age. Friends, we can't fail unless we don't try. We're called to step out in faith, trusting that if we believe, we will see the glory of God. Lazarus is a picture of our regeneration, but it's also a picture of our future resurrection. That if you are in Christ, this sign should give you hope. Not just because you remember what Christ has already done for you, but it gives you hope of what he will one day do in your life. Looking forward to the day when Christ will return and speak not just to Lazarus, but to every one of us, saying, Rise. The dead will give up their graves. All will rise again. God's people raised to life. God's enemies raised to judgment. But if you're in Christ, the beautiful promise of the resurrection is that in that day you'll be acknowledged by Christ as his own You'll be vindicated in the judgment. You'll be raised to a life that knows no end and raised in a perfect body that will never wear out, never decay, enabling you to perfectly enjoy God forever. I was struck this week and fascinated by it, by the fact that Lazarus says nothing in this passage, and yet the next time we see Lazarus is just a few verses down in chapter 12, verse 2. We're told that Jesus comes back to Bethany and that they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. See, when I read that verse, suddenly all of it came together for me. Christ told Martha, if you believe, you will see the glory of God. Do you realize the best thing that happens to Lazarus is not his resurrection? It's sitting down at a table with the Lord, being in his presence. The promise that we have of forgiveness, the promise that we have of a future resurrection, of a resurrection body All those promises are wonderful, good promises, and yet they're not ultimate. They're a means to an end. The ultimate goal that you and I have is seeing the glory of God. The beatific vision, as theologians call it. Seeing God in all his beauty and all his glory. So what the psalmist speaks about in Psalm 27. One thing. That I have asked from the Lord, of all the things I could have asked, one thing I have asked of the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. And to inquire in his temple. You have said, Seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Friends, is that your hope this morning? That you will one day see the one whom your soul loves, gazing upon his beauty. If you believe, you will see the glory of God. Beholding the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Even now we get a taste, for Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians that we all as Christians stand in the place of Moses. with unveiled face beholding the glory of the Lord. And as we behold his glory, we are being transformed into the same image, from one degree of glory into another. A beautiful promise. If you believe, you will see the glory of God Not at all how I tell the story. It's told so simply. And yet isn't it told so beautifully? To keep the focus on the main thing, the glory of God that's revealed in Christ. Reminding us that this glorious act leads to an even more glorious act. Because this is a sign that leads many to reject him. We'll see next week specifically that it leads them to harden themselves against Christ and determine to crucify him. Lazarus' resurrection paves the way for the cross. And John will go on in chapter 12 to tell us about the glory of God displayed in a crucified Savior. He is indeed lifted up, but it's on a cross. And like Lazarus, Jesus will be placed in a tomb that's sealed with a stone. And like Lazarus, a few days later the stone will be removed. And like Lazarus, one who was dead will come out alive. But very much different from Lazarus, he will come out having defeated death once and for all. Praise God. Friends, this is your glorious Savior. Believe in him, and you will see the glory of God. Let's pray together. Father, what a glorious promise it is that you will be found by those who search for you. And that you will save us and make us your children. And that the hope we've given us that if we believe, we will see the glory of God. Seeing you work in mighty ways here and now, see you transform us gradually, bit by bit, into the likeness of our Lord, and one day, that our faith will become sight. And that we will gaze upon the glory of the Lord for all eternity. Lord, may that be our ultimate hope. May that be the thing that that shapes everything about our lives, living As Paul says, that we let everything go in the hope of obtaining Christ. And we thank you for the promise of your grace. We pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us for the weak and all that you call us to do. In Jesus' name. Thanks, Amen.