Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was the delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loinclaws And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman who whom you gave to me the woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me the fruit of the tree and I ate Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all the livestock and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you, in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the fr eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living, and the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever. Therefore the gods Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. Amen. Please be seated. We are going through the first part of the book of Genesis, not the whole way. We'll end So one through eleven. And we uh have Had two chapters of awesomeness. Chapters 1 and 2 of Genesis are amazing. Everything is going so great. And it doesn't take long for the wheels to fall off. And the the big point, one of the big points, is that's not the way it's supposed to be. All of this sin and misery is not the way it's supposed to be. Now I was uh looking at You know, epic design flaws. In Genesis 1, we talked about how great when you see a great design, you pr praise the designer. It's how great it is to see that great design. But on the other hand, when you see design flaws it can be a disaster. Now, so I didn't want to go with all the actual disasters. I went with uh design disasters. See what's the problem with this design? It's at the bottom That's not a good design, is it? Do you want chicken, beef, or kids? Okay, next one. We'll go through these pretty fast. Okay, this seems like you could have caught the problem on this one pretty simple. Right? We're not teaching kids if we're doing that. Okay, what's the next one? What in the world? Did you not look at what it is when you put it? Quit school? Take action. Take control. Quit school. Okay, that makes no sense. Next one. Is that it? Did I only do three? Okay. I could have done a lot more. And you know, of course, some of the egregious ones are maybe not appropriate at church. When things go wrong, they have consequences. Those are small consequences. But in Genesis 3, things go terribly, terribly wrong. So we're looking at an ancient text and applying it to us now here in 2024. I only have two points. Everything is broken Satan leads us into bondage and we go willingly. Everything is broken. This is the origins of how we got in this state and how we continue. We started off so nicely in Genesis 1 and 2, this great world. God created two people, Adam and Eve. They're in a community now with each other. They're in love. They have a good work that they're doing. They walk with God every day, perfectly in peace with God. And somehow evil enters. And God created a world that has a Satan. Christianity says there is evil in us, but very key, it is not natural. Evil is not natural. It's not the way it's supposed to be. Now, naturalism or evolution doesn't have an answer for evil. It's just embedded into each one of us. It just is. Christianity says it's not the way it's supposed to be. We want created this way. Now we also believe, as Christians, that there is a real Satan. There are real demons And there are real angels. We don't understand it all. We don't need to delve in and study it like crazy or look for demons and angels behind every corner or blame them. But they are real in this world. And because of us, Satan doesn't have the hardest job. Sometimes it gives us a little push. Right? We do a lot ourselves because of what happens in Genesis 3. Now, Satan's arrival, another mystery. There are all these sort of mysteries in Genesis. Not explained. We have a talking serpent. So let's talk a little bit about what is Satan doing here 3. 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord has made. Satan is crafty. He asks a question. No big deal. He said to the woman, Did God actually say you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? Now, I always picture we're we're we sp we're supposed to use our biblical imagination, you know. I think that maybe Eve is like, dude Snakes don't talk? What's going on here? And he's like, I'm just asking a question. It's just a question Did God actually say? I mean, don't take this super seriously. Did God actually say this? You know, um obviously he's implying an answer. It's not a any type of simple question. And maybe Satan gets to us again when he says, did God actually say marriage is between a man and a woman? Did he? Or did God actually say Jesus is the only way? And we start to think, well, I don't know. Maybe God didn't actually say that. Maybe I've heard it all wrong. And that gets us to Satan's cause. Okay. After Eve's answer, and the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it Bless you die. So this is where Satan goes in with his real purpose, right? The question was just a lead-in to get into this sentence You will not surely die. For God knows when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Eve, God isn't being good to you. He's made this crazy rule And you believe it. He doesn't want what's best for you. He's withholding the best from you. You need to stand on your own two feet. Be in charge. There's only three of you, Adam, Eve, and God. So you're one of the people. I'm here too. There's four of us. You should have a say in what goes on here These rules are arbitrary and they believe the lie. Now, I can relate Obviously I know this was a good rule, but if I snee sniff out the silliest rule I am all over it. I want to break any crazy rule that I can find. Remember I got sent to the principles principles of office and I ran away. I didn't want to write sentences. But let me tell you, just give you an example. I was uh at the post office last week mailing one of these silly roosters to one of my friends. But he lives in Canada. And so I get up there, I have a couple of them on mailing and this woman was not nice She was very put off that I did not know that I had to fill a customs form for a five dollar roof rooster trophy. Okay, alright, whatever. So I go over there, you know, she's unhappy that I didn't know that. And so I'm filling it out. I know it's in the box. She doesn't know when's the box. I get that part. So I'm filling it out and I'm just like, oh this is so dumb. This is so dumb. And I didn't put every single information piece in the correct box. So like, you know, I just like put the zip code and I just filled it out. She was not having it. Sir, you've got to put everything in the correct box. I'm like, why? It's the form. The form says you have to Oh my gosh. You can read what I wrote. I was not yelling at her, but I was like, I don't think it matters. No, so I had to redo the whole thing. And you know what she does? She takes the form and starts typing what I wrote on the form into a form. Does that does that need to be in the correct box? So I'm dealing with a rule follower, big time, rule follower, big time. And so I so I'm just like And then she says, oh, you didn't mark what's in it. Is it a gift? Is it a is it you know, it's a gift. Who cares? These are rules that I do not like. That's a mild example. But the problem is who decides when a rule is dumb? Me. I decide dumb rules So like you know like if you decide this is full of gum rules, that's a problem. That this is different than the child protection policy. filling out boxes for a rooster going over the border to Toronto. But it's a that that's my problem. I I'm not telling you things that I'm proud of. And I could talk about stuff like that a long time, sadly My heart is preset to break rules And ultimately, I think at some level, this is how sin works. And Jesus is sanctifying me, right? But God doesn't know what he's doing. When he makes rules like this. So we can relate to Eve But God's ways are to bring us life, aren't they? This was for their good. And so Satan's lie, you know, he's not asking them to do something super immoral. He doesn't say go kill someone or or lie. He says you just eat the fruit. Just disobey this arbitrary rule. Don't be bossed around. Go your own way. There's no limits. Satan's cause. What about Satan's success? Now this sort of depends on what you think Satan looks like. Right? The scary devil or the cute devil? Horns, pitchforks. I think one reason why we don't have to go looking for Satan everywhere is we're doing a good job ourselves. We demonize others It's that political party, the other political party. It's kids these days. It's Starbucks taking over the world, right? The things that we love to hate This is what I mean. Uh we don't have to Satan doesn't have to work too hard. There's a there's a storytelling uh genre where Satan comes to town. You know, uh I'm not necessarily suggesting you watch it, but in the first season of uh True Detective Which has lots of cursing and violence. Satan shows up in this town in uh North Dakota or Minnesota or something. There's a Stephen King wrote a book where Satan shows up in this town It's called needful things, and he opens up a a shop. And so what what is Satan doing when he shows up? He's giving people what they want. He's giving people what they want. You know the screw tape letters They're trying to be sneaky and wormy, but not too obvious, right? And use people against themselves so they don't trust God. You don't want to be too blatant and arouse suspicion But it gets in there. Like, did you teach your kids how to disobey and fight? No. They know how to do it. We're children of Adam and Eve. It comes out of us. Created good, doing bad. And so that's why you get one time to say it's Adam's fault. You can have one time too. It's Adam's fault. It's Eve's fault. That's why I did this. It's true But you think about, it would be fascinating to have some like sin counter in the world and see like how many sins are happening every minute It's be staggering. Every hour, every day they're stacking up, stacking up, stacking up. Disobeying God. Doing the wrong thing or not doing the right thing, which is a whole nother level, right? When we don't trust God and we don't believe the lies. One of the scariest verses in the Bible, Proverbs fourteen, six. There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death Adam and Eve believed the lie. They went their own way. So, in essence, I'd like to live in this garden without the one who created it And they became children of the lie. And their relationship with God broke. And their relationship with each other broke. And their relationship with the world broke. And the catechism, number seventeen, says, we were plunged into an estate of sin and misery. What if that were all I had to say? The good thing is I got a whole nother point God is making all things new. And He sends a Redeemer. The first glimpse is right here. So now what We got sin, we got death, and all that comes after that. And it feels like God is now gone. I told you about my friend Levi. He was the firefighter who died in a mountain climbing accident. At his funeral, uh one of my our former RUF students, who was also a member of our church, read this poem. I'm gonna read you the First half. Holy Father, enthroned on the praises of Israel, we dare to pray as your son prayed on Calvary, quoting this very psalm, Psalm 1 twenty two. My God, my God, why have you forsaken us? So we ask we dare to ask why Why have you forsaken us? Why have you left wife without husband, daughter without daddy, son without Son without father, father and mother without son, brother without brother, grandmother without grandson, uncle and aunt without nephew, cousin without cousin, and friend without friend Since the news of Levi's death hit our eardrums, tumbled into our hearts, and flipped our lives upside down, we have not stopped praying. We lift the weary psalmist words back on our own. I cry by day, but you do not answer. And by night, but find no rest. God, do you hear us? A darkness fell on the land as your son's agony came to its culmination. We stumble in the dim light trying to reordinar our lives without a Levi Wilkinson. God, do you see us? From birth you have been our God, Levi's God. Since toddlerhood you have sustained us. Where else can we go? God, do you love us? It's obviously hard for me because I know who we're talking about. So Adam and Eve hid. They knew their fault. They were ashamed in hiding And then one of the Bible's best words, but God was walking in the garden and they heard him walking. I would love to know what that sounds like. What does it sound like when God is walking in the garden? I don't know. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife Hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God didn't leave them there, did he? He didn't scold them, he didn't say, yes where you just Stay. He called to the man and asked, Where are you? Where are you? God went looking for sinners Sidney. Words of grace, costly committed love, ones that set us on a path to a redeemer. In february two thousand nine, four men went missing missing off the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. The U. S. Coast Guard spent three days, they covered 20,000 square miles, one was found. That search cost $1. 6 million. It's expensive to search for people. And what is the cost for God to search for his lost people, his sinning people? What's the cost? He knows the cost He initiates the rescue meeting, right? And he pays the cost. And he was the one who was hurt. What's the cost is a son, isn't it? It's gonna cost him a son to bring these people back, and he pursues them He pursues them. We don't see the fullness of that in this passage, but every story calls his name. Call Jesus' name. And many commentators have mentioned, so I will too, that God covers their nakedness with a sacrifice. Apparently their nakedness had all of a sudden become an issue, they'd realize that what? Through a sacrifice, through a death for them, they were covered But the real thing that we read in this passage is 315. I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. That's to the snake. Now he had he also says to Adam and Eve, there's judgment. I mean, I can't just let things pass. There are consequences, right? Your work is gonna start stinking. It's not gonna be easy anymore. Guess what? Having babies Not quite as fun as it would have been. You're gonna have conflict with each other, battles, power plays But to Satan, he says, there will be war between Satan and the woman, and her offspring and him. And that word offspring Is singular. It's not all her kids, right? There's one person coming, a child coming, born of Adam, and Satan's going to bruise that kid's heel. But he's gonna bruise your head, Satan. You're gonna nip him. You know, you can get around with a broken heel You can't get around with a cutoff head. Get that snake's head cut off. You are gonna lose. You know, a lot of us grew up in a very wonderful time, the eighties 80s. And as cheesy as it is Carmen's The Champion, I can almost bear not to listen. I can't bear to listen to it. But it has a point. You know, it culminates, there's this champion who's going to win. Jesus is going to win. And it all gets connected. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15 that Jesus is the second Adam. So as Adam was our representative that plunged us into sin and misery, Jesus is our representative that gets us out. Like what Adam did got attributed to you. You do it too, but what Jesus did gets attributed to do To you. That's amazing, right? Jesus pays, covers, he bleeds, he seeks. He took the sword guarding the tree on himself. He climbed into the tree of death. Willingly to die. And that makes all things new. Not all yet But someday we will see that city, not in the garden, but in the city of that we'll see that tree in the city of God. And so now, until we get to that point, we can say, this is not the way it's supposed to be supposed to be It's not natural. Disease, death, abortion, war, all of that is cancer Sucking on the host. But we know it's there. And so when we enter into relationship with people and in the world, we are not surprised by sin. It does not shock us. We we know our own sin, right? So when when you hear somebody has done something, it's not a surprise We don't have to come to it with shock and horror per se. We have clear eyes, compassion, and hope. Because we've believed lies. We've agreed with devils. We've loved lesser love. Okay, let me circle back now. Why did God create a world with a Satan Still sort of a baffling question, isn't it? Well, we know God is sovereign and good So this must be the best possible way for this world to operate. Now, why is it the best way for this world to operate? Why can't we have just stayed in Genesis 2? Wouldn't we all be happier? Less fighting? You behave better? Because essential to Jesus' nature. Second person of the Trinity. Essential to his nature is what? He is the creator. He's also the redeemer. And you gotta have something to redeem. Backing up. There's two I don't know if it's only two, but I thought of two uh quintessential ways to see love. One is a baby, right? When you see a baby like ah Another might be a wedding. Especially a you know so we as two people that love each other, we will watch lavish weddings. The whole thing. Princess Diana, Prince Charles. But there's another, actually more startling way to see love. Okay, this is that slide now. This happened Oh wait, don't show it yet. Uh no, don't show it yet. On uh in just it'll be just a minute. Uh August 9, 2022. August ninth, twenty-two. This is the Little League World Series. 12-year-old boys. Southwest Regional Championships. So the winner of this is going to go to the Little League World Series. Not the final, but you know, into the bracket. Two boys, Zay Jarvis, he plays on a Tulsa team, and Bubs Shelton. name. He plays on the Texas team. Rival states. So Zay is pitching no Bubs is pitching, and Zay is hitting, and Bubs hits Zay in the helmet, and he drops, immediately drops. It looks bad. Remember, the winner goes to Little League World Series. And when you get hit in the head, what do you do? Now I'm gonna tell you a little story inside this story. This gets complicated. Do you know who my favorite Orioles baseball player is? Have I told you yet His name is Jim Traber. No one's heard of him. He played for a little you have heard of him? He played for a little bit with the Orioles sort of during Cal Ripkin days. He is he w he's from I think Pittsburgh maybe and he went to Oklahoma State and he played baseball. This is like with P in Cavillia days and he was a quarterback. So anyway he comes up, he's not really that great. He probably hits thirty home runs in his career. He was supposed to be a home run hitter He's pretty pudgy. So um he goes to Japan. We're talking in the n early nineties maybe now Uh by the way I have the only Oirals jersey I have has Traber in the back. You don't see that very often and Camden. Uh I need to call because he oh He okay, the reason why he's my favorite is because he is a uh has a radio show in Oklahoma. That this is the point This is not the point. He's hilario hilarious and funny. And so that's why He's my favorite Oreo player. But when he went to Japan, one he was tired of getting hit. And so um he got hit by the pitcher and he ran to the mound. Now this is what you do when you get hit by a pitcher You're Matt and he runs at the pitcher, but in Japan they don't fight. The pitcher runs to the outfield So he starts chasing them around like some wacky show and he finally catches them and then the they have this little tiny fight and then it's just a whole I'll I'll put a link to it. It's it is pretty amazing to watch. Okay, the point of that is that's what you do when you get hit. So this 12-year-old kid gets hit, he's on the ground. He gets up, he walks to first base, everyone is worried, and the guy who hit him, Bubs, is beside himself. He cannot believe it. And he's crying. He's not going to be able to keep going. So the kid who got hit See him? Does that look good? He goes to first base. They don't know each other. And he walks to first base and hugs Bubs. What happened when people saw that happen You know, we're talking about Little League Baseball. This is a culture of yelling, screaming at each other, parents, coaches. I did all those things. So I know. The problem with baseball is you're not that far away from the people, right? And there are all these little calls that somebody has to make and and and they do all these crazy things and they strike out all the time. So there's a lot of opportunities to be met. So in the midst of that culture, in the midst of a world going crazy, something happened that honestly probably had never happened before. This kid walked to the mound and hugged the guy who hit him The stadium erupts, people are crying and cheering. You can take it down if you want The world noticed. The world noticed. Within 15 minutes, the coach after the game started getting calls from Good Morning America. CBS Morning News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, ESBN, CNN. There was forgiveness and compassion That is has incredible power. Redemption, reconciliation, right? A baby is beautiful. A marriage is wonderful. Forgiveness and reconciliation is shocking. Shocking. And that's embedded in the universe too. This happened so there could be a redeem Sin and death are intruders and cancers. Jesus is eternal, the eternal creator redeemer, coming for us, and that is the real way to live. And it's what we have to share. And then? And then let me finish with this The end of Laura's poem. Come now, Lord Jesus, we need a Savior who weeps, who does not despise Mary, sister of Lazarus, when she's saved. Seeing Mary weep, Scripture tells us Jesus wept. Jesus, weep with us now Come, Lord Jesus, we need a Savior who cries out with a loud voice, who does not deny the pain his body and soul endured on the cross, but emphatically and unapologiedly expresses it. Jesus, cry loudly with us now. Come, Lord Jesus, we need a Savior who is acquitted acquainted with suffering, who takes up our infirmities and carries our sorrows. A Savior that Isaiah prophesied would be a man of sorrows, a familiar friend, familiar friend with suffering. Jesus, have compassion on us now. Come, Lord Jesus. We need a Savior who is near to the brokenhearted, who sees the trust in spirit, and does not turn away in discomfort, fear, or disgust But who reaches out his nail-pierced hand to touch the part of us we will never mend. Jesus, place your hand on us now. Thank you, God, for inviting us to reckon with our wounds, not cover them, set aside or push them through. We were not ready to say good-bye to Levi. So come now, Lord Jesus, and heal us. Amen.