Good morning. You know, the temptation is always, at least for me That there are times when a message has a lot to do with something that doesn't involve me Or rather, when the message is about ministers or pastors or those who are called to proclaim God's word, sometimes our tendency is to switch off because we feel like, well, I am not one of those men, so maybe this is not for me. Today we're going to be talking about Samuel and his call to the prophetic ministry, but I hope we don't switch off. Because the call is for all of us. If you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word from 1 Samuel chapter 3? We're going to read from verses 1 to chapter 4, verses 1a. Hear now the reading of God's Word. Now the young man Samuel was ministering to the Lord under Eli. And the word of the Lord was rare in those days. There was no frequent vision. At that time, Eli, whose high eyesight had begun to grow dim so that he could not see, was lying down in his own place The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was. Then the Lord called Samuel, and he said, Here I am, and ran to Eli and said, Here I am, for you call me. But he said, I did not call, lie down again. So he went and lay down. And the Lord called again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you call me. But he said, I do not call my son. lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, and the word of the Lord had not yet been revealed to him And the Lord called Samuel again the third time, and he arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you call me. And Eli perceived that the Lord was calling the young man. Therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go lie down. And if he calls you, you shall say, Speak, Lord, for your servant's hear. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. And the Lord came and stood calling as at other times. Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak for your servant's hears. Then the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I'm about to do a thing in Israel at which the two ears of everyone who hears it will change. On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house from the beginning to the end And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house forever for the iniquity that he knew, because his sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain them. Therefore I swear to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever. Samuel lay until morning. Then he opened the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. But Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here I am. And Eli said, What is it that he told you? Do not hide it from me. May God do so to you and more also if you hide anything from me or that he told you. So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord. Let him do what seems good to him. And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel from then to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the Lord. And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh For the Lord revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of the Lord. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. The grass withers, the flower fades. But the word of God stands forever. May this be true for us this morning. Amen. You may be seated. The countdown was on. In just a few weeks, I was about to graduate from seminary after almost four years of Memorizing Hebrew and Greek paradigms, writing what seems to be as an ending papers, countless exams Reading a ton of books, not to mention memorizing the whole of this Bible's book outlines. And I was standing in front of my peers and my colleagues for what is normally called the final or the senior seminar class. And after hearing all what my friends had to say, they had all stood up and given their very elaborate plans of how they were going to become pastors or missionaries. It was my turn to stand out before them. And I confidently came up to the front and I explained to them by elaborate plans to how and why I was not called into pastoral ministry. You see, I had my own elaborate plan. The plan was simple. Take a flight, go back to Kenya, start a theological library, and pursue my lifeline goal of becoming a lawyer. My reason was simple, very simple indeed. First, I felt I was totally inadequate and I was not smart enough. Pastoral ministry was not a thing for me. I was not the right man for it. My classmates' response was one of smiles and laughter, and they tried so hard to convince me That's exactly the reason why I was called into pastoral ministry because I was inadequate. They were right Because after years of trying to run away, here I stand before you this morning, proclaiming God's word, and I'm glad I listened To God's call and submitted to his call in my life. You probably have heard or read many stories, amazing stories about how people are called into this ministry How many of them come to it without knowing what God was up to? This morning, as I mentioned in the beginning, we are talking about Samuel's A young boy, maybe about 12 years, who's been serving in the temple or in the tabernacle under Eli, as God calls him to proclaim into this prophetic ministry. And so we shall see how God calls us as ministers, but also all of us as believers to proclaim his word. And the first thing I want us to point to is by looking at verses one to ten and see that first of all when God calls us, that that God's word is an invitation To know him. God's call for us to proclaim his word is actually an invitation for us to know him. The stage has been set for us in verses 1, as the narrator informs us That while Samuel is ministering before the Lord under Eli, God's word is rare. There are no frequent visions. He's making a connection here, as we saw in chapter 2 of this book. That there's a connection between the failure of the priesthood and the rarity of God's word. This information is key for us. It's important for us to know why. Because I think it forms a The significance of Samuel's calling to receive and proclaim God's word during a time of proceeded crisis And then the scene that's described here, we wonder why the narrator would go so far into explaining all the details of where Samuel is and Eli and everything else. Why? Because I think it is symbolic in a sense. Samuel is not really sleeping in the most holy of place. He's sleeping probably near the Ark of the Covenant. But his room is probably near Where Eli is sleeping, it's in the priest's quarters. Why? Because we're told that Eli is blind, he cannot see. So the man needs a younger man with a better vision, a 20-20 maybe, so that he can see And then we're told Eli's blindness here is really a reflection not just of his own physical blindness, but of the spiritual reality that's going on in God's people. He couldn't see the light of day, nor could he see the word of the Lord. That's why the word of the Lord is so rare. His darkness is deep, and so is Israel's. Under Eli, the nation is languishing without adequate prophetic ministry. What a reminder for us to be told and reminded this morning that without the authority of Yahweh's word, darkness looms. And we know how true that is in places where the word of God is not present. Darkness looms. The tabernacle, remember what it represented It's the dwelling place of God. It's where the word of God was given. It's where the priests were able to represent God to his people. It's where sacrifices were made. It's an expression of the relationship that exists between God and His people. Why are we told that Samuel is here? Samuel is in the tabernacle to maintain that relationship between God and His people. What about the Ark of the Covenant or the Ark of God? It reminds us of God's covenant commitment to Israel and and its covenant demand Remember the words that were inscribed on this box along with the tablets of the law. There was this word according to Exodus 22 and 3. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt Out of the house of slavery, you shall have no other gods before me. And finally, we're told that the lamp had not gone out. Meaning that the call might have come sometime in the morning, maybe three or four a. m. in the morning, because the oil had not gone out. Why? Because Exodus 27-20 tells us that the the the light had to be the lamp had to be kept burning in the tabernacle. In the tabernacle from evening till morning. This is significant. Why? Because it gives us a ray of hope. God has not given up on his people. The light's not out yet on God's people. And then we're told from the beginning, we know that it is the Lord that is calling Samuel. But he doesn't know. Then the narrator explains to us why Samuel is not able to recognize the voice that's calling him. Verse 7A, we're told He did not yet know the Lord. A strange statement indeed, indeed. Because we've been told all along from chapter one and two That Samuel is ministering before the presence of the Lord. He's growing in knowledge of God. He's enjoying favor with God. Even more strange is the fact that remember in chapter 2 we read about Eli's sons. The same exact phrase is used of the sons of Eli that are evil. They do not know the Lord. But there is a significant difference. That little word that's added there, yet know the Lord. Meaning the sons of Eli did not have a clue who God was because they rejected the knowledge of him. Samuel, however, does not know the Lord because 7b says the Lord had not yet revealed himself to Samuel. That is, the experience of God speaking to him and him being able to hear the voice of God calling was totally new to him. What an important message for us this morning to hear. That for us to know God, He has to make Himself known to us. We can only go know God when He acts and makes Himself known to us. But this is about to change. Because Samuel is about to start a new relationship, a deep and intimate relationship with God and before. He's about to experience what the sons of Eli did not have. And it starts here with what was so rare in those days, happens on this night. Notice how Samuel responds to the calls. His response is immediate and it's fast. Samuel responds in obedience. He uses from our English language, here I am, which in Hebrew is actually a single word, Bineli, which means To hear and obey, especially the divine voice. We see that in Genesis 22, 1 and Exodus 3 and 4. Response of a young man that's willing to volunteer himself to the service of God and placing himself at the disposal of his master. Application for us this morning. God's word presents a claim on you. It presents a claim On my life, on all of us. God's word calls us to service and to submission to Him as we see the roles here being changed. God could have easily talked to the high priest Eli and tell him of the destruction that was about to happen. But he chooses to speak to the young Samuel, giving him the message of this destruction. It is God speaking to the one who is submissive to his will. Remember the words of Amos in Amos chapter 8, verses 11 and 12. Amos the prophet speaks of a famine that's coming, not a famine for for water or for bread, but a famine for hearing the word of God. And I am so sorry to say that in our day-to-day, especially having scripture and enjoying time to worship in churches, we sometimes lose The meaning of this. We sometimes do not see the horror of not having the the Word of God speak to us. And I think sometimes the horror comes because we do not understand or see the profundity of our dependence on God's word. Sometimes we forget, sometimes we take it for granted that we need this God's word, this word of truth, to fully depend on it. Sometimes we don't taste and see the goodness and the sweetness and the delight that we have to have on God's word. And in moments of great moral and spiritual darkness in the world as we experience in our own lives and in the world that we live, we need to be reminded this morning that God is raising, that God has raised, that God continues to raise. Those who will proclaim the word of truth as it's revealed in these holy scriptures. That God is calling us to a relationship with Himself. The question for you and for me this morning is: are we listening? Are we willing to accept the invitation to know God and to know Him deep and intimate? Are we wrestling to know how God is speaking to our areas in our areas of our lives? Are we just living in ignorance of his holy word. The second thing that we learn from verses eleven to eighteen is this that God's call to proclaim his word is an invitation to his instruction. Invitation to his instruction. Samuel is here receiving the two things that were absent, the two things that were so rare in those days: God's word and the vision. Because of this, when God speaks, what matters is what he says. When God speaks, what matters is what he says. The introduction here of God's message To Samuel, in this theophanic uh experience, which is God's transcendence revelation of Himself to His people, is that the message is not going to be good news, the message is going to be terrifying. And how do we know that? 2 Kings 21:12 tells us that when ears of people tingle, they are about to receive a message of an approaching punishment. So it's not good news. God will do what He promised He will do. God will fulfill the promise that He made to Eli and his sons. He's about to destroy them for their wickedness. Eli is about to be punished for not restraining his sons, and their iniquity shall not be atoned for by any sacrifice or offering. What a difficult message to give to anyone. Sometimes I think it is very difficult for us to even begin to contemplate the judgment of God against sin. Do you know why? Because sometimes we ourselves are so embrelled in sin that we do not even see God's judgment acting and the rightness of it. And I think it's a caution for us this morning to be reminded. And we need to be careful not to make excuses for Eli or to even dare pass judgment by thinking that God's judgment was harsh in any way because you know who is judging. It is the Lord that is judging. And his standards are way much higher than our standards. Samuel is even afraid to share this news with us. Friend and mentor. Eli's response can only be described as a gloomy resignation of this prophecy, a man that understands that God is just to Punish sin. And Samuel, on the other hand, he understands the laws are changing, the things are changing, that he is he's becoming a prophet of God, he's becoming a mouthpiece of God, and he acknowledges God's rightness in his actions. See, God calls us as ministers. God calls you as a follower of Christ He calls all of us to know him, but he also calls us and gives us a daunting task to perform. He gives Samuel a hard, hard message of judgment. His judgment against his own friend, his own mentor. A painful message indeed. Even in his compassion, uh Samuel does not even want to tell the message. To his friend. How do we think about this in our own life? We are called to have the courage to proclaim how reality is. You know what else? We are called to have compassion, to proclaim that truth and that reality with love, to speak the truth in love, even the truth that the world does not want To hear. Because I think in our time today, it's a time when we're so tempted to compromise God's truth and scripture and to deny the instruction of God's word in all areas of our life. And I encourage us this morning that our call is to affirm God's holiness and its requirement, its demands on our lives. But I think we are also called to do so with tears in our eyes that as I stand before you and proclaim God's word, that I ought to do it with tears in my eyes. Why? Because our call is to point people to crop to the cross of Jesus Christ. To point them to that truth and be able to recognize that God has poured out His wrath on His own Son, Jesus Christ. That He has punished sin on your behalf. And that for those who are in Christ, now there is no condemnation, but still in the same breath, telling people the holiness of God and the requirement for us to live holy lives. I think we must resist the temptation to do this, to listen to what the news media says, to listen to public opinion And and hear what politicians and what the media say about all things, about our lives, and what is required and what we need to do. The first place that we ought to go is this. It is God's word You know why? Because God's word is true. Because God's word is certain. Because God's word presents undeniable parameters in which life must be lived and enjoyed. That's it. God sets the standards with his judgment. God's word is eternal as I prayed this morning, Isaiah 40 and verses 8. The grass may wither, the flowers fade, but the word of God will stand forever. See, it's an assurance for us to be reminded that God's word is still active right now in our wall today for those who reject his grace. But as a comfort for those who hear their call, who hear his call. The world might reject it. Statistics Statistics might tell us that we're becoming less and less religious, especially here in the West, but God's word remains true It is sufficient. We don't need to look for answers elsewhere. We don't need any answers from anybody. This word here is sufficient to address homosexuality Poverty, politics, abortion, marriage, your life, every area of your life. This is all you need. It is the word that Paul tells us in Romans 10, 14, and 15 that we ought to keep preaching The office of the prophet might not exist right now. Those who tell you the prophecy are lying. The ministry of prophecy exists. This is the office of prophecy The proclamation of God's word. As Paul says, how would they call on him in whom they have not believed? How are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? as it is written, how beautiful are the feet who preach the good news. Thirdly, God's call to proclaim his word is made effective only by Him. He makes his word effective to us. Look at the final verses here from verse 19 to chapter 4, verses 1. Samuel's call this night is only the beginning of many more, which is interesting because remember the very first words were these God was not speaking, and visions were rare. And by the end of the chapter, God is speaking. It might be the end of Eli's ministry, but even more important, it's the beginning of Samuel's prophetic ministry. The emphasis here, on this final verses, is on the validity of his prophetic ministry. Samuel is the hope, and the revival gives an idea of the deliverance that's about to come upon Israel from their spiritual lethargy. He's given the abiding presence of Yahweh. How does he validate Samuel's ministry? First, God does not let his words fall to the ground, we're told Meaning that Samuel was successful in his prophetic ministry. It was the only way to know the true prophets from wrong prophets. Deuteronomy 18:18. True prophets, their words came to pass. Secondly, we're told that there is a public acclaim of his ministry. The narrator notes that there was a spread of his word from then to Beersheba. That's not just describing two places in Israel The most north and south extremities of Israel, meaning the whole nation. The word of Samuel came to be heard, not just in Shabbat Shiloh, but in every part. And then finally we're told that there were continued manifestations of Yahweh to to Samuel and Shiloh. It is God revealing Himself over and over again through His Word, renewing that communication that we talked about between God And his people. Samuel is here being established, and the word there of establishment is actually his trustworthiness and his reliability. He's not just established, his trustworthiness. Trustworthy, and he's a reliable prophet. God calls us to know him. God gives us a daunting and a message for his people. He also makes us effective. It is what he does with Samuel. And why does he do this? Because look, it is not Samuel's words. It is not my words. It is God's words. They're not our own words. It is his own words. And that's why he has to establish legitimacy Over them. It is God's word that has a renewing and transforming power for all who hear and respond Samuel, a young boy, twelve, thirteen years old, an unaware servant of God, serving under this man, Eli, is transformed here into a bold, bold, courageous prophet. What a wonderful assurance from God it is. What a huge weight of burden just lifted off of my shoulders this morning as I stand before you. Knowing that it is God who authenticates his message, that I do not have to worry about the effectiveness of his word this morning, that all I gotta do is just keep you awake from sleeping. Because the Holy Spirit is working through His Word and through His spoken word in your heart and in your mind to awaken you. To encourage you, to build you up, to encourage, to remind you of his goodness and his love and all the things that he has done. I do not have to worry about the effects Of God's word. And guess what? It's the same thing for you when you share the gospel out there. When you go out there to proclaim his word, you do not have to worry about the effectiveness of God's word. If you're staying true and faithful to his word, He would do it. Do you believe that? Even more. Are you asking yourself this? This morning. Are you asking God to authenticate your ministry? Whatever it might be through the power of the Holy Spirit. Are you asking the Lord to do that It's not just a question for me. Like I said, it's a question for all who follow Christ. That we're called to know Christ, to speak the truth in love, to be effective followers of Christ by sticking close to this word. Are you going to run away? Are you going to submit to his call? I find it fascinating. Why it totally fascinating that in the middle of Israel's leadership crisis God does not set up an organizational structure to try and solve the problems as to why the word of God is rare and the visions are not frequent, but He sends His Word The provision of his words through Samuel who would speak his words to the nation. I find it even more fascinating that the author of Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 and 2 tells us this. That long ago and at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers through the prophets. But in these last days, He has spoken to us by His Son. Whom he appointed the heir of all things, through him, also he created the world Church, in our chaos, in the brokenness and in the messiness of our lives today, and of the world that we live, God is not silent. God is speaking to us this morning through his Son In his word, revealed in Scripture, He is speaking to us to give us hope, to remind us that He has not left us alone, that the lamp is still burning. That the lights are not out yet. There's still a ray of hope for us. Sometimes we might fail to see it, sometimes we might fail to hear the voice, but God speaks through his word. And he is making us effective through the power of the Holy Spirit. God is not silent. He's speaking to us in the question to us. The question for us this morning is, are we listening Are we submitting to his call? Are we able to say, Lord, here I am for your servant here? Are we able to say that? This is my prayer, that we be able to say together with the Apostle Peter in John 6. 68, Doroth to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. You need to be nowhere else. This is In the do you believe it? Pray with me. We thank you, Lord, for your word. To continue to speak to us through your word, through your son, Jesus Christ. Christ. We pray that you would enable us by the power of your Holy Spirit to hear you as you call us. Because you are speaking to us. To speak to us in all areas of our life, that we'll be strengthened by your word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.