Reading from Isaiah Hear Hear you deaf and look you blind that you You may see who is blind but my servant or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated one Or blind as the servant of the Lord. He sees many things, but does not observe them. He his ears are open, but he does not hear. The Lord was pleased for his righteousness' sake to magnify his law and make it glorious. But this is a people plundered and looted. They are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prison seasons. They have become plunder and none to rescue. Spoil with none to say restore. Who among you will give ear to this Was it not the Lord against whom we have sinned? in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey. So he poured on them the heat of his anger, and the might of battle. It set him on fire all around, but he did not understand. It burned him up, but he did not take it to heart. Fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned, and the flames shall not consume you You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my shepherd whom I have chosen. I am the Lord, your holy one, the creator of Israel, your king. Behold, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it? I am I I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Praise God. So I've talked about tornadoes and I have a lot of tornado stories. Here's another one, you know, Oklahoma. So one year tornadoes don't come through actual Oklahoma City very often. For some reason the weather pattern and the buildings They tend to go below it, that's more, where they rip through the same streets even. But this time there was a tornado sorta coming right around where we lived. And uh we lived on twenty uh seventeenth street. Uh Route 66 actually is 23rd Street. And so we knew from the previous really bad tornado. It wiped through more and the one place that was left standing intact was the Warren Movie Theater. It was like a uh fortress in the middle of destruction. So we uh got our dog and we got our neighbor, Miss Pearl, who was about ninety, And we said, Miss Pearl, you're coming with us. She did she wanted to stay in the house like no, not an option. Get in the car. So we get in the car, we go to the Warren Theater, and it was weird to be in this theater with hundreds and hundreds of people and dogs And babies and we were all in the hallways, you know, it was just a very surreal experience. So nothing bad happened. We got back and no electricity. Well that meant My sump pump wasn't working. And so that meant in the morning I got up and I started carrying five gallon Buckets of water out from the bottom, you know, all the way out over and over and over and over and again. And it was cold, cold, cold water. I did that for a long time. I did that by myself. I was not happy. Although that's not a very terrible disaster So we're going to be talking about floods and fires, but there's big ones and there's small ones. So that's a small one, but I did some research on big ones in China in 1931. 70,000 square miles were filled with 10 to 15 feet of water. Immediately in the actual disaster, 140,000 people died. But it's estimated that because of the flood, three point seven million people died. We've heard of fires, of course, the famous Chicago fire in 1871 with Miss O'Leary's cow. 300 people died, 990,000 were homeless. But there was a fire and an earthquake at the same time in Tokyo in 1923. 38,000 people died from the fire itself, but 142,000 people died. Because of the whole disaster. These are devastating, right? Katrina, we know when we hear Katrina, we know what that means. Just fires in Hawaii recently. But then there's ones in our own lives. I'm trying to connect the dots, right? They're the little ones like my own flood, and then the big ones, our own rains, our own fires. Just enough fire is great. Too much fire is terrible. We need water, but when we get it all at once, it destroys things. And so God is telling us today in Isaiah that in the midst of fires and floods, the big ones and the small ones, He is Emmanuel. He is with us. So maybe this Text matters. We're seeing something that was written in the 700s BC and applying it to 2023 right here. in Maryland, right? So we're talking about greatness, great fires, great floods. So I only have two points today. Our problem is we are a handicapped people Sometimes we can think to ourselves that God is sorta mean. We can. And so I put this text in here in your bulletin 18 through 25. twenty five. It goes this way, hear you deaf, and look you blind, that you may see. Who is blind but my servant or deaf as my messenger whom I send Who is blind is my dedicated one, or blind is the servant of the Lord? He sees many things, but does not observe them. His ears are open, but he does not hear. So God is telling his people, You are blind and you are deaf. So what should you do? See and hear. It's like dude, you just said they're blind. Blind people can't see. Deaf people can't hear. Calling us to do the things we can't do, how do we do it? But he of course he's pointing out that they are that way on purpose by choice It's their spiritual condition. So that they're missing the reality and fullness of the world. They don't fully see what's going on in the world. They don't fully hear what's going on. in the world. In fact, they've plundered and they've looted. That's verse twenty two. But this is the people plundered and looted. And they are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons. And then what does it say? They have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, restore. Oh these are devastating words. This is the opposite of what we want as a church, as a people, to say there is no restoring, there is no rescuing. That's hell on earth. That is almost the worst thing you could say. Back in OKC, we started a ministry called Restore OKC. We don't want to be a part of no restore. No restore. One day I was trimming my tree. And a man walked up, um maybe sixties, and he was trying to earn some money so he could buy his son a birthday present. He wanted to m earn some twenty bucks. I'm like, okay, yeah, sure. So we worked on this for an hour or two, and he told me his whole story. All the plundering and looting. Disasters he had caused, the years he'd been in jail, the riches he had gotten by ill game The lifestyle he had left lived and now Leroy had put away all those things He was trying to restore his life. So that although he sort of missed that lifestyle and those friends, he knew the disaster it would cause in his life. And he was trying to go a different direction. New Leroy was trying to be different. There was restoration. No restoration Oh, that is a terrible thing. Terrible thing to hear. A rejection of the gospel. But God says he named his people And his people, his named people, Judah, Jacob, Israel, had walked away from him, wandered They've been saved, but they'd sinned. It's like when we say, you know, you know, God, your commandments, your scripture, your rules, not interesting. I I think they harm me. They don't help me. They harm me. And God judges this, of course. Right when we feel that way, when we walk away from he judges this. And the most important thing in this right here is he's not talking about the Assyrians. Or the Babylonians, or the Midianites, or the Amalekites, right? And so for us today, he's not talking about other religions He's really even not for us today talking about other denominations or other churches. He's talking to us That we do this. I do this, right? So where am I deaf to God, blind to God? Imprisoned, not free. Where am I living like old Leroy? Plundering and looting. Am I Do I want to go my own way, make my own excuses, my own allowances? Talking about fires, right? One day I really don't want to tell you this story. And I thought about leaving it out and I'm like, ah. Okay, so I'm gonna tell you what I did one day I was up late on our back porch with our fire pit, and I wasn't ready to be done. But the fire pit was filling up. with ashes. So it made sense to me. Let's consider this a public service announcement That you probably don't need. So I took I had a little shovel, right? So I took some of the ashes out and I put it in a bucket Oh, you know, it was fine. And I let it cool down and then I put the ashes from the bucket into the dumpster. Now before you uh judge at that decision right there, I subsequently regretted that uh decision. But you know what's funny about it is it makes sense at the time. It shouldn't. And then when did the dumpster catch on fire? A day later A day later, right? So the whole day it's like this totally worked out. No problem. Like even in my head, I'm like, I don't know if this is smart, but like it's totally fine. But the next night We're sitting there, I don't know, watching a baseball game, and like things start to like pop like fireworks. Because the dumpster was, you know, underneath the electric panel So within 30 seconds, because we live right by the fire station, the fire truck comes in, and I didn't even need to get a talking to you. They're like, you are the dummiest, dumbest person I know. So sometimes we create fires. We sometimes enter into fires that we didn't know were coming. And we create our own disasters. So we need a safe The good news is the sermon doesn't end here. If sermons ended here, we would be in trouble. We would be sunk We cannot save ourselves ever, ever, ever, ever. So we have a solution. We have a powerful, gracious, personal Immortal God. Amen. So our dilemma, going backwards, our dilemma is We, like Judah, like Israel, have made a covenant with God. God has made a covenant with us, and we fail the covenant. So what does God do? Right? So and again, we're not talking about them out there. We're talking about us in here, right? Us Me. I don't do things right. I don't I I'm mean. I Am I not always a good husband or a good father by any means? Right? I don't return phone calls sometimes I and I'm a pastor. I'm supposed to not be that way. So I could admit many, many, many, many, many failures, right? But we're not talking about them out there, the people that don't raise their kids right, the people that don't follow the rules right, the people that don't respect the authority right, the the people that ho don't you know, do the uh environment right. Don't vote right. It's us. And God is saying, you know, like, I'm not super impressed with your good But I will continue to show up and redeem And restore over and over and over again. And he communicates these themes in Isaiah 43, right? To it to a blind people, to a deaf people. He then says what? But now, thus says the Lord, who created you, O Jacob, who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine. I've created all of this. The creation is a part of this story. Creation and redemption, right? And God's people would know Genesis. They would know we are created in the image of God with dignity and respect. We are named. Our glory is marred. But we are glorious ruins. We are respected, dignified, horrible sinners. A called people, though. We rebelled, but we are still his. And so God breaks into the deafness and into the blindness because he's the first cause and he's the prime mover. Our disrespect of him, we've rebelled against him, right? He could leave us, he should maybe leave us, but he doesn't, he redeems us That's how amazing this is. He says, the creator of the universe. Remember last week we talked about all those things about the universe and the The weight of the world and how many gallons of water there are, how far across it is, how many stars there might be. That God calls you by name. Calls you by name. Amazing. He lavishes his generosity. The king knows you King knows you. So uh creation and redemption, protection forty three two When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. And when you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. There's a always a place in a superhero movie where it doesn't look like the hero's gonna come in time, right? And whoever needs help is like It's not going to work. So there's that moment, and you have it in your life, right? Is God going to show up in your movie? It and and I think of this text a little bit like it's a high school coach talking to the team, whatever team you want it to be cross country, volleyball, debate team, ballet team. I don't care. But so like the the coach gets you together. You're a freshman, right? It's first day. And the coach says, y'all We're gonna be champions. Your senior year, we are gonna be top. But along the way, guess what? You are gonna run so much, you puke! You're gonna get here at six in the morning and we're gonna run and we're gonna lift weights, and along the way, we're gonna lose a bunch of games. And there are gonna be times when you don't believe it and you You think it's not gonna work. Because that's what suffering is like. I am not promising a suffering season or a career with no suffering. No, there is gonna be suffering. You're gonna go through floods and you're gonna go through fires and we are going to be champions, right? This is Hoosiers. It's remember the Titans. It's miracle. It's David and Goliath. It's over and over and over again where God says, you know, I've got this sort of weird hero, this runt of the litter. This ugly duck dealing. Like I'm gonna pick the guy who murdered Christians to to be a leader. I'm gonna pick fishermen The last, the least, over and over and over. So when we feel burnt out, pushed down. A lot of times we say we're overwhelmed, right? But look this text says When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. Maybe we should slow our roll on being overwhelmed until we're really overwhelmed. And God says, I'm So where do you need God to be with you? Home, school, marriage, sex Singleness, out of work, fired, bored, end of your patience with your past In the hospital with your kids or parents, or late at night, God says He is there. That's important. It says we don't have to be ultimately afraid. Because we are beloved. You're not a grasshopper. We've talked about last year Last week being a grasshopper from his perspective, right? He looks down like we're tiny tiny when he's so big. But he says you are his His heir, his son, his daughter, his bride, cherished, sung over with gladness, because he loves you and calls you by name. Well, with that in mind, then we also need to remember that he calls us to be witnesses. See verse 10. 4310 You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me no God was formed, and no there shall be none after me. You are my witnesses. God could have stopped the fire. This is one of this is so important. When we go through these things, it's very appropriate to think if God is sovereign, why did He let this thing happen? And this gets a lot of people Pushed off of Christianity. That very real, I think important, good question. We talked last week about my friend Levi who died mountain climbing. Why did God let that happen? He it didn't have to happen. Right? He wasn't even doing something super dangerous. The Wichita Mountains in Oklahoma, the highest peak is two thousand feet. I mean we're talking nothing. I don't really know why my dad died. I don't even know what was wrong with him Why did God I think that's a real question, right There are things in your lives that didn't have to happen, but they did. And so in those moments. We lament, we cry out. We have a big Bible that has so many tears, cries Because we cry out in a broken, broken world as broken, broken people. So we lament, right? But what happens is there's just Progression. See, there's this real threat that we really understand. We're not ignoring. And then when it happens, we cry out and lament. And then What happens is that lament changes over time. I'm not telling you immediately, but at some point, to a cry of salvation. A cry of lament to a cry of salvation. And eventually a song of confidence in the Lord You say, I am afraid. And God says, Do not fear And then you say, I don't fear, because God is with me. It's a profound miracle, really, right? You say in Psalm 22, 1, right? You say My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That was on Jesus' lips. The rest of the psalm doesn't get much better, but then look the next psalm. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I fear no evil. God is with me. I feel so alone So God is with me. Emmanuel is with me. There's no salvation but to him. So then we become his witnesses. We don't become as witnesses because we say, yeah, nothing bad happens when you're a Christian. That's not a witness. It's a lie. God is with me. I can't explain it, people. God is with me. I know he is. I need him every hour. It's not chariots, it's not horses. It's not my 401k. It's not my IQ. It's not my EQ. It's not my GPA. It's not my Myers-Briggs or my Enneagram, right? It's not politics or cars. It's the Lord. And we get to witness about him that he chooses us and named us Rob, Bethany. Art He names us, calls us by name, Tammy. And called us by our real name. And he uses us in the whole process. Us. Couldn't he have picked better ambassadors? Better witnesses? I mean, really? Us? This is your plan But he uses us as witnesses to him and his work, his goodness and his glory. And and then he says there's gonna be a future Glory, right? In fifteen and nineteen he says, I am the Lord, your holy one, the creator of Israel, your king. Look at nineteen Behold, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness. We get to witness that God is on the move. We get to talk about his glory. His presence, his mysterious ways, his crazy plan, that he holds all the waters in his hand, and he holds us in that same Hand. The mighty God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lord will conquer all his fools because our God reigns. Now remember too, Isaiah is being written to a future people in exile. So you know like we're gonna go home and we're gonna be like what bad is gonna happen today? Not no bad, but these people are five hundred to seven fifty to a thousand miles from their home with nothing. And they're being told, God will rescue you. They're looking around in a devastation. And God says, I'm making all things Things new. That would be that would be good news to hear, wouldn't it? I'm making all things new. I'm rebuilding from the ashes. You are a part of the new. Your story can be rebuilt. There is a new Leroy that can be found When God rescues people. Your bad decisions. Maybe it was a dumpster fire. Maybe it was way worse, right? That got fixed. No big deal. But you've made mistakes. You've gone down the wrong way. In in your Position, job, low pay, I don't know, education. Maybe you grew up on the wrong side of town. Maybe you've been to jail. Maybe you've had a broken marriage. God can make a way in the wilderness. And bring people back from the dead. That is something else, right And the biggest way he does it is in 43 25. I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Point one a little bit was like, yeah, is God mean and nasty? He's he's calling us deaf and blind and he's like But then he looked, he shows you he's forgiving. We live in a world where we're often told, be true to yourself. Right? Don't judge others. Be you. Let me be me. Find yourself. Find your tribe. But you know, like when you find yourself and you look down deep, we always think we're gonna look down deep and find better and better and better stuff. A lot of times we look down and we're like, oh wow. Let's stay uh on the surface, right? Because what if you look down deep and you want to be true to yourself and your true self is a liar? Your true self is a thief, a plunderer, a looter. An embezzler. What if your true self is a dropout? What if your true self is an eating disorder? You know, there are people that amputate limbs because they think they're an amputee. That's their true self. So they cut a limb off. We're messed up. But Christianity says There is a moral God who judges. He is right and we are wrong. We fail, and it's called sin, and he forgives sin. That is our place, right? For me, mean, sarcastic, selfish, greedy, I overestimate myself. I cuss too much sometimes. I'm proud. Just ask me to do better, work harder, run faster. I I can't do it. Be less mean. Okay, I want to be less mean. Honestly, I do. I want to be less mean. Bless me. I made a vow when I moved to Baltimore. It's like I'm not gonna comment in the car about anyone else's driving or the traffic ever. What is your guess as to how long that lasted? But here's the thing, I I want to be a person where that doesn't bother me. I mean I want to be that person. And then It doesn't take much. I'm very far away from being that person. I'm so far away and I sit in the car, I'm like, I hope they don't know I'm a pastor. And do not follow me to the church. Do not follow me to the church. Or it's it's gonna be one of you that I'm yelling at, right? That has definitely happened. And the thing about it is it's you know God forgives. And delivers. I'm not proud of all that stuff, but he forgives and he delivers. He knows that stuff about me and you And he loves us. I mean, he could blot out our names, but they're written in the book of life, in indelible ink. Right? He's given us new names. Our name is all really Christian. It's our name. He knows us. He takes our debt. He pays our price. Because Jesus Christ was stricken, smitten, and afflicted. He went through the fire and the flood all the way. You talking about overwhelmed? That's overwhelmed, isn't it? And he gives that to us. By his wounds, we are healed. His cursing is our blessing. His shame is our glory. His nakedness is our clothing. And so we can sing the song. You know, uh Marvin Gaye, Ain't No Mountain High Enough. This is the real song that we can sing But now, thus says the Lord who created you, who formed you, fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine, when you pass through the waters, I will be with you And though through the rivers they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you shall be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel That's for us. Amen? Amen.