And we're especially noting the parables. And this is probably the most famous parable of all. Sometimes whenever we're teaching these, I'll hit on one or two that you don't remember very well or don't don't stand out to you. Not today. Denise and I at Ozark High School have a beloved teacher, Mrs. Turner, our science teacher. And I was texting her today or Facebook messaging her today and asking her if she remembered a report I did. Now now we're talking like 1985, you know, maybe ninth grade. And she remembered. I did a report on nosocomial infections. Anyone know what that is? This is when you go to the hospital and you get sick in the hospital. I want to mention one thing. I am thankful for COVID for one thing. It makes a lot of illustrations easier these days. Like that. Now we all know what happens when you go to the hospital and you get sick, because it was on our minds over and over and over again. But um it's estimated about 1. 7 million people get sick from going to the hospital. And there are about 99,000 deaths a year from this Now forget about COVID. I don't know what it was like. Then there's a there's a another piece of literature that that doctors and nurses have, I've heard. I'm sitting in front of several of them so fact check me later right uh it's called the Hunters Diseases of Occupations Book and it's a guide for if you have this job, what might go wrong with your life? You know, like uh if you work in this place you're gonna get uh the carpal tunnel. Or if you work around this, you're going to be around asbestos or high altitude, you know, or chemicals. And so people can when they walk in, can say, Well I bet you you're going to have this thing And I don't know what that is for pastors. Probably stress And aggravation. Enjoy, enjoy, enjoy. But but my question today is what relig what religious infections do we get From coming to church. Now, I love coming to church, and I think everyone should come to church, but we also got to remember we can become a self-righteous And we can stop seeing what is real and what is true and we can get one of those religious nosicomious So as we follow and walk with Jesus, here are three parables that help us with this dangerous disease. It helps us to be able to detect and fight and maybe find an antidote to this. This thing as we go out in our Samaritan journeys that are less than savory places We can't be thinking that we have it all together. I don't think you think that, but sometimes we can. So so three points. The first one is what's the reason why Jesus is telling these parables? It's simply in fifteen one and two. Look again. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to him, and the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man received So what's been happening is Jesus started off, you know, he had these twelve, and then he had these seventy-two. And then in fifteen fourteen twenty-five it says now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them So there are these great crowds that are now following Jesus. He's getting more and more famous, popular, interesting. And so the Pharisees and the scribes, we often hear them, if you grow up in church, are the bad guys, right? The foils. Uh these are the people that don't like and and and actually there's a reason for that. They end up getting Jesus killed, but they're also opposing him. And we wouldn't oppose Jesus. Right? But we need to put ourselves in In their shoes, because we're a lot more like them than we are like tax collectors and prostitutes. Because the Pharisees are following the rules. And we all follow rules. Some of us really follow rules, but we all follow rules, uh parental rules Societal rules, financial rules, rules for school, turning things in on time, paying your payments, whatever. There are clothing rules that we Break or don't break organizational chart rules, right? Cooking rules. You can't just do whatever you want. Music rules. Can we just play whatever we want? Games, board game rules. It's no fun if people start not going by the rules in the board game. So the Pharisees and the scribes know their Bibles and they care about the law and they They care about the rules and Jesus isn't helping. The other thing that's going on is there's this big question lingering As all these people are following Jesus, the Pharisees and the scribes are asking the question, is this the Messiah? That is a great question. And they want to know if he's going to be the king. This is a big deal. And it is time for the Messiah to come, as the prophecies were laid out, this is the time frame for when the Messiah should come. And there are other contenders out there. Jesus was not the only Messiah ever to to come around, the only possible. There are other ones. And so they have to have some sort of betting process to find out if this is the one who sh they should follow. Is he up to snuff because this is Is the Messiah gonna change the rules? That doesn't seem possible. So the mindset of the Pharisees and the scribes are really three parts. One of them is holiness. God's world, God's law, God's people cannot be contaminated. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord. And so if this is the hospital, we gotta keep all this clean, sterilized. We gotta wash our hands forever We can't get things dirty because it's going to mess everything up. And the potential for contamination is huge. So that's the holiness piece. The second piece is the rules. And so the the Pharisees and scribes are purists. And I guarantee you, all of you are purists about something, right? Like the baseball rules, right? Even now I I think they're wonderful, but should there be a designated hitter People have lost their minds over that for a long time. Should we put somebody on second base to start See? Oh we got a purist right here. Okay, yeah. Cooking purist. Like you cannot make that meal that way. It's not supposed to be like that. Or music W this person changed this song and is now terrible. It's not the way the song goes. I'm just Trying to get you to remember that you have these pieces in your lives. And when we bang on the Pharisees so hard, we don't put ourselves in their shoes, but we should. We should. There are standards And then the last thing is this king piece, right? The Jews desperately want a new kingdom. David. They want to be a powerhouse again. They want a king to go deal with Caesar and knock him out They need a king who has authority. Kings have meetings with powerful people, right? They have influence, they have armies, they make laws and they make treaties. And this Messiah possible king is eating with tax collectors, sinners, prostitutes. He's touching lepers He's hanging out all the time with the weak, the sick, the lame, the deaf, the blind, the demons possessed. And yeah, okay, it could be a photo op every now and then. Go into the bad part of town But that's not what kings do. It's embarrassing. Yeah, kings feed the poor. Gotta do that. Yeah, they tend a meal now and then, but hosting sinners In the place of honor, this touches every theological cultural button for the Pharisees. I think I've mentioned in a couple of our meetings that you guys have uh have had a rich musical heritage here and this building with musicians and bands and at City President City we would also host bands um because uh the musicians weren't being treated very well and they got tired of uh playing in smoky bars with no one listening at two a So we opened our church as a listening venue. We didn't charge it. They could do whatever they wanted with the money. We even let 'em have beer in in sell beer and stuff like that And um and then there would be these great awesome concerts. Sometimes five hundred people would come And we got complaints. Our neighbors across the street owned a business and we were asking them about their parking lot on Sunday morning. And they said, yeah, you can use it, but not on concerts. We don't want those people over here. And then she asked, why would you let those people in your church It's one of the most offensive comments I have heard in a long time from a supposed Christian. Those people Sinners? I mean, what are we talking about? Smokers, drinkers, gamblers, blasphemers, fornicators? There's a lot of things those people are, and we are those people. And then I really lost it when one of our own church members said this He had sort of had a point because if you went to these band websites and you looked at their songs, you would be like These aren't Christian songs, right? They weren't. And so we would ask the the band members and the to say like Like, you know, look, maybe don't sing every song that you have in your repertoire and notice where you are and respect the place. You're asking to be respected So respect the place, but I'm not gonna vet their songs. I'll sit there and listen and we may have a conversation afterwards, right? And so every time that I went, I guarantee you what happened was the people would we sort of had a green room even. They would come out on stage and they would go Wow. I haven't been in church in a long time. This is so cool. Thank you, City Press. And they would play It would be wonderful. But if you didn't go and you didn't know all that and you didn't see that and you saw the possible songs, they you would be mad because you didn't attend. Which is a whole nother level, right Those people. Is Jesus going to hang out with those people? Well let's look. That's what's on their minds, right? They're grumbling, saying, This man receives sinners So he tells three stories, some of our best, most favorite stories, and they're about lost things. A lost sheep, a lost coin, and two lost sons. So he starts with the shepherd one. And he starts this way. So he told them a parable what man of you having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country to go after them So he really starts the parable like this Imagine you're a shepherd. Now, religious people, the Pharisees and the Scribes, they think shepherd metaphors are cool. They love Psalm 23 They know that King David was a shepherd. They get it. But in the real world, imagine you're a shepherd, their minds would melt. They do not want to imagine themselves being a shepherd. Shepherds are awful, disgusting, vile, unclean. They are like tax collectors. Prostitutes, leopards. You can put shepherds in that category. They're rule breakers. They're sinners These are the good people, the godly people, the righteous people. They don't want to imagine themselves a shepherd. And so this shepherd has a hundred sheep. That's a lot of sheep for this time. This is probably means it's a a group family venture. Like they're all pitching in to have these sheep. And so several families uh have this sheep herd and they don't want to lose them, especially because, you know, whose sheep is it? So they have them all together. They don't want to lose any, it costs money And we don't know why the sheep is lost. Stubborn, inattentive, aggressive, passive. Um sheep are prone to wander. One of my friends made a t shirt for his RUF group and it had a a penguin walking through a forest, prone to wander. Like we can really wander a long way. And so this shepherd leaves the ninety-nine sheep to go after the one. Now that is also a very bold move. Most of us would cut our losses. Hey, I still got ninety-nine, I'm not going to lose But this shepherd goes out to find the one. And then when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. Lost. So I tell you there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous people who need no repentance. Amen This is a parable about seeking, rescuing, and joy. Joy. The joy of repentance. Now what's interesting about that is, you know, our we often think of these as big salvation rescues. And of course we do. But the text also says over repentance You know, repenting over anything, anytime, is not normal. It's not a normal activity. The Holy Spirit as work is at work if you repent over anything in your life, and the angels know that, and they rejoice. Um one summer in college I worked at this camp, Christian camp. And um I had ten ten-year-old boys for a month. Woo. I don't know what happened to those boys, but they all decided to wet the bed every night. It was not fun. It was not fun. Um we had a lot of fun. We had a lot of fun, but I don't know what the deal was with that. And so when they would get in trouble, what we were supposed to do was take them down, this is on a big steep cliff that goes down to the lake. And there would be about a hundred steps, windy, pointy steps to go down there. And so we would say, okay, you're in trouble We're gonna go down the steps and run stadium steps. So we'd get down there and we'd talk about it. And then what we were supposed to do is put the kids on our back and we ran the steps so they didn't have to. This big metaphor about grace. Which was ridiculous for us. You know, I didn't want to be Jesus in this story. And so what happened was they never got in trouble. Because we weren't doing that. We would just tell him what we were gonna do. Here's here's what just picture this in your mind, right? But but of course in this story, Jesus is carrying us What does Isaiah 536 say? We all like sheep have gone as So so he takes our sin And with joy. When we get lost, we need a shepherd. And he loves to seek and save the lost. Friends, are you A lost sheep today? Do you know a lost sheep today? Let's pray that Jesus would rescue The next one is short, it's this really short one, and uh it says, or what woman having ten silver coins if she loses one coin Coin does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently to find it. Okay, so now he's saying, Imagine you're a woman in a house. Now, Pharisees do not want to imagine themselves that way Shepherd is one thing. A woman is another thing. This is pushing another button. And this Woman has lost one coin out of ten. So we had one out of a hundred. Now we have one out of ten, right? And it's in the house somewhere. This is like losing your keys. This happened to me This week I couldn't find my keys and I went to retrace my steps and then finally I got to was like, you know what, I betcha Drew took the dog out and he kept the keys in his room And that's what happened. I found that. And I said, dude, don't do that. But you know how this is how this is how we go. I remember one time we were driving back and I c didn't come with a c credit card and I went all the way back And I had gotten air for my tires and I'd left it and it was an old one so you didn't have to pull it out first to use it. So I was like, it's in that slot in Tennessee somewhere, you know. So immediately you call and answer it. But it's always when you find it, it's a good feeling, isn't it? Especially if it's something like a computer. Or your wallet because you've got to redo all that stuff and it's such a pain Um and so yeah, she finds it's ten percent of her wealth. And and also in these days they wouldn't have a lot of coins. Uh money wouldn't be in in this form. So a coin, an actual coin would be a big deal. And she finds it. And then what does she say? Rejoice with me for I have found the coin that I had lost. Just so I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Friends, are you a lost coin today? Do you know a lost coin today? Let's pray that our rescuing God would come to the rescue And then we have the sons, right? Now there's two sons. So we've gone from one hundred of the thing to ten of the thing to now two. of the thing. In this famous story there are four characters. The father, the older brother, the younger brother, and the village The village is an important character, right? And so think about in the first parable with the sheep. The sheep is lost in the wilderness The second parable of the coin, the coin is lost in the house. And now we have two sons, one who gets lost in the wilderness, and one who is lost in the house. House. So the younger brother asked for the inheritance. We talked about this a couple weeks ago. He's like, I'm done with y'all. I'm out. And and we We these are not liquid assets. He can't just go to the bank and get a third of it out. The old older brother would probably get two thirds when the father dies. The younger brother would get one third. Okay, but when the father dies you get the estate If the father's not dead, you've got to liquidate these assets. And this town is connected to this Family. And so getting the assets into money form to give to the son is gonna mean something for the whole village. The whole village suffers when the father does this. The father says, I wish you were dead. Dead. But the younger brother says, I wish you were the dead to the Father. Now there's a Bible scholar that I think is wonderful. His name is Kenneth Bailey. And he taught Bible in a in a college or university in the Middle East Okay, so he sort of grew up and then taught in this very different setting. In this parable, he would go out into The communities who had never heard the Bible, had never heard these stories, and he would tell this parable especially, other ones too. And the people who would hear these this parable would be shocked. Shocked that this younger brother would do this. This is unacceptable, completely unacceptable. And they would be more than shocked that the father grants the request. It's just unheard of. Unheard of. And the Father is gracious to let the Son go. The Father jeopardizes his future To let the younger brother break free and disobey. The older brother should protest all of this The older brother should keep the peace. The older brother should be the reconciler, but the older brother is not around. So the younger brother gets this money. The village would be furious. He goes to the far country The text tells us that he wasted on reckless living. And then there's a famine. And so this younger brother has no money Super in trouble. He's a foreigner. He ends up working in a pig sty. All of this is the worst case scenario Absolutely humiliating on all levels. I mean this guy used to be wealthy. Now he's living with pigs The text tells us he comes to his senses, decides to go back. That's very important to understand at this point. This is not repentance yet. This is a different plan. He's got a new plan to go back to be a servant. It's better to be a servant. That's true, but that means he wants to go to work. He wants to pay off his debts. He's not expecting to get back in the house. But he wants a job to create value. But he also knows his biggest problem. He knows his father is a gracious person. So he figures this plan might work. But the village, he cannot account for the village, the furious village Kenneth Bailey would talk about this parable with people and he says, Okay, what if the that kid wants to come back? What's gonna happen? They'd be like, Oh yeah, we know it'll happen He'll get stoned. As this betrayer walks back into the village, they're going to line up and stone him. He might make it, but the thing is. You can't let this happen. If this happens, there's going to be mutiny in the world. Every rule you would know of about the way families worked and the way respect worked Would go completely bonkers. So we've got to keep the rules. And and we all know this. If you mess up, you pay the penalty. The way the world works, right? And penalties matter in sports, in work, in relationship, in contracts, for your cell phone, for your rent Right? We can't live in anarchy here. So so the younger brother has this plan, go through the gauntlet, and as he starts to enact this plan, what happens? What does the father do? He's been looking for him. I don't know if he figured this was going to happen, or he just is always looking for his children, right? And he pulls up his robe and runs to him. Now this is completely undignified. In this day and age, these These regal fathers would walk very slowly, almost so it didn't look like their robe would even move. It's like they're just hovering Going straight about. But this guy pipes up his rose, runs to him, and kisses him. Now why is he doing that? To save him If he runs out there, the village cannot attack this son. So he is protecting him and he is declaring to the village, you're not going to do your plan. I have a different plan. I have a gracious plan. To his own harm of his reputation, to his dignity, to his honor, he breaks another rule and goes and saves. The Son. Treats him with dignity and honor and respect, even though he had done all these things. Gives him a ring a ring of authority. Gives him shoes so he's not a servant anymore. throws him a restoration party to declare again to the town, this is my son. So he's gonna feed the whole village this way. So the younger brother changes his speech a little ba a little bit. He he's sort of getting it in real time. He he's not talking about being a servant Anymore because he has just witnessed love, joy, generosity, redemption, acceptance back into the Father's house The Father accepted him and demonstrated his love. And everybody can see it and experience it The younger brother was willing to be a servant, but now he's a son again, and that means throw a party. And when Kenneth Bailey tells this part of the story, no one can believe it. They're like, who is this guy? Like that, I mean you know this is this is this real? Where did this happen? I've never heard of anything like this ever in my entire life. That's how stunning it is So so then the town is starting to smell a big feast happening. They're starting to hear the music And the older brother has been off doing whatever he's been doing, and he hears, he's like, huh, something's going on. He gets his intelligence. And he he's like, what Now what should the older brother do right now? Go to the party. He should host the party. He should be front of the house. He's not even back of the house. He is not there at all. He will not go in. And he has the same mindset. We can't allow this What what is the penalty for these types of things, right? It's an insult to him, it's an embarrassment, it's a humiliation. And so the older brother right here also breaks fellowship. With the father. It's a lot less dramatic. It's a lot more subtle, but it's nonetheless true. And the father should be furious with the older brother, but the father goes out again. Just like he had gone out to save the younger brother, he goes out to try to save the older brother, who should be in the party in the first place. And then we get this older brother speaking. The older brother says this Look, these many years I have served you, and I have never disobeyed your command. And yet you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fatted calf for him. Now there's a lot of stuff in that couple of sentences. One of them is it's never really good when you talk to your dad and say, Look, you're about to give him a speech as if you know what's up. And then he talks about how he has been this perfect son, uh serving him, never disobeying him, until now at least. He's not coming into the party, that's disobedience. And he says a shorthand version of the story, he adds in details like he devoured your property with prostitutes. He doesn't know that Maybe so. And then he does the the last part is this son of yours. Your brother. My brother. This son of yours? So it's all this distance, right? This speech is pious, judgmental, has contempt, hatred, jealousy, and this guy says, I want a party too. Okay, well look, what does he say? You are always with me and all that is mine is yours. You want a party? Let's throw a party. Can't be the issue. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this brother was dead and is alive. He was lost and he is found. Amen, right? Your brother's been found. We should open up a banquet, have a huge party, because all are welcome, especially those who are lost. So the parable ends this way. Remember how it started. This chapter started. The Pharisees and the task officers are mad because he eats with sinners. So this parable ends with this open question, Pharisees and Scribes. Are you going to come into the party? Because you are really mad at all these younger brothers out here that are following me around, who are receiving dignity and respect and forgiveness. What about you? Who are you in this text? There's two ways to hate God. The younger brother way and There's a very effective strategy of trying to do everything right so that no one notices you And if you can do everything right in your brain the way you think is if I can follow all of God's rules and be the perfect Christian, then I don't have to deal with God That's a nosocomial infection. It's very, very dangerous because we all can see the younger brother's rebellion. But the older brother rebellion is a lot trickier. And so we we know in our heads, don't be a Pharisee. We know that. But what is a Pharisee look like? Here's another way to put it. Some of us are very distinct older brothers and our personalities And some of us are very distinct younger brothers in our personalities. But most of us are mixed. And you have parts of your life sometimes seasons of your life where you're one or the other, but most of the time it's like, oh yeah, okay, no, that's the other that's the older brother part, and that this is the rebellious part. And so noticing about yourself and And sort of uh understanding that can help you because in Galatians Paul reminds us that we're all heirs to the The king the loving king. And as we sort of access our DNA And we realize that our natural father is a scoundrel. But our adopted father loves us so much. And we should follow him instead of being a slave and lost and squandering on sordid living and living in pig size, but also instead of being cold in our heart. And following all the rules and having perfect attendance and thinking that is righteousness? Because it's not. Sin is often complicated But repentance can run deep. And God loves it when one sinner repents. The angels rejoice. So are you a lost son? Or do you know a lost child? I know we all know lost children. Are we one But God celebrates rescues, right? He celebrates when lost sinners come home, when family members forgive each other, when marriages get revived. When someone finally comes back to church with joy, when somebody quits doing that thing, when someone starts to see the joy to put the marbles in the bowl jar Prodigal Son stories, Jesus stories, rescue stories. One of my favorite songs that we're we've done is Lauren Daigle. She's got this song called rescue. I'll try to put it on a Wednesday email. It says I hear you whisper underneath your breath, I hear your SOS, your SOS. Even just Like sending signals out, I'm not doing okay. I will send out an army to find you in the middle of the darkest night. It's true. I will rescue you I pray that song for the people I know who need rescue. The good news is there's hope for prodigals. There's hope for younger brothers, and there were even some older brothers that came around to know and love and follow Jesus. There's joy before the angels over one sinner who repents Amen. Amen. Let's pray, Lord, we come to you. Uh repentance Knowing that we have strayed and wandered and sinned, sometimes in very flashy ways, other times in very sneaky subtle ways, but always have been true. And so we come to you asking for your forgiveness, thanking you for your rescue, what you do each We're reminded of that today. We carry that out with us in the rest of the week. And Lord, we pray for our loved ones who need rest Many of whom are our children, are our parents, our grandparents, our siblings, our neighbors, our co-workers. Please Show your rescuing hand in their lives. Bring them to you, bring them back to you. We plead with you.