Well good morning again. We are continuing on in our study of the gospel according to John this morning. We're gonna finish out chapter eleven. We've been in it for several weeks now and we'll we'll wrap up chapter eleven. And it's important for us to see as Pastor Stan will be here next week to to begin teaching on on John chapter twelve, but as we We move from chapter eleven into chapter twelve, there's going to be a significant change that takes place. John took eleven chapters to cover a little over two years of Jesus' life, and then as we move into chapter 12, he's going to Slow down, really slow and zoom in and take the last eleven chapters and focus on just the last week of Jesus' life So we'll see some some significant changes as we begin moving forward to that. But for now we'll continue on in John 11 and ask that all who are able please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear not God's word. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they made plans to put him to death. Jesus, therefore, no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim. And there he stayed with the disciples. Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Now the chief priests and the Pharisees Had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know so that they might arrest him. This is God's word. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for your word. God, so often we can take it for granted that you have Spoken to us, revealed yourself to us, and committed it to writing that we might know you. Lord, what a privilege it is that you're a God who desires to be known by your people. God who loves your people and who draws near to your people and your Son by your Spirit. We pray, Lord, that Holy Spirit, you would draw near to us now in this time as we study your word, because we know that it's your word that's able, that's sufficient. For all of us for our Christian life, for rebuking, for teaching, for correcting, for training, that we might be complete, equipped for every good work. And yet we also know, Lord, that unless you open our eyes, Unless you open our ears, we will never profit from your word the way we need to. And so we ask, Lord, would you feed us now from your word? Would you speak for your servants are listening? We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well I'm not I'm not sure about what your T V watching habits are, but I I really enjoy watching shows on on the various streaming services. uh the other day we were watching on on normal TV and a commercial came up and we're like, what in the world is this? I I love watching it because you can avoid having to pause for commercials, but maybe the best thing is that when you're watching a great show and it leaves off on a a really important scene or a cliffhanger, you don't have to wait a week or several months before you find out what happens next. You can just click next and find out what happens. Find that the tension be resolved right away I love shows that end in cliffhangers, but th that tension can be so difficult sometimes. And I think this passage had me thinking about this this week because if the Gospel of John were a TV show Chapter 11 would definitely be a season finale. It has this great climactic sign that Jesus performs in raising Lazarus. You see all kinds of amazing things happening. In this chapter, and yet it ends on maybe one of the greatest cliffhangers there is. They've decided to put Jesus to death, and yet he's nowhere to be found. Everyone's wondering what's gonna happen. happen? Is he going to come to the feast? And if we didn't know the end of the story, we might find ourselves wondering those things. What in the world is Jesus going to do? How is this going to work out? It's exciting. It leaves us on one of those great cliffhanger moments. You'll have to come back next week to see how it fully gets resolved. But As we look at this passage, one of the things that stands out to us is we see that people are planning evil against the Lord. And yet God uses it for good. And this reminds us that we can be hopeful even when things go wrong. Because the truth is that Satan means everything for your evil and for my evil. But God can and does take evil and use it for good. And so I just want us to walk through this story this morning and see how that plays out. And I just want us to walk through and look at the problem, the solution, and the response. So we start by looking at the problem in verses 45 to 48. The context, as we said, we've been studying this chapter for a little while now, is that Jesus has just raised Lazarus from the dead. We saw that this takes place in a town named Bethany, which is about two miles or so outside Jerusalem. Lazarus and his sisters were, as far as we can tell, they were a relatively prominent and wealthy family. They were kind of connected. And being so close to Jerusalem, many of the Jews came from Jerusalem to comfort them, Mary and Martha. In their pain and the loss of their brother. And the result was that they witnessed Christ's sign that he performed in raising Lazarus from the dead. And the passage starts off by telling us that many believed in him. When they saw the sign. And Jesus himself said that this was one of his goals, right? He told the disciples that he was going there to raise Lazarus and that it would be for the strengthening of their faith. Even as he prays to his fathers, he says, I want to do this, and my prayer is that many will believe that you have sent me. And so also some of the Jews believe. But while many believed Many didn't. They went and they told the Pharisees what Jesus had done. They saw this as an opportunity for Jesus' undoing and went to tell on him. I think it's important for us to pause though and recognize that everyone we're reading about saw the sign. Right, we're not saying some people who were there believed, but other people who didn't see the sign didn't believe it really happened. Everyone saw the same thing. They both witnessed the same thing. Same sign. And even more than that, even the people who weren't there believed that it really happened. Everyone recognized that Jesus did perform this sign. That's clear from verse 47. Yet only some believed. How often do we hear the argument, if God would only show me a sign, if God would only do something miraculous in my sight? Then I would believe. Maybe you said that in your life, maybe you know someone who did. Maybe you're here this morning and that's where you're at, thinking, God, just do something miraculous and I will believe. Are you sure about that? See, this passage it shows us the flaw in that argument because the problem that you and I have when it comes to belief in God is not a lack of information. Or a lack of evidence. God's given us all the information he needs us to know about him in this book, and he's given us all the evidence we could long for in the world that he's made. The problem is not a lack of information or evidence. The problem is a sinful heart that's unwilling to believe. In order for us to pass from unbelief into faith, we need a heart transplant. As we've seen from this chapter, from earlier in John's Gospel, we need to be born again, to be brought from death into life, something that God alone can do. We need to ask him to work through his spirit and his word to give us faith in him. That's an offensive thing to say But the gospel is only good news for us when we see both our profound unworthiness, our profound inability, and our profound need. And that's what see what we see going on here. Several of these people who witnessed the sign refuse to believe in Christ. And so they go to the Pharisees. The Pharisees and the priests gather the council, also known in some of the other gospels as the Sanhedrin. Just a little bit of understanding of the political situation at the time. Time. And you have men like Pontius Pilate, the prefect, the governor of the area in Judea, who's overseeing all things, and yet they still had a limited amount of authority over their internal issues. It had limits, right? We'll see in a a few weeks as we go through the rest of this gospel. They didn't have authority to put anyone to death, and so they needed Roman approval for that. But by and large, they were allowed to govern some of their internal matters by themselves, and they did this in the form of the Sanhedrin. Which really functioned as all three branches of government. It was a judiciary, it was a legislature, it was an executive branch enforcing things. It was comprised of about 70 members, kind of modeled off of the example of Moses in In uh in the Exodus and Deuteronomy, as he brought seventy elders from the people to help him govern everything, because it was too much work for him And the people in power were mostly the Sadducees. There were kind of two, for lack of a better term, political parties at the time. The Sadducees were those who, among other things, denied the reality of a resurrection. The Pharisees were those who believed in the resurrection. They had all kinds of battles. You see that happen in Acts. Paul starts a fight by saying it's It's because of the resurrection of the dead that I'm on trial, and they all fight amongst themselves, and he's able to avoid their grasp for a moment. The Pharisees and the Sadducees kind of Fight against each other, have these internal fights. The Sadducees are mostly priests. They're mostly the ones that are in power on the council. But the Pharisees are the scribes, they're the teachers of God's word, and they have some influence. And they're uh they're a substantial minority and influential. And they're ruled overall by the high priest, who is supposed to rule for life, a life appointment, but now he's been appointed by Rome as kind of a political appointment. Taken out when he's uh not effective and raised up with a new person at their will. With all this infighting, they kind of put their differences aside though, because they've got a greater problem they have to deal with With the problem of this man from Nazareth who comes around, does all these signs, and the whole world is going after him. So they convene to address this problem. What are we going to do about Jesus? Again, they admit and recognize that he's performing signs. Yet their goal is that they want to stop people from believing in him. It's clear from the text that they fear the Roman reaction is going to happen if Jesus' popularity continues to increase. Many of the people at this stage in in history. Understood the expectation for the coming Messiah to be much more political in nature. That he would come and defeat Israel's earthly enemies, establish God's kingdom there in Israel by defeating Rome and all of God's other enemies. We saw that there were several uprisings that happened in in the gap of time between the Old Testament and the New Testament. So they're sensitive to these issues And they expected that as Jesus would grow in his power and in his influence, that even if he didn't want them to, that many people would follow him and in his name rise up and have an uprising and a rebellion against Rome. And that Rome would retaliate and take away both their place and their nation. That reference of a place is most likely a reference to Jerusalem, almost especially the temple. The nation being the the nation of Israel, they they want to secure their place and their nation. It's so important to understand the significance of these things. The Jews were a unique people in that they shared both a common faith and a national identity. Though the land of Canaan Was one of the covenant blessings. It was a God-given gift for them. It was so tied to who they are because God was the one who established them as a nation. God is the one who told them to build a temple in Jerusalem. It was central to their worship and their identity as who they were as God's people. They have their place and their nation. And when we see it this way, I I think it's really helpful because we begin to see that we're far more like them than we thought we were You see, they love God's gifts more than they love God Himself. Idols can start out as good things. Even things that are given by God as some of the blessings that He wants his people to have. It's a reminder for us that we all need to step back and ask: what do I hold most dear? Is it my house? My job? My family? Could it be something else? Not even just individually in our own lives. As a church, what do we hold most dear? God has blessed us with a wonderful building, ministries, and programs. He's blessed us with a worship service every week. What do we hold most dear? We must not let ourselves begin to love the things God has blessed us with more than we love God Himself. Calvin famously said, our hearts are idle factories. We're capable of ruining anything by trying to worship it and turning it into a God. We cannot serve two masters, so we need to constantly examine our hearts. for idols, because otherwise we might find ourselves, as these Pharisees were, in in the very position of opposing God in order to preserve something else. When our loves get in the wrong order, Christ becomes a problem to be dealt with instead of a savior to be trusted in. That's how this council was responding. The authorities are all wondering, what are we going to do about him? Caiaphas has the answer. Joseph Caiaphas was high priest that year. He actually ruled from the year 18 all the way to the year 36. Several people have pointed out that's the longest tenure of a high priest in the first century. century. And his father-in-law was Anna was Annas, who was the high priest before him. He was still influential. We'll see him play out later on in the gospel as Jesus is brought first to Annas's house and then second to Caiaphas's house before he goes on to be tried by Pilate. And to say that c that Caipas is unkind is probably a drastic understatement. He is not someone that you would want as an enemy. One commentator, William Henderson, paints this picture of Caiaphas for us. He says that Caiaphas was a rude and sly manipulator, an opportunist who did not know the meaning of fairness or justice, and who was bent on having his own way, by hook or by crook, is clear from the passages in which he's mentioned. He did not shrink from shedding innocent blood. What he himself ardently craved, for selfish purposes, he made to look as if it were the one thing needful for the welfare of the people. In order to effect the condemnation of Jesus, who had aroused his envy, he was going to use devices which were the product of clever calculation and unprecedented boldness. He was a hypocrite. For in the final trial, at the very same moment when he was filled with inner glee, because he had found what he considered grounds for Christ's condemnation. He tore his priestly robes as if overcome by profound sorrow. Such was Caiaphas, a man who was driven to manipulative behavior, selfish and and wicked desires, and yet wanted to appear pious and holy. And so it's no surprise that he responds kind of rudely to his colleagues and says, you don't know anything at all. You have no idea what you're talking about. He goes on and says He did not say this of his own accord. Nor do you understand that it's better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He didn't say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. I think it's important to see a couple things here. First, it's important to recognize that Caiaphas is responsible for his evil plan. He wants to preserve the temple and the nation, and he's willing to kill Jesus for the greater good, as he sees it. He prophesied, but it but it's not as if he was forced to say something against his will. He said what he wanted to say, and he said what he meant, and he meant what he said. This is one of the many places in Scripture that we see this tension between the fact that God is completely sovereign and control of everything that happens in the world, and yet We are responsible for our choices and our actions. And we're going to see that God is able to use even our sinful actions for his purposes. But at the same time, we need to affirm that God is not morally culpable for our sin. We choose to sin and we bear responsibility for our actions. We dare never say, God made me do it. This is what James says in chapter one. He says, Let no one say when he's tempted, I'm being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Caiaphas is responsible for his evil plan and his actions and carrying it out. Second, we need to also step back and see, Caiaphas really did speak better than he knew. What he meant was the best political move is to make Jesus a scapegoat. He dies so that we won't be wiped out by the Roman Empire. It's interesting to see that his goal fails because just about thirty years later, the temple is destroyed and Jerusalem is sacked. He tried to preserve the temple and Israel by killing Christ, who is the true temple. And yet the physical temple is later destroyed. But Caiaphas thinks he has a great plan. Verse 51 makes it clear that he doesn't really understand all that he says. Whether it's by virtue of his office or what, the Holy Spirit used him to prophesy. We see this happening throughout the Old Testament, where people are used by God to speak prophetically in various instances. Even if they're not uh people that belong to the people of God in that sense. You see examples of of King Saul in the Old Testament who doesn't really show any evidence of having a changed heart and loving God, and yet the Holy Spirit came upon him because of his office. as a king. He prophesied among God's people at times. We see maybe even more famously Balaam going to prophesy against the people of Israel and in various places and yet every time God turned his words and used it to make a blessing upon God's people. It's not unusual that a prophet will speak God's word and yet not fully grasp the full meaning of what he said. We've been talking about it in Sunday school, this principle of of how prophecies often have multiple fulfillments throughout history. Right? You might see something in the distance and and it might look like a mountain. And yet as you draw clearer and draw closer you see more clearly that it's a range of mountains with multiple peaks. That's kind of the way the pro the prophecy often works, that it's that there is one real fulfillment that they see, they understand, and yet there's more beyond what they can even grasp so often. And that's what Caiaphas is speaking here. He says rightly, Jesus is going to die, and yet he doesn't even begin to understand all that that entails and how God will use it. So, what did the Holy Spirit intend through Caiaphas's prophecy? He speaks through here to reveal his plan of salvation. I think there's a few things we need to see. We need to see the nature of Christ's death. Christ died was not merely an example to teach us about self-sacrifice and love. No, the text is clear that he died on behalf of others. On the behalf of the nation, and to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. He died as a substitute in the place of others. What was going to happen to them happened to him instead This is how we understand Christ's atonement. He died in our place for our punishment, to take God's wrath for our sin upon himself so that we might not have to. This is the testimony of Scripture all the way through. Isaiah 53. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Peter says the same thing. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds, you have been healed. Christ died in our place as a substitute to take the penalty for our sins that we deserve. What a wonderful blessing this is for us to remember. It's also important to see who who does Christ die for in this passage? For the nation, but not for the nation only, also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. It's a reference both to the Jews under the nation. And to the Gentiles, the children of God who are scattered abroad. When Christ died for his people, he died for sinners from every tongue and tribe and nation and language. You see, Caiaphas spoke better than he knew. See, his goal was self-preservation. To preserve himself and the nation and their position. And the temple. But he completely missed the point. He thought Israel existed for its own sake, rather than the fact of recognizing that Israel existed for the world. Israel was not to be inward focused, closed off as if it was to shun all the world around it. It existed to be a witness to the nations. To show the world that the beauty of having God as your God, of following His laws and His commandments, though the blessings that come and the way we flourish when God is our King. God's plan always included the Gentiles. Isaiah 9, those who walk in darkness shall see a great light. The hope was always that the knowledge of the glory of the Lord would cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. Psalm 87, Zion, Jerusalem, pictured as a place where people from all over the world are coming and saying, I was born here. Zion will be a mother in whom men of every nation were born. In trying to preserve Israel and the nation and the temple, Caiaphas missed the whole point of why they existed. And we can make the same mistake, I think. Why are we here? Certainly the church exists for God's glory, that we might glorify and enjoy Him forever. But why are we here at Grace Church in Relay? Why do we worship here as opposed to worshiping somewhere else? We must never make the mistake of thinking that we are here for ourselves. No friends, we're we're here for them. We're here because we live in a neighborhood in a community where there are people who do not know the Lord who made them. And we're here to make Christ known. Pastor Matt Bowling, who many of you will remember, came to preach about a month or so ago, has a saying, he said, The only reason why the sun came up today is because Christ is still gathering a people to himself. And he wants to use us to do it. Christ died to purchase salvation for his people, a people from every walk of life and from every corner of the world. And we too must long to see Christ glorified as people bow to him and come to him in faith We must orient ourselves toward that desire in every area of our lives. It should shape the way we spend time in our families, shape the way we build relationships at work and at school. Even how we do ministry as a church. Because otherwise we run the risk of making the same mistake as Caiaphas and forgetting why we exist. Our witness is not what makes Christ love us, right? His love is unchanging and steadfast. He loves us no matter what. No, our witness is an expression. Of our love for Him. The motivation is our love for Christ. We love because He first loved us As we grow to understand the love he has for us, we grow to love him more. And our desire for seeing him praised grows and grows, and we begin to love others for his sake and want to see others come to know and worship the God that we've come to know and worship. To be brought from darkness into light as we have been. Unlike Hyaphas, we we have to remember why we're here. But they're entirely focused on on the wrong things and and that's what leads them to deal with the problem in the way they do. From that day on, they made plans to put him to death. They feel they found a solution to their problem. And we see interestingly that Jesus responds by withdrawing to another town. The town he goes to is Ephraim. It's about twelve miles away from Jerusalem. We're not entirely sure exactly where it's located, but it seems like it's it's about the appropriate distance to be safe. From the Jews who are trying to kill him, but also not too far off so that he actually can return for the Passover. Because he knows that his time is close, but it's not here yet. And they may want to kill him now, but they can't do it until he lets them. Because no one takes his life from him. He lays it down of his own accord. And so it's as the Passover approaches, the news begins to spread throughout Jerusalem of this plan that they have. The people are coming to purify themselves for the feast, and I just find it odd that John includes this reference here that there are groups now coming to purify themselves who in a few short weeks will be calling out, crucify him Crucify him. And Jesus is the hot topic of conversation. Everyone wants to know, do you think he's going to come this year? Do you think he's actually going to show up? It seems that they almost expect that he won't. You don't think he's really going to come this year, do you? But again, the anticipation is building. Everyone wants to know what's going to happen. How is this story going to play out? Who's going to win? And the authorities make it clear, if you see him, you better tell us so that we can arrest him. Notice they've already decided to put him to death. When the time comes for his trial, no one is asking, is Jesus guilty? Because they've already decided weeks ahead of time. It's merely looking for the right excuse that they can use to convince the people. Notice as they plot evil, Christ responds by withdrawing his presence. That may be the most devastating way that God can respond to us. Withdrawing his light in his presence, removing his restraining hand as we persist in our sin, giving us over to our sin. Praise God that He gives us His Holy Spirit to overcome our sin, to put sin to death and fight for righteousness, working by the grace that he works in us. But it's a reminder that we need to be careful what we wish for. If you long to sin, he might just let you. And the consequences can be destructive. It's important to see as we come to the end of this chapter that that the stage is set. The tension is beginning to build as we move towards the climax of the And it really does leave us right there on a cliffhanger trying to figure out what's going to happen. How is this going to play out? The good news is we know how the story unfolds. They do indeed arrest him. And put him to death. And it's the greatest evil that was ever committed in the history of the world. That the only truly innocent man who ever lived was murdered. And yet the apostles themselves tell us in Acts four, as they prayed to God, Truly in this city they were gathered against your holy servant Jesus, whom you had anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do Whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. You see, this passage really displays the truth of the scripture verse we read for the week. Genesis 50, verse 20. As for you, you meant evil. But God meant it for good to bring it about that many should be kept alive as they are this day. See, the good news is that because God is able to take the worst thing that has ever happened, And use it to bring about the greatest thing that's ever happened. If he can do that on this grand, massive scale, friends, certainly he can do it in the details of your life. And we need that reminder. Because make no mistake, Satan hates you. He means everything that happens to you in your life for your destruction and your evil. He prowls around like a roaring lion seeking who he might devour. But the good news is his power is nothing compared to our great God. Who is able to make all things work for our good, even the things that you just can't even see, any kind of light at the end of the tunnel, he's able to make it work for your good and for your salvation. So no matter what you are struggling with this morning No matter what trials or hardships you're enduring, no matter what evil is being done against you, let this passage help you take comfort and take hope because God is able to take that which is evil. And use it for good to bring about your salvation. When you struggle to believe in this promise, friends, look to the cross. Where God didn't spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how much more will he graciously give us all things in him? Everything finds its center in a crucified Savior who rises again. Let's pray together. Of all that's happened That all that goes on in our lives, and that you're not only in control, you're not only powerful, but God, you're also so good and so wise, and able to use all these things for our eternal good and for your glory. And we do just Praise you. Lord, if we're honest, sometimes that's really, really hard to believe. And so Lord, we we confess, we believe. Would you help our unbelief? And would you give us comfort as we go back out into the world to live another week serving you, that no matter what comes against us, no matter what happens to us, that we might trust in you and keep the cross. As center in our focus. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen