Truth is We're living in dangerous times. Do you realize that? Our children are exposed to things that we are scared to even Think about. We all are exposed to things that we shouldn't be exposed to. I'm talking about sexual matters here And so before I begin my sermon this morning, I want to issue a listener discretion advisory, if you will. I am glad that our children are sitting here with us this morning, especially teenagers. I'm glad that there are people that are here that are not married. But if you think last week was anything, this week is even Much more. Because scripture doesn't just speak to anything just out there. Scripture speaks to things that are practical and to matters that we might think are Shameful or private things for us to speak, but the Bible addresses all of those things. So I'm glad that there are children in here so that they may hear the word of God So they may hear a biblical view of marriage and sexuality. So that as they expose to all things out there, they may know and they may remember, our church did teach us What is the place of sexuality in marriage? But I also understand that you, as a parent, have been given the responsibility by God to decide and to raise your children. And so you might not be feeling very comfortable for your kids to hear, especially the first part of this sermon that's talking about sex in marriage. And so if you feel like this is not appropriate for your child, I would ask that you excuse them, at least for the first part of the sermon. I give you that discretion. Okay? All right. If you're able, would you please stand and let us hear the reading of God's word? We're reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 1 through 16. Hear now, Paul, as he writes to the church. Now concerning the matters about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife, and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer, but then come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self control. Now, as a concession, not a command, I say this. I wish that all were as I myself am, but each has his own gift from God, and one of one kind and one of another. To the married and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am, but if they cannot exercise self control, they should marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion To the married I give this charge, not I, but the Lord. The wife should not separate from her husband, but if she does, she should remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband, and the husband should not divorce his wife. To the rest I say, I, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved God has called you to peace. For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? Father, we come before you this morning, and how grateful we are that your word does not speak to us only to specific or to things that we want to hear, but to every part of our life. Thank you that you've given us your word this morning. We ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit you will help us to understand it and to believe it Guide us, Lord. We pray in the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. T. Paul is here in this chapter beginning to address the letters we see in chapter 16 or verse of 1 Corinthians Of certain questions, specific questions that the church was asking Paul to address. And so in chapters 1 through 6, we saw Paul laying the ground, if you will beginning to speak about the gospel about people that were coming from a non-believing world into the church and becoming part of the church And he talks about sanctification, he talks about unity, he talks about building the church, he talks about all these things, and then he is laying the ground so that his the church is aware that when he begins addressing the specific issues that the church is raising. They understand the principles on how to apply what he's been talking about in this letter. And so it is here that Paul begins to address, and first of those things that he begins to address is an issue of marriage. Is it right? Is it okay for a man or a woman who is a Christian to be married? That's the general principle that is here But we will see throughout this the whole of this chapter seven that Paul's address and his response to this particular question in fact does lead us to an under a deeper understanding of what exactly is going on. in the church of Corinth. And as we saw a little bit of that last week, it is this that there are illicit sexual relations that are going on In the church and in the community. We saw in the very beginning the Corinth was actually described as the city of fornication and prostitution And so all these matters are actually affecting the church, affecting the people in the church. And you can imagine that the people that were becoming members of that congregation were coming from such backgrounds tainted by sin and coming with their own sexual immorality. And so in addition, Paul is now here beginning to address three categories, if you will, of people that are asking specific questions. So there were those that were wondering in their married relationship, is it okay then if we're married for us to have sexual relations? Is it o is it okay to have sex within marriage See, we talked about temporal prostitution last week and maybe some of them, maybe we don't know. Paul does not tell us the exact specific issues that are going on. But they were thinking to themselves That there was a way they were going to reconnect or connect with the gods because temple prostitution was about this. It was about when you have a sexual relation with a stranger, and that's why they had men and women as temple prostitutes You're actually in some sense in a in a weird kind of a way connecting with the gods, connecting with the deity. And so there's a group of Christians that are married that are thinking maybe it is wrong for us, it is sinful for us to continue. Having sex even though we are married because we are performing something that is dirty, something that is sinful. And so they ask Paul, is it okay for us to have sexual relations within marriage? Then there were those that had a great admiration of as some some form of an aesthetic life, you know living a life of celibacy especially. And they were saying we are the ones that are more spiritual than all of you, because we're not tied down to marriage. So Paul is being asked the question about singleness. What are we supposed to then do? Or there seems to be a group that is actually making it a rule for everybody. You should not be married. And then finally, there's a group that had become believers Or one of the spouses had become a believer. They were non-believers before they were married. So now they're wondering now that I've become a believer in my wife or my husband is not a believer, should I stay with her or should I divorce her? They're asking Paul, what are we supposed to do? So here's a question for us this morning It is important for us to understand these issues that are going on and as Paul is responding to specific problems in this church Because that will help us to apply this general principle that Paul is giving us about marriage. Otherwise, it's going to be very difficult for us to understand how to apply this text. In our lives. Why do I say this? We come to marriage with our own baggage. You know your past. I know my past. You know where you've been. I know where I've been. Brokenness in our lives reminds us that we are tainted by sin. And that sometimes when we come to marriage, we do not have the best of views on what marriage ought to look like. And if you're single, you also are struggling with your own issues, as so you might not have the best view on what singleness is also supposed to be. So Paul is addressing the church here, wanting them to have a better view of what marriage is all about and what it is. What is it? He tells us. To see marriage, singleness, and where you are as a gift from God. Because when you do so, Things are gonna be better in your life. So he begins with the first group that is as I said. He gives instructions for those that are married. And they again it seems like there was another slogan like we saw last week of those that were saying it is good to for for a man not to have sexual relations with with with with a spouse. Actually the language here is is a bit better than other translations that say that it is good for a man not to touch a woman Which is really euphemism for sexual relations. And so Paul says, well, it is not just good, but it's actually necessary in a married relationship Now, Paul is here being very realistic because as I mentioned, there's a group that seems to be advocating for celibacy, that singleness is the only way to do things, to be spiritual and all of that And Paul here in verses two says, Well it is good for men or a woman to be married because of sexual temptation. Which Has made so many people accuse Paul of having a very, very low view of marriage. Because then they're saying, Paul, how can you argue and tell people that they should marry because there's sexual temptation? But then to accuse Paul of that accusation is actually to miss the point. Why? Because if you really want to see Paul's view on what marriage is all about, you need to go to Ephesians chapter 5 This is not the place that Paul is giving his views, but Paul, as I said, is dealing with a specific problem. There was temptation, great temptation in the city, in the church, and so Paul wants to make sure that people get to know. Or give practical solutions or ideas on how to deal with this issue. And it's it's it's as John Calvin puts it, he says, the question is not as to the reasons marriage has been instituted That's not the question, but as to the persons for whom it is necessary. And as Paul is looking at this church and knowing what they're dealing with, he's saying, Let me be real, let me be practical You need to be married because of the sexual temptation that is there. Now, Paul is gonna tell us that he actually would prefer for The people to stay single, which again makes people accuse Paul of being against marriage. But then that's still not right. Why Because Paul would be contradicting himself. He'll be contradicting scripture. I mean Paul is this is the great evangelist that is planting churches and wanting people to grow and wanting the church to grow He understands what what sex is meant for. It's meant uh I mean sexual relations and marriage is all about. It's supposed to be for procreation, for the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ For companionship and all these things as we look at in Genesis 2, Genesis 1 actually. But Paul is yet trying to speak to the church again in a very real sense to encourage them So that they may avoid problems in the church. And what reasons does Paul give as as to why it is important for a man and wife that are married to have sexual relations? He says this Verses 3. It is think of it this way: it's as if you have a debt that you owe to your spouse. That's the language right there. You owe your spouse intimacy. It's an I owe you. He's stress stressing the duty that each spouse has for each other. That we have an obligation if you're married that you have an obligation towards your husband, towards your wife That you cannot, as we saw last week, use your own body just the way you want or for your own sake, but you have to think about your spouse Consider the needs of the other. Put the needs of your spouse be beyond your own. It is about giving. It is about being sensitive to the other. Even And especially when it is difficult to fulfill those duties to one another. Paul, I think, is here encouraging us, those of you that are married, to be considerate to one another, to lovingly Talk about your relationship and intimacy within relationships so that it doesn't become a burden to you or to your spouse. So we're not supposed to be demanding We're supposed to be fulfilling, joyfully fulfilling our obligation to one another. That the for those of us that are married, we should our attitude ought to be this: how can I serve my wife? How can I serve my husband And not what's in it for me. Because sometimes that is always the attitude that we have. And then Paul continues to, in order to strengthen his argument in verses 4, look at it. What does he say? Says wife, your body does not belong to you, yes, it does belong to you, but it also belongs to your husband. Husband, your body does not belong to you, yes, it does, but Also belongs to your wife You have no control over authority, sorry, over your own body. But you two mutually belong to one another. The husband may be the head of the family. That is scripture that we as men are called to be the spiritual leaders of our families. But when it comes to sexual uh reality or matters that re pertain to sexuality You are not the head. That you are together, that you both submit to one another. That husbands are not supposed to be demanding of their wives, but they're supposed to be fulfilling their obligation to their wives And wives the same way, they're not supposed to be denying their husbands, but fulfilling their rights. How important is this for us to hear in such a male-dominated community that we live today? Knowing that as wives and husbands, we must submit to one, especially when it pertains to sexuality. Now, again, sadly, this is the truth of the matter, right? That sometimes we do enter marriage, as I mentioned earlier, with such unhealthy understanding of what intimacy is. Some some of us have been scarred so bad that we think of sexuality as this horrible thing, this dirty, sinful thing, even within marriage. Some of us come into married with so much guilt, with so much shame, that it becomes even impossible to undress before your own sparves. And that's not the idea that Paul wants us to have. It makes it so difficult for marriage to be sustained, for marriage to be joyful, to be that which gift that God has given to us. And Paul is encouraging couples to know that this is a gift from God. It's a sacred gift that God has given to those that are married. And for those that are saying that there is that you need to stay celibate as married, there is no celibacy in marriage. It doesn't exist. Look at verses 5. Paul says, do not deprive one another. In fact, the reading of that passage is this: Do not deprive one another as you are already doing. So Paul understands that they're already doing that. They're defrauding each other. Actually, that's that's the force of this language. And Paul says, Let me give you three reasons. The only way that you can deprive one another in marriage He says it must be through mutual consent, it must be for spiritual purposes, and it must be for a limited time. That's the only way that if you don't come together after your period of absence, you're giving the devil a chance to tempt you. That permanent arrangement, as some maybe are advocating, would only lead to consequences that you don't want to deal with as a married couple And so Paul, here I think he's referring when he says that you you you you step aside and and and not be intimate with one another for For a certain period of time for prayer. I think he's actually referring to times when we as couples, as as as husbands and wives, ought to devote our time in prayer And sometimes we go through difficult times in life and I think there's real power when a couple joins together, not just in in marriage, but also in prayer To trust the Lord to provide for a difficult situation. But then he says, but then once that is done, you need to come back and be together and continue to enjoy the blessing that God has given you. Now we all know the truth because of our brokenness and our sin. That sometimes we do use intimacy as a form of reward and punishment towards our spouses. I think Paul is warning us against that. I mean there are times the medical reasons will not allow for us to be intimate with our spouses, but other times I think it's because of our own sin. That you tell your husband, unless you clean that toilet. Don't come to me. And that is wrong. That we're not supposed to sexuality is not to be used as a tool for punishment and reward. It is God's gift for us in marriage. Again, Paul is reminding us that we shouldn't give the devil a chance to tempt us. That marriage is being used as a protective shield for us so that we may not be tempted by sex or sin. So to permanently Stay and not experience intimacy in your marriage is what is inviting all these things to happen in our lives Now I I need to note this. We need to remember that Paul is not saying that marriage was ordained as a remedy for sin Marriage is not ordained as a remedy for sin. That's not what marriage is all about. It's not a preventative measure against immorality. We can still be immoral, even in all marriages. But it's a good thing that God has given to us. And secondly, Paul is going to address those that are single, verses 6 through 9, and then verses 10 and 11, he actually goes back to the married couple. So let's deal with verses six through through nine. See, Paul, as I mentioned, would would rather recommend that everyone stays single and he actually would rather want the to to To preach that gospel and tell the thus if you're not married, please stay single. He would rather have it that way. Now he he he's saying that marriage is is a desirable thing, it's a gift from God, but it's not mandatory. Verse 7 That God is able to give power to some people, to some of us, to refrain from marriage and sexual relations. And others don't have that power, others don't have that gift But that we must discern for ourselves, that we must prayerfully discern for ourselves what is God's gift to us. If you feel that marriage is what God is leading you, then please, by all means, do it. But if you feel that singleness is where God is calling you, yes, by all means do it. But Paul is saying, but I'm not going to make that as a command, it's a concession. Now I think Paul is getting into something that's really important for us to know. Because as I mentioned, there were some the in Corinth that were actually saying, well, if you want to be spiritual, you gotta be single, or vice vice versa Marriage or singleness does not make you superior or more spiritual than someone else. They are both gifts from God. Neither is higher than the other. See, a side note here, people make arguments and we and I don't have an answer for you, but people make arguments about Paul. Was he made? Was he not made? Now if we really look at history, if Paul was truly a member of the Sanhedrin, if Paul was really the Jew that we know that he was, he probably was married at age 18 Because Jewish Orthodoxy would not have let him be an ordained rabbi unless he was married. Now, of course, Paul doesn't tell us whether he was married or not, we don't know. And so probably maybe Paul was married and his wife died, or She left him when he became a believer. We don't know. I don't know. Maybe when he gets to heaven, we'll get to ask him. But that's besides the point here, because Paul is saying After the side note, that he recognizes the strong human sexual behavior that is difficult to control, especially for those that are not married. And so Paul is so quick after saying, I prefer that you stay as I am, that you stay single, don't get married. But he immediately hastens to add, but Don't burn with passion saying that I want to be single because I want to be better than everybody else. And the fruit of the matter is this: that when God removes the gift of marriage from someone When God has totally completely taken that gift of marriage and you don't desire it and it's not for you, that He is able by His grace and providence to actually endow you with the gifts of being single. Have you ever read the story of John Stock, one of the greatest Anglican theologians that I love dearly? A man that never got married. He died a single man, but a man who devoted His life preaching the gospel and and impacting the evangelical world in a way that he probably could not have done if he was married Now I say that again not to glorify singleness or marriage but to make a point as Paul is actually next week we're going to see he's going to talk about singleness and he's going to talk about Just how being single frees us from responsibility and from the anxieties of of being in mage and caring for children and all. Not that it's a burden. Please don't hear me say it's a burden because it's not. It's a gift from God But that there are responsibilities and and desires that come with a married life. And so Paul sees He realizes he's gonna be traveling and planting churches and doing all these things, and he says, and there are some of you that could be called to that. And if you are, praise be to God But remember, Paul's motivation to being single is not motivated by his own desire or by his own needs or some aesthetic uh living of a holier-than-thou attitude. It is A desire to serve the Lord, a desire to honor God. And that has to be our attitude if we think that God is calling us to that. I think Paul is against change for change's sake. I think Paul is encouraging those who are single, stay single. Don't just try to get married because everybody's saying, Oh yeah, we need to get I need to get married. For what? Don't just make a change in your life for the sake of making a change. Make a change in your life because you feel God calling you to that. Be prayerful about it. Now I like the way Paul is here addressing those who are single. I like the way he divides. Instead of addressing all those who are married to unmarried together Look at verses 8. He says to the unmarried and to the widows. I love that. See the admirated here are the single men and women. They are the widowers with the men, those who are separated, those who are divorced. But then he has a special category for the widows. We know how scripture looks at widows, don't we? They are the ones that the church is called to care for. To provide for them financially. They're the ones that have that have a special ministry in the church. And that's a beautiful thing. Especially when a church honors widows, those that have lost their husbands. And they're not able to provide for themselves. And the church comes to care for them, to love on them. Paul is being so real. He understands human nature and sin and all of that. If you lack self-control, he says, go ahead and be married. But here's a warning for those of us that are single That as much as Paul is saying, don't burn with passion, go ahead and be married, we need to be reminded, and this is scripture, that we should never let our passions take control over us and overwhelm us. In a way that we say, well, I feel like I want to have sexual relations, so I'm just gonna go ahead and get married so that I can sort the problem. Listen Self-control is a gift from God. Okay? And you can still go ahead and sin in your marriage. Don't let your passions control you. The only passion that should control you is the love of God and his people, so that you can rightly ask for God to give yourself control when you're single, but also when you are married. Because those passions can get out of control and you're married as well. There's definitely pure pressure Today, as young people seek to be married. Some will think that there's something absolutely wrong with me, and that's why I cannot find a husband or a wife And sometimes I think as a church as well, we put some undue pressure on those that are single. When are you getting married? When are you gonna find a wife or husband? And I think our responsibility as a church is actually to encourage those that are single to love on them and to tell them you are whole in Christ. You can serve the Lord just where you are. If the Lord opens the doors for them to be married, amen. But we shouldn't put undue pressure upon them. But we should encourage them to continue serving the Lord. More to come on that next week. And then Paul returns to verses ten and eleven. warning um giving them a warning about uh about divorce and remarriage. Now there's some curious language here in verses 10 that Paul uses. He says, not I, but the Lord. How are we to understand those words? I think Paul is here saying, I am quoting Jesus here. I am citing Jesus because he does quote Jesus from Matthew chapter 10, Mark chapter 10, sorry. Jesus teaching on divorce and it's almost as if Paul is saying, I am gonna step aside because you remember the church in Corinth had problems with Paul, his apostolic authority. He's almost saying, I'm gonna step aside and let Jesus directly speak to you about matters of divorce and remarriage. So that you may hear the weight of this word that God really does care about marriage. And divorce. And so it's not like Paul is not addressing the church. He is addressing the church, but he wants the church to hear the weight of this word from Jesus Himself. Now, the funny thing to actually note that divorce was even more common back in the first century than it is today. Would you believe it? The cliche was this in the Jewish community. You get married to get divorced, and you get divorced to get married again. Jewish men would actually give a divorce to their wives for speaking loudly at home. They would divorce their wives for talking to a stranger in the public square. Petty matters. And if you got divorced and you did not get remarried after 18 months, you were fined a special tax. So the pressure to be married was there. Now think about it. What are some of the reasons why people get divorced today? We hear it on TV, right? Irreconcilable differences were incompatible. I just I just don't like them anymore. I think we need to be careful here. His father's warning the church not to be separated, not to take divorce lightly. That's why Paul is encouraging those who who are separated, either stay separated, don't remarry, or be reconciled to your spouse. See, Jesus in Mark talks about adultery as The one thing that can excuse for divorce or remarriage. Paul is adding a second here. Desertion, actually, in verses 12, as we shall we shall see. But I want to encourage you, church, that these are such complex and difficult matters. Very complex and difficult matters that must be treated very carefully and in a very sensitive way. But I think the encouragement is for us to take marriage very seriously: that God intends for marriage to last. God's design for marriage is not divorce. And we need to hear that. Breaking that marriage bond can lead to consequences that we do not want to deal with. So take your marriage seriously. And if you're single, think about it before you get married. Finally, he gives instructions to those that are as scripture would put it unequally yoked in verses 12 to 16. I'm just going to run through this because the next part of scripture is actually we're going to be dealing with this a lot. But he this is what I I just want to mention with this. And i the situation was such that it was mostly women. Women that had become believers that were made And when they were married, they were both non-believers, the both the husband and the wife. But the the wives were actually seeking to leave the marriage. Why? Because they thought that they they were doing something wrong by continuing to be married to an unbeliever They probably heard Paul's words in chapter six. They were doing something. They were being united with a excuse me with a pagan in their marriage. And so Paul here gives his own advice to them, and again we see that language he says, Now, I, but not the Lord Again, don't take that as this is not God's word. Paul is basically saying you remember it said earlier that that was Jesus addressing you. This is me addressing you. Not that this message that does not have apostolic authority, it has authority, it is God's word. But he's basically saying, I am not quoting Jesus right now. These are my words, but they are God's word. And Paul is saying, listen, unless the unbelieving spouse asks for a divorce, your responsibility is to stay with them. You don't divorce them. That the Christian is not the one to go asking for divorce. And then he asks, why? Or rather they ask they would be asking, well, why should we remain married to someone that is an unbeliever? And Paul here uses some very strong language. He says, well, because the believing husbands or wife will make the unbelieving spouse or wife holy Or sanctified. And you want to wait a minute, Paul. How is that possible? Well, Paul is not talking about salvation here, right? It's not that the believer is going to save the unbelieving spouse I think that language there means that God has laid a claim on this family because of the believing spouse. That God's blessings are upon this family just because of one person that believes. You know why we baptize infants? Because of that, he says, and your children are made clean, they're made holy. Not that they are Saved, they still need to come before the Lord and and accept him. We we baptize them because they are members of God's covenant, that God has truly laid a claim upon them. And so Paul is encouraging the Christian spouse to be a witness, to be a testimony of who God is, because you don't know. God might just use you as a vessel to save that unbelieving spouse. It's not your responsibility, of course. You you can't save anybody, but God can. But I think this is really important for us if we have any friends or people that we know that uh in marriages, mixed marriages, that we we need to encourage them to live lives that are godly, to honor their marriages, to love their spouses, and to to live in a manner that is so attractive that the unbelieving spouse Is just going to be looking at them and wondering, Wow, how how could you love me? Why are you so joyful? Why are you so kind? Why are you so loving? Why are you so giving? Why are you so trusting? Why are You saw all these things why Because that is a beautiful and an awesome, awesome way to minister to those that are not living with Christ. But Paul says in this passage that we've read, we're called to peace. A really broad way of looking at peace. But I think he's saying this sometimes we will be able to live with an unbelieving spouse. But other times it's going to be impossible. And Paul, I think, is being realistic again, understanding that sometimes it's going to be extremely difficult, especially when the unbeliever is Committed to destroying the marriage and completely sold out that they're gonna put an end to it. And Paul is saying: if that's the case, let them go. Let them go. Now again, these are such specific situations that Paul is dealing with. And it's so hard for us to apply these principles in our lives. We have to. So what what do we say about this passage then? What's it what's in it for us? I think it's beautiful. I think it's beautiful for you that are here that are married. That God has called you to honor Him in your marriage To lovingly and with joy to give yourself to the other, that you don't view your marriage as a burden. It's not a burden, it's a gift that God has given to you So celebrate that gift and understand the blessing that God has given you to enjoy that holy matrimony that God has given you Give yourself to one another. And those of you that are here that are single and and you feel that pressure that you know people are saying what's wrong with you Honor God. Honor God where you are. It is a gift. And God will grant you the grace to live the way He wants you to live. And I know it's difficult at times. I was single until I was thirty two. Three? Two? But you can still honor God in your singleness. And for those even in more difficult situations where you are living with a non-believer God, I pray for grace upon your life. That God would help you to have a passion for Him, that you would love your spouse, and that you would be a shining light to them Them because God is more than able to do amazing things, even through you. Father, we thank you that you have called us to yourself and Thank you that you give us marriage, you give us singleness, and you give us even other difficult situations for us to deal with. Would you Lord allow us to truly Honor you in all things that we do, thanking and praising you for everything that we have and everything that we are is a gift from you. Allow us to enjoy and to be truly thankful to you. In the name of the Father and of the Son that we pray. Amen.