Good morning, good morning. You look for First Timothy chapter one, when you get to it, stand up and we'll Read the scripture together. Well, I'll read and you'll listen, I guess, is the way it works, right? We won't all read in unison. Amen. First Timothy chapter one. We are looking at life in the household of God as we look at this book of First Timothy. All right. Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. Understanding this: that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless. and the disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers for murderers The sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine In accordance with the gospel, the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I pray you bless us as we look through this portion of your word. Look, four verses, but there's a lot here. Help us to be clear, succinct, help us to be Christ-centered in all that we do and all that we think. May the words of my mouth and and in the meditation of all of our hearts receive what you have to say. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You have your seat. God's good law, law. Been lots of recent discussions about law. Uh if if you're like me, you got were intrigued by the uh Supreme Court confirmation hearings a few weeks ago. They're very interesting Learn some important uh uh things about how we should view law and upon what basis we can amend our constitution. Some very good and interesting things that I learned there. The confirmation of Judge Barrett Of course, over the last few months, we've heard lots of discussion about law and order. That's more than a TV show, as you know. Protests in the streets, they were pleas for law and order. Some saw that as code for For a uh uh uh a dog whistle harping at back to the days of extreme racism in the Jim Crow South Law and order. I don't have a problem with law, and I think I need some order, but law and order, when you put those two together, some people think you're saying something that you're not saying. Now, in Christian theology, there's always been a lot of discussion about law. Law. Should biblical law be pushed upon people who aren't Christians? Are the universal laws that are prior to biblical scripture, revelation? What is the role of biblical law in the believer's life? Do we follow it? Do we just discard it? It's no longer important. What does Jesus mean when he declared he came to fulfill the law? We'll look at we'll touch on most of those today in a in a cursory way, in a secondary way, but I want to focus on God's good law. God's good law. The law is good. As God's people, we should embrace the good law of because this law is the law of a good God. We should embrace his good law because it's his good law and he is good. The laws reflect. God hasn't just said, oh I think you should do that and that. No, no. God is those things and he says He says, be holy, not because holiness is because I am holy. Be loving because God is love. God's law, his mandates, his commands to us are an extension of his heart and of his character and of his personality. You're not arbitrary. Today we're going to look at the fact that that uh God's good law is good. We'll look at the meaning of it and the goodness of it. And then we'll look at uh the fact that it's for all people, it's for sinners, it's for saints, it's for society. And then we're going to get specific as we unpack these verses a little bit and then look at a few applications for us here in 2020. First, the law is good. The law of God is good. Now The word law is an interesting word, even in the scriptures. It can mean the scriptures. It can also mean just the things that God has put in order that are good for us to do. Um g you it you know, every structure needs rules. Needs you know, there's rules in the church. There's Hopefully there's some rules in your household. The kids don't like that, but hopefully there's some rules in your household. There's rules in the country. There are rules that govern The world. And the purpose of rules and law are is cooperation and order and love for others and respect for other people. That's why we have rules. Think about the traffic rules, the traffic laws. You know, we have lights at the corner, most corners. You have lights, you have trap, you have red, green, and yellow lights, right? Are those to slow you down or to promote peace and order? Well, what's the purpose of a traffic light? And of course you know that green means go and red means stop and yellow means go faster. We know that. But what's the purpose? What's the purpose? The purpose is that they mean the order in the cars won't hit each other. Because you love the person in the other car. Well, even if you don't know them, you love them by following the lights. God's law is good. Law is good. And God's law is good. Now, if you're late for an appointment and you're going 45 and a twenty-five and the cop pulls you over, you don't think law's good, do you? You think, oh come on. I've got to get to my appointment Um the the law, that guy or woman is not your friend at that moment. But especially if they give you a ticket rather than a warning. You don't like law. You don't like law at that point. But think about if you continue that day and you have an appointment, the appointment's over and you go into the convenience store for a few minutes, and then as you come out you see that someone has bashed your car. And you're mad because they left the scene. And then you see that there's a security camera in this convenience store that probably saw who did it. At that point you're gonna call 911 and Law's gonna become your friend, amen? You're gonna like Law then. You're gonna hope that that the the the the cop will come and implore the store owner to look at the security camera so you can see who it is that bashed your car in. Because suddenly Lars become your friend, right? Law. Law Now Psalm 19 tells us something about law. Psalm 19 is a great psalm. I'm not going to turn to it, but I'm going to talk about it. He talks about the heavens are declaring the glory of God. The first part of that psalm says that God has revealed himself in the creational order. That the the heaven is speaking, the sun is speaking, that the the heavens are shouting. That God there's there's there's some this that there's communication going on there. And then in ver in verse 7 he he shifts and says, the law of the Lord is perfect. He talks about the another law. The God that there's a there there there's something in That is written law, there's written law, there's law that that's that's written God is written in the universe, and it's law that God has written in a book in his book, in the scriptures. The law of the Lord is perfect. It converts the soul. Verses 7 to 11. I kind of like the way the verse ends, that chapter ends. It's David, I believe David's the Psalm of David. He he he talks about his heart and he says that prayer that we often pray, that I pray, let Lord may the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart. See, there's the the truth of God in the heavens, the truth of God in a book, oh Lord, may your truth speak from me, beginning in my heart. But going out through my mouth. Words of grace, words that are pleasing, words of truth, words that bless. God's revelation, God's law, Psalm 19. His good law. The testimonies of the Lord are good. David also in Psalm 19 talks about the testimonies of the. . Psalm 119, of course, is the longest chapter in the whole Bible. You probably know that. A couple verses from there. David says, oh, how I love your law. It's my meditation all the day. Verse 103, how sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. Verse 105, your word is lay up to my feet, a light to my path. 176 verses in that book, in that chapter, Psalm 119, all about the law of God. The good law of God, because it's a law of a good God. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount talked about the law of God. In chapter 5, of Matthew, chapter 5 Do not think that I have come to abolish the law and the prophets. Now their law is referring to part a portion of the Bible. The law and the prophets. That's the Old Testament. Don't think I've come to abolish the law and the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. Truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away. Not an iota or dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. So again, this word law has several different meanings and nuances, doesn't it? Jesus says, I'm come to destroy it, but to fulfill it. I have a very strong view of Scripture. I have a very strong view of Scripture. I hope you do too. God has spoken. God has spoken truth to us Many have seen that God's word, which reveals his law, is certainly a blueprint for a good life, for a blessed life And it is that. Do you know what's more than that? It certainly brought peace and joy and stability and purpose and hope to my life But it's also brought salvation. Amen. Ultimately, God's book, God's law is to lead us to salvation. Verse 11 speaks of the gospel of the glory of the blessed God. Gospel, good news There's a very important distinction we need to understand between law and gospel. God's law and the good news. Sadly, many get these two things confused, you see. Law is what we're called to do. The good news is about what God has done for us. Because we cannot do what he's called us to do. Law versus gospel. Romans 5 talks about this. It says, while we were yet weak, Ungodly enemies, sinners, Christ died for us. We cannot fulfill God's law and please him in that way It's a very important New Testament principle is that we cannot be saved through keeping the law. But once we are saved, we should be committed to keeping the law. Why? Because God's law is a good law of a good God. Amen? It's not arbitrary standards. It flows from his heart. It's good law. The second thing I want us to see is that the law of God is for all people. It's for all people. Now, Pope Paul last week Eric talked about just that this book comes in the context of Fim Paul going to Timothy T Timothy has gone to Ephesus and he's writing to Timothy there. There's some heresy going on. Most commentators think that the heresy is is a early version of what's called Gnosticism. When we get to chapter 4, we'll look more closely at what Gnosticism is But um he uh he seems this there's an attack on the law. It seems to me the the law has to be s a misunderstanding about about how law and gospel are related And so Paul is trying to address this heresy. You know, there are modern heresies as well that kind of add law to gospel, adding things to salvation. No, that to be saved one must be celibate. That to be saved one must speak in foreign tongues. Or to be saved, one must get baptized. To be saved, one must go to church. To be saved, one must stop being a racist right now. To be safe, one must give away all your money like the rich young ruler was uh uh did. To be saved, one must Stop drinking and and and stop looking at TV and movies and and and and and going to concerts and going to ball games. In other words, to be safe, stop having fun. Legalism. That's what legalism says. You have to stop having fun to be saved. And uh that's unfortunately the way some people view the Bible. Distortions of the gospel, distortions of law. Paul is condemning legalism But he's not condemning the law. See, the the problem, there's a problem as we read this at first. Look at verse 9. Look what verse 9 says. Understand this, that the law is not laid down for the just. before the lawless and disobedient. He's talking about one of the purposes of the law, and he's emphasizing a certain purpose of the law. He says it's not laid down for the unjust. Now there's a problem there because in one sense it is not, but in another sense it is. We'll look at that in a second. There are traditional categories of Old Testament law. Let's look at Old Testament law. Traditional categories that people, scholars have talked about. One is there's ritual law or ceremonial law. This is This is uh because Israel was a religion and God was setting up a system of worship and a system of obedience to Him as King and Lord And they were to build a temple and there was Ark of the Covenant. There was sacrifices and there were Levites and priests and holy garb and all of that because Israel was a religion. Ritual law. Then there's also civil law. Why? Because Israel was a nation And they were the the and how they treated each other was to be ordered. When someone um uh uh uh uh bashed you and and and and and and and and beat you up, you weren't to kill them. An eye for an eye. There was legal judicial law, civil law, and then there was a moral law. There's moral law Because not only is Israel a religion, not only are they a nation, Israel, we're human beings. And there's a moral law for human beings created in God's image. If you remember some of the things in the in the Old Testament law, there's a law about uh when you finish uh harvesting your fields, uh leave some out there for the poor travelers as they come through. Moral law. That's not silly. There's no ritual reason for doing that. No, that that's part of the moral law because you love your neighbor. You love the poor, the needy by doing that. Now God has revealed to humans that it is fine to sustain our bodies by eating animals. Some of you may not agree with that, but Take it up with God, not with me. Different cultures have different diets, but most include animals. Um some people struggle with that. Of course there's organizations that stop that, the PETA, PETA, people for ethical treatment of animals, PETA. There's something in human beings. that that makes it so that we wrestle though with inflicting pain on animals. We have a we have a conscious and and and and and and some people they they they flinch at at hunting and things like that. Um they say, uh we shouldn't do we shouldn't do that Have you ever seen a deer on the side of a road that's dead and notice swirling above vultures? You've seen that? I have. And the vultures are ready to to to go at it to have their dinner. And um they do their thing, and I don't think they do their thing with a lot of feeling of guilt. I don't think they have to answer to vultures for ethical treatment of animals. Vita. I don't think vultures have a soul. But but we are created in the image of God, and instinctively we can feel what others are feeling. We can even feel what animals might feel. We can have a compassion for the weak. And this compassion is because humans Have a conscience. We have a soul. Now the the human conscience, we see that word conscious several times in 1 Timothy, can be seared. It can be rendered useless. It can be dulled. To the point where it's not working anymore, human beings are bore with a conscience, not like animals Just this morning. Whenever a cat. This cat's getting seen now. This cat's it's getting on my nerves. This cat threw up and didn't just throw up on the floor on the carpet. This time threw up in Terry's shoe. I'm ready to get rid of the cat. But one of us has some compassion for the cat. I'll just leave it at that. Conscience, people have conscience, we were born with the conscience. And I wonder if the cat felt guilty. That's not a that's not a discussion. There's something else about law here that I want to look at. In Romans chapter 2, there's a very interesting thing here. That there's a law that's written in the human hearts, and we have a conscience because law is implanted in our hearts Romans chapter 2 says this. For all who have sinned, this is verse 12 to 16, all who have sinned without law, By the way, this verse is going, these three verses, four verses are going to talk about law 11 times with several different meanings for it. All who have sinned without law Will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified For when the Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts. While their conscience also bears witness in their Conflicting thoughts accused or even excuse them on that day, when according to my gospel God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. Romans twelve 2, 12 to 16. He says they do not have a law, but they have a law written in their heart. They do not have a written law. They don't have the Bible, but in their heart. Instinctively, because of creating God's image, though we're fallen, something of the image of God remains and we know right from wrong. We don't know it all, but we know it all. That's the human dilemma. Okay, now let me talk about the traditional view of the purposes or the functions of law, of biblical law. This is from R. C. Sprohl. He's talking about the traditional three uses of the law that John Calvin talked about. Sprohl says: the first purpose of the law is to be a mirror. On the one hand, the law of God reflects and mirrors the perfect righteousness of God. The law tells us much about who God is. Perhaps more important, the law illumines human sinfulness. The Lord highlights our weakness so that we might seek the strength found in Christ. And here the Lord acts as a severe schoolmaster who drives us to Christ. You look at that law, you look at the law, and you say, uh-oh. I I fall short. All have sinned and fall short. The law is a mirror. We see ourselves as a schoolmaster. Sproul says the second purpose, so it's for it's for sinners. The second purpose is for society. These are my words. The second purpose of the law is the restraint of evil. Restraint. Restrain society. The law in and of itself cannot change human hearts. It can, however, serve to protect the righteous from the unjust. Calvin says this purpose is by means of its fearful denunciations and the consequent dread of punishment to curb those. Curb, put boundaries, to put curb. to curb those who, unless force, have no regard for rectitude and justice. The law allows for a limited measure of justice on this earth until the last judgment is realized. That's Calvin's second usage of the law to restrain evil. The law is for sinners, the law is for society, and the third use is for the saints. It's for the saints. The third purpose of the law, as Prol says, is to reveal what is pleasing to God. As born-again children of God, the law enlightens us. to what is pleasing to our Father whom we seek to serve. The Christian delights in the law as God himself delights in it. Jesus said, if you love me Keep my commandments. This is the highest function of the law to serve as an instrument for the people of God to give him honor and glory. Amen. Dave Guzzick says, the commentator, many people will condemn anyone with standards, especially higher standards, as being a legalist. Having standards and keeping them does not make us a legalist, and obedience doesn't make us legalists. We are legalists when we think that we do, that what we do makes us right before God. That's what legalism is. Okay. The law is good. The law is for all people. And thirdly, God gets specific about law. In this passage, we're going to see this in a second. In this passage, in other passages, God gets specific. God just doesn't say, I want you to do what God tells us what He wants in many circumstances. Gets very specific. Um again, you know uh the the Ten Commandments from Exodus chapter twenty, a summary of the moral law of God. So I like to call it the Big Ten. The Big Ten, Ten Commandments The first half, first commandments one and four, they recognize our obligations to God, his existence, his honor, his name, his day. First four commandments. In the commandments four through nine recognize our obligations to people. We honor our parents. We honor, we we don't murder, we don't commit adultery, we don't steal, we don't lie. And then then then then number 10 is kind of interesting. It's don't covet, which is interesting It it's a kind of a summarization of of the second half. You can easily look at the at the those and say, you know, I I never murdered anybody, I've never committed committed adultery, I'm never stealing, you know, no. He says, Don't cut. That gets to the heart, doesn't it? That gets to the heart. Jesus in Matthew 15 said, For out of the heart comes evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. These are what defile a person. In Matthew also chapter 22 There's a summarization, the classic summarization of the law, the Big Ten. You know, you the the Big Ten are a summarization of of of all those laws, those moral laws. And and in and and Jesus would ask What what are the obligations we have that he summarized the Ten Commandments in two? He whittled it down. And you remember that? Here it is. Matthew 22, 37, and following. He said, they asked him and he said, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. He says, the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments to put all the law and the prophets, again, the law of the prophets there, the Old Testament obligations, law and prophet, the Old Testament Um the the the verse love you lord your god is from Deuteronomy and the verse uh about loving your neighbor is from Leviticus. He he goes back to those first five books. But that summarizes the law in Jesus' heart, in in in Jesus' mind This is the first part, loving God, your obligations to God. The second part, loving neighbor, your obligation to your neighbor. Now Let's unpack this verses 9 to 10. Let's unpack these verses a little bit. Again, first one to four is honoring, recognizing God. And really Th there's some things that we see here that kind of talk about that. Um he talks about the law, uh it talks about uh it's for the ungodliest sinners, for the unholy profane. Unholy profane, those those words tend to think about holiness and and being and and ritual and your response to God. So there's something there. But clearly as he moves on, he's begins to talk about honoring honoring parents. He says not and e in each of the things he's going to talk about, Paul talks about here, he sort of wants to look at at some extreme. So he doesn't just talk about um um the ungodliness is is dishonoring parents, but it's striking parents. Okay? In other words, not just honor dishonoring, but striking of parents. The laws for those who strike for it. So the fifth commandment is i i by the way is a hinge commandment, the one about parents. I didn't say this. It's kind of a hinge commandment. The um the your parents are your authority. Your parents Until you grow up and understand anything about life, when you come out of the womb, your parents are God to you. Really? If you're a parent, you know, that's scary, isn't it, the scary thought. That you hold the power of life and death over this little person. Yeah. You're the source of life. You're the sustainer of life. You're the provider. You're the protector. You're the comforter. If the infant only knows the voice, the touch, and the aroma of mom and dad, they don't have the capacity to know any higher authority. As a parent raises a child, step by step, that authority is gradually relinquished as the child matures. It becomes hopefully an independent adult. Hopefully a mature adult. But when they come out, you're God to them Scary, isn't it? So look, the f this commandment about honoring parents, it it connects with God who's an authority, the first four, and it connects with our human responsibilities. So the parents are in an interesting phase. We're both. We're God and we're human to kids. Think about it. So honoring parents, this is the sanctity of divine authority. God is the one who establishes authority. God is the one who gave you your parents. You didn't choose them. The sanctity of divine the established but imperfect human authority. Next is the commandment number that talks about number six, don't murder. This is the sanctity of life. God is the author of life. God is the author of life. Next is commandment number seven. Don't commit adultery. The sanctity of the marriage bond. And and he he's he says a little bit more about that one, doesn't he? Look at what he says. The sexually immoral men who practice homosexuality. He adds a few more things. We'll talk about that in a second In fact, let me say it now. God has established from the beginning, from Genesis, one man with one woman, socially, legally sanctioned till death separates them. One man, one woman, socially legal, legal, socially, legally sanctioned until death separates them. And that has not changed That has not changed. Despite various historic human distortions, that has not changed. Despite polygamy of the ancient world. And in the modern world, that hasn't changed. Despite homosexuality of the ancient world and gay theology of the modern world, God has not changed. Despite adultery and fornication of the ancient world and the modern world, God has not changed. Despite looking up and shacking up, whatever you want to call it, trying to normalize those things, God has not changed. And we need to understand that and not budge from that. God's design has not changed, and it will not change because it flows from his goodness. And because that's what's best for us. More importantly It's best for us, yes, but more importantly, it points to something. Ephesians chapter 5. Paul tells us that marriage points to the gospel. And the gospel never changes. Though we try to change the gospel too, don't we? Our denomination, uh just in a a uh a rabbit trail here, the the the our denomination had this year just put out a uh 62-page report on human sexuality because it's a big issue in the culture. It's a big issue in the church. If you want to if you want to get that document, I can just add just email me, I'll send you a link to it. Or you can go on on the the PCA website and find it. But I'm going to read um it comes in the context of of course the the the same-sex marriage discussion that's out there and giving guidance for churches and leaders and uh I'm going to read from just from portions of one of the pages there. Um so you can see the the kind of thing that it talks about. Um the origins and development of sexual desire remain complex and in many ways mysterious. It's possible to conceive of the experience of same-sex attraction as simultaneously a part of the remaining corruption of original sin, as well as the misery of living in the fallen world, the origins of this. Skip down. With respect to our redemption and union with Christ, it's clear that those who are united to Christ must submit their sexual identity to the greater allegiance of being in Christ. Such submission has several implications. First, it means that the most important part of our personhood is not found in our sexual desires, but rather in being justified, sanctified, glorified in Christ. Second, it means that our union with Christ should shape our attitude and approach to our sexual desires. Desires that are inconsistent with God's design are to be resisted and mortified, not celebrated or accommodated. Third, it means that as new creations, we are truly being conformed into his image and can rightly expect some measure of growth in this life. Even as we await the fullness of our new creation personhood in the new heavens and the new earth. We are best served in our sanctification by looking forward to our new creation selves which will be fully purified from sinful desire rather than by looking backwards to our dhamic fallen selves. However Our identity as those united to Christ does not eliminate our experience of living as sinful people in a sinful world. It remains important for believers to live in the tension of the already, but the not yet. Just because our duty is in Christ doesn't mean that we won't continue to experience trials and temptations. in this life. This is a just an excellent document that I reviewed this week. And um so you the next commandment number eight is don't steal. And this is this promotes the sanctity of of of private property. When you think about it, don't steal. Don't take what doesn't belong to you because it belongs to somebody else. And again, that's the commandment, but Paul again is going to the extremes. He uses, he talks about enslavers, which really literally is man stealers. It's a compound word in the in the Greek. It's a compound word in the English. Man stealers. Ken West, uh commentator, talks about this. He says if if persons It refers to a person taken into war and sold into slavery, a slave dealer, a kidnapper, a man stealer, as one as well as one who unjustly reduces free men to slavery, also to one who steals the slave of others and sells them. The word includes all who exploit men and women for their own selfish ends. It's an interesting word in the Greek. This has implications with the horrible sin of sex trafficking, which, by the way, is a major issue in this region of the country. I don't know if you know that. It also has implications for the abolition movement of our kiss of our history. In America, the abolition movement was driven by Bible-believing Christians. You don't hear that often. There are books that describe how the American Civil War was not only a war about political theory, federalism versus state rights, but a war over Christian theology, slavery or abolition. We'll look more at slavery when we get to chapter 6, I believe. Chapter 6, when we talk about servanthood slavery. In ancient days, as in America, slaves were viewed as property. So thou shalt not steal, Paul talks about man's deals, applying specifically to their day what the law means Commandment number nine, don't lie. The sanctity of truth, the sanctity of speech. And again, he talks about liars and perjurers. Again, legal in legal court Again, applying tooth matters publicly, tooth matters privately. And then as we said, uh uh the tenth one is don't covet the the the lack of of sanctity uh the uh of of heart is is is a big problem. Uh the the heart is a sa is a sacred place because God's created our hearts Don't covet. He says verse 10, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine. That's again a catch-all phrase. We'll look at that in a second. One very important observation in light of our contemporary situation I want to talk about. You heard me say it in the past that as a kingdom as kingdom people we need to have a third voice. And I want you to see in just in this verse. How we have a third voice. Notice something in verse 10 very carefully. We saw on that list uh sexual sin as well as sins of oppression. You notice that And these are perceived as the ultimate sins according to those on the left and those on the right. Those on the far left They think about sinful systems and they cry out against justice in the nations and in the world and in the business and other realms. And they reduce God's will to helping the poor. Fighting for the downtrodden. They cry out, justice for the little man. Anyone who lashes out against those in power are championed as good people, as righteous people. All of this is despite paying any attention to personal piety. Those on the left are often accused of showing too much concern for oppression and injustice. They're Marxist radicals. They're often accused of being. Those on the far right, on the other hand, they practically ignore systematic injustice. The injustices of our fallen world And they simply say that anyone who has personal piety is doing God's will. They're often accused of majoring on moral issues of sexual behavior. Puritanical, uptight, Victorian values, old-fashioned traditional values rather than biblical values. So that you know love your wife, love your family, pay your taxes, mow your lawn, be a good citizen. Don't be a troublemaker by all means, and you're righteous. That's all that God cares about. Personal piety, personal righteousness. Well Throughout the Bible, God says that He cares about both righteousness and justice. The personal and the systematic. Here we see man stealers and immorality in the same list, side by side, side by side. In God's eyes, they are equally sinful. And here's the good news: they are equally pardonable. They're not the unpardonable sin. Somehow in our world today, if you're committed, if you're a person who has remaining uh racism You're cast off this. You can't feel that you you you know you have no voice anymore. No. We looked at that at the book of Jonah, didn't we? Uh oh last year I guess it was. I attended the uh uh a conference called M L K fifty In Memphis, Tennessee. It wasn't it was fifty years after King's death. I was in the audience during John Piper's concluding message there. And he was lambasted later for what he said uh many of the evangelical church leaders didn't like what what Piper said. Piper had the audacity to state that he had been raised in Jim Crow South. He and and that he and that he As he grew in his faith, he came to confess and repudiate and forsake the racism of his Carolina background. And he said that in the context of the lack of the ability of evangelicals to forgive Dr. King for King's personal moral failures. Piper was blasted because he had the audacity, the boldness to declare that the God who forgives racists also forgives adulterers. I said a hearty amen when I heard Piper boldly declare that. And I was amazed when a few days later I heard that he was blasted for making that declaration. He was just being biblical. James chapter 1, one of my favorite verses here on this topic, where James says, if anyone thinks he's religious and does not bridle his tongue, he deceives his heart. This person's religion is worthless. Talking about true faith, true religion, true Christianity. He says, verse 27, 127 of James, religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this Okay, here's what holy religion is. To visit orphans and widows in their distress. It's the first thing. Bible is the category. It's social commitment to the weak, to the poor, to the hurting. Visit offers the wisdom. But he doesn't stop there. He says, and to keep oneself Unstained from the world. That's that holiness. That's that morality stuff. James says they go together. James says, if you think you're holy and you only got one of them, you're not holy yet. How we need to embrace this truth that's right here in our text. As we wind down, just one more thing about verse 11, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with whom I have been entrusted. William Henderson comments, he gives a simple apologetic for an orthodox understanding of law and gospel. He says, the sound doctrine demands that man must keep God's law. It also declares that by nature he cannot keep it. Hence, it reveals he has utterly lost his thoroughly sinful condition. This of course exactly matches, is according to or in harmony with the gospel. So sound doctrine, which includes these kind of the things we're talking about, this approach to the law, moves us So we have entrusted the good news with the good news that sinful humans can have fellowship with the holy God. That's the truth what we've entrusted to. And this good news is an answer to the bad news that we are not in a fellowship with God. And if we ignore law, People will never understand the blessed gospel of God's saving grace. A couple quick applications as I see the time's about up. Just real quick First, learn the law. Learn gospel. Learn the word of God. The law is good. Doesn't mean you're going to understand it. That doesn't mean you're going to like it all. It's good It is written for us, so read scripture. It reveals the heart of God. I hear so many things that are contrary to scripture from folk who say they believe the Word of God. Read it. Meditate upon it. Read it in context, not just to get some warm feeling of comfort. Read it seriously. To get to know the mind and heart of God. Read it knowing that as you encounter God, you're going to get convicted of sin. But read it. Don't run from it. Two. Don't just read it. Heat it. It's good for you. It's good for us. Remember the admonition of James about the mirror. You look in the face, look in mirror your face in the mirror, and you see your face is dirty, and you've got smudges here and there. You don't just go on and go out. No, you wash your face before you go out. The law is a mirror. If the law shows some blemishes in your life, address those blemishes third. Don't be ashamed of God's law. Because it's good. Not just for me and you. It's good for mankind. People need the word of God for salvation, for blessing, for healing. I've been reading through the book of Jeremiah, who is called the weeping prophet. Over and over again, he laments because the people of God have been ignoring and astrayed from the word of God. People need to know God's word. And fourthly, remember that John chapter 1 tells us that the law came from Moses, but grace and truth came through Christ. Never separate law from God's grace. Well you become a legalist. And legalists are not attractive to anybody. Not to your neighbor, not to your the people you live with, not to not to God. Don't be a legalist Let me close with uh well in worship we heard some of these verses. I'm gonna close with some of the thoughts of Romans 7 and 8 that uh Paul gives. As he's talking in his argument about he's wrapping up his argument about law and and gospel and what God has done. And in chapter 7, verse 12, he says this, so the law is holy. The commandment is holy and righteous and good. Romans 7. 21. I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being. He says, I really know that the law is good. I delighted it in one sense. But, verse 23, I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Verse 24, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. The conflict within Paul, the conflict that if you know Christ, you know, that conflict. Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. There is therefore, therefore, based on the fact that Christ Jesus has given us victory in that battle, therefore, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done with the law. Weakened by the flesh, could not do. The law is good, but the law couldn't do that. The law couldn't save. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. God's good law. May it change us as we walk in the Spirit of God. May it be our guide. A lamp to our feet, a light to our path. Let's pray. Lord God, so much confusion about the role of law. in our lives, the role of law in the world. It's not a simple, it's not a simple topic. I pray it's been clear. We're not to hate your law. Law is a reflection of you. But but we're frustrated because as human beings we fail over and over again. Thank you. There's a remedy, there's a solution for those human beings who fail. There's the blood of Christ. And it cleanses us. And knowing that gospel, we can know there's no condemnation that when we face you, you won't be bringing up the things we've done, the transgressions of your law. You'd only be calling us sons and beloved sons and daughters and entering us into your presence. How we thank you for the gospel, Lord. I pray that the gospel would attract us to you and give us a bonus. To display the beauty of gospel, the beauty of Christ to a dying world. Let's heal this word in our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.