The distinct advantage of using an iPad is that you gotta have a really strong wind to bl make it blow away. Um good morning. It is so good to be with you. Uh my name is Trip Beans. My parents really did do that to me. Um actually my real name is Frank William Beans the Third, but Frank and Beans is a really terrible combination as well. You tell me which is better. In June in June of this year, uh my wife and I moved with our two daughters. Adeline is 18 and currently a student at Geneva College, and Kaya is 14 and is a freshman at uh is at uh a freshman at Mount Hebron High School. And then we also have a twenty-four year old son, Luke, who is uh owns a commercial crabbing business in Rundle County. So we moved back to the area to take on the role as campus minister at the University of Mail in Baltimore County. And we had spent the last seven years at Millersville University in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. And so Maryland is home for us, grew up in Anon County and so we're excited to be back in our home state even though We're still getting used to the area like Howard County and Baltimore County are very different and uh trying to learn where everything is. By the way, don't go to Rite Aid for shoelaces. They don't have them. I went this morning 'cause my shoelaces are a mess and they didn't have any shoelaces. Uh so see this these are the things we're learning. Um Um have to look at it. We are look looking forward to starting and developing and growing a ministry at UMBC. And we're looking forward to partnering with Grace Reformed as we do that because you guys are the closest campus. Uh closest church to campus. And let me just uh two things real quick. If you don't know, RUF is the PCA's college arm. Like I'm I'm um I'm ordained in this in this denomination, and so when we go on campus, we obviously represent Jesus, but we represent you. And we fully intend to encourage students to find churches that preach the word, that love Jesus And we're going to encourage them to find those places. And this is one of those places we're going to be encouraging to find. The other thing I want you to know, particularly as we get to the Lord's Supper is that uh I have what's called a sensual tremor. It's a genetic disorder and so my hands shake. There's always a little bit of nerves when you're in front of new people and you're preaching the word and you're ministering the sacraments But mostly it's just genetics and caffeine. Um so be aware. People get upset. They're like, is is he okay? I'm okay. As we move into um as we move into our sermon this morning, um thinking about the book of Jonah and its this this incredibly relatable story. It's different than a lot of the other minor prophets where you've got poetry and these and these and these big images of of of doom and these and these and these pictures of hope. It's not that there's not doom and hope in Jonah. There really is, but it's more this story. This is a story about how God uses one of his prophets to save people that are not Hebrew. And in a lot of ways, this is a story about Jonah as he wrestles through his calling and what he's supposed to do. But ultimately, this is a story about God. This is about who he is and how he functions out of his character. This is a story where we can relate to knowing that God calls us to do something We just don't want to do. This is a story where we can see God giving us an undeserved second chance at accomplishing the purpose that He's laid out before us. And this passage of Scripture specifically, Jonah 3, is teaching us that God is at work through His sovereignty and His mercy and in spite of his half-hearted, his easily dis distracted, rebellious, and begrudging people. So why don't we stand for the reading of the word? This is Jonah 3. I'm using the English Standard Version, and it says this. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise. Go to Nineveh, the great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. And so Jonah arose, and he went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth, and Jonah began to go into the city. Going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet forty days, and Nineh, Nineveh shall be overthrown. And the people of Nineveh believed God. And they called for a fast and put on sackcloth, and from the greatest of them to the least of them. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne and removed his robe and covered himself with sackcloth, and he sat in ashes. And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh by decree of the king and his nobles, let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything Let them not feed or drink water, but let man and beast be covered in saffcloth, and let them call out too mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it. This is the word of the Lord, and it is trustworthy, and it's true. Let's pray. Lord God, we know that when your Holy Spirit and your word combine, Hearts change. Bives change. And it happens in spite of the brokenness of the of the bearer of the word. It happens in spite of the brokenness of the hearers of the word. And so we ask this morning that you would be at work in us. That you would turn our faces toward you. That you would renew our stone hearts and make them hearts of flesh. We ask That we would look a little more like Jesus when we leave today than when we got here. Thank you, Lord, for the mercy and grace that we find through Christ Jesus, and it's in his name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. So in Jonah 3, actually in the first three chapters, by the way, I I listened to the sermons that you've been hearing and they're they're really great and your pastor's done a great job. uh communicating this passage to you, this this book to you. And I'm gonna review a little bit here and then we'll move forward. But God is at work in his people through his sovereignty through the first three chapters. of Jonah. There's a theologian and professor, seminary professor, actually he's retired now, named John Frame. And he defines God's sovereignty as authority, control, and presence. In an article published by Gospel Coalition that Frame wrote, he says God's control means that everything happens according to his plan and intention. And authority means that all his commands ought to be obeyed. And presence means that we encounter God's control and authority in all our experience, so that we cannot escape from his justice or from his love. We can't get away from it. And we totally see the sovereignty of God in the book of Jonah, don't we? In this story thus far, we have watched as Jonah works to avoid God's calling. Even to the point of getting on a ship and going the opposite direction. He is working so hard to get away from this intention that God has for him. But God's control means that Jonah has never been outside of God's will. And God has never been surprised by Jonah's plan. While God is not responsible for Jonah's sin, God didn't make Jonah sin. God didn't make Jonah run away. Oh the very forces of nature are are are I'm sorry. Well God is not responsible for Jonah's sin. Even j and when Jonah boards the boat to Tarshish God is looking at this situation and quoting the great Hannibal from A Team, I love it when a plan comes together. God's watching this whole thing work out in front of him and he goes, Yep, here we go While Jonah has run, God has exerted his authority. He's exerted his authority over the very forces of nature. He's brought a storm and a fish. He brought the lots of the of the they cast lots, right? The the the men on the boat. And he's brought all of those things into alignment to bring Jonah back to where he started. The storm and fish had no choice but to obey God, for God's authority ought to be obeyed. We see God's presence as we encounter God's control and authority. We see God's presence in Jonah's life. As God is at work countering Jonah's actions, Jonah moves, God moves, right? It's like this chess match And God is at work countering Jonah's actions and moving Jonah closer to doing the work that God has set out before him. Jonah is under the sovereignty of God. The sovereignty of God has been a big theme in the Beans household in the last little bit. On uh uh a little over a year ago, I was contacted by uh a pastor in this presbytery asking me if I would consider applying for the uh position of RUF campus minister at UMBC. And so we started going through the process and working with the Presbyterian we did an interv I did an interview and You know, we're kind of going through the process and on March tenth, which is a was a Tuesday, I was received As a pastor in this presbytery to do the work of RUF at UMBC When I got home the next morning I woke up and there's all over the news are these campuses that are starting to shut down because of COVID. They're sending students home for spring break and they're talking about taking an extra week and and maybe a month and and then we'll reevaluate. And as the week went on, it became more clear that my students weren't coming back. Students that I had spent I mean a campus that I had spent seven years working on, some of these students I had known for five or six. They weren't coming back. And that Friday was the last time that I saw many of them in person, still. As we moved, as you as you move a 14-year-old girl going into her freshman year of high school, uh to a place she doesn't know, a school she doesn't know, and then you tell her, oh, and by the way, you don't even get to go to that school Where are you gonna play soccer? Where are you going to where are you going to um uh meet people? And and I keep telling her, God has a plan. He's moving us in a direction. And we have an option. We can resist it or we can work with it. And truthfully, there have been moments where all of us have resisted it In different ways. And there have been moments where all of us have worked with it. Um One more quick illustration about this, how this has been active in our lives recently. Millersville had a pastor who was going to replace me And right before he went to the assessment, which he was sure to pass, he called me and said, I've decided I'm not going to do it anymore. And it broke my heart. So this is this is like April or May of this past year. And I actually remember walking through my neighborhood in Lancashire thinking, did God bring a whole pandemic to say, don't go to UMBC. Like, is is all of the world sick so that I know? That's what he did with Jonah, wasn't it? I mean the whole storm the whole thing had a storm so that Jonah could get back But then he did these other things like arrange for a house that was in the location that we were hoping for in and with a beautiful backyard that we can host students in that really works well. That we could afford. And it's hard to find houses here that anywhere that you can afford. You know? He started doing these things and laying these opportunities out before us and we went, oh Okay. I guess it's green light. And we moved. God's authority shows up at the craziest moments and it asks us to do the craziest things like love the unlovable. To give of our time and our talents and our money beyond what we're comfortable with. That's his authority. And he works out all the circumstances of our lives into this tapestry that he's weaving. And the problem that we forget about God's control, about him working out all these circumstances, is that mostly when we think about it, it's one thread, and that thread is us. That thread is our family, and and we just think he's weaving that together. It's much more complex than that. He's weaving our threads together. He's weaving The world's threads together. All the stories of all the people are included in this tapestry that he's weaving. That's his control. And his presence, as we look back, and occasionally in the moment, we can see how God shows up in different aspects of our lives to move us. into these positions to do these crazy things that we have this sense that he's calling us to. God's sovereignty is not just in Jonah, it's right here. It's at work in you. It's at work now. So we see God at work in his people through his sovereignty, and we see God at work in his people through his mercy. Mercy is this idea of having compassion on someone because of their misery. Forbearance toward people that have offended you. This is mercy. Listen to Jonah 1. 1. It says this. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise. Go to Nineveh, the great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. Now, listen to Jonah 3. 1. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. It is almost the same instruction twice. Here in the very first verse of chapter 3, God is showing mercy to Jonah. As you know, between Jonah 1-1 and Jonah 3-1, Jonah's been pretty disobedient to God. And disobedience to God is a terrible thing. And has had some pretty Tough ramifications for people. Adam and Eve kicked out of the garden. Moses not getting into the promised land. And here you've got this immensely miserable person in Jonah. And God goes, let's try this again. Have you had the opportunity with your children, you give them an instruction, and whether it's It's blatant disobedience or passive disobedience they don't do what you said you're going to do? What you asked them to do Well let's talk because I want to hear more about that. And you you look you look And you go to them and you realize what you've asked hasn't been done and you say, All right, let's try this again. That's mercy. Sometimes I'm not a very good giver of mercy. James Montgomery Boyce, by the way, if you're a reader of commentaries. Anytime I'm doing something new, I look to see if Boyce has got something on it. Because he's just his pastoral heart is amazing. And he comments on this passage. He says, if we were God And if we should reason at this point that we had saved Jonah, but he had nevertheless disqualified himself from every being uh from ever being a prophet, who could blame us? If we were to say, go home now, Jonah, I'm glad you've repented of your disobedience, but you are no longer useful to me, we would be just and reasonable in so doing. But this is not God's way. This is not how he functions. God saw the misery of Jonah. And God shows Jonah mercy by inviting him again to proclaim God's message to the Ninevehes. But God is weaving a tapestry, right? There's a complexity to this simple story, and it isn't just about Jonah, but it's also about the people of Nineveh. As Jonah goes into the city and he proclaims the message that God gives him, in 40 days Nineveh will be overthrown. God shows mercy to the people of Nineveh by not destroying the city outright. Like even the fact that he sent a messenger in was a mercy. They didn't deserve that. They hadn't earned that. They were ignorant at best of God. And truthfully, they were blatantly rebellious. When Nineveh repents of their sin, God relents of his plan to destroy the city. Again, mercy This wasn't just for a portion of the city. He didn't, you know, the it wasn't like, oh, just the rich people or oh just the poor people or This was for the men and women, the rich and the poor, all the way up to the king Douglas Stewart's uh uh a theologian, and he comments on verses 5 through 9, which are about the repentance and sackcloth and ashes. Fasting and uncomfortable dress represented self-denial to ancient Semites. By overtly eschewing normal comforts and making themselves physically miserable, his word. They ought to show the genuineness of their prayers for mercy. They they sought to show the genuineness of their prayers for mercy. Do you see it? Sackcloth and ashes were these outward signs that they would use to show God how miserable they were. God, we're going to be destroyed. This is awful. We need you to show up. Friends, we're in the same spot as Jonah and Nineveh. We are miserable people that at best resist God, if not outright deny him. God should look at us and say, look, thanks, but you're just not useful to me anymore. See you later. Or you don't care what I have to say, and you do whatever you want. So I'm gonna wipe you off the map. But this is not God's way. You are invited to second chances, second chances to battle sin, second chances to love people, second chances to use resources well. Second chances to be relieved of your misery and brought into the joy of Yahweh. You've, God offers second chances. Boyce finishes this section on mercy like this. Does God always do that? Does God stoop to those who have rejected his calling? turned a deaf ear to his word and pursued a course of determined disobedience? Yes. He is like that He does use such messengers. If he did not, not one of us could serve him. The story of Jonah is intended to contrast Jonah and Nineveh with God. The darker portions of this tapestry are Jonah's rebellion and Nineveh's ignorance But there's this, they're juxtaposed to God's sovereignty and God's mercy. And in the contrast, God shines. He just blazes out of the tapestry. But this story of Jonah and Nineveh is just like, it's just one corner of this really big tapestry that God is weaving throughout time. In his sovereignty, God is weaving together all the strands of history to bring God's word to all the ends of the earth throughout all of time. The messenger isn't Jonah. The messenger isn't you or me, and we're grateful for that Jesus is the quintessential messenger. He is the word made flesh. And he comes to those closely acquainted with mercy. He comes to those who know the pain of this broken world. He comes to those who know the pain of broken bodies. He comes to those who know the shame of sinful rebellion, and he comes to those who know deep sadness of broken relationships. Jesus brings the word of the Lord to us and says, if you repent and trust in me, God the Father will show you mercy. We receive mercy not just because God changes his mind, but because Jesus pays the debt for sin. He's the propitiation, he's the substitute. Through faith in Jesus, we have a second chance that we have the second chance that God gave to Jonah and that God gave to Nineveh. I want to close with this. I've been listening, I don't know if any of you know Indelible Grace. It's the it's a it's a Uh it's a bunch of different people who have gotten together through RUF actually and rewritten a lot of uh old hymns and put them to modern tunes. And uh one of the songs that I've been listening to on repeat a lot lately is the hymn, A Debtor to Mercy Alone. And the first verse says this, a debtor to mercy alone, of covenant mercy, I sing. Nor fear with thy righteousness on. I don't fear with your righteousness on. My person and offering I bring. The terrors of law and of God with me can have nothing to do. My Savior's obedience and blood hide all my transgressions from view. Let's pray. Lord, we are the offenders. We are the miserable. And we plead with you to have mercy, to show us forbearance. And we are grateful that through the work of Jesus, through his life and his death and his resurrection, we receive that mercy. Lord, thank you for uh for turning our faces toward Him. It's grace through faith, and the faith is not of our own. It's not our doing either. He gave us that too. Lord, thank you for showing us mercy. It is in Christ's name we pray. Amen.