Please open the Bible to Luke chapter nine, verse fifty-one, following. Uh you can use the Red Pew Bible if you want. Please From Luke chapter nine, verse 51. And in this particular passage we can learn what time it is. What time is it? Verse 51. The word of the Lord. As the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, that's Christ, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem. And he. Sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him. But the people there did not welcome him. When the disciples James and John saw this, they asked, Lord, do you want us to call fire Fire down from heaven to destroy them. But Jesus turned and rebuked them, and they went to another village. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Please be seated. What time is it? It takes wisdom to discern what the time Times are. What times are these? You know, Ecclesiastes says there's a time for every purpose under heaven. There's a season for everything. There's a Time to be born and a time to be die to die. Well, we it's obvious when the time to be born is. The time to die is not quite as obvious Always. There's a time to weep and a time to laugh. There's a time for gathering and there's a time to scatter There's a time to mend and a time to tear apart. A time to fight And a time to be at peace. There's a time we could add to help. And there's is a time to refrain from helping. There's a time to rescue and a time to condemn. God's in the time business. And now is his time to help This is the time for him to come and give us grace. The time for condemnation and judgment. Well That'll come a little later, not right now. Jesus said, I've not come into the world to condemn the world, but rather that the world in Christ might come might be saved. You know, some people look at life and uh they start discerning the times and then we look for a handle or a label to discern And some people look around us and they say this is this life really is the time of conflict. That's how they see most of the life they live. Some see life mostly as a as a time of testing. Here's another test, one more test. And that becomes a primary Image for many people. Some people look at life and they see this is simply trouble. This is a time of trouble. But I I suggest for you that the tone of this passage and that the tone of uh the New Testament. Uh as we look at the world through the eyes of God as he speaks through scripture. Is that this is the time of God's favor. The time you live in is a time of God's favor. God is smiling down upon us. This is a time of opportunity. It's a time of invitation. And as we look at this particular text, you say, well, preacher, how are you getting that out of this text. Notice what's happening in the text. Jesus has been ministering for some times now, and now it's getting closer toward the end of his ministry. He has a view toward Jerusalem in mind. He knows he's got to go to the cross. But as he's ministering, notice he ministers from town to town, village to village. And uh we see that in uh chapter four where his ministry summarized. It says he's going uh throughout Galilee in the power of Galilee. the spirit spreading the news uh to the countryside, teaching teaching. And uh it says that uh he moves from from village to village. In fact uh he's preaching In fact, it's interesting when Jesus uh initiates his ministry, he stands up in the synagogue and he reads scripture and He says, you know, this is the year of the Lord's favor. This is the acceptable year of the Lord. And this year is fulfilled right now. It's interesting how he describes uh his ministry as he initiates it, starts it out. It's the year of God's favor, which of course is Christ himself, where you find Christ. Christ, there you find favor with God. And so then Jesus goes from town to town, ministering, healing whoever was brought to him and then giving them the good news which is found in him. And then as he finishes up this greater Galilee ministry. He's going to move down south, uh, toward Jerusalem. Of course he's got to go right through Samaria. That's that chunk of land that's in between The Jewish people in the north and in the south. And you've got to go through Samaria. And Jesus was happy to do it And so he uh he sends word out ahead of him. You know, if you're traveling around with uh a number of disciples, you just don't show it's one thing for one person to drop in. And say, hey, you know you got a place to lay my head. Got a little food. It's another if you t if you have a whole uh entourage of people traveling with you. So he sends word ahead to make some preparations. That's what we read here in the text. And he s sent out word to the village. And and you think about uh it doesn't say in the text but you wonder how that happened as he sent word out. Didn't they like just go into the the marketplace and say, hey, by the way, you know, I'm a little scout here, I'm running ahead And Jesus is coming, and he'll be along shortly. But would some of you make some accommodations for him? Did he make the public announcement? Of course, a lot of people had heard about Jesus at that point. And uh or did they go door to door, house to house throughout the village? And and knock and say, Hey, you know, let me let me tell you, you know, we've been going town Town to town, village to village, and you know people are getting healed. Uh he's even empowered some of us to to bring blessing and healing. Uh are you interested in being park? Could you make some accommodations What does it say about this town? Nobody's making any preparations. They're getting nothing ready. They're not interested I'd say that that often describes some people that uh Jesus could be standing right there and say, Hey, you know, I got a good deal for you. I got forgiveness of sins. I can put your body right. Maybe not in this life, I might not, but in the world I can fix a lot of stuff in your life. You interested? And you're thinking, eh, I don't know. And a lot of us uh walk around with a perspective on on life that uh uh fails to appreciate the favor and the status we can have in Christ. The position that this is that he gives us this is a favorable year. This is a favorable Time. This is the age of grace. It's the age of acceptability before God. It's the age of opportunity and privilege in Christ. Christ. And uh and so Christ is coming uh to a town and uh they're not interested. You know it's a shame a Or people uh have opportunity and miss out on it. And you wonder why is it they missed out on this opportunity, at least at this point. I don't know what they did later, assuming they stayed alive a lot of But uh why is it that some people Are not open to hearing from Christ and the grace that He has to offer. Well, in this case, what was the problem? The Luke tells you exactly what it was There it's around verse 53. He says, he says, uh, because Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. You say, what, what, so what? A lot of people pilgrimage to Jerusalem, right? Here's the problem. This was a a north-south issue, kind of like the Civil War, if I may broadly generalized. You got the northerners and the southerners, and they have some differences of opinion about stuff, you know? And uh really because you got the Jews up in the north and then you got the people down in Judea and you got Samaria in the middle. And uh uh I mean the Samarians who are up in the north too, by the way. Samarians are up in the north, and they're partly Jewish, right? They're They're kind of a blended race. They have Jewish heritage. The only problem is they've married some non-Jewish people, and now they're blended in their race. And they're blind Blended in their religion, but they're still holding to part of the Bible, the first five books, and the major problem they have, you know what else? Is that they're looking at Jerusalem and saying, That temple that Down there doesn't belong there. They shouldn't have built that temple in the first place down there in Jerusalem. You see, because the Samaritans had their own temple, at least prior to this day. It was destroyed about one hundred and fifty years earlier than this account. But they had their own site of worship, they're there on Mount Gerizim. Remember when Jesus had that little discussion with the Samaritan woman about you know where is the Lord worship on this mountain or the other mountain and he says God is a spirit, you know, and that's the kind of uh people he seeks pe come people who come and worship him in spirit and truth because he can be worshipped anywhere. It's not a matter of just Jerusalem or Mount Gerizam. But anyway, the the question I'm raising behind this all is that what was hindering people in this town The problem was Jesus was too Jewish and too attached to that temple. And that temple didn't belong there, and therefore he didn't want anything. They didn't want anything to do with it with him because they were from this other group and their group wasn't going to get too close to the the other group group. It's interesting that and uh this is really reverse prejudice. Normally in the Bible what we see is uh when the Samaritans, what do we think? That the Jews were prejudiced toward them They would go way around to avoid it. Here you see the opposite. Now it's the Samaritans prejudice against the the more quote pure Jews. Now they don't want anything to ju to do with Jews. Jesus because he's too Jewish and too smug and too whatever and he's connected with that temple that shouldn't be there anyway. And so they don't want to hear, they're going to miss out on the grace, because they've been born into this situation, many of them, and they've got this religious perspective or this tradition, and their tradition And their presuppositions are getting in the way of the grace of God. Some of you, you know, may be born into a certain religion. or a certain perspective. And it doesn't lie, and you can't you have a hard time setting the aside to even give Jesus a chance to see if he has something worthwhile to give you And so for many of us we we may not be open like we could be because of our prejudice. You know It's like uh a lot of people unfortunately uh have been told that uh if you're if you're born in a Jewish tradition, some of my friends just tell me outright, look, we weren't even supposed to to say the name. You know, it's like, we're not even going there. I don't care because a whole lot of stuff's going to follow. So we're just going to cut it off at the very beginning. And so you really don't get an opportunity to get into, hey, God became a human, lives a perfect life, and he'll give you his perfect record, and that's your human record, and that's a good enough to get you into heaven? Uh God sends someone, a human being, to be condemned for your sins. You can't get into that very well if you can't get past the name. And so So sometimes uh it's because of the family we're born in uh that we've been starting out of a certain point of view and We can't get there. Some people uh can't get into the grace of God because uh Jesus isn't good enough for them, which was the case here. But usually I think For many of us that we aren't good enough for Jesus. That's what keeps some of us from coming. We don't come and believe his grace is big. We don't welcome him fully. Or some of us who welcome him every Day we aren't really ready to embrace his grace because we think we're disqualified. Well, you are disqualified. But the truth is, he qualifies you. You'll always be disqualified based on your performance Even at your best day. And so uh we shouldn't disqualify ourselves. Let him disqualify us. You know, I I I love that little story that I heard about The mom and the dad. The parents really should have been more romantic and more caring about one another. So they're having difficulty in their marriage and we've all been stuck a little bit. Some of you might be stuck now. But um and so they're working through stuff and they're saying how can we fix this stuff? So they they decide, well here's what we're gonna do. We need to identify the problems. That's a good way to identify their problems. So they said, We're gonna write down the problems. You ain't see any problems in me, write 'em down. I see So that's what they did. And after thirty days, some of you know the end already, but uh they compare notes and so the the husband pulls out his little Notes he's been writing and pulls them out of the bucket there and and starts reading them. Oh yeah. Left the uh lid off the jelly jar. That's what you did. Uh oh yeah. You were supposed to fill up the car with gas. But didn't happen. Uh there were those socks and that wet towel in the bathroom. Not good. And so he read his all his off. And then the wife says, Okay, now it's my turn and she pulls out all the things that he had done wrong, you know, and starts reading them. And the husband looks at him, man. He reads it. They're all the same. They all say the same thing. I love you. I love you. I love you. Every single day, no matter what mistake he had done, she'd write down, I love him anyway. I just love that guy. And you know, and some of us have a hard time dealing with that concept with the grace of Jesus Christ. And so we we don't welcome, we don't live a our life like We're privileged. They're like we've been invited to bathe in grace every day. We d we some of us would get stuck and we just say, Well, I'm not good enough. I mean, I already showed that by yesterday and the day before and and and we don't quite get it. And and that's why Jesus was traveling from town to town. So people would get it. Hey you know, you're good enough today and every day. if you just have your confidence in me. And that's where he was trying to go, I believe, with to the with the Samaritans. Of course he never got there, didn't get an opportunity. And so what does he do? Or what do the disciples do? The disciples says, I tell you what, they won't welcome you. They don't want your grace and your message. Here's what we'll do. You know, they've been doing miracles anyway And he says, you know what? There's a good miracle. Why don't we just call some fire straight out of heaven and burn these people from the face of the earth? Wouldn't that be great? Level their buildings. enough for you it's just burn 'em. Burn 'em out. That's what James and John says. Is that the two names? I get them right. Pray down some fire. says, bad idea. You don't know what time it is. Don't you have a little wisdom? There's a time to be born, a time to die. There's a time for grace and a con time for car Condemnation. Today is the day of grace. Let's give them some elbow room. Give them a little time. You know, you could also describe this time of grace as a time of decision. Folks Have you decided what you're doing with Jesus Christ? I know what he wants to do with you. He wants to just embrace you and make you feel good. About yourself, feel good about your life and your future. Some of us have a hard time welcoming heaven Embracing him. He's ready to accept you. The question are are you ready to accept and follow him? Some of you have accepted him, and you just need to accept him fresh every time every day and and to keep following him and rejoicing in in his grace. This is the I decision. And every day we have to make the decision. Are we going to again freshly turn away from those wrong wrong ways and leave his forgiveness and try to do a little better by with his help. It's a day of grace. The d the disciples were a little mixed up on this day. They're ready to call down judgment. Well that's coming tomorrow But you know what's a little scary in this passage is the last verse to me. Even though the Jesus didn't call great judgment down right then, you know what he did? He moved on to the next next town. He went to the next village. And you know what? At any time he can move out and just move on. The day of judgment may be coming. You know may not may long you don't know how long the hour of decision's gonna be You don't know how long the the day of decision, the day of grace going to last. He could come back in ten minutes, or if he comes back in ten years, you may die. Either way, you know what I mean? You don't know how much time You have. Today is a day of grace, the day of opportunity, the day of decision. I pray that you're trusting in Jesus Christ. Otherwise, you know what? We all And if you have to appear alone without Christ's protection, may God have mercy. And by tell you by then it's going to be too late. Mercies today. Judgment is coming tomorrow, and you can count on it. It's everywhere in Scripture. Well, uh, let me just close with one illustration. One man, uh, he thought he could get out of condemnation or prison. This man had been convicted of stealing some stuff. And so um they put him in pr sentence and put him in prison. And he'd sort of been serving his time for a while. And then eventually he managed to sneak out of prison He escaped. And for 42 years he was living a free man. Free, off the hook, even though he was guilty. Should have been serving time. Well, at seventy five years old they caught him again. They caught him. Someone found him and said, Oh yeah, that's the guy that that thief did that thievery forty two Two years earlier, seventy-five years old, threw him back in the slamber to pay the time for the crime that he had done. You see, there is no escape. All appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And God says, Hey, I don't want you to appear there alone. That's why God said Sends his son into the world, not that we would be condemned, but that through him we might find grace for forgiveness and grace to sustain us every day of our lives. Let us pray. Lord, we bow before you. We know that you're going to return to this earth. And you'll be returned in a blazing fire with your angels to bring judgment to those who have not trusted and followed you. And To bring glory to those who are embracing you, even as many people in this room are doing. We thank you that by your grace we can share in heaven's glory and as Escape heaven's judgment. Thank you that grace is available for us today. Help us to embrace it and to make it known. Judgment we know will come tomorrow. Lord, we uh help us to live, knowing that this is the hour of grace. In your name we pray. Amen.