I wonder if you can remember the last time you were picked last. I'm sure that was a wonderful feeling, right? It happens a lot in grade school. It still happens. We try to maybe pick teams in a different way, but we still don't do it that way. But also, uh, you know, I like to watch a lot of cooking shows and these competitions, normally what happens is you get like twelve people or twenty people and they all cook a meal and then they form teams by getting picked. And so somebody gets picked last. They don't often go on to win, but it's still embarrassing. We feel terrible when that happens. Like there's something innately wrong with us. Today's Passages deal with the bottom. Last. Two people get picked last, and then we're also going to talk about children, the vulnerable, who who get picked on, especially by society. So the first woman is basically annoying. According to the text. Why are you always bothering me? The second man is not a good person. He is definitely looked down on and despised. But the gospel says the kingdom of God is here for those who are picked last. That is good news for all of us today. Jesus' kingdom, the kingdom of God, is a reversal kingdom. It does not operate under normal circumstances. So we're going to talk mostly about divine justice And divine mercy. When things spin out of control and we feel like in our call to worship and prep, oppressed, afflicted. Unappreciated, disrespected, what do we do? What also do we do when we think we're better than other people? These passages give us great hope and great reorientation. But before we get there, I decided to include Luke 17, 1 through 4. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea that he should cause one of these little ones to sin I was thinking after a VBS about this series of books, and I'm going to mention this one the most, but I went ahead and bought some and I'll Pass them around, you guys can take them home or whatever. And these are wonderful. God made me for heaven, helping children live for an eternity. with Jesus. God made me unique, helping children see the value of every person. God made babies. Helping parents answer the baby question. Grandparents, just give this back to your your children, right? And then God made me and you celebrating God's design for ethnic diversity There's another one that didn't come yet that I ordered. It's called God Made Boys and Girls, talking about gender differences. This one though is the one that got me started in all this. God made all of me, a book to help children protect their bodies. So I have five copies of this, or maybe you can take in the week. And I wanted to read the back This is a part of a a series by the organization called Grace. I think I mentioned this before. Grace is Godly Response to Abuse in the Christian Environment. And a lot of PCA people are involved with this some of my friends do work for this organization. At the end of the book, there are nine ways to protect your children from sexual abuse Okay, difficult topic. We should talk about it in church too, right? And I just read a important scripture. So the I'm just gonna bust through these, but there's more to read so we can say it out loud. So we at least have heard this. Explain to your child that God made their body. Teach proper names of private body parts. Invite your child's communication. Talk about the different types of touches. Teach little ones how to say stop, all done, and no more. Don't ask your child to maintain your emotions. That's maybe a tricky one. But then you can sort of get uh enmeshed with your child and that creates big problems. Throw out the word secret. Explain the difference between a secret and a surprise. Clarify rules for playing doctor. Identify whom to trust Report suspected abuse immediately. Those are very important things. This book can help you with your kids or your grandkids or people you know. Because of that, let me just say a brief prayer for our kids until I continue. What do we do pray for the children in our church? Precious, precious souls. You put into precious, precious bodies. Pray for them, the children that we know and come into contact with, children in our schools and In our midst, children everywhere in the world would be safe because they are so often abused and oppressed. And afflicted. We pray that you would bring your judgment on those who inflict that harm upon them, and that you would help those who have been hurt to heal from the trauma and come into fullness and wholeness. We ask this in your name. Amen. Thought that was important? Sort of a in a I'd a little bit. But we came at that passage was in uh the chapter we're talking about. So now back to regul Scheduled programming. Divine justice. We have talked about persistent children, remember? Mommy, mommy, mommy, mommy. But also think about persistent pets. They will not back off ever, right? Once you have fed that dog a scrap, it doesn't matter if it only gets one scrap out of a hundred. That one is coming someday, right? We never would feed uh our dog, Charlie, anything, but here recently, Cal's girlfriend, whenever she takes her dogs and Charlie for a walk, we didn't know this until recently She will stop at a restaurant and buy chicken breasts and feed them to the dogs. So now our dog is eating chicken breasts unbeknownst to us. So when that dog smells chicken breasts in our house, he's like, dude, it's lunchtime. Her name's Sam. Sam, I this is not an endearing quality about you. There's another dog in the place where I go listen to music, and they let dogs come in, and this one dog is the same one His master sits outside and this dog will go coat in and out of the place and people will open the door for it in and out in and out the whole time and if you have food it will sit there Patiently. And I've watched it happen all the time, the person breaks down just to get it to go away And I'm like, well, all right, that is one approach. Um so yeah, we have these uh these persistent obnoxious things that happen to us. And in this story that Jesus is telling, he is Putting this a persistent woman, this widow, in contact with an unjust judge. This judge doesn't care about her at all. This judge doesn't care about God. This Doesn't fear God, doesn't respect her, but there she is all the time. She's following her around bathroom breaks, you know, wherever. She's there The judge is supposed to be an arbiter of justice, and he is completely shirking his ability. There is no impartial rule. And so, in the face of injustice to his own people, Jesus tells this parable about this widow, about her persistence, her grit, her determination. You guys may have heard of a guy named uh Bob Goff. He wrote a book maybe a decade ago called Love Does, which is fantastic And in the book he tells the story of how he got to law school. One day he decided he was going to go to law school and he had zero credentials He was not a good student at all, but he wanted to be a lawyer, so he went to the law school he wanted to go to, the closest one, and he sat in the outer office of the president. Um and when the president saw his resume or his transcript, he was like, It's not happening, dude. You can go. And so he sat there all day long, eight to five. Next day he shows up, eight o'clock in the morning. I need you to let me into law school. I can do it, I can do it. And the guy's like, dude, no. No way. And and so the the semester had started. So he so the third day, he's like, I'm already two days behind. I need you to let me in. He goes the the end Friday five o'clock. He has sat in that chair all week. Friday at five o'clock. The president's like, Are you still here? What is your problem? And he said, I have missed my first week. You have got to let me in. And that's how he got into law school Persistent, right? Persistent. That's sort of the story of this. Except what Jesus says is the point of the parable is verse 1 And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. That's the point, right? Whenever we see all of these things going on in our lives, things that are happening to us or what we see in the world We need to seek God, cry out, beg for Him to come through. We cry out, how long, O Lord, how long is this going on? But we go to him because he cares. He hears every cry of the poor, the marginalized, and one day he will answer them all. The people who are groaning to be treated respectfully, fully, and kindly. And his point is If we're persistent, if this lousy, terrible judge will eventually come through, how much more will your loving Father Come through. He's a good, good father. It's who he is. It's who he is, right? And if he loves us, if that's who we are, he will answer. There are many times in the Bible where there are these stories or illustrations that are how much more. If somebody would do this, how much more will God do? This is one of those times. How much And as we as we see the injustices, some of which Mark prayed that wouldn't happen, but we know they do happen All day, every day, all around the world, some known, billions more unknown, here In Baltimore and in Maryland, with jail reform and still redlining, and racism and policies, police reform, abuse, we cry out to the Lord, don't we? And someday, soon enough, vindication will come, a reckoning, a restoration, because we need not this judge. We have a lot of judges just like this. The true judge, Jesus Christ. And so the woman represents not giving up in the face of injustice. We're all tempted to. She represents a holy outrage in finding someone, ultimately finding the Lord who is there. Mysteriously listening. And the church has been through stuff like this forever. In the Old Testament, in the New Testament, in the early church church. Even now, the chur persecution like in China or in Cuba, you know in Cuba if you have they have state run churches, but if you have a house church, if it gets over like ten people, they tear the house down to the ground. That's severe. Still happening. I have a friend who is in Myanmar and he will talk in his newsletters about getting chased through the jung jungles with machetes when people find out he's a pastor. I don't like newsletters like that, so uh but he is in it. But we still persist. We still go forward because evil has an expiration date. We don't know when it's going to be But we take heart and have hope and trust the Lord and cry out because the ark of the universe is toward justice in the end. That is one of our great, great So we have divine justice and then we also have divine mercy. We're going to talk about self-justification for a little bit Things other people do, not us, right? Self-justification is really when a person is trying to reconcile his or her behavior with and beliefs when they're in conflict. Right? And we're trying to deny bad behavior. This is very common in toddlers. Or, like if you're dating a jerk, you'll hear this. This is what we do when we don't obey orders from our doctors, right? Well there's a reason I'm not. I can't do that. That's dangerous, right? We blame others or we blame our circumstances. This is the classic well she hit me first. That's why I did it. We rationalize and make excuses, right? I only cheated on the test because I ran out of time. Study. Huh, interesting. Uh we we we self-justify by defining the problem as a gray area. Well who can tell? Or we highlight our moral credentials. So it's called like moral licensing. Well, because I do this, I get to also do this. Even though that's a problem. Because I contributed to this cause, I can now another way we do it is only partially come clean. Tell some of the some of the bad, right? Leave some of it out. Or there's another thing called whataboutism. Now you could get fronted with something that's like, well, well what about? It could be a person, it could be a thing, just anything to deflect attention on this thing. That's a way to self-rationalize, self-justify. Or demonizing something is worse. Now it It's interesting there this happened recently. A Harvard scientist has been studying dishonesty for years and years and years. And he just recently fabricated study results. So he got found out as a fraud on his own study about studying dishonesty. Isn't that so richly ironic and perfect illustration for a sermon. I always love when I see news like this. Come on, keep it coming. Sin is deep and complicated and simple at the same time. I help out with this bowling league on Thursday night and I'm I'm a pretty good bowler. If I bowled once a week I could be really pretty good. So I know about bowling. Now no knowing about bowling and being good at bowling, that's the same thing. And so I'll watch these people. And they are terrible at bowling. I mean, it is like you have picked the fifty worst bowlers in Baltimore and brought them all in the same place. But one thing that's funny is this one guy just started, like he'd never bowled before until like a month ago, and he instantly went and bought a bag, two balls, two sets of shoes, and he's bowling fifties. I'm like, dude, maybe you should have waited to see how this goes. You've invested a thousand dollars in bowling and you stink. And so what happens in my heart is I sit there and I go I don't say the words I just owed to you, but I think them every time he goes up there, I'm like, oh man. Because I think I'm better than him. Now I literally am a better bowler than him. But that doesn't mean I'm a better person than him. And also why can't I enjoy him enjoying Being bad at it. That's fine. Like, you know, I'm not getting paid commentary for what's going on in the chat or in my head, right? So we all do it. Jesus tells a parable to somebody just like me when I feel righteous. He told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And just like me in bowling, treated others with contempt. And my heart He talks about the Pharisee, right? The Pharisee prays loud. The Pharisee wants people to hear. What does the Pharisee pray? He says, God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, wouldn't even lift his eyes. So so the the this is of showdown Tax collector versus Pharisee. Who's gonna win? Who's the righteous person? Now that's an easy question to answer for the listeners. That is a no-brainer. It's almost insulting to ask it. Because tax collectors, we talked about these people. They're traders. You remember how it works? Rome would hire tax collectors, and in the Jewish provinces they would hire Jewish tax collectors. So now the Jewish people are going to their Jewish brethren and getting money for Rome. And the other thing that happens is if Rome wants 5% taxes, And you had to pay it. There was no not paying. The tax collectors would collect seven percent and they would keep the two percent The people didn't ever really know what the actual number was. They just knew what they were being told and they had to pay it. And so these were hated, these people were hated by the Romans. And completely despised by the Israelites. If you saw a tax collector going into the temple, you would not be happy. It's like, what does this person think he's doing in there? Shouldn't even come around this place It's a walk of shame almost to go in there. The gall of this person. Now, if you saw a Pharisee go into the temple, what are you looking at? A holy person, a distinguished person, a theologian, someone who's pious, who knows the law and follows it. And so you'd be thinking, okay, okay. That guy has credentials. That guy has degrees. That guy I'm going to listen to and follow around. That guy's close to God. God's going to hear that prayer. But Jesus is saying that's not what divine mercy looks like at all, is it? So the question in this text is somewhat: what does justification look like? How does justification work? How can I be right with God? What do I need to do? And what does the Pharisee say? All about me. Like what is he what is he praying? I'm not like the other people. I fast twice a week. I give tithes. I I'm I'm doing all my work. I don't look like them, him, her, them, those people. We all think this way, some, don't we? Those people? We all have some sort of those people. Sometimes it's politics, not always. Sometimes it's people that go to those churches or read those books or wear those clothes to church. And so we laugh at them and look down on them like the Pharisee. We say, look at my life, look at my stuff, look at my holiness. It's in stark contrast to the tax collector. What is his prayer? God be merciful to me. A sinner. That's what we're saying, isn't it? God be merciful to me, a sinner. He cries out to the Lord, beats his chest, says, I need mercy. I don't have any hope without it. I know I'm not a good person. It's not a big long eloquent prayer at all. It's to the point. It's simple. I'm a sinner who needs mercy. I cannot get God's grace. I probably shouldn't even be in here But I came in anyway, hoping for grace, hoping for mercy. Grace is not getting grace is getting what you don't deserve. Mercy is not getting what you do deserve. We're all sinners, aren't we? And so then here's this Pharisee, holy person, completely missing it yet again. And here's this thing Tax collector on point with God. And so often we sculpt and mold our lives To be like the older brother and the Pharisee and not like this tax collector and the younger brother. We self-justify ourselves. We do what about this? We rationalize. We come partially clean. We blame others. But we need To be honest to the Lord and not fake wrestlers, right? We need to be like Jacob, really wrestling with the Lord and asking for Him to help us and touch us. Because the kingdom of God is all around. It's a welcoming kingdom like we talked about. It frees us to be honest. Instead of checking boxes and following rules, at least following some rules, the rules that we want to follow or can follow, or good at following We're not always good at loving God and loving our neighbor, are we? But when we fail, there's mercy. God be merciful to us, sinners like us. And when we encounter other people who also sin, we can remember God's mercy and grace to us and give them grace and mercy. There's also Truth and consequences for sure. So this passage continues what Jesus is doing on his on this pathway through Samaria to the cross, reorienting ourselves to what the kingdom of God is like The law, the our Savior who saves sinners. Right? And these two people were picked last. Yet again, over and over, that's who he's putting at the center. Shepherds, this lost woman, this younger brother, another tax collector, again, a widow. Marginalized people in the fringe of society who are making terrible decisions at some sense. Can you sense why the Pharisees don't like Jesus too much? Not only is he saying he's God, which is no go unless you are, they don't think he is, but He just sticks it in their eye over and over again. They're like, hey, we can help you. Jesus, we we know people. We like we got credentials. People listen to us. And here he says, he told the parable the son who trusted. themselves that they were righteous and treated others with contempt. Like, dude, he is not letting them off the hook. Who does God welcome in his kingdom? It's a different type of kingdom, isn't it? Okay, you tithe. I'm all about tithing. Don't stop. But that's not what righteousness looks like, is it? Okay? Back in the day you kissed dating goodbye. You wore your purity ring. You've been faithful. That's all perfectly good. You don't cuss. You don't drink. You keep your Lenten promises. Perfect. You don't gossip. You don't party. All this stuff is not Righteousness. It's all fine and good. As we love and follow Jesus, it looks different than not loving and following Jesus. But that does not sit at the center. Of knowing God. When Job prayed, he prayed, Behold, I am of a small account. Isaiah said, Woe is me, I am lost, a man of unclean land. Habakkuk said, I hear and my body trembles, my lips quiver. Peter fell down and said, Depart from me, for I am a sinner. All of these people were still deeply loved by God. There's a certain sense where we come into God's presence and it is like, whoa, I shouldn't be here. And this There's another sense where he brings you in and hugs you and kisses you and welcomes you back, even after all that you have done. Because he loves you, that's who he is. There's a story, a Scottish story, about a fairy. Fairy visits this Old woman and asked the woman, Will you watch my bonnie boy, my bonnie baby? And the woman says, Uh yeah, I'll do it. I'll do it. She doesn't recognize this fairy as a fairy. Okay. And a year passes and the fairy comes back in normal person and says, Thank you so much as So wonderful. Come visit my home. I want to I want to thank you so much and come visit my home. Will you come? And the woman says, Yes. And they get to this place and she says, What do you see? And the woman they step inside and says, I see a bare, plain, dirt floor, nothing almost. This is where you live. And the w the fairy says, oh wait. She has a goblet, of course, you know, something cool. And she dot drops three drops in the woman's left eye. And then she says, Now what do you see? A lake, a sunset, Trees everything's lush and beautiful. You live here. She had been given a gift of sight. To see something different. These parables are like that, aren't they? If we can see what the kingdom of God really looks like, it changes our perspective so that we come to Jesus in a different way. And sometimes we need to go back to Him and say, I need those drops again They just sort of wore off. I forgot. In some ways that's sort of true between Sundays. Another way it's like you may have forgotten for a while. Or we haven't heard it in a while. Or we're like, we're trying our hardest. We can't quite get there. Or maybe we're treating others that way. And Jesus says, Oh, it's I'm merciful. I'm just. I'm just. And I am merciful. And when you cry out to me, God have mercy on me a sinner, oh it's music to my ears. That's a prayer I love. I don't even have to delay that one. I want to finish with two hymns or songs. Um there's one by Andrew Peterson who I don't know who hopefully you know about. We'll talk about him more in the future. It's a little odd because he sings a a phrase and then the the congregation answers. And so it goes like this, do you feel the world is broken? We do have a lot of people. Do you feel the shadows deepen? We do, right? Do you? We do. But do you know that all the dark won't stop the light from getting through? We do. Is all creation groaning? It is. Is a new creation coming. Is the glory of the Lord showing righteousness in our midst? Is the growing glowing of the Lord to be the light within our midst? It is. And is it good to remind ourselves of this? And the big you know, crescendo a couple times, is anyone worthy? Is anyone whole It's the cry of John, right? The Revelation. Is there anyone able to break the seal and open the scroll? The line of Judah. Who conquered the grace? David's root and the lamb who died to ransom The slave. He is worthy. Amen? And then this one. There's a song called Love Let Us Love and Sing and Wonder. As we're going through fierce temptation and seeing all this unjustice and groaning with creation, groaning, let us wonder grace and justice. Divine mercy, divine justice, grace and justice. Join to point to mercy's store. When through grace in Christ our trust is trust is justice smiles and asks no more The justice is put on Jesus. He took the pain and the wrath due to us. So justice smiles. Ask no more when our faith and trust is in Jesus and His grace. He who washed us with His blood, He who washed us with His blood He who washed us with his blood has secured our way to God. May that be true for all of us here today.