It doesn't get better today than today. It's a full day when we can not only come around God's Word. But when we can take that word and bring it before God's children, God's people in baptism When we are able to gather as God's people, celebrate the Lord's Supper, and when we as God's people uh can vote for the next one that God may bring to to us and discover his will and his way. It doesn't get better than that. It's part of life. The life that God gives to us. As a family. And that's the theme that I'm going to be looking at this morning. God's forever family. God's forever family. Not all of our families are forever. We'd like them to be. But they're not all forever. God's family is forever I'm gonna thank, although he's not here, I want to thank Jerry for opening up for us the uh series on 1 Peter 2. And actually I'm just continuing on in that series. He skipped over a chapter or a part of a chapter, and I'm going to drill back into it. So if you wondered what happened to 1 Peter chapter 2, 1 through 12, it's today. It should have been last week or the week before when so it's out of sync. But it's an important uh for us today. It sort of pulls together a lot of what we've anticipated So I want to ask that you would stand as I read Scripture. From 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. I'll give you a minute to look for it or to read it on the screen, whichever way it may come. There it is. So put away all malice, and all deceit, and hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander. And like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you might grow up into salvation. If indeed you've tasted that the word is good, as you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and precious. You yourselves are like living stones, being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood To offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone A cornerstone chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe But those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do so. But you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you might proclaim the excellencies Of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. The word of the Lord Let's pray. Father, come and visit us today. Stay with us today. Turn our eyes again today upon Jesus And remind us of the blessings and the hope in the midst of our failures, in the midst of the things that strike against us. Lift our eyes to Jesus. Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. God's forever family. He holds us in suffering. The whole theme of 1 Peter has been about and around the theme of suffering. If you've been following it as Jerry opened the word for us. And we see it again in this chapter. He holds suffering in community. And that's the only way really that we understand that we can hold is that God holds us in community, and so the suffering that we experience. Is shared in community. We're not the only ones that bear his suffering, that bear our suffering. We share in suffering. And God does that in community. But what's that community? Well the community is a different identity than the natural community. That's why we have baptism this morning. It's like, yes, we have a father and a mother and a child. But there's a new identity. That new identity was put upon Amelia this morning. We sometimes think that, and many people think in Christendom that actually our identity of being in Christ comes when we accept, accept, whatever that means, Jesus. But the problem with seeing baptism as a sign of our promise is exactly the fact that we break our promises. I don't want to be bound into an identity that's based on my choice. I want to be bound into an identity that God keeps. And that's what this text is about. It's about a reminder that God has done something that I can't begin to do. So God takes me, and he allows the sufferings in my life and in your life to be bound in the community of his family. That's what we look at. I want just for a moment to. I'm going to start with a verse verse. I'm just going to walk through this. The first verse gives us a really good understanding of what keeps us. from being a forever family of the king. What keeps us from it? You all know a number of years ago I had the privilege of working in East Africa And one of the both joys and challenges was to work in the countries of Rwanda and Burundi. And to work there when the countries were melting down, when people were killing each other because of their identity, because of who they were. It were three different people groups. A little people known as the Twa. And then there were the tall people known as the Tutsi. And there were the in-between people that were known as the Hutu. Now, sometimes the little people grew enough to where they look like the middle-sized people, and sometimes the middle-sized people grew up to where they looked like the tall people, where the tall people were a little shorter And so they looked like the middle sized people. But they all spoke the same language. And they all had the same dance. And they all lived in the same pl in the same area. Why was it then that when a horrible day began, they killed each other? It sometimes is beyond our imagination. Well they did so because there was a deep deceit And betrayal. There were words that were spoken over the radio, individually, and it invoked anger. anger that brought about a remembering different way of history. And so the tall people were angry with the middle people, and the middle people were angry with the tall people. And And everybody was angry with the short people. I mean that's history in just a little brief way. If I had to explain it to the kids, that's how to explain it. It's Unexplainable, isn't it? But that's what breaks down f God's family, community, when we are full of deceit And betrayal. And that's what the text says. Put away all malice and all deceit and all hypocrisy and all envy and all slander. Put it all away. Because those are the things that break down God's forever family. Self-righteousness. You know, when I claim uh somebody else has sinned, oh not me, I haven't sinned. Uh you you sinned you you sinned you sinned you sin this way you sin that way I mean I'm okay. No Self-righteousness breaks down the family. When I want what you have, it's envy I want the outcomes that you have. I want the life that you have. I want the what you have. I want the title you have. I want the position. It doesn't matter what I want that you have. That desire breaks down God's family community. I can tear down your success Our politics are full of that, all right. That's why we're a divided nation. I can't rejoice in something that somebody else did if I if they don't completely agree with me. So I'll tear it down It doesn't matter who I am, what my political party is. I'm going to tear down the other political party. Can't be anything they did that's good. If they're not my political party. So we tear each other down. How do we expect to be a country? How do we expect to be a family? How do we expect to be a nation? How do we expect to be God's family? By tearing each other down. The text is clear. If we don't put it away, we cannot understand or be God's forever family. But there's a way of building it, and that's what verse 2 talks about. Look at verse 2. Like newborn infants. Amelia didn't know her name, did she? I don't know how long it's going to be before she'll know her name. The kids couldn't even answer. Can they remember when they knew their name? Do you remember when you first knew your name? I don't. The only reason I remember my name is because it kept getting used. And I would respond to it. How does a child know that they belong to the family of God? It's not going to happen in silence. It's going to happen when that the name of Jesus is constantly in front of them and they respond to it. In other words, we incorporate them, we build them into the family of the king. And they become that Amelia. Should be called Amelia. Maybe she'll have a nickname. I don't know. I didn't ask that. Maybe they haven't figured it out yet. I have nicknames for my grandchildren, and they have a nickname for me. And we know each other by our nicknames, but we also know our each other by our full names. But it's not just our name, it's who we are. And so it's the who we are that builds up the body of Christ. And that's what verse 2 is about. Like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk. that by it you might grow up into salvation. And so our children need to see the yearning in us. That's why we ask the questions. Of Amelia's mother and father, who you long for the milk of the word. Will you teach that longing to Amelia? That's why we ask that question. And I ask you that question: Do you long for the pure milk of the Word? So we're born as an infant, we grow like an infant, we grow in family, we long for nourishment, we taste like a child. Taste If indeed, verse three says, you have tasted that the Lord is good. Here's the thing. Being religious is not tasting that the word is good. And you all know people that are very religious, but haven't tasted of the presence of Jesus When life becomes difficult, when we feel the pressures of life and we feel like we can't go on, that's when we taste of the presence of Jesus. In our lives, and we call out to him, Lord, I cannot go on I need you. That's the longing for the taste of Christ. And that's what makes us part of the family tasting like a child. A child that recognizes yes. I'm hungry. I know mommy. I was hungry three hours ago. I'm hungry again. I know, mommy, I know daddy, it's 3 a. m. But I'm hungry again. Just imagine. Maybe You know, as we age we go back to our infancy and we wake up at three AM So do you do that? I I did Last night I confess. Uh and and s and when we wake up at three a. m. it's like Lord feed me again. I need you. That's what makes me in the family of the king. I built as a living stone, verse 4 says, as you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and Precious, a living stone. Most stones that we know of are dead. They don't change form. They don't change anything. They're just dead. But it suggests that there are some different ways of looking at a stone and different kinds of stones even. There's a very soft stone that is seen in many parts of the world. Immerse it in water, it will suck up the water. If it's hot water, it'll suck up the hot water. If it's cold water, it'll suck up the hot water. It will it will Receive into itself And then it will pour it out again. So there's a sense in which, even though the stone is stone, it's not changing its shape, it's still receiving and giving But what we get here is that we come to Christ, who is the living stone. It's not just that he's not changing his shape or his form. And it's not just that he's pouring out to us, and it's not just that he's receiving from us our pain, our grief, our failures. But he actually walks with us in the pathways of our lives. He bends and he moves with us. And we rely upon him in every situation of life. And I built into on that living stone. And so there's something about building God's family that actually happened. God's family community. I build into it, I build onto it. I am built on Him. It's an amazing picture. How do we do it? We take our children and we build them into our families. Amelia doesn't have a clear sense completely of who her family is. But it was pretty evident this morning when she went from my cold hand to her mother's arms. And so we are built into the family. of the great king. He makes us his child. He draws us into his family. And he draws us together into his family. So we're built there. We're built together. Not alone. We're built together. We're built to sacrifice for each other because that's what Christ did for us. I'm built like him, on him, to be like him, to be on him, and to reflect his love to you and to his family. That's far bigger than just grace. It's the forever family of God. It's an amazing Amazing truth, an amazing reality. It's also the challenge of missions to actually build community To build churches that reflect the presence of God, to build on the presence of Christ. In that community, there is the capacity To hold suffering. We have seen that in our lives in Africa. A community that holds suffering The chair's poverty. The chair's resources, however small they might be, the chairs the suffering of not only poverty, but the suffering of Whether it's the economy of the country, whether it's the realities of the weather the poverty of the world, in other words, of the f of the dust itself, they share what's there. And they're built into community. They're built into community by by the same things that build us into community Language, shared events, shared opportunities, sharing of the struggles and the frustration So we're building God's family community, and we're built into that family community. That's what verses six and seven talk about. It stands in Scripture, behold, I'm laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen, precious. Whoever believes in him, whoever believes in Christ will not be put to shame. That's our foundation. And if you come and if you go, if this week is not built on that foundation, you miss the point. You miss the opportunity. You miss the moment to be a part of God's family and know I am resting securely on Christ. That's why God puts children into families. And reflect about it. Children don't go shopping. And when they do, they come back with probably things that aren't really good for them. A bag full of candy, be great. Um everything that just seems to appeal to them, there it is. They bring it. And they say, I want this, I want this. Now God says we are built into him in community And there it is, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. God lays in Zion that stone A cornerstone chosen, precious. Whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So we're built into God's promise. Without that, we don't share suffering. Christ is the cornerstone. We don't carry each other's suffering. Christ carries it. It's the weight. That's why it's the cornerstone. We put our suffering on him. We put our lives on him. We are built on him, our pain, our grief, our suffering. Yes, we share, but ultimately it's on the cornerstone of Christ. And all we can do is say, let me move over. I'm a living stone. Let me move over and give you a spot on Christ. And we knit each other in that Place. It's precious being joined together. Our family, our church. It's not always that way though. When we see it, it's a wonderful thing. Many years ago when I was uh working in Rwanda and Burundi, as I said, the big challenge there was whether you were tall or short. Um and the tall children knew that they were tall, not just because of their height, but because they were Tutsis. And the smaller children knew that they were smaller not because of their height, but because they were Hutus, even though they spoke the same language. And there was a story that came out of one area of the country, which was a school bus that was stopped by some of the militia who were looking for Hutu children and for Tutsi children. And it wanted to emphasize the importance that they were different instead of the same. And so the bus was stopped. And they asked the children to get out. And then they asked all the Tutsi children to stand on one side, and all the Hutu children to stand on the other side. And the children knew exactly what was going to happen. The Tutsi children would be killed in front of their eyes. And the Hutu children would live. And that school bus, that is the children of the school bus, made a decision. And the decision was they would all go to the toothy side. And the soldiers commanded them, no separate, because they couldn't tell. You know The children, some had grown tall, some had grown short. They didn't know who was who. They all spoke the same language. But they said, no, no, no, you have an identity. Tutsis, putus No, we're the same, the children said. And all the children survived. Because some of the children were willing to change sides. Imagine if as the Church of Jesus Christ We had such a love of Christ that moved us to the other side of the bus and said, we will stand. With those that will otherwise perish, that the love of Christ might hold them Can you imagine what God would do differently? So I want you to behold for a moment the community of the great King. It's an honor, verse 7 says. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who don't believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, a stone of stumbling. A rock of offense, because they stumble, because they disobey the word as they were destined to. So if we take a look at it, the honor of belief Is Christ. It's not the honor that I am believing and that I am receiving Christ. No, my honor is that Christ has come upon me. I stand on Christ. It's not just that I make that choice. Yes, I must make that choice. I must come to faith in Christ. But it's Christ Himself that holds me, it's not me that holds Him. I can't hold it. The promises I make, I break. The promise that God makes, He keeps And he will keep it for your children. He will keep it for you. Stand upon him. That's the honor of belief in Christ. Our grief, our loss, our suffering. It's held because we stand in Christ. Christ holds it. There's a beloved community that I want you to see. And it's beloved, and it's talked about verses 9 and 10 and 11. You're a chosen race. A royal priesthood. Listen, these are things that describe you, that describe us as God's family, God's forever family. We are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people that he possesses. Note that it doesn't say a people that possess him. Because, like my fingers don't hold water. It's just always flowing out of my hands. God says, no, I'll be I'll hold you. I'll keep you. You're my possession. And he makes us his possession. And that's what makes us beloved, his people. The opposite is people who are like me. No, I want to be like Christ. I don't want people like me. People like me are broken. God says, I will make you broken people into my people. You will be mine. You will be like me. That's theocentrism being gathered around God. And I want to be gathered around Christ. That's Christocentrism. That's my identity. That's who I am. God comes and he flows into me. And he goes on. That is the text. There's a proclamation. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners, as exiles, abstain from the passions of the So when they speak, Yeah, well, how does all that happen back up? Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Yes. Yes. It's the proclamation, our proclamation, that extends the light of Christ into the darkness. God says, I will transform you. And you will be a transformation in the world. You will be my light. You will be my people. You will be my proclamation. Have you ever thought yourself that way? The very word of God into a dark moment. And so God speaks into your life and he speaks you. into the darkness of the world because you speak Christ. You live Christ. So it's not our choosing an identity. It's Christ choosing and giving us an identity. It's not our grasping for Him, but His holding, His grasp on us. It reverses it. Once we didn't have mercy, and now we have mercy. Not because I achieved it, but because God gave it to me. It's his mercy. Once I was a sojourner, once I was an exile. Once I didn't have a clear sense of identity, but now I do. Amelia doesn't yet. have a clear sense of identity. She will. She'll have a family heritage. And the family heritage needs to be about more than her name. Or her address. It needs to be a heritage of God's people. You are God's people. You will hold each other's suffering. Because Christ holds that suffering. You will hold the children's suffering because you will bring them to Jesus. We will hold each other's suffering because we bring each other to Jesus.