Had to listen to three lousy sermons, I'm sure. No, I'm sure they were wonderful. I'm so glad you got to be ministered to by the These great friends of ours. Um we have this week and one more week in Isaiah, finishing off uh the book of Isaiah, and then it's Advent. Advent four seasons. Normally Advent would start next Sunday but because uh that we have a Sunday on Christmas Eve, we get 'em all four in on Christmas or during December. So um today I want to talk about in our theme of in the presence of greatness. We've been talking about these great people and things and places and foods. Today we are going to talk about the Greco-Roman Olympic wrestling. Of course. So you just get in your Rolodex and you start thinking of famous Greco-Roman Olympic wrestlers, right? And sure as you think through that, one of them is going to be the Russian Alexander Karolin. Okay And in Sydney two thousand Olympics, he was a hundred percent locked to win. And the reason was because he had won Gold in 88, 92, and 96. He had never lost in an international competition, and no one had scored a point on him in five years. This was a great wrestler. And then along comes this American dude He did win a junior college championship, and he finished fourth in the NCAA. But Rulon Gardner came out of nowhere and beat Carolyn one to nothing and won the gold medal and in basically the impossible. happened. No one would ever have predicted it. You would have won millions of dollars if you would have bet on it. It is one of the greatest upsets of all time. And it's why we watch sports sometimes. You know? Sometimes when when my team gets behind a long ways and I think, well, maybe I'm about to watch the greatest comeback of all time. Because those happen every once in a while. But the unexpected can happen. And we've been away for three weeks. Remember, Isaiah was written in the 700s BC. It's looking ahead toward the 500s. where this King Cyrus is going to allow God's people to come back to Jerusalem to worship, to get out of exile. This is the last section, and so it's thinking ahead to that return from exile. Because the God's people have been put out And ruled over by a pagan king. As we try to apply these passages, we're not in that exact situation of course. But we serve under kings and rulers. Uh we serve under our ultimate king, but he's already here and not yet here, so we're still in the in-between times. And we're alien and strangers. Aliens and strangers in exile. This is not our permanent condition. We have freedoms, but there's strangeness in our lands. So on Sundays, why do we come to church We're not coming to listen to inspirational messages or to feel good about ourselves. What we're hoping for, the goal of all this, is that through the work of the gospel in our own lives, as we hear and embrace Taste and see and touch and remember the gospel, embrace the gospel. We go out into the world Growing in grace ourselves, sharing the gospel with others, being involved in kingdom work, mission work, in fellowship and service to others. God is using us. I really appreciate Redeemer, Tim Keller's Redeemer, PCA Church. Here's the way they talk about why they come to church. We come to church to spread the gospel first through ourselves and then through the city by word and deed and community. We want to bring about personal changes, societal healing, and cultural renewal through a movement of ministry that changes our community and the world. Whoa. As we listen to the suffering servant song We've been talking through Isaiah. And God uses them on us. The Holy Spirit puts them on us. This suffering servant works in our lives. We receive personal change We become right with God, forgiven, redeemed, reconciled, and we go out. What did Isaiah say? Here am I, send me. We become missionaries into our own society. We long for revival in our own lives. In our homes, in our schools, in our work, in our city, we long for social healing, cultural renewal. Bearing fruit. And these passages right here, 56 through 61, really deal with those aspects of that process, that work that God has called us to do. So we're looking for unexpected things. So first I want to talk about the way God is, and then I'm going to talk about the way we are, and then we'll see how that So just as Thanksgiving has attributes, God has attributes. One I want to talk about, and I'm not going to talk about all the attributes, is his justice. His justice and righteousness lead Leads to shalom. Look at fifty-six one through one and two. You may need to uh be be in your Bibles or on your phones Thus says the Lord, Keep justice and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing evil As God works in the world with justice and righteousness, he is bringing about his shalom. We've talked about shalom. His peace, his flourishing, with this uh webbing together of God, humans, and all creation In justice, fulfillment, and delight for universal flourishing and wholeness. Shalom is where natural needs are satisfied and natural gifts are fruitfully given And it inspires the wonder as the creator and the Savior opens doors and welcomes creatures in whom he delights. That's a massive, huge. thing. It's everything. It's the way things ought to be. And we get a little taste of that here in worship on the Sabbath day. It's being connected to God and Himself. It's certainly not injustice or unrighteousness, which is chaos. It's the way things are supposed to be. God is just. But God is also open. Continuing in verses three through five. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast My covenant. I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut. Off. God opens doors to those who walk in. There's this openness to the gospel, an openness to revival A revival that opens up to a diverse people. People that don't look like everyone else, who don't think like everyone else, who don't come from all the exact places. So it's an unexpected people. Often an marginalized people, an outcast people like the eunuch. We talked about the eunuch a couple Sundays ago. The eunuch, the Ethiopian, going through and saying, How am I supposed to know what this is? And God saved him on that day, which was astounding. Astounding. There's salvation for people that think they're unsavable. We don't have to all come from the same family lineage. We don't all have to have the right look or the right Bible or come from the right neighborhood or certainly not have the right skin color or whatever that is. God opens the door. Look at verse 8. The Lord God who gathers the outcast of Israel. declares, I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered. That Thanksgiving feast is getting bigger and bigger and weirder and weirder. And funner and funner. My buddy Ray Canada has a church in uh New Orleans and on his face church's Facebook Page, he calls it There is Room for the Forsaken. And this God comforts. He receives and restores. This is in fifty-seven, verses fourteen through twenty-one. For thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name oh wait, I said fifteen fourteen. And it shall be said, Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from the people's way. For thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity Whose name is holy, I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite. Nothing can stop God's people from coming to him because God is high and lifted up, holy, holy, awesome. He doesn't have to dwell with sinners, but he does. He sees who Isaiah is, and he comes to him and forgives him. He he makes his home with the contrite and lowly in spirit, reviving, restoring, healing, giving peace, giving peace. Peace and comfort. Do you need peace and comfort today? Do you need shalom today Are there things in your life that you need made right? Are you one of the people who dreads thanksgiving? Because you know you'll be lonely or you'll feel like an outcast in your own family? Do you feel trapped in a relationship, overwhelmed by expect expectations, pressured to achieve? Exhausted by sinning, Christ gives comfort. He says, Come to me all who are weary and heavy burdened, and I will give you rest. Another thing God does is he loves his church. One of his attributes is loving his church. He created his church and he loves his church. It's glorious what he thinks about it. Look at Isaiah 60 verses 1 through 5. Arise, arise, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you, for behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick thick darkness the people. But the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. Lift up your eyes all around and see They all gather together, they come to you, your son shall come from afar, and your daughter shall be carried on the hip. Then you shall see and be radiant, you shall hear, your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned. Yes, there is sin, but God's glory is pouring out into the world, and Isaiah is thrilled to describe it. The glory of God rising up to his people. Arise, shine for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon it. He is gathering his people, and his children are his glory, aren't they? You know, he's gonna get everything. If you look down, and you keep going, he's gonna get camels, uh gold, frankincense, flocks, rams, all this stuff are gonna be gathered around him. He's going to be surrounded by riches, but when someone comes up to him and says, Show me your treasures, he brings up his children, his sons. Sons, his daughters, who he has named, who he has called to himself, who he has redeemed. They are his glory, the work of his hands. And the least are the greatest. The smallest, a mighty nation. Lord, come quickly. We long to see this. Another attribute of God I am calling jubilitious I didn't I have to create Jubilee into some sort of adjective, right? So jubileous makes sense to me. And this is 61. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor, sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, proclaim la liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to all those who are abound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them beautiful headdresses instead of ashes. The oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness Generations, the Lord is changing the world. It's really the culmination of what we've been hearing and reading As God knows about sin, takes sin into account, deals with sin and oppression, sends a redeemer to change things. The Jubilee was when everything was set back right. Now, y do realize that some people didn't like the Jubilee, right? Because they didn't want the thing that they had to go back to the other. And that's one reason why I get they never had one. There is no record of ever ever having a jubilee. believe in the scriptures. But it's not just an idea. God cares about our souls so deeply, but He also cares about our world, our social policies, even, our dealings with each other. He cares about goodness and justice and comfort and openness, yes. And he cares about rivers and mountains and books and culture and society and you and me and us and God loves this world. All of it. Brokenhearted. It's really good news that there's liberty for captives. If there's some part of your life where you're a captive, or if you really are a captive. Freedom from bondage, comfort for mourning. You matter to God. And then lastly, look at His graciousness Instead of your shame, this is verse seven, there shall be a double portion. Instead of dishonor, they shall rejoice in their lot. Therefore, in their land they shall possess a double portion. They shall have everlasting joy. Look what you get Look what you get. God is just and righteous and holy and gracious. God takes your shame and you get a double portion. How awesome is it when you are on vacation as a kid and you get an ice cream cone that has two scoops! Normally your mom is saying, no, one scoop only, one scoop only. And then sometime eventually she says, it's two scoop day. Yow You get two pieces, two slices, you get two for one. God is taking your dishonor, and you are getting the inheritance You're giving your stuff to the suffering servant. And you are getting all of this graciousness and glory. Amen, right? Do we need it? Well you can look back and yeah, we need it. Right There's passages even in this midst of all this about futile idolatry and false fasting. Over and over again, we're breaking God's commands. And breaking God's commands means that we're going against God's design for how we are to be. His commands are to help us. to to live in his ecosystem for our good, right? It's not just doing the stuff wrong. It's it's not doing the stuff that we should be doing. And so you know, do we care about justice and righteousness? Well, yeah, sometimes Sometimes we turn a blind eye, don't we? Sometimes we just believe it's the survival of the fittest. Sometimes we think, well, you get what you deserve Are we really promoting flourishing of all people and wholeness? Or are we breaking shalom? Are we selfish and lazy and inconsiderate and mean and hateful? Are we open to all people We certainly haven't been that way in the history of our world, country, state, neighborhood, maybe Are we open to outsiders or do we feel threatened by people moving into our spaces? Do we somehow make people feel unwelcome, or do we turn inward to ourselves instead of outward to others? God is a comforter. Do we comfort? Sometimes, sure. But we also picket pain. We laugh at pain, we label pain, we rationalize pain Do we want God's glory for Himself and for His church, or do we want it for ourselves? Our names, our fames Do we invest in people or houses, cars, clothing? Are we hoarding, sucking stuff from other people Do we care about the Jubilee? Do we want things set right? Just last week when I got back, my my brain was still a little fried, so I went and saw Killers of the Flower Moon. You guys have seen that yet? It's it's it's about Oklahoma and the mistreatment of Native Americans. Shocker. It's just taking and taking and taking From people who have nothing taking, taking. It's the opposite of Jubilee to consume that way Are we a people of grace or hatred? Mad at our friends or family, our parents, our kids, our roommates, our boyfriend, or girlfriend, or spouse. NMF. It's not my fault. That's the position. In Israel itself, the text tells us There's the irresponsibility of leaders. There's a blind watchman, idolatrous people, prostituting themselves, false revivals They get worked up for a little bit, then fade away. They hide secrets. They put up appearances. So our condition is bleak. Julie and I read a book to our kids called Tales of the Kingdom, and one of the tales involves a baker. And and this Baker was very proud of his bread and he would only give his bread to the king. And when other people would come and say, We want some of your bread, it's so good. We we would love to have some of that bread, he would no, it's only for the king. Well over time the king got sick. And when the baker went to the king, the king explained to him, the king's bread is for the king's people. When you don't give it to the people, you are hurting the king himself. Well, let's talk about the unexpected king then. We even mentioned when the Ethiopian eunuch rolls up on Philip, opening a scroll in Isaiah 53 And he realized who that was because Philip explained to him. And the kingdom of God explodes in a whole nother way. We have someone else opening up a scroll in Isaiah, right? In the New Testament, at the very beginning of a ministry. In Luke 4, we read that Jesus went to the synagogue. I'll probably always mention this. I'm always fascinated to think of what Jesus was feeling But on this day, the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him, and he unrolled the scroll and he found the place where it is written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind To set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Where is that from? Isaiah 16 He stood to read and he sat to preach. And he rolled up the scroll and he gave it back to the attendant and sat down, and all the eyes of the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them. Today, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. Now, I wouldn't mind. Maybe next year, 2024, I get to do one-sentence sermons. How about that? One sentence sermons. You think about this when Jesus did this People must have freaked out. Booyah, did that just happen? There's a stunned silence, right? This is like UNBC over Virginia. This is Villanova beat Georgetown. This is Kirk Gibson hit that home run. I can't believe it. U. S. hockey over over Russia in 1980, Buster Douglas. Rule on. No way Jesus is going to do that. All eyes are on him. He is saying, I am the one to preach the good news to the people. I give liberty to the captives. I set people free. I restore sights. I usher in the Jubilee. I give grace abundantly, double portions. I welcome outcasts. I am the one, the unexpected king. You did not see it coming. And what happened? What happened? Look at verse twenty-eight. And when they heard these things All I would even feel better if like there were some, a few people, the the rabble rousers No. Let's assume these are normal people, rational people, religious people. Okay? All in the synagogue, they were faithful attenders, were filled with Wrath. And they rose up and drove him out of the town, and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him Down the cliff, but passing through their midst, he went away. The gospel doesn't sound so good for good people The gospel doesn't sound so good to oppressors. Much more palatable to the oppressed. The gospel doesn't sound too good to the insider The gospel strips a lot away. The gospel can be very threatening for our lives. To gain your life, you must lose it I do I do not want to lose my life. Yo I've spent a lot of time building this up. I it's taking a lot of energy. No one else has been helping. I'm the s I'm the I'm the project manager of this life You want me to lose this? And so we cling to it. We cling to our own our own righteousness Or we can take his. This revival thing is like we can give it all away. There are new ways to experience this world. And Jesus is the one, the great King who cares about it all, the suffering king, the servant king, the one who had the strength and the resolve. To be led like a lamb to the slaughter, to take our death, to give us life, to take justice due to us so we can be set free. He took being shunned by God, turned away, cast out so we can be open. He took that wrath so we could be comforted and brought in. Grace, right? It's grace. Amen. Unexpected grace that we can receive with humble, thankful tears. As we look to the cross, as we lift high the cross, because Jesus is that warrior and he's also that comforter. That nurse. He's strong and powerful, loving and merciful, taking our ashes and giving us headdresses. So that we can have garments of praise. Because he was stripped down and torn low I think I've already mentioned that I have a couple preaching rules. One of them is no C. S. Lewis. I I I don't do C. S. Lewis, I don't do Le Miz, I don't do Harry Potter, and I don't do um Bob Dylan's You Gotta Serve Somebody. Because you've heard all those a million times. And I'm breaking a rule. So I have rules are meant to be broken. So I'm I'm consistently inconsistent. Remember and go back and watch the last part of this at least. Uh Lion Witch in the Wardrobe, the movie At the very end, when Aslan is dying on that stone table, right? Like you you can't watch it and not be like, I no, I know everything that's gonna happen. I'm still like, no. This cannot be. There's no way this can happen. I I think in the movie the their wolves and the witch and all that, they don't think it's gonna happen. Like there's some trick involved here. We're we're actually gonna pull this off And there's all the screaming and howling and crying, right? Aslan died. Death one. It's unexpected. If you're following along not knowing the story and you're watching all these things that you Jesus is doing and doing and doing. And you know he's talking the saying these weird things all the time. Weird this weird stuff. I'm gonna I'm gonna raise again. I was like, okay, I'm ignoring that because you look at what you just did I'm gonna go to die. No, you just walked on water, dude. Come on. I'm gonna do this. You fed five thousand people Don't be so depressed or melancholy all the time. Let's see that stuff, right? And so you're you're tracking with him. He's I mean he's throwing you off at times, but to see him on that cross, to see Aslan on that stone table It is unexpected, but to see him rise holy moly All the hopes and dreams of God's people filled in that moment to set the captives free. By being captured, to break the bondage by being constrained and nailed to the cross To proclaim the Jubilee and give it all away by taking all the debts, to giving us comfort by being stricken, smitten. And afflicted. That is our God. And that's how we become oaks of righteousness. Ancient, ruined, restored People together. That's our unexpected hope. Amen. Amen