Good morning. I think John preached or might have preached that for my sermon. This morning, so I think it's job done. We can spend another twenty minutes and then go home, right? We are looking at Deuteronomy chapter 9, and we're going to read the first section, which is verses 1 through 12. I would ask kindly if you're able to please stand as we honor the reading. of God's Holy Word. Deuteronomy nine verses one to twelve. Hear now the reading of God's Word Hear, O Israel, you are to cross over to the Jordan today, to go into dispossessed nations greater and mightier than you, cities great and fortified up to heaven, a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim whom you know, and of whom you have heard it said, who can stand before the sons of Anak. Know therefore today that he who goes over before you is a consuming fire, uh as a consuming fire is the Lord your God He will destroy them and subdue them before you. So you shall drive them out and make them perish quickly, as the Lord has promised you. Do not say in your heart, after the Lord your God has thrust them out before you, it is because of my righteousness that the Lord has brought me to possess this land. Whereas it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out before you. Now because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart are you going in to possess their land But because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord God is driving them out from before you, and that he may confirm the word that the Lord swore to your fathers To Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Know therefore that the Lord your God has not given you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stubborn people Remember and do not forget how you pro provoke the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day you came out of the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been a rebellious, you've been rebellious against the Lord. Even at Horeb you provoked the Lord to wrath, and the Lord was so angry with you that he was ready to destroy you. When I went up to the mountain to receive the tablets of stone The tablets of the covenant that the Lord made with you, I remained on the mountain forty days and forty nights, and neither ate bread nor drank water. And the Lord gave me the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God, and on them were all the words that the Lord had provoked pro spoken with you on the mountain, out on the midst of the fire, and on the day of the assembly And at the end of the forty days and forty nights the Lord gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of of the covenant. Then the Lord said to me Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people, whom you brought from Egypt, have acted corruptly. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them They have made themselves a metal image. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you, grateful to you for all the things that you do for us, being reminded that you never change Neither does your word change. It remains the same. True and alive. Would you use it this morning to nourish our hearts, our souls? And to allow us to trust in you more and more. We ask of your Holy Spirit to guide us this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Now uh for those of you who've heard my story, you know just uh you know a little bit about me and you know that I was your typical teenager growing up. By typical I mean I was the hardest kid of all. I gave my parents a difficult time. I I was a rebellious disobedient. I mean, I'm sure it's hard to believe, right? I was a rebellious disobedient Son. Sometimes I wonder how my parents just put up with me as a teenager before I I I I really began to understand uh what the gospel meant for me. I I really do. I I I go back and realize even when I was twelve or thirteen or or fourteen or whatever that it was so easy for me to disobey my parents And even to threaten that I was gonna leave home and go and and do my own stuff, while I couldn't do any of that. I couldn't get a job I I couldn't cook for myself. I I I couldn't pro I was completely dependent on my parents and yet my rebellion was a threat to them that I was gonna go and live life on my own And so as I as I think about my own personal life, I think about uh just the change that I've seen the Holy Spirit do in my heart, how I've seen God change and transform me and and help me to to To continue becoming the man that he wants me to be. Unfortunately, I still see and experience and have to live with the same rebellious heart that I remember as a teenager. What do I mean by that? I I don't know your life. I don't know how you grew up. I I you may have been the perfect child in the family. That's alright. I know I wasn't But I think we can all attest to one thing that obedience is not easy. Obedience is not easy. It's never been easy. And scripture is full of you know uh understanding of why obedience for us is not easy, because we all know how we want things to be, right? I I want to have my own way. You want to have your own way. I want things to go the way. I should determine how they ought to go. I want to listen to myself. Even when I know so well that I am dead wrong. I still want to listen. Would you all just be quiet and let me be? That's what I want. That's my heart. Even a heart that's been changed. Yet, when we think about our lives, even as Christians, we understand that we are completely hopeless and helpless without the very same God that we do not want to keep trusting. You know, you may say, Well, Josiah, you you you you grew up as a rebellious child. I I you're saying that you You feel like you're still rebellious? I I'm not rebellious against God. In what sense am I rebellious? I'm I'm listening to what God tells me. Well do you ever struggle with sin? Do you ever struggle doing the right thing? Sin is rebellion against God. And so we can all identify with God's people here, and I think there's just so much hope In this passage that we just read, that even at times when we struggle with such a rebellious heart towards God, that we have a God who never gives up on us. And that's good news for us. We have a God who reminds us that even when we are prone to wander from faith, to want to run away, to want to provoke him to anger, there is hope for a rebellious sinner like you and me. Because he has given us a great gift. One It's a reminder of a promise, a promise that says this. That God has given us a gift, yes, and it's a gift of his graciousness, a gift of his grace But he also wants us to begin at a place where he shows us his promise, which is this: because I fight for you, you are good, you can have hope in me. I fight for you, I stand in your way on your behalf. And that's what he's showing his people here. Now the themes that we just read this morning, we've we've seen this all over, and we we may recognize uh all this as reputation that Th Moses keeps on repeating the very same things he started saying in chapter one and through the commandments, summarizing them. And here we see God's people are poised. They are standing again, as I say every Sunday on the plains of Moab, just about to possess the land. But something stands in their way. There is an opposition, a great opposition that stands in their way of possessing this land that is actually described in such a hyperbole here. It says, a mighty nation, fortified cities, and this giant. Enormous giants of human beings. They stand in their way. They can't move. They cannot go to possess the land. So where are God's people going to find strength and hope to possess the land? They must look to God, to his promises. Now I think in the in the first verse one through three we see here a contrast, a contrast between the weakness of the people that stand to possess the land, because I mean they're looking at the the opposition and and and cla and and realizing We're not going to go there because the the opposition is just too mighty. It's too great. There's no way we're going to get there. It's a contrast between their weakness but the strength of the Canaanites These people stand in their place and they are stronger than we are. But you know what is eclipsed in the in that contrast at the at the heart of it? It's actually for us to be able to see the strength of God Himself, His power and might. See, God's people understand the legend. I mean that's why that verse too is over here that says, you know, who can stand uh who can stand before the sons of Anak? The legend headed that these guys were no joke They were giants of human beings, and then we see them throughout the Old Testament. But that the language that is so strong, the language that tries to depict the enemy as so great is in fact enhancing the prestige and the power and the glory of God who is able to destroy and overcome the enemy That's the purpose. And so God's power is here seen in three ways. Look at verse 3. Three things. He says, I am the one who is going before you one as a consuming fire. Now remember that language we saw it before in terms of God's holiness. Here it's in terms of God just being able to wipe out all the enemies. Secondly we see his power described in in the fact that he says, I will destroy them. I'm not just Coming is a consuming fire that just doesn't burn, but a fire that actually does burn. And finally says, I will humble your enemies before you. That's just complete Destruction, done. It's all done. And so at the center of this victory that we see here as God's people are poised to possess the land is God. God is the victor. God is the one who receives the victory. It's not the people. Yet the people are not called to be just passive bystanders. What does he tell them to do? You must go quickly and destroy them. Oh, wait. But you already did it. You destroyed them. You say you've killed them, you've destroyed them, but no, you need to go, you need to act in faith. And go to possess the land that I've given to you. See, Yahweh God is a devouring devouring fire who who comes and and destroys all of the all of the all of their enemies and then the text seems to suggest that the people of God actually to do it immediately. What what does verse one say? Here, O Israel, you are to cross over to Jordan today. Like right now. Don't wait. You are supposed to go in right now and possess the land. Uh now the idea here is not that he's saying that you have to like go right this minute. It's not an aspect of time. The idea is that the urgency is supposed to imply for us that God has already won the battle. It's been done. I mean I I couldn't help but think of a perfect example about this is you know this multi million billion or I don't know how much money people pay. Multi million dollar boxing matches, especially when Tyson used to fight and you know, Manny Pacquiao, all those great men, the people would Would anticipate and and would wait and pay millions of dollars just to come see this fight and then you get to the ring ding ding ding and whoop knockout the guy is out What? We go home. I mean, it's like you waited for months to come and see this awesome, amazing fight, only to witness that guy go boom, and the fight is over, and we go home The text is telling us that there's no contest. There's no conquest for God's people to do. They've already been TKO'd. It's done. They are done. God has already achieved victory on their behalf. See, the urgency here of going to possess the land today is supposed to connote an idea of completeness. Of completeness and certainty. You can be sure it's done. So you can go. And here too we we we must recognize and see how their weakness is not a hindrance to possessing the land. Isn't that good news for us? That their weakness is not a problem. That's okay. You can be small, you can be inadequate, and all of that, because the one who goes before you is the one who fights for you. He's the one who conquers on your behalf. I love what Paul says uh in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Do you remember when Paul talks about this? He made this Spread to God, please God, take the thorn in my flesh, and three times God says absolutely no. But what does God tell him He says, For you must remember that my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. It is when you think you're weak that I am strong, fighting for you. See, brothers and sisters, we can achieve so much in faith than we can achieve when we're rebelling against God. When we feel that we are weak, that's the time that God wants to use our weakness to show forth his strength. And yet God's people are reminded not to misunderstand their role as as as participants. So they must not begin to think, and we shall see this a little later on, that it was because of their righteousness, of their uprightness That that's why God is fighting for them. And righteousness here is actually a legal term that's being used, which means what is right, what is standard, what is normal. God there are things that got that are right for God to do and things that are right for men to do. If you think of a it being in a court of law where where people are declared to be right when they do the uh when they're innocent And you're declared to be in the wrong if you are guilty of what you did. And God is right in the sense of his assisting and showing that he can keep his promise for them to To acquire the land and to possess the land. A promise that he made to them. And yet the people cannot claim that it is a right or argue that God has given them this land because they are in the right. Because they are not. See, God has a purpose, right? Not just for his people, Israel, but for all of us. And here we see God's part of God's purpose is actually displaying his own righteousness, his own justice by destroying these wicked nations. And yet he's using an agent, his own people, as Israel But they are not to see it as God rewarding them because they've been good. He's not rewarding them for their own righteousness, which is far from the truth. See nothing could stand in their way of victory in God's people again because i it is God who has a purpose for for them and and their purpose w would actually include them gaining victory of their enemies. Uh i and and and and and and and and people being reminded that listen if you begin to claim that is it's because of your righteousness that God is giving you this land You completely forget, and we saw this earlier in chapter 7 and 8 as well. You completely forget what God told you why He chose you in the first place And you you begin to lose your way. And I think it's it's important for us to to hear this. Even as we we fight temptation, as we deal with with different things, whether it's as John was praying this morning, that there is powers out there that would seek to destroy us. That God is all help. And that He helps us not because we are so righteous. But because he chose us out of his goodness and his love and mercy for us. See, as Israel stands there and looks at the enemy, this giant of man Men of Anak. I wonder if there were women too, but the Bible only speaks of the men, but I'm sure they were a mighty force. See, God's people can only see an opposition that stands in their way They can only see the mountain that stands in their way and say, Whoa, I mean this is really discouraging. God, you're telling us to go today to possess this land and yet you are put this love. You have allowed For this massive enemy to stand in our place, how are we going to do it? And and I'm sure they must have felt defeated And it's the same thing that we feel when we are tempted when we're tempted or when we when we face challenges and trials in our life, we see those things as mountains that stand in our way, and we say, God, we will not move, we will not go. And yet, God reminds us that we are not supposed to be the ones who say, Well, I want to move the mountains so that I can go. The call is not for you to move the mountains, the call is for you to trust in the one who is able to move the mountains. To live by faith, knowing that Jesus fights for me, Jesus fights for us. Yes, we participate in our victory, and when Paul says we work out our salvation, we With fear and trembling, we do that, but knowing that our participation is actually the hard work, which is this depending and trusting on the Lord, because it's not by power nor by might, but by his spirit. See, there's nothing wrong feeling weak. I always feel weak. There's nothing wrong feeling that you're incapable of achieving anything, feeling inadequate and insufficient, incapable of Making a move in your life, there is nothing wrong with feeling defeated and weak. It's wrong if you only stay there. But it's not wrong if you're saying I am weak, but I am looking at the one who is able. See, the strength that we need to overcome does not come from within, it doesn't come from us. And that's good news for us. Listen to how Isaiah, a very familiar passage that we all know, says: He gives power to the faints. We are the faint. And to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall be exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not be faint. Don't you love it? When you are weak? See, our victories are meant to shine forth God's glory. They're not meant for us to boast and say, look at us, look at where we are. They are meant to shine forth God's glory. See the truth is you will not experience every victory that you may want in this life. Some battles you're gonna lose in some sense, and that's alright. Again, Paul reminds us not to despair even when we feel like we're fighting Losing battles, he says, but we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, yes, we are, but not crushed Perplexed but not driven to despair, persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. That's good news, isn't it? Finally there's hope for a rebellious sinner because God's grace, or because of God's grace, we are assured of hope of salvation. Not just salvation in the now, but also forever. Again, God is reminding his people here that since he is the one who secures their victory, they're not to claim that there's Their victory is dependent upon something that is inherent or an inherent virtue in and of themselves, a righteousness of their own. But the reason why God is dispossessing dispossessing this the Canaanites was partly Not just fully, but partly because God was bringing upon judgment to these wicked nations. Verse four. Now, God was not not only the God of Israel, right? God is sovereign in all. And so even the the the Kennedite nations were under the sovereignty of God. Yet God would choose Israel, but he would also say You the wicked nations, I'm going to destroy you because I'm just and holy, and I'm going to use my agent Israel to dispel you from the earth. And here we see three times, I hope you heard it as we're reading, three times God keeps on saying, you are not possessing this land because of your righteousness. And again he says, it's not because of your righteousness. And again he says it's not because of your righteousness. See the second time the emphasis is that you are not going to dispossess these nations because you're righteous, partly because so one, as we said, God is judging this weak wicked nation. But secondly, he says this is a fulfillment of an ancient promise that I made to your people, to your father Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And actually, if you go back to Genesis chapter 15 fifteen verse sixteen you realize that God had uh promised to punish and destroy the Amorites who are part of this the Canaanite groups. And so their possession of the land would include both A promise to inhale land, but also a promise to destroy an enemy that God had so early on in Genesis had declared he was going to destroy. See how God works. It's all together. He had a plan all along and he knew how he was going to achieve it But most compelling, which is the third emphasis in you it's not because of your righteousness, he says, and this is really good in verse 6. You should not think that you're going to possess the land as a reward of your righteousness because you are a stubborn people. You are a rebellious people. And in fact, if the gift of land was a gift that was based on righteousness, you get nothing. If the gift of land was a reward of your righteousness, of your obedience, of your goodness, of all these things, you re you receive nothing Because you've not you've been nothing but. You have been nothing but I mean, do you hear the ringing sound in that statement of God's graciousness? It's palpable, isn't it? You can almost touch it. How is it possible that God will look upon his people and say, you have been the worst children ever? But here. Does that remind you of someone? Does that remind you of yourself? How is it you a wretched, rebellious, awful Completely corrupted by sin, sinner, that you can stand before God and receive anything. Anything. We're all deserving of death, nothing else Nothing else. Death. Just be done, and you are done, because you are horrible. And yet God says Bring it. Come here. In fact, if anything, you did everything possible to not get anything from me. And yet, here He is grace offered to you who doesn't deserve it. He is mercy given to you who doesn't deserve it His love to the one who was headed that way. I love verse 7 through 12. God is busy telling his people and saying, I don't want you to suffer. From a severe case of religious amnesia. He's basically saying Do you remember when I gave you the covenant on Mount Sinai described here as Horeb? And I called you my people. I made all the promises that you could ever wish from anybody And declared my faithfulness towards you and said that I would love you, that I would bring you to a place that you would enjoy. Do you remember? I could have destroyed you because of what you did. Do you remember what you did? While Moses was up there receiving the Ten Commandments. Well, Moses was fasting and focusing on the holy things of God. You are busy making a golden cow to replace me. I mean this is like the most spiritually important aspect of God's people. If there was a time that they must have been Trusting the Lord and being faithful to him. If there was a moment that they should have been praising God and saying, Praise be to God, it should have been on Mount Sinai And yet that's the moment God's people provoke him to anger and say, we're gonna make account for ourselves and replace you. I mean, guys, do you hear it? The moment that God truly showed and demonstrated his love to his people is the time that God's people demonstrated they wanted nothing to do with it. And yet, at the end of all of that, what is at the center of everything is God still gives the Ten Commandments to Moses and still reassures them of his faithfulness. What is God doing? Do you hear it again? The ringing importance and palpable, touchable, tangible, whatever you want to describe it of God's grace. Still God saying, You were nasty towards me, but I still love you. I could have wiped you out of the face of the earth, never to be heard again. And yet you remained unfaithful to me, and I still gave Moses the ten tablets. He still brought them to you. He still told you that I was going to love you and provide for you. God's grace. Grace. Grace. Grace Someone once said, Justice is getting what we deserve. Mercy is getting what we don't deserve. Grace. Grace is receiving what we do not deserve See, there's only one who is constant in his faithfulness, grace, mercy, and love. See, I'm so glad that my parents never gave up on me. You know, my parents are not perfect. Some parents give up on their children. Yet we have a God who promises that his grace did not just come saving us and rescuing us from all ourselves from our sin. Titus 2, 11 through 14, my favorite passage of all times, tells us that grace Continues to train us and to teach us in godliness and all these things. And so, brothers and sisters, you are the rebellious sinner that God wants to show forth his grace. But even when our lives are reckless, His grace has been poured out for you. Even when we're the ones who want to provoke God to anger and disobey Him, even at those times that we really ought to be trusting in Him, He says, My grace is for you. So what hope can we have this morning of going through life? Feeling like we're defeated because the opposition is so great. There's hope. Because we're not the ones who fight for ourselves. I got a God who fights for me. What hope can we have when we struggle with rebellion? I know my heart. It can be so cold and hard. I'm not sure about yours. There's hope. Because there's a God who's working in me, graciously working in me, slowly but surely Preparing me to meet my Maker, my Father. Because that day is coming. Father, we do thank you this morning, so grateful to you for your grace that you have given to us and how you have loved us beyond what we could imagine. And Father Ma Bulla Father, I do ask that you would fill us with hope and joy, even as we come together to sing and pour out our hearts and say, Have mercy upon us for How we've broken your law. Help us, Lord, to truly not just hear these words, but to believe. And not just believe, but to rest and trust in your grace that's