Um Debbie and I are going to be traveling again for the next couple of weeks. We have uh not only a birthday party. Gus said he was four, my mother is a hundred. So uh, you know, Guff's got a long way to go before he catches up to my mom. Uh so uh you know those those moments only come around every once in a while, right? Uh so we're we're gonna look I'm gonna go down and uh spend that time with mom. I don't know that she'll know I'm there, but that's okay. We can still rejoice in her life uh together with Some of my family down there, my two sisters. But we're gonna stay down south for a little bit. There are several of our supporting churches uh that we need to visit, and by God's grace we will be be able to see them. You know that this has been a journey for us. We're going to continue on the journey until we've been able to cover all of our churches, uh supporting churches. over these next month many months that have uh been walking with us. So we appreciate your prayers. We're going to miss you for the next couple weeks, but um our hearts Abide with you. I want to go back to my rag before I read Scripture. Scripture says that all of our righteousness is like a rag. And um all of our righteousness often comes apart one string at a time, just like this rag did. for the kids today. But God does hem us in. Isn't it amazing that Scripture uses such a simple understanding? Of how the holes in our lives don't get bigger. That's what we heard. You pick on that hole and it gets bigger. What does God do to keep the holes in our lives Their lives from getting bigger. He hams them. Open up your word. God's word. God's word to you. And we want to hear it. Psalm a hundred and thirty-nine is the Psalm for today. And I want to ask you you'd stand as I read. Behold, O Lord You know it all together. You hem me in behind and before, and you lay your hand Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where will I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you're there. If I might make my bed and Sheol, you're there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand Shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me will be night. Even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is as bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts, you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret. Intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written, every one of them. The days that were formed for me. When as yet there was none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum! And if I would count them, they're more than the sand. I wake I'm still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. The men of blood depart from me. They speak against you with malicious Intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? Don't I loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with a complete hatred. I count them as my enemies, but search me, O God. Know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And see. If there be any grievous way in me, then lead me in the way everlasting. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, you surely do see us, and you surely do go with us. And you surely are ahead of us. You know our words. Now help us to know your words. And to take that word and not hide from it, but hide it in our hearts, that we might not sin against you. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. God's Hem is a wonderful thing, as simple as it is. Just think how embarrassing it would be if you didn't have any hem in your shirt or your dress. Uh I all of a sudden it would fall off of us. A little puff of wind and You'd be bare. So God hems us in. Those little hems are really important in our lives. And this psalm is full of those hems. If you didn't see that theme, you know, again and again, I'm gonna make it again known to you. I want you to leave this morning and make sure that you sense God's hemming power. in your life. That's what I'd like. God has searched us. He searches us. And uh if you you know were like me when I read this psalm a couple of times I thought, well, the psalm holds together excuse me. Except when I come to verse Verse 19. When I come to verse 19, it seems like, well, where did this come from? Lord, slay the wicked. Men of blood depart from me. All of a sudden there's this vindictiveness that arises out of the slaying. She carries everything in her purse, I'm amazed. So when we read the psalm, what we understand very well is that not all of our thoughts are good Good thoughts. And God knows that. He delves into our thoughts. So when we read the psalmist saying, Search me, O God, he searches our thoughts. Thoughts. That's what verse two says. You know when I sit down, when I rise up, you know, understand my thoughts from afar. So think for a moment about the thoughts that you wish that God didn't know. He does anyway. You know that. I know that. But I wish he didn't. There are some things that I wish I could hide. And consider the desires of your heart that you know you wouldn't have if God hadn't put them there. So God searches our hearts. He not only hems out, but he hems in what he's put there. It's an amazing truth of God's And it's an amazing truth of God. He knows us. He knows our ways, verse 3. You search out my path, my lying down, and you are aware of all my ways. All my habits, in other words, the things that I do instinctively, all of us are creatures of habit. God knows those habits And he knows that our habits aren't always healthy. Not for us, not for others. He searches us And he says, I see that, I see that thought, I see that thought lived out into an action, and I see that action repeated again and again. I know your way. God says. And the psalmist, and I hope you say, God, search my ways. I don't want there to be any holes in me Search them. Because it's a confession that I have holes. We'd like sometimes to present to each other my ways are always right. This is the You know, we're gonna vote. I hope you're gonna vote on Tuesday. Uh I'm actually glad that Tuesday will be after you know, next week we w We're gonna be free. Actually even on by W Thursday, we we're gonna be free from all the political banter for a while, I hope. Um I'm tired of it But if we listen to the politicians, one side has nothing but enormous tears and rips and holes. And the other side has nothing but rips and tears and holes. But if I'm describing my side, it's all right. Everything's together. No holes, no rips, no tears, nothing. We're all right. No, my side is all right. We got it all together. God says, I know your way, so we need to pray For our politics, for our country. Lord, search our collective, our hearts Search it. Search our ways, the habits, both good and bad. Verse 4 is about our speech. Even before a word is on my tongue I say, well, come on. God's listening in. But he knows my heart. If he knows my heart, he knows what I'm about to say. It's a pattern, right? It's a pattern of speech is the way I do it. So before that word is even on my lips, before it's come off of my tongue, God knows So there are the things that we say thoughtfully, that's good. There are things that we say impulsively, not so good. Unless your impulsiveness is a goodness. And then it's okay. It puts the two things together. Uh and sometimes uh we are impulsively good. If you ever ask Debbie how she is It could be the worst day in the world, she's fine. Doesn't matter if it's true or not. But that's what comes off of her lip. I'm fine, I'm fine. Well, compared to the uh a day when I was worse, I'm finer. Uh I guess that's the way that that goes. So God knows those things that we have. Now I want you to take these things, these thoughts. These ways and these words. Together they're like the strings of our life, the threads of our life. Of our life. Part of our journey over these next past months, but next months to come, is to review how God has hemmed us in. in our ministry in our lives. It's been a long time. A long ministry of Heming. And when we began our life and our We had a visit from some friends that were in a community group Many years ago, uh when we first moved to uh to Baltimore. And they came with their four children when they were here before they didn't have four children. And so they've changed. Their lives have changed. And as they changed, we began to talk about everything that God has done. His hemming action in our lives. So we begin to think about those things. It's been our journey, our journey in church, planting, our journey to Kenya, our journey back to the US, our journey in a lot of places. A lot of different countries that we might not have ever guessed. All those journeys are not because of our righteousness, not even because of our good intentions. Not because of any gift that God gave, but by His grace. He has hemmed us in. We would have done other things. God says, no, I'm going to hem you in. And sometimes the hemming is a painful hemming. We were all ready to go back to Africa a number of years ago. We'd been in Baltimore about two years. And we agreed that we had been in the U. S. long enough. We couldn't take it anymore. And then God hemmed us in. He gave us cancer. Well, Lord, I guess this might be a good place to be for a while. We've got good hospitals. He hemmed this. You sometimes we don't understand why he hams us the way he does. It seems wrong to us. It seems like, well Lord, if you just let me be what I want to be. Huh? Search me, Lord. Know my heart, know my ways, know my words. Hem me in. And that's verse five: you hem me in behind And before. You have laid your hand upon me. Behind, before, and now upon me. God hemms us in. He keeps us where he wants us to be, and he moves us in his direction. He holds, he constrains And that's what we pray for. The psalmist goes on to help not only understand God's search, but secondly, God's presence. And that presence, he opens up for us just the way he did his searching. So verse 8: if I ascend to the heavens, you're there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you're there. So here it is. The Hebrew of heavens is simply sky. uh you might say, well, if I if I ascend to heaven the place of God, uh obviously God is there, but the Hebrew here is just sort of You know, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, right? So if I go to the heavens, well what so if I'm in an airplane, you're with me there. If I wherever the sky is, uh Yeah, the good thing about Hebrew is it's it's amazingly nonspecific. And in its nonspecific nature of many of its words is very helpful because we recognize there's this broad uh meaning But if we understand what I think the psalmist meant, he's saying from the very beginning, when God created the earth, what did he do? He separated light from darkness. The skies. The heavens. The heavens. Because he places the sun. and the moon, to rule over the heavens. So the psalmist is reflecting on it. He said, from the very beginning, from the very beginning, you're there. So I can't precede you. And first eight also says the other end, if I make my bed and say, well, if I in death I can't escape. You're there. Whether it's in the beginning or the end. I don't know how long God's going to give my mother to live. She can't go too much longer. longer at after a hundred. But that's what I thought to when she was ninety-six, and then ninety-seven, and then ninety-eight, and then ninety-nine, and so here we are at a hundred. But all of us will have an end. We know it. And in that end, we shall not escape or find ourselves in a place where God is. Is not. Sometimes age does funny things to us, as Debbie's father aged, even though he had spent his life preaching the word of God he began to doubt his faith. Many of us doubt. But even when we come to death, God is There. We haven't uh we might change, but God doesn't change. He finds us there. That's the great hope. That we have. So again, the Hebrew is simply in Sheol, it's the realm of death. It's the end. So the psalmist is sort of encasing this. He said, Lord, your presence is from the beginning To the end. And then verse 9. Well, maybe it's not just the beginning of the end, but uh but it's too far. If I rise on the wings of the dawn, if I settle by the farthest sea. Even there, your hand will guide me. I can't escape it. It's the presence of God. Adam and Eve in the garden, you remember, thought they could hide from God. They couldn't get very far away. But maybe they thought, well, if we get behind this plant, if we if we get ourselves in the in the crevice of this rock, God won't see us, God won't know us. God walks in the garden and he says, Adam, where are you? It wasn't about, I'm looking for you, we're playing hide and seek. I can't find you. No. God knew right where Adam was. The question was for Adam. Adam, what are you trying to do? Do you really think you can hide? Well, I was afraid, Adam said. I was afraid. I've been afraid. I may have shared this story with you before. When I was a child, I think it was about the first grade, we went to a Christian school. And um we had only one car and the school was on the other side of Denver, so uh somehow we had to get every day to that school. school and my folks figured well the the uh bus system works pretty good here so we'll just put the kids on a bus. So I went with my older sister every day to school And um one day she was sick, my father was away, and uh so the question was, how do I get to school? Well, I'd gone to school every day in the bus, I knew how to do it, right? First grade. I can do it. So I got on the bus and um you know the bus driver I remember looked at me like uh well welcome aboard. Every day. So I sat down and you know the wheels and the bus go round and round and round and round and round Pretty soon I was asleep. And all of a sudden we hit a bump, and I woke up, and I looked out the window, and there was nothing I recognized. But where am I? I don't know. I better get off because maybe I don't even know where this bus goes. But I must have missed the place I should have stopped. So I got off, the bus left, and I looked around, like, now what do I do? I'm all alone. Uh my sister's not even here. I where's God? And I remember at that moment I I prayed. I said, Lord, I can't see you But I'm lost. I probably didn't need to tell him that. I'm lost. And I don't know what to do. And I stood there a little bit longer and I thought, Well, what do you do? Well you go find somebody to help. So I looked around. There weren't very many houses right there. I finally found a house. Ooh, that one looks a little spooky. I don't think I'll do that one. I'll go to that house. So I went to that house, I knocked on the door. Lady opens the door. Yes? Um Lady, I'm lost. Can you help me Me find a home. Well, come in, what's your name? Here's the point. You can't get away from God's care. We feel sometimes like God has gotten lost because we're lost, but God's not lost. And when we open our voices to God and say, Lord, I am lost, help me. He's there. And his hand guides us. That's verse ten. Even there, your hand will guide Me. Your right hand will hold me fast. Take a moment and look at your I don't know where it is. ways. But maybe you have as you've you've found yourself almost at that point where you wonder, God, do you know where I am? Do you know the pain that I feel? God's guiding hand and helm is not missing. He goes before you. After you and with you. He hems you in. His hand is sure. Even when you're not sure. The psalmist goes on. It's not just about God's search or about God's presence, but he moves a little deeper into God's presence. In this next section of the Psalm. And that's how God penetrates. There's a lot of mystery in our lives, but the psalm and the psalm recognizes it verse eleven, surely the darkness will hide me, the light will become night around me. Well we all know that's true, don't we? Uh we just changed time zones. I know, you didn't see it as a time zone. Uh just those of us that travel see it as a It's just uh the passage of time, right? You just change the clocks in a different direction. You just change time zones. I don't know how else to say it. Uh if you travel a lot, it happens a lot. And sometimes you have a lot of Hours. So the psalmist says, Listen, the darkness will hide me, the light will become night around me, just like it does every night. Yeah? True. Even the darkness is not dark. To you. But the night shines like the day. For darkness is as light to you. So we sometimes think that there is something hidden. And even verse 13 talks about the hiddenness. You form my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. In fact, I have to praise you, the psalmist says, for I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. But here it is, I'm in the dark. I need the light. And the psalmist is reflecting on the fact that God penetrates the darkest darkness. He penetrates the deepest of our distresses. He penetrates the greatest uncertainty. And some of you are saying, yeah, yeah, he doesn't quite you don't quite know my uncertainty. You don't quite know my darkness. I'd only remember the Old Testament account of Abraham, who was asked to sacrifice his only son, Isaac. I'm sure all the way up Mount Moriah, Abraham had a conversation with the Lord. Lord, this is what the nations around me do. They sacrifice their children. Surely not you. Another five steps. But Lord, you promised that I was going to have generations that would be born. Surely, Lord, this isn't what you intend. You cannot understand Abraham's climb with his son without seeing darkness. And uncertainty. I even remember right now which museum it was in Italy. And I forget now the painter that did it. I should remember, but I right now at this moment I can't remember. But it was a painting of Abraham with the knife in his hand. And his son on the altar, and that knife, and the look in Abram's hand face was, I don't get it. I don't And at that moment the angel of the Lord restrains his hand Sometimes in our darkness, God says, I am one. From the time past to the time to come and the time into the future. I will be With you. I will penetrate the darkness of your night. And so verse 17. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is it? There's some if I were to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand, and when I awake, I am still With you. The psalmist takes us through God's search. God's presence, God's penetrating our uncertainty. And then he leaves us at the end of the Psalm. With God's searching our hearts again. And I'm going to leave you there this morning. Maybe you're going to look at your hearts and say, I I I don't No. I got a hole. I got a hole in my life. There's some of these threads that are coming unraveled. I need God's hand. Or maybe you look at your life and you say, God's presence, I'll give you wisdom. Me now. How could he have brought me to this place? And maybe you look at your life and say, No, it's It's too much. I can't take it. It's too dark. It's too uncertain. And hear the song Almost again. Search me, O God. Verse 23. Know my heart. Test Me. Know my concerns. See if there's any, any, any offensive way Of course there is going to be an offensive way. So Read me. Read me. The way in the way everlasting is a good thing. I'm sorry for my inabilities today. I'm gonna move right into the supper.