Good morning. It's good to see everybody this morning. It's a cold morning. I guess we skipped the the fall. Went from being hot to Freezing cold. We're making our way into the uh our study or series in the book of Deuteronomy, and this morning we are looking at chapter 25, uh from verse 5 uh to verse 10. If you are able, would you please stand and we will honor the reading of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word that he gives us this morning. Verse 5. If brothers dwell together and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the dead man shall not be married outside of the family to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go into her and take her as his wife, and perform the duty of her husband's brother to her. And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother, that this name may not be plotted out. of Israel. And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel. He will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me. Then the elders of the city shall call him and speak to him And if he persists, saying, I do not wish to take her, then his brother's wife shall go up to to him in the presence of the elders and pull his sandal off his foot and spit in his face. And she shall answer and say, So shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house, and the name of his house shall be called in Israel, the house of him who had his sandal. Pulled off. The words of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you, understanding that you're giving us this, your holy word, given to us this morning. And Father, we we come to you knowing that your word is powerful. That it never goes back to you void, but it always accomplishes that which it was uh meant to accomplish, bringing salvation, giving us hope, encouraging us, and doing so much more. And so we pray, Lord, uh Depending on you, Lord, and on your Holy Spirit, that you would help us this morning to hear it, to believe it, and for our hearts and minds to be renewed into your likeness. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I think it's a good thing for us to remind ourselves where we are as we tackle this difficult passage And by that I mean to go back and and look at where we we've been setting the book of Deuteronomy all the way from chapter one and and now we're in chapter twenty-five and we've seen all through in Deuteronomy God giving his law, giving his word to his people. And in the preceding chapters after chapter five and six we've we we we we've seen how uh Moses continues to explain, continues to apply, if you will, continues to to uh to allow his people to see his law, not just the Ten Commandments, but also regulations and and and as some uh translations of the Bible say, and this might be your translation, says miscellaneous laws or various laws or other laws. And so you wonder why why why are these other laws or miscellaneous laws? Are they not important? Are are they not a key to to God's people? And the reason why I want us to kinda take a s uh a break and and even stop to to to see where we are is because of this. Remember where God's people are. Remember God's people are on the plains of Moab. Remember God's people are about to To see with their very own eyes, to touch with their very own hands, to walk with their very own feet the land that God had promised to his people. They are about to enter into the promised land, Canaan. And so God is giving them these laws, these regulations, these rules to help them once they get there. But the reality of it is this bad things happen. Bad things happen so that even after achieving this promise It's not just going to be getting into this land that is flowing with milk and honey, and a land that is watered by from the heavens by God But there's bound to be issues that come up. Problems. Bad things happen And so the question remains, how is God going to provide for his people? And how does the law, or how do these regulations, how do these rules help God's people to have hope? To know that God will care for them. And so we're going to talk about providence this morning. Providence, which is a language that we don't use, or sometimes we use a lot and don't know what it means. What does it mean to know that God will take care of us, that God will provide for us, that a great Dutch theologian, uh as we were reminded this morning in our Sunday school class without mentioning the name, but his name is Harman Babink, actually helps us to rethink about God's providence and he says The way we need to understand God's providence is to know that divine providence is not a philosophical thing. It's not a philosophical system of theories that we can, you know, talk about and say, well, you know, God does this and that and this and that. That for us to understand God's divine providence, we need to see it as a confession. But what are we confessing? It's a confession that God And God alone, by his power, his ever-present power everywhere, preserves and governs all things. That God by His power preserves and governs all things. And when we say all things, sometimes we tend to think of God's providence in terms of those things that are extra ordinary. The miraculous, the very powerful, impossible thing that we can see and say, whoa. That's true. But it also means in the everyday common, everyday life details, things that we go through, things that we see happening all around us And he continues and says that such confession will actually save us from some kind of a superficial optimism. Give us real optimism. But it also saves us from a presumptuous pessimism. And and to me, to summarize it, I think God's providence reminds us or gives us hope, it's a Confession that gives us hope not just for the now, not just in our very own circumstances, whatever we go through. But it gives us hope for what's to come. the future. Now you say Josiah, that's really interesting that you you would say all of that about God's providence when we just read a text that talks about a man being spit in his face and his sandals being pulled off. What does that have to do with anything? Here we go. So let's talk about the present. So this law, as we've seen in verses 5, is seeking to provide for a widow And you see how this connects with God's providence. A widow whose husband has died, but this this widow, the husband has died, but they did not have a son. And so the story or the or the situation that is envisioned here is that Two brothers are living together within the same family unit. It doesn't have to be necessarily one tiny little house together, but they're living in the same uh family unit. And so in such circumstances, the the the the the the the the brother of the deceased This man was expected to enable the widow to provide for her, to and to help to marry her in fact that so that she may have a child and hopefully have a son who would inherit um the the or take on the husband's name. Now notice that there are two conditions for this to happen. Notice that there are conditions for this to happen that it just doesn't say that If a man dies and he has a brother and they don't have a child, the brother is supposed to take the wife. It doesn't say that. It gives conditions, which are the two that I just mentioned. First, they must be living in the same family unit Which means or implies it's not it doesn't say again, but implies that they were sharing some sort of family responsibilities. And secondly, that the brother has died but has left his wife childless in a sense Childless in a sense meaning she may have a daughter or daughters but does not have a son. Why? Because we know in the law Old Testament, that the firstborn son had the legal rights to inherit the family's property. It's actually in fact This particular law is an exception to the law given to his people in Leviticus chapter 18 and Leviticus chapter 20. Because the law there says that a man shall not marry his sister-in-law, especially when he is still alive. So this seems to be an exception to this particular law. And it's commonly known, and your Bible may reference it is this way our title. It's a leverage marriage And leverage is really from the from a Latin word that means brother-in-law. So it's actually means brother-in-law marriage, so to speak. So this law does raise several issues, right? One of them is why Why would God make such a provision? Well why would God make such a provision for this woman to marry her own brother? Why was that important that she didn't even go outside the family Several things. One, we must understand that in this culture and in the ancient Near East, women who did not bear sons, women who did not bear a son were stigmatized. It was such a horrible thing. It was a shameful thing. And so you can imagine for a woman who is already grieved that she has lost her husband and the intense Personal shame that is that is put on top of her. On top of losing a loved one, on top of losing her husband. Now she has to deal with the stigma that comes with knowing that she does not have a son. And so this law is really helping to bring hope, removing the shame from her. And so the birth of a son of a baby boy Is giving hope not just to this woman, not just to this particular community or clan, if you think about it, it's actually giving hope to and security to the whole nation of God's people And so again the law is really making sure that this widow is being taken care of. That she doesn't have to go searching To find other ways of providing for a family. Again, just think about it. If if there's no one to inherit property, to inherit land, and she is all left, she's left alone, and the brother does not take care of brother-in-law, so to speak, does not take care of her. She could find herself homeless. She could find herself homeless without hope. And that's why the prohibition is here against her going outside of the family to find a husband from outside of the clan or the family unit. And it is to show how important it was for the family, the whole family, to provide uh for one another within the family. So the brother-in-law must accept some responsibility for our welfare. This law is is also actually protecting the the property of the family because if the woman marries outside, she's gonna bring some of her things that she had, of course, but that means that family that she's married From outside is actually going to inherit that that there is a transfer of property rights that's going to happen. Now we'll look we'll see this a little bit more, but in verse nine, if you think As I mentioned, the whole removal of sandals which was really uh symbolism, right? It was symbolic of renouncing of property rights. Uh and it was followed with gestures spitting in his face. Uh and and that's kinda terrible, isn't it? And and words which showed l this maximum disapproval for the man's selfishness and his refusal to take um responsibility. But I actually think that this this also means that the woman is being freed That by performing this symbolic act of basically saying, Well, this is done, you refuse to take your responsibility, the woman is actually being freed from remaining a widow indefinitely Just waiting to see if the guy, if the brother-in-law, is gonna do something. Now she's free. She doesn't have to be stigmatized anymore. She can go out and leave and marry someone else and and not have to live uh waiting to be married by the brother-in-law. So how do we apply this in terms of God's providential care for us in the present? in our present circumstances as we d as we see this law providing for a way for this woman to be cared for, to be loved, to be provided for by our family. For the shame to be taken away from her. I think we cannot we we cannot avoid seeing how God is sovereign. How God's providential care means that He's in control of all things. We cannot miss to see the point that God is able to use any means available to provide for those who are in need. And that in fact here we see God using family members. God providing a regulation, family members to provide for one another, to provide for this one, because God cares for her, because she may be a vulnerable member of the community. And is isn't that true? of us today, of the church, that God calls us to care for our own family members, that God calls the church family to to comfort one another, to care for one another, to have regard for one another, to look into the needs of one another when we're going through difficult circumstances. Isn't it true for us as a church that we're supposed to view this means that God provides to us, to provide for one another, as a privilege? A privilege that we need to accept with joy, but also take seriously. And yes. Or I should say a no, you will not be required to marry your sister-in-law or your brother-in-law. But that God provides for ways and means for us to be able to meet the needs of those in our community, in our church, in our family. Isn't it Calvin who once quipped and said, The providence of God makes us strong in adversity, humble in prosperity, and secure in times of uncertainty. Isn't that beautiful? It's contentment that the providence of God helps us to be strong when bad things are going on, but it also gives us the humility to when we're doing well To say it is not me, I'm not the one who did this, but it is God's doing. But also to be secure when times are uncertain. And so, in whatever circumstances we might find we may find ourselves in today The praise that we may find rest and hope that God will indeed take care of us, that God has the power, that God has the means And you know what else is beautiful? God delights in providing for his people. God delights in providing for his people. And this law helps us to see that. Secondly, it's not just for the present circumstances. And so if you apply this to to this woman and to this family that is that is going through uh or maybe uh going through the uh the death of a husband who dies and has no future, uh uh you know, in terms of his name being uh continued uh the continuity continuity of the family name was an extremely important thing It wasn't it? And we see how important it was, both in the Old Testament but also in the New Testament. You only have to read the book of First Chronicles and you get tired by the time you're in chapter two Because what do you find? Names and names and names and names that you cannot pronounce. You read the book of Luke and Matthew and see all these elaborate genealogies. Why? Because they elaborate the family tree, which was important for a known name. It was important It's important for us to know who Jesus is and to trace his genealogy and to see how the promises come together. Why? Because It was important. And it does seem that the focus of this particular leverage marriage law actually seems to be on preserving the name of the deceased man. That really is the focus to preserve the name of the deceased man. Because a family without a male heir or successor to the line would know very quickly That the social awareness of their particular family would perish in Israel. Your name was gone. If there's nobody to carry that name, you knew that you Your name was going to be wiped out. And that's why this law is really designed to ensure the diseased man's name will not be blotted out. Verse 6 Not to mention the fact that having a son means that the family saw the future This man would grow up. This man would learn how to earn his living. This man would be able to provide for his family when they're not able to. He would inherit the family name, not just the name, but also the family land. But even more. I see here the centrality of the family in Israel's life and faith. Family is such an important thing to God's covenant people. Why do I say that? If we were to continue our study of the book of Dean and go to the book of Joshua, we would actually see the division of the land How God's people are being given a share of the land again, which God had promised them through the ancestor of Abraham. And each tribal group was given a piece, a chunk of land And this was a covenant blessing that God gave to his people and an important aspect of their faith. And so you can think about it: the allocation or the the uh the ownership of land, if that was threatened If a family that had been given a share of their piece of property, if that ownership was threatened, the family had every right to do everything they could to make sure that it wasn't taken away from them because it was that important. And that's what is going on here. The protection of that particular land and property. Keep in mind that this whole thing has to do with God's covenant with his people, right? What promise did God give to Abraham in Genesis chapter 17, verse 7 to 9? What did God tell Abraham the promise was to you? He said the promise is to you. And then he stopped there. He said the promises to you and to your descendants after you. Of course that's really important for us in reformed circles, right? The dead man could not enjoy the blessings in person. He was gone. But God makes a provision for his prosperity to enjoy God's blessings. It's such a wonderful picture. Of how God provides for his people and fulfills his promise. Actually, one commentator puts it this way, and it's a long quote, but it's actually really helpful for us to think about. It says, though uh quote, though each man that participated in the covenant relationship during his lifetime There was always a future for the family of God. And though he could not participate in that future in person, he could share in it through those he left behind. Thus the provision of prosterity through leverage marriage was an act, once again, was an act in harmony with the covenant between Israel and God. See this law may sound so weird and it does sound weird even to me. It is alien. But can you imagine how comforting it was for a dying husband In this culture, to know that his family was going to be taken care of. Can you imagine the comfort that he's brought to this man To know his wife would be cared for after he was gone, to know that he he can die in peace, that he was relieved of worry and anxiety, knowing that his brother, his brother, would take some measure of responsibility for the care of his wife and children. The dying man could die with hope, so to speak, for his family. I love how the Heidelberg Catechism starts. With question one, asking what is your only comfort in life and in death? The answer is long, but it's beautiful, right? It begins by by acknowledging that I am not my own, but I was bought with the price that Jesus Jesus Christ paid for me, that I am redeemed, that I am free. Not only that, then nothing happens to me, body and soul, that God is not aware of, that He provides for me. See the law is functioning not as a rule, not as a law, so to speak. It's actually it seems like it's some kind of a social obligation or moral responsibility And so the man's refusal to his brother's wife's to marry him can only land him into the court before the elders, not to be punished. Not for anything to be done to him other than to be humiliated, to be spot on his face. by his sister-in-law and for the shoe to be pulled off, his sandal to be pulled off, his feet, which was a symbolic act that he had abandoned his responsibility. The whole idea of pulling off the sandal by the way was in terms of property rights. So she was basically saying, Alright, you refuse to marry me, so we're separating this responsibility here. Um and so the the property rights go to uh go go to him, I guess in this case. If the woman does not have a son, there's nobody to inherit the property Um so the brother may be the one who is next of kin um to inherit that piece of land. But notice The fact that it is likely the brother-in-law would be tempted not to perform his duties, to reject his brother's wife, not because it was on moral grounds, but because of financial reasons. Which is what I just said. Because who stands to inherit the property if he doesn't marry her? He does So greed and selfishness played a huge role here. This was not a simple thing for for him to do. This was a costly act of kindness, wasn't it? For him to accept all of that responsibility and to know that there is a possibility of this woman actually having a son who would inherit the land What does it cost for us to provide for others, to care for those who are in need? You know sometimes helping others can cost us a whole lot. It's a sacrificial thing, isn't it? You know, sometimes we always think about money. You know, we always think that the best way to help others is money. But I'm always a strong believer that sometimes financial assistance is always the easy way out Yeah, you will feel a pinch on your bank account. Yeah. But you can still work and get more money. But it's the easy way out. Because I can easily write a check and give it to you What does it mean when we really sacrificially love people that really are desperate to be loved? To give our time that we will never get back to be there for people that really need us to be there. It's a costly act of kindness. It really is. You know, we know that this practice did die out. In fact, Numbers 24 we realize that women begin to inherit property and so this this this law of this this idea of liberate marriage does die off. In fact by the time we in the New Testament it is completely dead. And we know that because We know what happens in Mark chapter twelve is the Sadducees of mocking Jesus and re ridiculing Jesus because he he talks about the resurrection and and they actually use particular this this particular law. And they say, hey, so Jesus, you know our our Uh answers to Moses you know told us that if uh if a brother dies and doesn't have a son, you know that his brother will marry the wife and so they keep going on and on until seven them right and so they ask okay so tell us so who's whose wife is she gonna be in you know in the resurrection after the resurrection? Of course they completely misunderstand me What Jesus was talking about, and they misunderstand what marriage is all about, that it's for here and now and it's not for the future. There's no getting married and having children in heaven There's only worshiping God and enjoying Him forever and ever. They missed that. In any case, that does show us that this law was not there And we also know that in every culture we we have our own way of caring for the widows, for those that are vulnerable, for those that are weak. um different cultures of the world have come up with creative ways of taking care of the of their families. But we have God's word. We have the scripture that tells us what our moral responsibility is when it comes to taking care of one another. And we're supposed to take it seriously. That God commands us to take care of our families. That God commands us to take care of those that are in need, especially those within the family of believers. And Paul has a warning for us. Paul in fact says that if we do not take our obligation seriously, If we deny, if we do not take care of those that are in need in our family, we are actually worse than unbelievers. It's a long text, but in 1 Timothy 5 3. 8 he says, Honor widows who are truly widows. Again, in the Old Testament, widows, even in the New Testament, widows are not necessarily poor. Some of them had means. But so he cautions honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents. So there it is For family to take care of family. Family members take care of their family members. And he says this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who is self indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. Listen to the word Warning, he says, but if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. A warning that we must take seriously, right? So what hope can we have in God's providence? What hope can we have in God's providence as we look at this law and see God giving a law that was designed to take care of a family? What hope can we have? Babink ends his comment that I paraphrased in the very beginning by saying this. This is what gives us hope. That is the almighty and ever present power of God, God's prophet, it makes us grateful. Grateful when things go well But it also gives us patience, patience when things go against us It goes beyond that. It prompts us, it prompts us to rest with a childlike submission in the guidance of the Lord, and at the same time arouses us from our inertia to the highest levels of activity. I love that. In our circumstances of life, it gives us good confidence. It allows us as as a church to come with God with confidence in not ourselves, not in our ability, not in the things that we have, not even in our ability to To provide for ourselves or for one another, but confidence in our faithful God and Father that He will provide whatever we need For body and soul, and that he will turn to our good. That God will always turn to our good, whatever adversity he sends us in this sad world. Why? Because he's able to do this as Almighty God. Because he desires to do this as a faithful Father. Did you hear that? God desires to take care of us. May this encourage us May we live with hope, knowing that we have a God who will always take care of us. Father, we do thank you this morning. Thank you for providing for such a law to your people, to remind them how you do take care of them. And thank you that you can encourage us through the same message this morning. morning through your providential care for us. So Lord, we pray that we would praise you. We pray that we would look to you and we pray that we would be filled with faith to trust in you in all circumstances, because you're God who provides for us. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.