We thank you that you have made yourself known to us through your word, and we are so grateful that you have revealed yourself to us. We pray, Lord, now that we turn to your word. Holy Spirit, would you give us eyes to see Would you give us ears to hear what it is you would say to us in your word? And we ask, Lord, would you speak, for your servants are listening? And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, here now God's Word from Colossians 1, starting in verse 15. Speaking of Jesus, Paul writes He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things And in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. Whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. This is the word of the Lord this evening. As we've uh mentioned several times, it's it's Good Friday and it's uh a time when anyone who's familiar with the the Easter story and and the story of Christ is is aware that it's the the day that we remember Christ's crucifixion, where he died for our sins. And yet, as we look back on the cross, we also have to remember that whether we live in uh in a world where the cross is so often misunderstood. Right? The cross is is so often looked to for uh not entirely wrong reasons, but things that that miss the center of what the cross is all about. What exactly was the purpose of the cross? It's common to be told that the cross is nothing more than than Jesus being a good example for us, going to lay down his life, to be a self-sacrificial servant who who loves others. And of course that's true, right? That's the point that Paul makes there in Philippians 2, right? Jesus is our example of humility. He didn't count a quality with God a thing to be grasped, but he humbled himself, taking the form of a servant, being obedient even to the point of death on a cross. It's certainly true that Jesus is our example, but he's far more than our example. And if we limit the cross merely to Jesus being an example, then we miss really what it's all about. And I think Paul here is driving, especially towards the end of our text, he's driving to the the central point of the cross. The reason for the cross is reconciliation, that Jesus came to reconcile to himself all things, that that we stand in need of being reconciled to God. And Jesus is the one who has accomplished that through his cross. So let's just go ahead and walk through this passage and look at a couple things together. The first thing I want to draw your attention to before we get down to verse 20 is to start up in the beginning of the passage in verse 15, where we see who it is. that reconciles us to God. Uh and Paul here is is writing about Jesus and he's speaking in in just the absolute most exalted language that there is to in all of Scripture to speak of Christ. It's kind of on par with things like the beginning to the the letter to the Hebrews, right? It's it's similar to things that John will say in his gospel. Scripture everywhere is is clear that Jesus is God himself. He's Yahweh, God, the Holy One of Israel, right? And yet, there's very few places in Scripture that speak with quite this level of just exalted language of Christ in such clear crystal terms. And he starts off by highlighting that Christ is sovereign over everything, preeminent in creation. He's the image Of the invisible God, he says, right? You can't see God, but if you want to know what God is like, look to Christ. He's the one who makes God known to us that we might know him and and love him and follow him. He's the the firstborn of all creation, that all things were created by him. And he leaves nothing out, right? Things in heaven, things on earth. He says things that are that are visible or invisible. Jesus made everything you can see and everything you can't see. All thrones and dominions, all rulers and authorities. There's no power or force at work in this world that Jesus is not in control over. Because no matter what what powers we look to, whether it's uh governing authorities, whether it's spiritual forces at work in the world, every single one of them is a creature There is a clear line of distinction with Jesus as the Creator and everything else in existence as the creature. He stands apart from all that he has made and he's exalted over all that he's made. All things were created through him, and it's everything, but I love the way he draws this out in the end of verse 16. All things were created through him and for him. Right? He's the source of creation, but he's also the goal of creation. God created the world through Christ, right? He spoke by his word to create all things in Genesis 1. And yet It's all created for Jesus. He's the goal of creation. We exist to glorify and enjoy him forever. That's why you and I are here. He is the goal of creation. And beyond that he emphasizes the the providence of Jesus at work in the world, right? He didn't just create this world and step back from it, but he's Intimately involved in everything that happens day in and day out from the the grandest scale of making sure that the the sun comes up and the seasons change to the details of every one of our lives and and our circumstances. He's in control. He's before all things, and in him all things hold together. Same idea in the beginning of Hebrews, right? He upholds the universe by the word of his power. He's exalted and and preeminent in creation, but also in redemption. He goes on there in verse 18 says that he's he's the head of the body, the church. He he's got a people that he leads and is in control over and and guides and shepherds and cares for. He's the firstborn from the dead that in everything he might be preeminent. And then he he kind of rounds it out by in in verse 19, it was just a fascinating statement. In him The fullness of God was pleased to dwell. You see, when we when we look to Jesus, we're not just looking at at someone who was God like or someone who had an extra blessing of the Spirit that kind of lifted him up on a higher plane, right? He's not even just a a part of God. The fullness of God dwelt in him. Right? The doctrine of the Trinity is that there's there's one divine being who eternally exists in three persons and it's not as if each of those persons is part of God. All that God is is comprised in each of those persons. Each of them are fully, completely God. And the fullness of God. That's a tremendous mystery and amazing thing that we can't fully wrap our minds around. And yet what's maybe even a greater mystery is how the infinite, eternal, and unchangeable God can dwell in a human body. The fullness of God was pleased to dwell in Christ. He is God in the flesh. Who came to take on flesh for us, that the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. It's just exalted language that he speaks of God. And then he turns and says in verse 20 something that it doesn't really seem to fit with everything he said before. He reconciles to himself all things by making peace through the blood of his cross. This exalted, transcendent, divine being who is the agent of creation, the source and goal of creation, dies on a cross as a man. And it doesn't seem to fit. And so that's how we see that that this is all about reconciliation at great cost to Christ. And so I want us to just walk through the last couple verses and see how it is that our reconciliation comes about. And maybe before we do that, just to pause and acknowledge that there is a great need for reconciliation, right? The message of Scripture is clear. God created a good world. Where there was no sin, there was nothing wrong, and yet clearly now things are wrong. The reality is that that every single one of us ha has rebelled against the God who made us Turning aside to go after our own way. Instead of living for him, we live for ourselves. We've sinned against him and offended him with our lives. And yet Christ comes to reconcile us. Just hear how odd that is uh this evening. I I want you to to focus on that because when two people are in a conflict, when two people are are are fighting with one another Typically the burden for reconciliation lies with the one who has done the wrong. The person in the wrong kind of has the burden to come and begin to make things right. Come and say, I'm sorry, ask for forgiveness. What can I do to make it better, right? That's not what happens in the gospel. That's not what Paul says happens here. We are the ones in the wrong. We are the ones who have offended God, who have sinned against him, and yet he is the one that takes the initiative in reconciliation And it's not even as if he waits until we're willing or ready, right? No, Paul says it's while we were his enemies. Christ died for us. We were still running clear in the other direction, trying to get away from God to live for ourselves. We still hated him. And yet he came. to seek after us, to seek and save that which was lost, to make us his friends instead of his enemies. He sought after us to to reconcile us while we were still his enemies. It should it it it's an astounding thing. And he reminds us in this passage that this reconciliation comes only through Christ. There is no other way that we can be reconciled to God. No other means, only through Christ. All things are reconciled in him, and nothing is reconciled outside of him. But notice that that verse there. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether in earth or in heaven. It sounds just like verse 16. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth. You see, in the same way that all things were created through him, all things are reconciled through him. And the the point that I think Paul is driving at there is to remind us that Yes, sin has destroyed our relationship with God, and we need Christ to come and save us. But sin has also brought a curse upon all of creation. All all of creation lives under the curse of sin. We have the reality of suffering and sickness and death and pain that we deal with every day. And uh Now that we're going through this whole thing with with the coronavirus, it might be a time where we're sensing that more acutely than maybe we ever have before, that something is not right in this world. And yet the great hope of the gospel, friends, that we have is that Jesus comes to make his blessings flow as far as the curse is found. He's not coming just merely to make new creatures in Christ. He's coming to bring about a whole new creation. And one day the hope we have is that we'll have a new heavens and a new earth where there will be no suffering, no sickness. No pain, no death. We will live with him in a world where all things, including his people, have been reconciled to him, and there is no more suffering or sickness. He reconciles to himself all things, but he also reconciles individual sinners to himself. It's the same thing that he points out earlier in the chapter in verse 13, that he has delivered us from the domain of darkness. and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Jesus came to die in the place of sinners. He died as a substitute for sinful people who had rebelled and rejected against the God who had made us. He took the wrath of God that you and I deserved. He drank the cup of God's wrath to the very last drop, satisfying it for all of his people. There is No way that we can be punished for our sins because Christ was punished in our place. Our sins have been nailed to the cross and we don't bear them anymore because he has come to make reconciliation and make peace by the blood of his cross. We were dead in our sins, hostile enemies of God, and now we stand at peace with the God who made us in Christ, because he has come to save us. He came at great cost to himself. To make peace. I I love the the line in the the Charles Wesley hymn, And Can It Be That I Should Gain? He has He has a line in that hymn that says, 'Tis mystery all, the immortal dies. And he's driving there at the doctrine of divine impassibility, right? It sounds like a really high and lofty concept, but the whole point is God is perfect in every way. God can't suffer. God can't die. And yet the mystery of the gospel is that God, who cannot suffer, becomes a man to suffer in the place of sinners, to take the punishment that we deserve. God, the Christ, because he became a man, knows first hand what suffering is like. The one who eternally was living in in the bosom of his father, who dwelt in the glories of heaven, robed in majesty and splendor entered into a sinful world where he was sinned against repeatedly every day of his life, and then he who knew no sin became sin, took our sin upon his shoulders. to bear the wrath of God in our place on the cross. Don't think for a second that the nails in his wrist were the most painful thing he endured that day. on the cross. It was the wrath of God being poured out on him, which is why he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Christ has suffered in our place to make peace by the blood of his cross. Friends, friends, If nothing else comes from this evening, I I hope that that this passage reminds you to consider your sins. the reality of your sin, your need for forgiveness. And as you remember what Christ has done and the great lengths he went to to save you, I hope that it humbles you. Humbles you as as you are in all of the depth of God's love for you and the great lengths he would go to reconcile you to himself. That God, who doesn't need us, still desires a relationship with us to the point that he did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. If you're tuning in this evening and you're you're not in Christ, you're not reconciled to God, then this passage should call you to recognize your need for reconciliation. And to put your faith in him, to turn from living for yourself, to put your trust in him, to know him, and to love him, and to respond in repentance and faith. And for those of you friends who are in Christ, who have done that, this should be a great comfort to you Christ has died in your place. Your sins are forgiven. Your sins are paid for. He didn't just make your salvation possible. He purchased your salvation. And as so long as he stands in heaven, no one can kick you out. You are secure in Christ, friends. And so I pray that this passage will just help you to rest in the power of the cross. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do thank you for The gospel, that you had send your Son to live for us, a perfect life, to die in the place of sinners, to stand as our substitute in our place. Taking the penalty that we deserve, Lord, that you bore our sins in your body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. And we thank you, Lord, that you have taken us From being your enemies and by your grace have made us not merely into your friends, but made us into your children, and given us your spirit who dwells within us. Lord, we pray that you would fill us with the joy of your salvation. As we rest in the power of the cross, and we ask this in Christ's name, Amen