I'll assume it's on. This is from John two, one through eleven. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come Come. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water, and they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom But the first one is the first time. Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. Um a couple preceding thoughts. One would be at the very end of the book of John, the last gospel in our four Gospels, a different gospel than the others, right? Different flavor, tone. Um the very last verse says this. You probably know it. Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. That's a pretty amazing verse It means that the people that wrote these books, of which I think hopefully we all believe were Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, not written hundreds and hundreds of years later. They sorted out some things. It's not like uh Jesus had a camera crew and and as they walked, we just now, if you were gonna watch Jesus' life, it'd be take three years. I mean, you know, you would watch him sleep. Maybe he had amazing sleep. It would be amazing to watch. I don't know. Probably had normal sleep. It's interesting the Bible does talk about him sleeping, right? A couple times Instead, it's more like uh they did the film crew and then they put together a documentary uh for a uh a a purpose. Like here's what we think you should know about this person. And so that means they sorted out things and so we have some things and we don't have other things And we have John 2. Now, another thing that's important is in the Bible and the Old Testament, wine is a metaphor for God's goodness. Uh of course wine can be abused and wine can cause lots of problems and it does also in the Bible. Uh there's some kings that, you know, maybe, maybe had too much wine and make some terrible decisions. That's normal. But in the main it's a metaphor for God's goodness. Just last month I was reading on uh news It was February 6th, this man bought an $127 a hundred and twenty-seven year old bottle of wine And normally when people find these old bottles, they buy them for investments. Right, if you can hold on to this if you spend one million, if you hold on to it for twenty years, you might sell it for two million. Um it's sort of interesting to look up stuff like this because wine is also a tempting thing to forge. Because if you can make it look like the outside of the bottle is what you think it is, what's on the inside of the bottle, nobody knows what it's supposed to taste like. I mean they found bottles of wine that were in like Jefferson's estate. Well what's that gonna taste like? Nobody knows. So it's pretty tempting to stick whatever you want in there that looks alike, tastes like wine. And so um this causes lots of controversy and it's rare that someone would open it. You know, of course, really all you need is one person to believe in it And then if you want to sell it, you'd need one more person to believe in it. Um so this guy found what was actually legitimate bottle of wine. So they found it untouched in this place where their other stuff It was all on the right thing, it all lined up. And he opened it. He had a party. And he opened it. And they drank it. And people were astonished. And he he spent at least a million dollars for one bottle of wine to open and share with his friends. friends. He said, you know why this wine got made? To drink. It wasn't made as an investment. And so um People just thought he was crazy. Maybe he was crazy. Okay, those are my preceding thoughts. Um we're talking about the church. Um Um and and as I've just made the point that um in the PCA our foundational foundational documents are first of all the scripture The scripture is number one because you know we don't get to amend this or change this or redact it. We get to um interpret it and and even put it into English, which is But we also have the Westminster Confession of Faith, the Westminster Larger Catechism, the Westminster Mr. Sortasm, catechism. And we don't really amend those. Those are written in the sixteen forties. And we hold them very dear as Presbyterians. Ah And I I do too. Um but you there are parts of it you're like, mm, I don't know, that was sixteen forty, yo What does that mean? And people talk about it. And then then we also have the Book of Church Order, the most boring of the documents. And that can be amended, and we can add rules and takeaway rules and all that stuff. But those are basically three big things, right? The um Bible, number one, the Westminster Standards, which are those three, and then the Book of Church. But in reality, of course, we know that we all have more than that. Uh and and it's not just members of the church, but pastors too. We have our favorite influences. I mean Julie can testify about how many tapes From R. C. Spro and Tim Keller, we owned. Um somewhere between five hundred and a thousand, probably, right? And it was uh I listened to those, I would wear those out. Uh so those were influences. We had Tape of the Month ago, but now, you know, uh uh we also have our church history favorites people, our contemporary people that speak into whatever, um and Puritans. But now we have podcasts and YouTube channels and videos and veggie tales. That was in the nineties and two thousands, I guess. That's gone away a little bit. But if you want to go back, we had the PTL network and the seven hundred cloud Um and we have critics and blogs and stuff like that that influence our thoughts about things, right? It's just natural. And and one thing that I really appreciated in in RUF when I was a campus minister for ten years was we would always talk about how we had a fixed theology Our Reform theology, our Calvinistic theology, our the th theology contained in the in the confession, right? A fixed theology. This is true, that you could go to any PCA church and they believe the same core stuff. Right? And that's beautiful. But it comes out real different. Fixed theology, but flexible methodology. So how we get that fixed theology to people is different here than In Oklahoma, then in Africa, right? Different on a college campus, different on the west coast. The the theology shouldn't be different. It's not different But how it comes out is different. We all have outlooks and postures and I just remind you every once in a while there are no liberal churches in the PCA. You cannot be a liberal church in the PCA You might be a slightly more level of church, and this is very small degrees, than the most conservative PCA church. Um so we're going through what what I think and as I've studied, you know, the the postures that so I'm not talking about the fixed theology, right? I'm talking about postures and outlooks of a church And I was thinking about that other churches have other postures. Of course, no one says this, but one posture might be: we're going to make everything major. You know, major on the majors, minor on the minors, everything's major. That's that's a philosophy. Or we're gonna micromanage people and money. That happens. We're gonna hide behind our theology. Um we're going to write a ton of overtures. That's some churches. We're going to be afraid of culture and other philosophies. We're going to talk a lot about women what women cannot do. Um one posture could be we worship absolutely correctly according to the Word of God, unlike anyone else. I've heard it said. Um another philosophy might be we want to go back to the way things were. sixties, seventies, eighties, I don't know. Um another philosophy similar to that is we love Southern Presbyterians. They are the bread and butter. All those documents written in the 1840s are just gold mines. Another philosophy on the other side is we're always going to push the envelope. Um another one that we might all we're smarter than everyone else. And so today I'm gonna say I think as a church We should throw good parties. That seems like a weird thing or posture. Um and so as we go back and look at again the Bible, uh there are a lot of parties in the Bible, aren't there? They're not called parties, they're called festivals and feasts And actually the book of John, as he's about to start here, he talks about a lot of them. The feast of booze, the feast of weeks. And and and these are uh places that they're obviously connected to theological positions and and history, but they're also times when people got together And they rehearsed these things and they talked these things, right? They ate and they sang and they prayed and they worshiped And here we have Jesus' first miracle in the book of John. This is sorted out, right? The first miracle that we read about in the book of John. is at a wedding, the wedding of Canaan. Now I want to back up and say Jesus of sure was was a very serious person He's not a big jokester. Um now he does say some things that are are a little on the edge sometimes, right? And so I don't when I talk about this I'm not making light of theology, I'm not making light of Pauline doctrine and anything. I hope that's clear. Um and and as Calvin said, we are made to worship. We are worship animals. We are not, in our essence, party animals. I know we got told we gotta fight for our right to party. I love that and I believe that. Um but we're made to worship. Right? So we're not made to party and and this is the first miracle amo among many miracles. It's somewhere around forty miracles, depending on how you count. And you know, Jesus raised the dead three times. He healed the sick, lepers, and the blind, and paralytics and the bleeding woman. He walked on water, he calmed the storm, he commanded evil spirits to leave exorcism. You know, he fed people. Um and then in in my opinion, the two strangest miracles that he did are this one. And the one where he just creates so many fish that it almost swamps the boat. And all of these miracles, and I'll come back to that, all these miracles are show his divine authority. They um they fulfill Old Testament prophecies. And he shows compassion for people. Interestingly, uh there were healings that took place or or attempted to be took take place in the uh in the New Testament these times and like the high priest charged for these. And Jesus gives away So it so um we talked recently about Luke about uh Matthew four when Jesus Jesus called the disciples, remember, and we looked back at Matthew five or four end of four. We look back at four and then we 'cause he with the temptation, right? And then the calling of disciples, and then we wouldn't do the Sermon on the Mount. So this same story when he calls his disciples is in Luke five. And in this version of the story Um this is where he he puts the nets out. And um they bring in so many fish that The nets were breaking, and they freaked out. And um Simon Peter says, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. That's an interesting response when you see the mirror. like this. Um and they were astonished. And again, you know, you sort of think like Jesus I mean you could it Done ten fish and that would have been amazing. You know, and uh but he he often does these like larger than life things Things. Not always. He you know, he heals one paralyzed man and he heals this one bleeding woman But he can do so much. And and so they were astonished, and Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid, from now on you will be catching men And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. We talked about this a few weeks ago. And then Jesus does another miracle in Luke 5. Cleanses the leper. He does another miracle after that, heals the paralytic, and then he calls Levi, Matthew, the tax collector. Which is also astonishing. Um okay, so John. John one amazing, unlike any other of the gospels. The way he starts, uh he does not get in the weeds He doesn't talk about Mary and Elizabeth and and all that stuff. uh the you know the ancients had different um when they would make stained glass windows they would depict the gospel writers sometimes as a person but sometimes as an image Um Lu Luke is sort of applied one, it goes slowly, so it's an ox. And and John, because he soars over everything, is an eagle. And so John the Eagle writer, you know, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and the Word was God. With God he was God, and He was begin he was in the beginning with God. And all things were made through him, and without him not anything was made that was made. In him was life, and the light of the light of men, and the light shines in the darkness And the darkness comes over did not overcome it. He talks about John, but he just swi swiftly goes back. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as the only Son, full of the Father, full of grace. And John the Baptist, you know, is is here in this time at the be this beginning as Jesus Jesus' ministry and and people love John the Baptist. He's an interesting person and and they followed him, but he kept on saying no. Not me. I am not the one you are looking for. Um behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So he And so this first miracle in John is at a wedding Jesus, we know in Matthew, we talked about this before, Jesus has wandered in the wilderness. Jesus has fasted for 40 days and 40 nights. He's not a glutton. Jesus has defeated Satan. And Jesus attends a wedding. It seems a little trivial. Uh and I don't know if if he did this a lot. Um and maybe It's connected as in John's mind as he's thinking about all this stuff, that at the beginning, Genesis 2 is sort of a wedding, so it's very strange wedding, right? Pull asleep, get a rib out. Ow. I don't know how many choices I got, but I like this choice. It was an arranged marriage, right? Um So here we are in the very beginning of John and also in the chapter two. I don't know what to make of that. Another wedding of sorts. And and and these wedding customs of the day, maybe you've heard this um These were arranged by parents, like God arranged it in Genesis 2. Generally the groom was around 18, generally the bride was around thirteen. Don't know what to say about that. Uh and they would be put together in marriage, but they would live apart for a year And and the groom and the groom's family paid a price. It was a bride price, right? And the groom in that year when they were apart, although they were married, the groom was preparing a place. For her in the father's house. And the groom would come for the bride with like his entourage, and they would blow the shofar horn. And the bride would be veiled, and they would sit for a while, a week, and have traditional songs. And there'd be bridesmaids attending to her and they would probably read the Song of Songs for this whole week, hosted by the Groons family. And then the consummation of the marriage and more celebrating. And that's super cool. And interestingly enough, uh polygamy isn't really in the waters anymore. Polygamy pretty much went away in around a thousand BC. The biblical ethic is one man, one woman married. Forever, uh, but that's not always what happens. Uh there were many awesome people that had many wives, which was not a And and also back then it was very easy to divorce. The men could divorce the women for anything. There were basically two big schools and the The strict school was smaller and the loose school was bigger and the loose school said, Oh, you can do it they would divorce because you burned supper. Ugh. It's a little scary. Right? Um unless you wanted to be divorced and you might burn the supper on purpose, right? And so then um we're thinking about weddings, weddings gone right. We've been to amazing weddings, and we've been to wacko weddings. Um in the rain weddings, in 105 degrees weddings, no food, no water, no water. The bathrooms a break. Uh bad speeches, bad DJ, uh attendants fainting. That's always cool. Uh saying wrong names, weird speeches, weird slideshows, strange announcements, fighting family members, bridezillas, protectile vomiting. Unity candles setting the church on fire. I haven't been to all these, but I've been to some of these, right? Um but hopefully, no matter what happens, it's still a wedding. Right, and the people are still married. And we've been to I call them footloose weddings, no singing No dancing. Everyone behaved. Cake and punch only. That's what we had Uh we've been to maybe uh Great Gatsby weddings where the elite come together and put up put on the writs. Or another version of weddings would be Fradhouse weddings. Just complete crazy town. And then another one is D I Y do It Aunt Yourself Weddings. Or another one could be destination waves. Oh, okay, whatever. I'm not uh promoting wedding righteousness. Right? Or party righteousness. We're all saved by grace. Two sinners got married. Um But it's a party. It's supposed to be a party of some sort. And we talked about parties, remember in Luke fifteen? We talked about three parties. parties whenever the sheep lost sheep was found it was a party. Whenever the lost coin was found there was a party. When uh the lost son one of the lost son was found, there was a party and and of course while there are also party animals and party crashers, there's also party poopers. Like the older brother. Right? So Jesus, as I say uh churches should be known for good parties, I also want to be careful in saying Jesus is is the life giver and the lawgiver. He's not one. Jesus isn't this like pocket leprechaun that you pull out and you sprinkle fairy dust and make the party awesome. We've seen commercials like that. Let's spice it up. Um turn that frown upside down. Because we know Jesus says hard things He said hard things to the Rich and Guller talked about that. To the Pharisees. He said hard things to Peter. He said hard things to Jesus. And Jesus overturns tables. He gets mad. Tim Keller has an awesome two sermons. Lord of the wine, which is sort of what I'm talking about, and Lord of the Wits. And he's not all one the other. So in our text we have a fail. We have a wedding fail A party fail. On the third day there was a wedding at Canaan Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, see that's the party fail, right? The mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. So the wine stops, and someone goes to Mary and she says, Let me text somebody. I know a guy. Maybe he got connections. Um and so then Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. And his mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. So it might sound like Jesus says, Mom, butt out. This is not your domain. It might sound like Jesus says, Mom, back off. Or it might be, Mom, but that's not it, right? And Mary says, you know, um Mary knows Jesus at this point better than anyone else. Nobody knows Jesus like Mary Joseph. We don't know what happened to him. He he's not around. He sort of disappears. Uh we don't know. That's an interesting question, isn't it? And um uh Uh but Mary had learned something very early. Mary had been told something that no one else had heard. It is interesting to think Mary eventually told people this because it's in the Bible. She didn't write this, right? So they knew that this had happened And she had told them that, um, hey, you know, Matthew, here's something you probably don't know, but but but before all this started, um Someone an angel came to my husband, Joseph, and said, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as a wife, for that which is a very important thing to do. conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. And she will bear a name, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. I don't know what you think about that, but that's not normal, is it? Um if you go to Luke chapter one, so she told Luke, right? Luke knows this. Um if you look at Luke one, this is Christmas stuff, isn't it? And behold you will be silent and able to speak until the day that these things take place. Oh that's Oh here we go. Ur She was troubled, right? This is um verse thirty chapter two Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus. And he will be great and he will be called the Son of the Most High And the Lord God will give to him the throne of the Father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will there will be no end. She treasured it in her heart. And she said, How is that going to happen? And he told her, I was like, Well, that doesn't make sense. But that's what happened. So she so so of anybody She knows something's up. But she also probably doesn't exactly know how that's gonna happen. Like, you know, there's sort of a normal way if you're gonna become uh the the throne of God forever and take over the throne of David, there's something in your mind as how that goes. And we are not in the realm of that. Um and so Mary knows more than anyone else at this point, I think. And so she says, do whatever he tells you. Um you sort of wish we talked about the Rich Ungular. I wish she would have been able to be around and say, hey Rich Ungruer, do it every time I promise you that's a good idea. Let me tell you some stories. Um you know the the Beatles, whatever you think of Mother Mary speaks to To me, speaks words of wisdom. Let it be, let it be. Which really means follow him. He's gonna Take care of it. Do whatever he tells you. And Jesus, of course, you know, doesn't say, uh, uh, I know some people, let me take some call. Jesus also doesn't say, stand back. Abracadabra. Um no, he doesn't do that. All he does is change water into wine. Fill up these six jars. Now, these are big jobs. You have a twenty pound jar, eight in a small jar So, you know, if it's between 20 and 30 gallons of each of these, so let's just say it's 25, that's 150 gallons of water. That makes 757 bottles of wine. Again, we'll go back to the fish. He could have made ten bottles of wine. Whoa. Um He's not a teetotaler. And also they say this is the best wine. Which it wasn't normal. They knew what Good wine tasted like. Wasn't box wine. Wasn't Barnes and J Bartles and James, you know. Everyone's impressed. And interestingly also, Jesus doesn't get credit for it He doesn't get called up on safety that we know. It's like, hey, here's the guy who saved the party. Ah They all like, look at all this wine we brought out. Um and he saved the party, right? John was was there. And so the point is have lots of wine at parties. That's not the point. Um the point is the organizers of this small thing, it it really It it would have been at least embarrassing, right? Um but they brought to Jesus their empty vessels And he filled it with something that is the picture, one picture, among many pictures. There's other ones, of course. He filled it with the picture of God's blessing more than they could imagine. And he saved them and their reputation in a small way. He he took their emptiness and he gave them excess. He didn't take their empty and say, here's an itch. He gave them more than they could ever imagine. He gave them his riches that they didn't deserve, right And so y obviously my point I'm driving to is they gave him their death, a small death, but the death nonetheless in the town. And he gave them life and fulfillment. And and the reason why it matters maybe for this is because he's thinking about something else He he's thinking ahead um and he starts talking about this more and I just wonder if he talked to Mary about this. He's like, Stop! Don't talk about your death. And so he maybe when he's talking to his mom, he's like, Okay, mom. But he's still got to talk about it. So he talks about it and he says, My hour has not yet come She's like, I still know what that means, Jesus. Your hour hasn't come. He's thinking about something else. He's thinking about his crucifixion. Now it's true for anybody that when you're at a wedding your mind might wander. It's really strange whenever you're the officiant and your mind wanders wanders. And you're trying to focus on I remember two two instances. One was um I'm in a robe and it's it's decently cold outside, but the sun is coming through the window exactly on me, so I'm hot I'm the only person who's hot, but I'm the person who's sweating in front of everyone. And I see the father of God go back to thermostat and start punching it up. You know, every degree, every punch is a degree, and I see like ten punches. And I'm thinking to myself, dude. But I can't say anything, right? Another one I was at a wedding um and I knew this woman from CrossFit and and she was was getting station her husband was getting stationed and so they had to get married or else she couldn't go with him. This week. Right? And um and I had never really talked to her too much. Not a lot of chattiness going on across across the you know And um I had never heard anyone say her name out loud. And her name was spelled A-N-G-E-H-E-R-A-N-D. How would you say that? And so I'm coming up to the names and I'm going to myself, hmm. Normally I would sort of clarify this important thing. And so I guessed, and I did not guess correctly, I guessed on Harad. And it's on Herod. And this is a Welsh name, so she was, I don't know, had a Welsh heritage, and it means um much loved one. I completely botched it. And got corrected on the spot. And it wasn't a big deal. There were only like six or seven of those, but I was mortified. This is a basic detail of a wedding, right? I think I can say Janet Fascinating. I know I got these down, but when you throw at me strange, obscure Welsh names, I'm lost. But whenever I was distracted, I wasn't thinking about my hour. Right? Uh my own personal death isn't really on my mind that often. Maybe I should try this. I'm sorry, I I'm not paying attention. I'm thinking about my hour. I don't think that's going to work too well. So so so so this is what Jesus is thinking about, his death, his crucifixion, which we know, which they didn't know yet how it was going to happen. And and he's at this wedding. So as I'm saying, one of the metaphors of God's goodness is wine, another big huge one, and I've mentioned this many times. The wedding. The wedding supper of the Lamb. The bride and the groom, right? And so maybe that's the connection here that John's trying to make. And he's going to come back to this a couple times. And of course, if he's the bride and the groom, we're talking about celebration, commitment, sacrifice, and cost. He is going to pay the price. For the bride, by his death, by his blood. And it it says in John two This is the first of the signs used at Cain in Galilee and manifested his glory. This manifested his glory What is his glory? His glory of defeating death on the cross and raising again from the dead. That's his ultimate glory. Um and so this text, you know, isn't really To bang on fundamentalists. When when Julie and I were in college we we were involved in the ministry and basically it went with Uh I don't smoke or drink or cuss or chew and I don't go with girls who do. That's sort of how we went down. Um so that's not what this is about, and there are definitely excessive ways to sin um But Jesus saves the wedding, but it's more than that. It it's not that this wedding needed a wedding coordinator. And um you know in Matthew twenty-two Jesus talks about how there will be no marriage in heaven. So eventually this metaphor goes away. somehow. I think the metaphor still stands, but our picturing of this metaphor goes away. Likewise, another big metaphor in uh the Bible is the the temple. Tabernacle, the temple. It's in John 1. He tabernacle among us. You gotta know what that means. Being the temple, uh we are living temples. But you know the actual temple went away. seventy AD never to be restored. And so I think Jesus is really talking about as we come to close, um, that he's the party He's the wine. He is the vine. He is the branches. He's the groom. He says and fulfills. He's the temple. That he fulfills he fulfills the law, he fulfills the sacrifices. He's the Lord of the wine and he's the Lord of the whips, and we'll all run out because there's not enough. And Mary's words are true. Do whatever he says. Do whatever he says. That's hard to always figure out. I also think it's important to remember there are still miracles. Miracles haven't ceased. Um a miracle worker who put can put his hand on you and every time cure you, that has ceased. But miracles, praying for miracles and seeing miracles, hasn't. Um and so we can pray for miracles. And as we as we grieve and lament and celebrate that Jesus saves sinners, we We can pursue hope and joy, push back darkness, love, uh give grace and forgiveness and and pray for salvation and throw good pardons. And so Jesus takes ordinary things and makes them extraordinary Um his grace is also excessive, not meted out. Um Slowly or miserly. And so Jesus also doesn't say, you know, I've got more important things to do. Sort of seems like he does, doesn't he? But he loves these people and he loves his party. And as they give him gave him their need, he gave them his grace. person. And that's still true for us today. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments and um pray silently, confessing our sins to the Lord. And then we can Pray together out loud.