We're going to continue our reflections on the Old Testament minor profits. Mind you, they're not minor because they're less important. That's not why they're minor. They're short. And um uh they bring to us a vision, an understanding of something that God is doing in the future, uh as well as something God was doing around them. And so this morning we're going to add on to our reflections last week when we were looking at compassion. Haggai is another one of those things you books you probably haven't looked at very often. Probably it's not uh fingered up like some of your other pages in your Bible. Uh and uh but we're gonna look there. Uh Haggai was uh ministering among the Jews that had returned And you remember that uh other prophets, Nehemiah being one of them, went to the case. Well that wasn't the first time that the wall had been worked on, uh that Jerusalem had been attempted to be restored. Stewart. It wasn't the first time. It was an earlier time that had also been worked on, and that was uh during Haggai's time, but it didn't work very well So he was actually writing to those who were discouraged about things not working out. And his writing to them was So while they were in exile and while they came back, it's still their city, their country, their people We're still a mess. And there's a sense of grievance and grief, deep grief, that happens in that. But there's also a deep sense of hope. of promise. And so I want to read this morning from the book of Haggai and ask that you would stand and read with me. So this comes in from the second chapter. In the seventh month, on the twenty first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet Prophet Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Sheal, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Zer Jehosedak. the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say, Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Now is it not as nothing in your eyes? And yet now be strong, O Z Rubable declares the Lord, be strong, O Joshua, the son of Jehosedak The high priest. Be strong, all of you people of the land, declares the Lord. Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts, according to the covenant that I am with you My spirit remains in your midst, fear not. For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once more in a little while I will Will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. And I will shake the nations so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory. says the Lord of hosts. The silver is mine, the gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts. The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts. And in this That prophecy was picked up by the angels who came and said, Peace among men That prophecy was picked up even before that. And I want to read it. Luke chapter 2. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the most tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way. Of peace. Let me pray. Father, would you take this your word? Fill our hearts With your presence, with your peace, with that shalom that passes our ability to understand. Father, do not allow us to leave today Partly filled, partly understanding who you are, partly understanding our place in your great kingdom Fill us, we pray, and we might behold your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated So last week was a focus on compassion. And we were also looking at the same passage in Luke chapter 2 Where Zechariah was reflecting on God's compassion and the sun rising. But I want to drill down today on that word peace. Old Testament, New Testament, it's throughout the Bible. And I'm afraid that most of us do exactly What Gus did. And on the other hand, I'm afraid none of us do what Gus did. He wasn't completely satisfied with a little piece of chocolate, was he? He was not satisfied with a little piece of paper. He wanted the whole thing. A lot of None of us are happy with a little peace. Just give me a taste, Lord. That's good enough for me. God has a lot more. He has a whole purpose for us. And we just take a little piece. But in the end, if we get to keep the whole bag We'll take off and leave the paper behind. Because the paper, after all, is only what we get to draw on Think about it. Peace is not a simple word. I can tell you that my um work for the last seventeen years has been the director of a peace studies program. And uh you can spend a lot of time talking about different elements of peace and still not get there. The Old Testament word for peace, as you probably know, is shalom, but we don't understand it. It doesn't fit in our English. English, we have no word that actually means the same thing as that word shalom meant in the Old Testament. So the people of God had an understanding when that word was used what God was talking about. I'm afraid we don't today. We have to have a lot more words about it. We have to have a lot deeper thinking about it. And so it's more problematic for us To understand what in the world the angel meant when he appeared before the shepherds and said, Peace on earth among men. What did he So actually Gus wasn't the only one, maybe didn't have a clear reason for it. And maybe chocolate. Peace. You might want to define it as the absence of conflict conflict and taking conflict out of the formula is a nice thing to do. But that's not what it means. Peace is not just A restful feeling of contentment. Although that too isn't bad, is it? We like to rest contented. We like to be like cats in the sunshine, curled up, feeling warm. We like that. And it's not bad. It's not bad. Peace is not the absence of noise. Yeah, remember that. When your dogs are barking, the kids are crying, the horns are honking, the you know. Remember that peace. Is not just about silence. Actually, sometimes silence is a problem. We wish there was something more in the silence So peace is not primarily a feeling of contentment It is rather a it's about the fulfillment, the writing, as it were, on the pages of our lives, the drawing on the pages of our lives Our relationship with people, our purpose that comes from God, and the provision that God gives to us in His promises That's what peace is. That's all of that together. So it's really hard to put one word on peace. And yet the prophet proclaims, the angels said And the prophet said, peace on earth. So I want to break this down for you, and we're going to be rocking back and forth from verse 7 of Haggai chapter 2. And uh as well verse nine and this passage in Luke two uh verses seventy seven through seventy nine. So if you got a bunch of fingers uh And you want to put them all in those different places, you can follow me as I go. So when we come to Haggai, there is a sense of Frustration that the people had, the greatness. That guy says, Listen, do you remember the wonder of this place? As they were looking at the temple It's a mess. He acknowledged that. But in the end, he could say, no, the greatness will be greater than it ever was But that physical temple was never greater than it was during the day of Solomon. Surely, if that's what he thought God was wrong, the prophet was wrong, and we've got it wrong. There was something more. Something that was not going to be completely fulfilled Until the coming of Christ. And something even in the coming of Christ that we still look forward even more to. The redemption, the full redemption. of the world. The coming of Christ again. The eternal reign with him in glory. So there is this sense of greater and greater and greater. So what's great What's great? Is it a uh is it a huge mansion? Is it a in that sense a big place? Is that great Is it power? The power to promote, the power to put down, the power to take out, the power to overrule, is it power Is it jealousy creating privilege? Or rights? It's not my power Well, for the majority world, most of the people in the world, when they think of power, they put it in terms of With community. When the entire community is fulfilled or filled full, then there is power. And even it's difficult for us sometimes to understand politics, well, in our country, um for sure, but it's difficult to understand politics in other countries even more because we don't live But one of the things that we often miss is that power in many countries is defined when the community at large is filled full. And often a leader wants to fill his people full. Today I read uh there was a little brief news blitz that came through about the signing of a peace treaty in Ethiopia. Well, most of you know that Ethiopia has been a dear place in our hearts for many years, so the pain of the of the violence in Ethiopia, Tigray province, Eritrea province, where we spent uh some of our time has been painful to us. So today there was a peace treaty I hope that that was a full sheet of paper. But my feeling is that it might just spend a little quarter. The last time they had a peace treaty, a little tort So what was it? Well, if we begin to understand why peace happens or why peace doesn't happen, often it's related to the And so we can talk about Tigray province, we can talk about uh Eritrea province province. We can talk about Walo province. Well each of those have a different people living in them in Ethiopia. And that's why the the second largest country in Africa has trouble getting along, has trouble with peace, because each community has their own sense of I want to be filled, I want to be first, we need to be on top And everybody has these little blinders saying the we is me. Now you understand our political problems in our country too. When the we becomes me That's a global reality. But the angel said, peace on earth. He didn't say peace on your flocks Could have. But he didn't. He didn't say peace in Judea. He said, Today is born to you a savior And that savior right now you can go see in Judea. So I want you to think with me about the people, the purpose, and the Visions of the promises of God that Haggai is talking about. Verse 7. Treasure is not something. You get this feeling I'm going to tell you what something's not before I tell you what it is. Well, treasure is not something that can be diminished Not the treasure God gives. It's not something that can be stolen. It's not something that can be lost. And so when we read in the gospel Gospel accounts that Mary treasured the events in her heart. She put into her heart, she reflected on her heart, things that could not be taken away. They could not be diminished. They could only increase in their value and presence in her life. Think about that Treasure. We sometimes treasure family. I think Mary actually treasured family, but it wasn't just this child. It was a deep sense of who this child was We treasure family, we treasure friends, we treasure accomplishments, and those are all good things. diminish. People die. Our accomplishments eventually we retire People forget about us. The great things we thought we did. Sometimes the great things we thought we did actually turn to mess. And we just sigh about it. Family. We treasure family, friends. Sometimes those things just crumble in our hands. It seems impossible for us to hold some treasures because those treasures were not meant to hold Mary treasured the things she saw and understood in her heart. And those were not things that moth could corrupt, or rust could degenerate, but the only things that God would increase So God's treasure isn't fragile. It's not something that we have to somehow hold like it's going to break, as if it were an egg. No, God's treasure is not fragile. Fragile, it's strong. Even when we struggle to understand it, even when we feel broken and we wonder where God was in our brokenness It's not that his treasure is weak. It's not that his treasure is unable to meet us. The prophet Zechariah said to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of his sins, of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God. Whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high. The forgiveness of sin. For Zechariah. prophets of the Old Testament, the wonder of Mary, was the treasure. It wasn't about friends, it wasn't about accomplishments, it wasn't about the dwelling place, it wasn't about how much money she had and she In ebony. It was a treasure of the forgiveness of sins. That's a peace treasure. And the only question that this text raises to me, and it ought to raise to you, is do you treasure that? Or do you treasure everything else? What do you treasure? Gus left the piece of paper and he went with the candy. You're not surprised, were you? I wasn't surprised Actually, I confess I planned it. are pretty dependable. The problem is we're pretty dependable too. We leave the real treasure. The treasure of what God wants to do in our lives, on our lives, and display it in the world. And that's the forgiveness. of sin. So that is the peace provision that God has given to all of us. The forgiveness But secondly from verse seven again of our text, I want you to understand and think about the glory of God Now the glory of the house, especially this time of year, is not about the lights on the outside, right? It's not about the little lights that I mean our fence has Those nice little twinkly lights all around the fence and but that's not the glory of the house. You can peer into the house and say, Oh, is a bright light inside. Isn't the tree beautiful? Isn't the the candles lovely well that too is not the glory of the house. So what is the glory of the house? It's when glory, first of all, is when a light reflects or illuminates something greater. That's what the light is It's so that we see things as they ought to be in God's world. So God Himself comes in and He takes the image of a man And that man that mankind, all of us, men, women, children, might reflect his great purpose to the world around us. That is the glory of that. House. That we might go and tell. In other words, that we might be I hope that doesn't miss your mind and your attention this Christmas season. Angels came to the shepherds and turned them into angels on earth. That they were speaking, they were showing, they were reflecting The glory of God. What God wanted to do on earth, He chose smelly sheep, tired shepherds To go and reflect his glory. That's pretty amazing. So the prophet speaks of a light that is in the house Not just behind windows, but in us. We are the house of God. You and me. We are the household Uh it it is it can't be any other way. It's people. The house is not a building, it's not a structure, it's a household. It's what the structure holds and that's the you and the me. It's the family, it's the family of God, it's the family of God across the world. That is the household of God. And God and the prophet says that indeed we will be that people We will reflect the glory. And the prophet can talk about the glory of the house, meaning God's glory reflected through you and through me. Last week we had our living nativity. It was wonderful for me. It's the first time I've been able to celebrate That with you. Uh actually it's the first time I'd ever been in a living nativity. So God brought people to that that I hadn't seen. God brought people to that that some have Have struggled with us and with each other. He brought it back together. And I want to thank you as a congregation for being a part of that glory Of God. I want to thank you, Bethany, for pulling it together. I want to thank all of you for pulling it together. Shepherding the shepherds up the steps, putting things on them, greeting each other. That's the house of the cake. That is the household of glory. That we reflect God's love, God's forgiveness In the midst of even our own darkness. So thank you. So the prophet is speaking about our reflecting the glory of God as the The household being his God's dwelling place. So sometimes we feel our smallness, even in this room. We feel those in our homes. We feel those in our lives. But God's not done. That's That's what the prophet was writing to Israel. God isn't done. The end glory will be greater than the glory of the beginning, and definitely greater than the glory you see now. That's God's promise. Pray for it. Pray for it in this congregation. We did this morning, that God will bring the man of his choice As a full-time pastor, and that he will stir each of us up. So the shepherds were to shine the glory of God And God says, I want you to shine my glory through you. So that's the people we and our purpose to shine God's glory. That's our purpose. That's what gets written on our piece of paper. How do I draw God's glory in my life? That's the question that God has for you. How do you do it? You have a treasure, the treasure is for forgiveness. How do you draw that forgiveness on your life so that people around you You can see it. Third thing I want you to see in this text is the place of peace. The place of peace. It seems a little obvious abstract for a moment. It's not something that I enjoy in a place that's special to me. Again, I'm going to start with a negative. You know, it's I I sometimes think, well my My relationship with God is a special relationship, and I have that special relationship in my special family, maybe my special family of faith But it's not about homestead. It's not about a church building. It's not about a feeling. We we started that way. So at the risk of making the profound of scripture oversimplified. This is a risk. If I had kids, uh you know it I could do it but we've all we've all read it. It's this little book said that starts out green eggs and ham. You know it. Not with a goat or in a boat, not in a train, not in the rain, not a box or a fox, or a tree, or a car What was it about the green eggs and ham? Have you ever thought about it? Dr. Zeus often wrote Adult Analogies for Children And uh there's not a single one of his books that you can't look at and say, Whoa, there's there's a whole different layer here. There's a whole different layer in green eggs and hay Three eggs and ham to a child was this horrible concoction that you wouldn't want to eat it anywhere But when you try it, you discover you want to eat it everywhere. And the peace that passes understanding as that way. We don't want to try it. We don't want to try it God's way. And so we say, I don't want to try it here, I don't want to try it there. I don't want to try By the nut church, I don't want fighting that I don't want to try it at home. I don't want to try it away. I don't want to try it. I don't want peace. Try it And God's peace writes a new letter, a new design on your life So that you can say, I love God's peace. I treasure God's peace. So the place that the prophet writes about Temple. It wasn't stuck away on some corner of the wall of Jerusalem. No, it wasn't the National Archive It wasn't a personal memory, it wasn't tranquility, and it's not tranquility in your family or church. We like that. Believe me, we like that. The place is when God's presence and memory and his promise fill That means when you go through a hard time, you remember God's promise. You camp out on God's promise. You rejoice in God's promise. That's the place. I don't know. I don't know where it is. It might be in the car. It might be in a train. It might be in a fight. It might be when everything's falling apart. That is when God says, remember who I am. Hold me, treasure me in your heart. We're a family friend That died this week. Her name was Corey. She was and her husband was very close to our Oldest son Joshua. And in these last couple weeks, as she was dying of the cancer that was eating her body. Josh wrote it and he said, uh I'm angry with God. And and you might suck your breath in and And say, well he he must not know God very well. And what I want to say he knows God very well. That's what the Psalms of Lament are for To say, God, I don't get it. We're broken. Why did this happen? Why did this family, why did this woman, young woman, have to leave behind A disabled child. Why? It doesn't seem right. Well, that's the place That's the place. week to uh session meeting and I passed a corner near our house. It's the twenty-fifth in Greenmount. Uh if you know very much about Green Mountain, you know very much about twenty fifth, you know maybe the corner I'm talking about, it's pretty well marked. Some of you nodding your heads, you been there. So on the side there's always a group of about twenty five people. They're not waiting for a bus, believe me. Although It's a bus stop. They're waiting for another kind of lift. Some of them the lift might come in a bottle. Some of them the lift might come in a little tablet. And as I passed 25th in Greenmount, there was a guy out there in his socks dancing with his shoe. And there was another one arguing with nobody. There were a bunch more World huddled together. I thought brokenness, depression, death, drugs, disease Discomfort, divorce, disconnection. Each of those has a place, and it's a place of despair And God says, even in that place, remember who I am. And my presence will lift you up, and I will give you my peace, that you might give my peace. And we live in a broken world. Our friend Corey is an The arms of the eternal shepherd. And you too have been held in the arms of an eternal shepherd. You have been in those places of darkness and despair. And you have known the love of Jesus that surrounds you Because he has first forgiven you, but then he holds you when you've got to be forgiven again and again and again And in the midst of temptation, when you say, Lord, I can't, Jesus says, I will keep you. So I want you to receive the peace of God in every Place in your life. Every detail, not a part, but the whole Take the fullness of God, just like Gus took the fullness of a whole box of candy That's what it's for. That is God's promise. It's His provision, its purpose, his life, his strength, and you are his people Let me pray. Father, thank you. Because you came to earth Because the shepherds proclaim peace on earth among us. Your favor Has rested upon us. You have allowed us to understand Jesus in our lives, in the pain of our lives, in our failures, in our distress. Enable us to treasure these things in our hearts and to know That we are yours. And because we are yours, you give to us the full Of life and send us out into the emptiness of the world To speak, to live, and to love your love. In Jesus' name. Amen.