I know I'm going to screw this up, but I'm going to give an introduction of our speaker this morning, Dr. Craig Gary and his wife Maria. Started Faith Christian Fellowship in 1980, which is a multi-ethnic, socio-economically diverse church in Baltimore City. Um and they've served there for many, many years and uh I was found out that it's not called retirement. It's now and we call it transition, right? So because they haven't really stopped serving, uh Craig has a uh a new ministry called Balm, which stands for Baltimore Antioch Leadership Movement. And there's there's literature in the back that you can that you can get uh that tells all about that and I'm sure he'll share a little bit with us. Um and also Maria has a a ministry that she's involved in uh which ministers to uh ministers wives which is a A vital, vital part of ministry. If you think about it, you know, the saying goes, behind every great man there's a an even greater woman, right? Uh and the the things that past pastors' wives experience and yeah, you'll be experiencing this really soon too, uh are uh something that's unique to them. And so this is a ministry that I can't pronounce. Paracalio? Paracaleo. Okay. Alright. And uh anyway, and you can talk to Marie about that. that and and and our own uh uh Kiana is involved in that as well. So um anyway we welcome Craig and uh he's a longtime friend of our congregation Dan and Kay. Uh they go way back and uh we're just so pleased to have him come and preach the word to us this morning. So thank you, Johnny. Well I'd like to thank uh Pastor Josiah and uh the leadership of uh grace uh for the honor to participate in your missions weekend and to uh bring you uh the word uh today. In many ways, it feels a little bit for me like a homecoming of sorts. um because there is uh a r a common history in grace relay and faith Christian fellowship. Uh so back in the late uh 70s, uh Liberty Church launched uh Grace, uh Dan and Kay uh to help plant this church. And then two years later, uh uh Liberty launched uh Marie and I into Baltimore City to plant Faith Christian Fellowship. Uh it was quite a breathtaking uh season. There were five churches planted in literally three years out of uh out of that church. Uh and so uh we kind of share common roots. And then uh Pastor Dan uh was the borrowed elder uh that helped oversee and helped uh shepherd faith christian fellowship uh to become a church. And uh And so we are greatly uh uh connected and uh I deeply appreciate uh that time and of course and Grace supported uh lots of the missions of faith with uh Baltimore Christian in school and there's many other ways. But one of the things that Grace and Faith had in common was that we were both part of sending leaders into the city to start new song community church. uh with Susan and Alan Tibbles uh from Grace and then uh Mark Gornick and uh Kelly Simpkins and uh uh uh tr uh Jim and Teresa Wall they all moved into uh to Sandtown to begin uh that that church. And so uh there's a lot of partnership that's happened in our past uh in so many ways But this weekend I have been deeply encouraged by the missionary spirit and the support of this block. And uh and that spirit continues to breathe uh missional encouragement uh into the lives of many that you're supporting. Um so I am grateful for that and we have several of those uh missionaries in the in the body here, uh Frank and Jacob and maybe there's others, but uh grateful for uh that. But I've also been richly encouraged By spending some time with your pastor Josiah and hearing his own heart. So encouraged, not just by his faith journey and walk from Kenya and how God uh led him to Kiana and to Grace Relay. But I heard how this grandson of the first Presbyterian pastor in Kenya uh who was raised by his mother and dad who were also in the pastoral ministry and then became church planners among the poor a poor community But who uh was determined uh by watching him uh to in the s or by watching his parents in the stress of ministry and the cost of ministry in the sacrifice of ministry was determined never to go into the ministry. But uh who excelled in his university studies uh to stay out of the ministry. But who was smitten by God, the hound of heaven, who came after him, who loved him and equipped him to become a powerful pastor in this gospel ministry. I also heard your pastor's heart, uh his missionary heart and his passion for seeing the local community, the city and the region reached and discipled for Christ. And I was greatly encouraged by uh that fellowship. Our God is a missionary God. He is on mission and he has an agenda to reach the nations, all the peoples And to make disciples and to build his church, and that he will have his glorious, colorful, multi-ethnic bride from all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues. And the book of Acts And the passage from Acts 8 that we'll be considering today is an unfolding of this missionary movement of our God. The book of Acts is the unfolding of how God moved a small band of unimportant unknown, uneducated people from a backwaters part of the Roman Empire and who somehow developed the momentum And forced to become the dominant faith in the empire in just 300 years, reaching even into the life of Emperor Constantine himself, beginning with about a thousand Christ followers in 40 A. D. and over 34 million or 57% of the population by 350 A. D. What can explain this rise of Christianity and this faith movement? In the early part of Acts, you might remember that there was this commitment to prayer. And to relying on the Holy Spirit as they met in the upper room, the 120 uh disciples, uh, and how the Holy Spirit descended upon these apostles and empowered them. And we see how good news was proclaimed and hearts were cut and repentance and conversion of believers were or ha happened and they were baptized into the growing church. And disciples gathered together devoted to the scriptures, devoted to the fellowship, devoted to prayer and to the uh the And we saw there the radical generosity of the early church, the liberal giving giving. And we also saw how it in Justice was corrected with the overlooking of the Grecian uh widows. But we see how people were open and willing uh to correct that and how leaders uh were raised up to provide uh leadership, the ordination of the first deacons. But all of what I just said happened in Jerusalem What was the catalyst, the character that drove the church from being a localized Jewish community anchored in Jerusalem? To being a global international movement around the world. And what was the impact on the places and the cities where they went? Well the question is how did this early church become a global wide world movement? And so this strategy I think we can see in the passage that we'll look at today from Acts chapter 8. Let us consider this passage 1 through 8, that we might discover some of these aspects. And Saul approved of his execution. And this was the execution of Stephen, the first, one of the first deacons. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church, and entering house after house he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. And the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip when they heard him and saw the signs that he did. For unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, crying with a loud voice, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed. So there was much joy in that city. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, Holy Father, the psalmist in wonder asks, what is man that you are mindful of him? And how is it that you crowned him with glory and honor? You think about us all the time. You crown us with glory and honor We are indeed amazed that we unworthy sinners and rebels have been lifted up to the heights of heaven by your love, by your Son, by your Holy Spirit. Would you remind us now of these realities? Would you convict where we need correction? Encourage where we need courage. Clarify where we are confused that we might be renewed and revived and reignited in your grace and love for your calling in the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Name. Amen. There was a splendid fishing trawler, this boat, fishing boat, docked at a seaport near some of the world's richest fishing ponds. or fishing grounds. The large boat was well equipped with everything it needed for netting, for landing, and preserving fish. On a regular basis, the officers and crew gathered for instruction on fishing theory. Afterwards, they discussed With zeal and intelligence of various approaches to fishing. Sometimes they invited professors of the Maritime Biology Academy nearby to offer special lectures. Some maintained that the only way to fish was to anchor and pray that the Lord would send the fish into the nets. Few of the men attended those prayer meetings called for that purpose. Several argued for friendship fishing, noting that fish are easily frightened Others held to the position that it's best to seek out the young ones. Otherwise, they will soon swim away into the deep. In the meantime, day after day, the other fishing boats went out early in the morning and returned at evening loaded with fish. The officers of the crew often analyze the catches of the other boats. Mostly calls easy catches of surface fish, they said. Their boats are not as sound as ours Their nets leak and their engines are not kept up. Their refrigeration systems are bad so that what they catch they can never keep long enough to get it into the cannery. Yet the trawler remained tied to the dock with heavy lines. The engines never roared into life. One day a young crew member was called before the captain and the crew and he had been critical of the continuing educational program and was very frustrated by the ship's inactivity Why do we always sit here tied to the docks? Why do we study fishing theory without going out into the deep? Why do we watch others fish and never fish ourselves? I know other ships are not as well equipped as ours, but isn't what they do imperfectly better than what we don't do at all? Some wanted to fire that young man right on the spot. Others argued caution. And a committee was selected to study the matter. And that was five years ago. Sounds a little Presbyterian, doesn't it? The fact is that many of us struggle with being faithful witnesses. Jesus uh Or Jack Miller, pastor, professor, author, focused on the gospel of grace, said, When I first became a Christian, I was a poor beggar telling other poor beggars where to find bread. Gradually, though, I became an ex-beggar, telling poor beggars to find bread. When our witnessing sinks to this level, we seek not to win others by our welcoming love, but to protect them ourselves from any deep involvement in their lives. But he continues, and he said, the truth is that in our heart of hearts, we all long to be ex-beggars. Self-sufficient, capable human beings, straightening out other people from above. But grace does not work that way. It falls on the fallen, the needy, the broken, the guilty. They have it most abundantly when we raise crippled, bleeding hands to heaven crying out for help that we know we cannot provide for ourselves. And so as we turn to our text and the context of the early church, the question arises as to what the disciples' strategy was for a worldwide expansion of the gospel. What goals and objectives were they systematically executing where they measured their progress by? Well, as you look at Acts, there were none. We aren't given any strategy. The scriptures tell us that while the church was scattered, Throughout the region, the apostles remained. It says, except the apostles, they stayed in Jerusalem. Now, I actually don't think that Luke is suggesting anything wrong with them staying in Jerusalem, but we know that Jesus did give them directives to take the message to Beyond Jerusalem, to Samaria, to Judea, and to the uttermost ends of the earth. But they hadn't moved out yet. But God was moving. God was moving. We have a missionary God who moves out. And here we see God executing his strategy to take the good news beyond Jerusalem to the world And here in Acts 8, God's kingdom strategy is that he is moving to bring relentless gospel joy into the world. Here we see a missional catalyst. We see a missional character, and we see a missional impact. This missional catalyst. What was that in the early church that moved the gospel beyond Jerusalem? It was persecution. It was the persecution that propelled the church to the outward mission. In verse 1 through 4, and there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered. Throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, preaching the word. And Acts 1. 8, Jesus commands his disciples and calls his disciples To go forth, he said, You will be my witnesses. You will receive power and you will be my witnesses through these different regions. But no one went No one went out really, no one really thought about how to bring the gospel beyond Jerusalem. Up until now, there really was no vision expressed within the the fellowship of the apostles to break out over those barriers. There were no great plans for a missionary movement. They didn't make plans to conquer the world for Christ. There was no evidence of people sensing a need To cross barriers and to start preaching the gospel beyond their own culture. There was no Jerusalem missionary movement. There was no vision, no imagination. How could they go forth in this great hostile pagan foreign world? Dick Lucas, a pastor of St. Helens in London, said, What was not done Because of the slowness of the Christians was achieved by the bitter opposition of God's enemies. What light this throws on the extraordinary power of our Almighty God? It is not simply that God uses His friends and their efforts to advance his kingdom, it is just as easy for God to use his enemies. Nothing can alter God's purposes, and often He uses the work of Satan to accomplish them. And now Acts 9. 3, it says Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace. It was strengthened and encouraged by the Holy Spirit. It grew in numbers, living in the fear of the Lord. So God, our God, our missionary God, He is not limited. He can grow the church through times of peace, and He can grow the church in times of persecution. Ajink Fernando, he is uh uh uh from Sri Lanka and he uh was National Director of Youth for Christ there and uh writer of the NIV application commentary He said, Luke is not reluctant to describe the pre-Christian vehemence of his friend Paul He says, I live in a land of turmoil, and I am often concerned for what our children might think about our decision to stay and serve an evangelistic organization here. Thus I na I have naturally wondered what those Christian children would have felt like as they fled their homes in fear or saw their parents dragged off to prison. as we see in in Acts. What has happened to the victorious Christ and the power of his resurrection, they might have thought. Why does God remain inactive, even dormant, while they suffer? Acts keeps unfolding its deep theology on the subtheme of suffering as the book proceeds. God is not dormant. He feels the pain Saul inflicts. Luke gives us a glimpse of the victory of God is going to win out of this seeming uh tragedy. Those who were scattered went about preaching the word. Everett Harrison said the people went out as missionaries more than as refugees. And so we find that this missionary spirit in the church, and we find that what is undergirding it is that they grew in a theology of suffering. They recognize that suffering for the cause of the gospel was inherent to that missionary spirit. But we live in a world that often avoids pain and suffering. It tells us Don't weary ourselves in doing good. Don't get involved in the messy lives of others. Don't set yourself up for hurt and dishes. Don't become vulnerable to people who may betray you. Don't risk, don't invest, don't love. Protect yourself. Avoid suffering. It's not worth it. You know, yesterday when I was hearing the stories of uh Han Su jin and the Harris Creek Church, I was I was struck by just um the temptation that he expressed to just not do this hard ministry. It is hard. Missional work, church planting. It's brutal in so many ways. And you can hear that temptation, but what's driving him, what's sustaining him, what's keeping him, and what's keeping others into those trenches is because they have a God who is with them in this suffering in those trenches. And God is moving. God's normal way of bringing light out of darkness and out of death. uh is uh is is working through the lives of those who are brave. Apologist Tertillian said, kill us, torture us, condemn us, grind us to the dust The more you mow us down, the more we grow. The seed of the is the blood of the Christians. And so that is so true. So we see in the scriptures how God, this missionary God, will work even through persecution to expand his kingdom. We live in a a a time in our com in our country where it seems like there's a darker cloud that's descending over the church and over believers for many different reasons. And so we as a church should not be discouraged by this, but recognize that we have a sovereign God who will even use these dark times as a means to expand his kingdom. But we also see that Christ shows us the missional character of this movement The missional character. And one of the aspects of the missional character was that it was urban-centered. It says that Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. God is an urban strategist. The scriptures begin in the garden, but it ends in the city, the New Jerusalem. If you want to reach the world, you need to go to the cities, the population centers, the centers of culture making the civilization building of economics and educational advancements, the ingenuity and the creativity of arts. I remember some years ago that I went to a conference, a missional conference, and it was in this really far out country center. And uh I I uh was kind of intrigued because I was I I uh by the way, I'm a country boy. Uh I grew up in Field and Streams, Granite, Maryland. And uh thank God I was a country boy. I'm thankful for that. And you know God is in the country and he's He's in he's in the suburbs and but he is in the also in the places where there's the concentrations of people. But I remember this uh teenage uh white country boy with earbuds uh in this country way out far in uh Virginia. And he and what I heard him listening to was urban rap music I think it was fifty cent that he was listening to. And uh I I was I was realizing uh that The technology and communication puts all of us in this global village. The world has gotten much smaller. But it is in the cities that are driving those cultural forms and norms that influence and impact the masses of people. Because of that, and because cities are mainly about centers of people, that is where God concentrates His mission. Clinton Stockwell, a professor of the University of Chicago, says, if we look at the New Testament, we see Jesus went to the cities Towns and villages of Palestine visiting Jerusalem, a city that he wept over. The Apostle Paul adopted an urban missionary strategy of proclamation and presence. A year and a half after in Corinth, three years in Ephesus, in the cities of the Greco-Roman world, Paul traveled to Antioch and to Ephesus, Thessalonica, Athens, Corinth. And finally Rome. Similarly, the Reformation succeeded because it captured the cities. Paul would go to the biggest cities, the chief cities. As a norm. And when he left, he felt like his work was done. Because when you reach the cities, you reach the rest of the regions around them. If you are living or working in Baltimore or in the Baltimore metropolitan region as you are here at Grace Relay, You are part of the urban Baltimore community that Jesus is reaching. And he he is and And he wants to continue to use you as part of his gospel-reaching disciple-making movement. You have been in that movement. Historically, you've been participating in that movement. You've been sending missionaries to other cities. And it is a beautiful thing. And he wants to do that more and more. Our God is a God who is a boundary crosser and a barrier breaker. And so Baltimore is a great place to join God in his gospel missional movement. It's an urban missional movement. My wife Maria wrote the book A Thousand Resurrection. She wrote after 20 years of fleshing out the gospel there. And she says, I didn't know I would witness a thousand resurrections. That church members who struggled to pay rent would adopt nieces and nephews to save them from drug-addicted parents, that a woman who saw a teenage mother roll her baby stroller into an empty house and abandon it would raise that baby as her own. That men who snorted cocaine would get clean and love Jesus, that women sexually abused by their fathers would be healed and would rescue other children. that Muslims from Iraq, atheists from China, and Hindus of Indian descent would find Jesus and encourage my faith. I didn't know that they would be my heroes and friends. I didn't know that they would be braided into my heart. And the character of God's missionary movement is that as we engage that, He doesn't just use us to help transform and bring others in. He transforms us. Our lives become more Christ-like, and we learn more of the character of our Savior But the other part is that the missionary movement, the character of the missionary movement, was not only uh urban, but it was organic. And it says, and they were all scattered. He's talking about the disciples And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, preaching the word wherever they went. He's not talking. The apostles were in Jerusalem. He's talking about all of the other believers, all the other disciples. They were the ones that were scattered, and they were preaching, it says, and they were preaching the word. And so the apostles, they came, they you know the apostles were directing, they were overseeing, they were confirming and correcting and credentialing the uh and overseeing the authentic gospel ministry, but it was the people It was the people in the pews. It was the people in the fellowship that were the evangelists, who were the gossip of the gospel lies or they were gossiping the gospel And it's a wonderful thing, it's a wonderful thing to watch believers who use what they have, even though they think that they don't have anything to offer, but that they are fat Christians. That is that they are faithful, they're available, and they're teachable. And they just use what they have and God takes those little Things that they don't realize that they have such a wealth and he multiplies that. That is the character But the character is not only urban, or organic, but it's also word and deed. And so we see that they're they're preaching the word. Philip goes down to the city of Samaria, proclaims the gospel, and then they heard him and they saw the signs that he did. They saw the signs that he did. For unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, and many were who were paralyzed and lame were healed. And so we see that the gospel, the gospel is not just a gospel of proclamation of word, but in the scriptures this whole word that means uh Joan Galizzo, uh to preach the gospel also means to bring good tidings. That the gospel that is preached is a gospel that is actively, dynamically transforming uh death into life. And so we see these uh these signs of the kingdom. And uh uh Harvey Khan said, Jesus is evangelist in Nazareth The Nazaret Synagogue is the announcement of the Jubilee year blessing. Good news for society's leftovers the et cetera of culture, the poor, the imprisoned, the blind, the downtrodden. He wrote the book Doing Justice and Preaching Grace. And so God engages in that. But we finally see the missionary or the missionary or the missional joy, the impact. of of the gospel. This missionary movement has an impact on the region. And it says, so there was much joy in that city. Joy in that defiant, neverless hope of Christ. That God is a victorious God and He is moving His kingdom forward, bringing redemption. Bringing reconciliation and restoration. And so there was much joy in that city. Yesterday, after this conference I was on my way back home and I get a text message from one of the young men who grew up in our church and who um um investing in as an emerging leader and he says hey Julian is at St. Paul and North Avenue uh playing music. Uh they're doing a 12-hour praise concert And so I said, Well, I've got to see this. You know. And I said, Send me a text, you know. Send me a you know so he gives me this little a a little clip. And uh so I decided I don't care how tired I am, I want to see what these young these young people are doing. And so uh I pull up to uh North Avenue and And uh St. Paul. Now, do you know what's on the corner of North and St. Paul is uh Seventh Baptist Church. And when I first got there I couldn't see where they were, but there's a parking lot behind that block where they were set up, uh this little tent. Uh is there a picture here? Okay. Uh I I should have showed you the bigger picture, but anyhow, on this parking lot were all maybe 30 or 40 uh wooden chairs set out. Maybe there were five people sitting there and they're just playing music and they probably aren't the greatest musicians, okay? And they weren't really attracting any big crowd But they were determined to bring what they had to that center. And uh what was interesting to me was that all the the majority of the leaders that were there just setting up were were also emerging leaders that came out to Tuesday night information meeting on the Metro Baltimore Seminary to try to equip emerging gospel leaders for this region. And they were there. Just giving what they had to the Lord. And after uh, you know, this, um, and here's the church, Seventh Baptist I was told that Seventh Baptist Church has been a church, a historic uh icon church, really in the heart of Baltimore. It's head. Tremendous ministry over the decades. It's I don't know, it was maybe built in like the mid-1800s. Well, I was told that that church is now being uh sold to developers uh to make you know different industries there because the congregation has dwindled to like nothing And this has taken place in many places in our region. Many church buildings are closing down because the churches have not been going out. They haven't been engaging in reaching the lost in their neighborhoods, or they haven't been engaged in reaching the changing demographics. in their neighborhood. And so churches are in decline overall in the USA, and Frank showed this in the slide, that there is a decline Uh and maybe ten percent of of the population would be in church on any given Sunday in two thousand and fifty. It's it's it's and churches are closing up. Uh there are three thousand, there are four thousand churches that are uh being planted right now in the USA, but thirty seven hundred are closing up every year. So there's a three hundred gain, but we are not keeping up with the population growth. And myssiologists say that we need to double that. We need to be planting at least 8,000 churches a year in the United States in our evangelical denominations. But what is the biggest problem for the missionary movement? There's an article called Where Have All the Church Planters Gone? And the biggest issue for the loss of a church-time movement is the scarcity of prepared leaders. The scarcity of prepared leaders, that uh churches uh are all going after the same prepared leaders and there's just not enough of them And so the solution is that it needs to go back to the local churches, which has always been the case And he said that the future will hinge on the vitality and the multiplication prowess of the average local church For us to evangelize the lost and to plant healthy churches, we must return to the centrality of the local church in our church planting endeavors. Healthy Christianity, we would say, are disciples who make disciples. That each one of us should be thinking about where is God calling me to make disciples? Who are the relationships In my community, in my workplace, in my family, that God is calling me to reach out to. And then as those disciples are made and multiplied and the church grows, the church has always got to be thinking, if we're going to be multiplying disciples who multiply disciples, we have to be thinking about multiplying worship centers and churches And so this is basically what uh I'm giving myself to these next hopefully the next decade the Lord uh gives me strength for this mission of Balm But I am excited about uh what God is doing here at Grace Relay. I'm excited about the leaderships uh Pastor Josiah's vision and and desire to equip the body to be reaching the neighborhood and and this area and for his passion also for church planting. And if there's any way that I can serve this body, I want to be uh serving you Let's pray. Lord Jesus, I thank you so much for this opportunity to participate in the worship of this congregation. for the missionary spirit that existed this week and this weekend, for hearing the testimonies of your advancements through the lives of your servant leaders. But Lord, I thank you for this body who have been faithful to you over the decades. Lord, I pray that you would fulfill or fill them with your spirit. uh that you would give them courage. I pray uh that you would help each person in this in this space to know of your uh special love for them and that they would be uh really just compelled uh to be faithful witnesses. God bless a pastor Josiah and the elders and the deacons and all the leaders here, Lord, that they would be encouraged in this This and we commit this to you in Jesus' name. Amen.