And so I'm excited to jump in. We're going to go nice and slow through this letter. So you'll notice in your bulletin, we're just looking at Ephesians 1, 1 and 2. this morning. So as you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to open it up and follow along as we read God's Word. Once you find it, I invite you to stand so that we can honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. Hear now the reading of God's Word from Ephesians one, one and two. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and Peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. To the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for your word that you We don't live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from your mouth. We need to feed Upon your word. We need you to to open our eyes, Holy Spirit, as we read your word, because we would see Jesus. And we pray, O Lord, that as we leave here, we we leave as those who have spent time in the presence of our Savior. We pray all this in your name, Lord Jesus. Amen. Please be seated. Well I I've shared before I I just have an obsession with the Olympics. I I just I love everything about them. I've ever since college I've I've been a worse and worse sports fan every year it seems Just less time to devote to sports. But when the Olympics come around, I find the time to watch the Olympics and and focus on on them. And uh I I like everything about I even look forward to the opening ceremonies, even though I I don't really understand anything from the performances that go on if the announcers don't explain it to me. But I I I just am so excited when it finally rolls around that I I just want to give attention to every detail that that comes out in in those ceremonies. And though those ceremonies are interesting. They tend to set the tone for the whole event. The the host nation uses it to tell a a story of itself. What it what it it helps us to see what it values and where it's come from and and and its history And all of those kinds of things. And so you feel like you miss something if you don't see those opening ceremonies because the host nation thinks that they are important for you to know as you watch these Olympic events. It's kind of similar when you read a new book. I'm one of those people that always likes to read the introduction of a book because you kind of get a summary of what the author is going to say. You get a helpful uh understanding before you get started to know what this book is going to be all about. It's kind of similar with opening greetings in some of these letters. These opening greetings can say a lot, and maybe one of the most surprising things about this greeting is just how brief and short it is. You think of some of the other letters that Paul writes and they go on and on in some of his greetings. And gives all kinds of details and information, and yet this one is so brief. And it's interesting to look at this greeting and see how Paul, in remarkable simplicity, Still manages to touch on the major themes that we'll find as we go through this series in Ephesians. And he gives a truly Christian greeting that, as we'll see as we go through it, really contains the gospel in a nutshell. As we walk through this passage together. So I'd like for us just to make our way moving through these first couple verses, and we'll look first at the author, we'll look second at the audience, and then finally we'll look at the opening greetings. and see what Paul has to say to this church and to us. So let's look first at the author. The author there is Paul. He says it right there, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. We don't need to go too in detail, but that's that's something that's disputed. If you study the the epistle to the Ephesians, you'll notice that that there are many people who want to suggest that someone other than Paul wrote that this letter and um for the first eight eighteen hundred years of the church, no one really questioned it, and yet in the in recent years it's it's become an issue. Those those arguments really don't amount to much. They're not very s uh substantial arguments, I don't think. And of course we come to Scripture knowing that it's in it's the Word of God inspired by the Holy Spirit. And so if it says that Paul wrote this letter, we have every reason to assume that that is the case, because God's word never lies. Paul is the author of this letter. It's important to see some of the background to Paul's life. That's just helpful for us to remember. He's a figure that looms large for us in the New Testament. He's written numerous of the letters that we find in the New Testament. And he's a major subject in much of the book of Acts. And you you'll remember if you studied the New Testament or if you've Read through the book of Acts that he's he's one of these figures. He started out as an enemy of Christ and of his people, persecuting the church. There's the the famous scene there. When Stephen, the first martyr for the faith, is stoned, and there's a man over standing in the corner holding the coats, and it's Saul of Tarsus who we later come to know as Paul. He was there persecuting the church. He was he was rising up quickly in the ranks and actually got a uh permission to go to Damascus to go and further persecute the church to arrest those who were believing in the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet, providentially, on that road to Damascus, Christ Himself appeared To Paul and said in those famous words, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Not why are you persecuting my people, why are you persecuting me? In that encounter, Paul is converted and called to be an apostle, as we find out later, an apostle to the Gentiles, to those who are not part of the Jewish people, because the gospel was going out to all people. in fulfillment of of what the scripture had always said was going to happen. And Paul is is given this calling in his life. And he ministered faithfully for so many years and and towards the end of his life, which brings us to where he is as he writes this letter, he gets arrested and put in prison. He's in prison suffering for his faith in Rome near the end of his life, likely around the time in in the early sixties of the first century, is most likely when this letter was written. And during that time in his imprisonment, he wrote several letters that we've come to know as the prison epistles, things like Colossians, Philippians, Philemon, and Ephesians. But that's a little bit of background on Paul, and yet notice what Paul says of himself as he writes this letter. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. Sometimes when I'm invited as a guest preacher to another church, they want to have me give them a bio, a brief bio, so they can kind of explain who I am. And I I always hate doing that. It feels so awkward. I I just don't like talking about myself very much and it feels so weird to give this description of all the important things about who I am without feeling like you're just kind of tooting your own horn and you know making a big It just feels weird. And so I like Paul's introduction here. It's brief. It's simple. And yet it's it's really profound as you look at it. And he gives two significant pieces of information in that brief statement that help us understand who he is. The first thing he says is he is an apostle of Christ Jesus. Apostle is just the Greek word to to send or to be a messenger. It's actually a generic word, but it's in the New Testament that it's given a specific special meaning. Because in the technical sense, apostles are those who are sent by Christ to be his authoritative witnesses. Charles Hodge in his commentary says that the apostles are men whom Jesus personally selected And sent forth, invested with full authority to teach and rule in his name. This is a specific, limited group of men who were taught by Christ and were eyewitnesses of his resurrection. And in that sense the the apostolic office functions in a a as a temporary office, laying the foundation of the church, not something that continues on, right? We don't have apostles today. Once the apostles died, there's no apostles to succeed. Ephesians two, later in this letter, Paul will tell us that the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Prophets there as those who were inspired to write the Old Testament, and apostles are those who were inspired to write the New Testament, laying the foundation for the New Testament church. So there's no apostolic succession in the way that our Roman Catholic friends might might see it. There's no one that holds the office of apostle. No, we we succeed the apostles and we're heirs of the apostles not by holding their office. But by holding fast to their teaching, the faith that's once for all delivered to the saints. So this is a definite specific group that Paul tells us. This is the office that Paul means when he says He is one of Christ's apostles. He belongs to one of this limited group of people with a specific authority and task and mission. But it's important to see he's he's not trying to make a big deal of himself. In fact, he's emphasizing his role as a servant. To say that he is an apostle is to say that he is a man under orders. He is an appointed ambassador. He has no authority at all in and of himself. All his authority is derived from the one who sends him. Mike Allen in his commentary says it this way. He says the epistle itself suggests that Paul is frankly the least interested. To be an apostle is at its root to be sent by another. Paul names himself as one sent by Christ Jesus. Just notice a couple things that are important for us as we consider that. Think about what this says for our doctrine of Scripture. Paul points beyond himself. That's so important because he certainly is, in a very real sense, the author of this book. He is the human author, and yet he's writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit with apostolic authority. He's writing the very word of God. He's not writing words about God. He's not giving us vague concepts of God. He's writing the very word of God as he speaks in Ultimately, though though he speaks through Paul, what we hear when we read Ephesians is not Paul speaking, but God It's exactly what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 2. He says to them, We also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the Word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the Word of men, but as what it really is. The Word of God, which is at work in you believers. Friends, when you read this book, it's not like you're reading anything else that's out there to be found. In this book, Christ is speaking to you through the words on these pages because it is the Word of God. It helps us understand our doctrine of scripture. It also helps us understand something about the Christian life. Paul doesn't talk about himself, he points to the one who sent him. He sees himself as a servant of Christ who has been sent by him. It's important for all of us to ask the question, do do you, do I live our lives this way? Would those who know you best say that you would rather talk about yourself or rather talk about Jesus? Certainly you and I are not apostles, but as Christians we bear Christ's name and have been sent by him into the world with a mission. Where is our focus, and who do we love to speak about? He's an apostle of Christ Jesus. He's also an apostle, he says, by the will of God. This is a major theme in the letter that he's going to touch on, the idea of the will of God, that God is the one who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Notice Paul doesn't claim his apostleship for himself. He was called to it by Christ himself. When Paul was converted there, he was still regarded as an enemy of God's people and and one of the the the prophets there that God speaks to, a man named Anna. Ananias. He tells Ananias to go and welcome Paul and help him. And Ananias says something to the effect of, what am I, am I hearing you right? Paul Saul, the guy who wants to kill us all. The Lord responds, he says, The Lord said to him, Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer. for the sake of my name. When Paul speaks of his own conversion, he says, you've heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age, among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers. But he who had set me apart before I was born and who called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. You see, friends, Paul wants you to know as you read this, he is not an apostle because he is so clever or because he is so wise. He's not an apostle because He earned the right to become an apostle. No, he says, I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace This is true of Paul and friends, it's true of you and I. We come to faith in Christ only according to the will of God. It's a wonderful promise to us. We don't earn the right to be in God's family. It's only because of the grace of God that we are what we are He's an apostle according to the will of God. This is how Paul introduces himself as the author. But now we need to see who the audience is. He says there in the second half of verse 1 to the Saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. It was a major city in the region region. And Paul had a significant ministry in Ephesus. He spent more time in Ephesus than pretty much anywhere else that he went. went. He ministered there for three years, telling us that that in doing so he declared the whole council of God to these Ephesians here. And and it's amazing to read about his ministry, that it had just such a global reach to it We're told there in Acts nineteen that all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks. What an astounding impact for a three-year ministry. This gives something of the the the reach that a city like Ephesus had as a major center in the the ancient world, that it was a significant area. And it's just also interesting to see the the massive impact that his ministry had. One of my favorite stories about Paul's time in Ephesus is the the riot of the Silver. the people who made their living by selling idols to the goddess Artemis are are no longer able to make the money they used to. They're worried about the the future of their income. And so they have a riot because they're they're worried not just about the honor due to the false god they worship, but about what it means for their wallets. It's a a massive ministry that Paul had in this this city of Ephesus that he's writing to here. But you might notice there there is a question as we come to this this verse Is this to Ephesus or was this written as a circular letter? If you're reading in the the English Standard Version, you might notice there's a footnote there that says some manuscripts say saints who are also faithful. Omitting in Ephesus as if the the verse would say, to the saints who are also faithful in Christ Jesus. There's a few reasons why people kind of question this. One is Some of the best manuscripts we have leave out the words in Ephesus, although the oldest manuscripts we have include it. But there there's not many personal greetings For a church that he spent so much time with, it almost seems odd that there wouldn't be such a heavy emphasis on greet so-and-so. How is this person doing? You compare that with something like Romans, where Paul hadn't even been to, and see the the long list of names that he's reaching out to to encourage people and and get to know them and let them know how he's doing and wanting to hear how they're doing. The oldest manuscripts seem to indicate that this is written directly to Ephesus, but the early church witness seems to agree with that. It's hard to know for certain, but I think probably the best way to lean is to say That likely this was written to the church in Ephesians, that including in Ephesus is the right way to go. It was written to Ephesus, but it was written with the understanding that it was going to be circulated widely, priva primarily because of the the reach that Ephesus had in the world. It was written with the intention to be circulated and shared with other churches and other believers. And so it functions in a general letter in that way, even though it was written to a specific audience. He's writing there to Ephesus, but also to the broader church in in many ways. He's writing, he says, to the saints and those who are faithful in Christ. This is a brief summary of who Christians are. He's emphasizing holiness and faith. The word for saint and the word for holy is just the same word in the Greek. It's as if he said, to the holy ones who are faithful in Christ Jesus. To be a Christian is to be a saint in the sense of being holy. Not that you and I are morally perfect. To be holy, no, it's it's to be set apart and devoted to God. Set apart and devoted to God, to be distinct from the world, but set apart for a purpose in order to devote ourselves to God Himself. He's writing to saints who are faithful. And don't misunderstand it. He's not saying some saints are faithful and others are not. He's writing to the saints, all of whom by definition are faithful. To be faithful is to be a saint. To be a saint is to be faithful, because faithful here should be taken the way Charles Hodge explains it as exercising faith, equivalent to believing. To be a saint is to be set apart and devoted to God, and if that's true, then the distinguishing mark is faith. Mike Allen says in his commentary, Saints are those defined and set apart by their life of trust. Saintliness is shaped by a life of appropriate dependence. You and I live in a world that that prizes individual accomplishment, that those who are independent and and self-sufficient, who who are self-starters and can make a name We we tell people you can do anything you set your minds to. We we live and breathe in these cultural ideas that you and I are sufficient in and of ourselves and and sometimes we can forget how opposed those ideas are to the Christian life, can't we? The saints, the people of God really are, friends, you and I really are strangers and strange people in this world. We joke that God calls us the peculiar people for a reason. Because sometimes we can be a little bit odd, but we really are strange in this world. We don't value the things this world values. We are set apart and devoted to God to live a life of dependent faith in Christ. Our culture values strength and self-sufficiency, and Christians, we glory in our weakness and our dependence on Christ. Does your does your life reflect that? Are you like I am so often trying to do everything yourself and In your own strength, fixing problems all on your own, and when things go wrong, panicking, trying to figure out how you're gonna fix it. Friends, you and I must learn to live in dependence. on Christ. This is such a struggle for us. It's such a struggle for me. God is constantly teaching me to trust in Him that He actually will lead me and guide me and provide for me as He's shown Himself years and years and years to be faithful. It's a constant lesson we must learn, but it's one that we need to always remind ourselves that when we are weak, we can rest confidently because he is strong. Do you embody this life of trust in Christ, this life marked by holiness? This, friends, is what it means to be a saint. to be faithful in Christ Jesus. Holiness and faith go together hand in hand. They can't be separated. You don't get one without the other. This is who Paul addresses, and it's important for us to see that because you and I may not be living in Ephesus. But if you trust in Christ, then all these words in this letter are written for you and I. Something else that's helpful to recognize about the the idea of being in Ephesus, Sinclair Ferguson brings this out in his study. He says, These saints seem to be in two places at once. They are in Christ, but they are also at Ephesus. These two locations frame the whole of Paul's message. In chapters 1 to 3, he's describing what it means to be in Christ. How that has been planned and accomplished. And in chapters four through six, he's describing how to work out this new life while still living at Ephesus. Right, see this is a book for us to teach us how to live the Christian life, what it means to be in Christ and still living in the world, and how do we navigate those things together? We need to know, and how does that truth flesh itself out in our daily lives? How do we understand and rest in our union with Christ while also living out of it, still living in the world? He's writing to the saints who are faithful in Christ Jesus. After addressing his audience, these saints, he gives the greeting we find in verse 2. And it might be tempting to to skip it or to just pass over it briefly because it it actually is a pretty common and standard Christian greeting. In fact, if you read through Paul's letters, you'll find almost the identical words in every one of the letters that he writes. But it actually says a lot, and so it's worth giving a moment to explore what's what's packed into this greeting. He says there in verse 2: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace is God's unearned, unmerited favor. Mike Allen again brings it out. He says, Grace refers to the kindness and the mercy of the Lord towards his people. Right, grace by definition is something that's given to those who don't deserve it. In the following verses, we're going to look at many of the blessings that Paul will say are ours in Christ. And we're going to see that they're given to the praise of his glorious grace. They're given according to the riches of his grace. See, the reason that Paul wishes them to experience grace is because God is a gracious God. Psalm 103 verse 8. The Psalm 103 is probably my favorite passage to use as an assurance of pardon because it's just A beautiful summary of the forgiveness that is ours in Christ and of the disposition and the heart of God for sinners who come to him in repentance. It says there, the Lord is merciful and great. Gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. God, friends, is gracious. Do you do you have this view of God? Do you see him as gracious, as compassionate, as merciful? Or do you see him as more of a disciplinarian, just kind of waiting for you to step out of line so he can punish you and set you straight? Of course, God disciplines us. We're told he disciplines those he loves because he loves us. It's part of his loving, gentle correction for us. But friends, what what difference would it make in your life if you saw God as Truly gracious. What freedom, what joy would you experience knowing deep down that God doesn't merely tolerate you? That He doesn't merely put up with you, but He delights in you. That in Christ you are forgiven, you're reconciled to him, you're accepted in his sight. He sets his love and his favor upon you as his child. God is gracious. How would that think about the way you you view obedience? Not trying to keep the rules in order to earn it to earn his love, but free to follow him because you already have his love. You didn't do anything to earn it. You can't do anything to lose it. Wouldn't you long to please such a God as that? A God you never have to fear will send you away or cast you off in a rage, even when you fail, knowing you're safe and secure in his arms, because he loves you and is gracious. Friends, this is the blessing when Paul has in mind when he says, grace to you. It's not just filler. It's not just fluff that he wants you to pass on. It's not just saying, Hi, good to see you. No, grace to you. That is the substance of the Christian life to rest in the gracious love of our gracious God. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on grace to you and peace. The Old Testament peace is the idea of the word shalom, right? Not just the absence of discomfort or the absence of hostility, but wholeness of life. Everything as it was meant to be. Life as it was meant to be lived. Won't go into a ton of detail here because we're going to see the dimensions of this piece as we go through this study together. But part of the things he's going to draw out is that in Christ we have peace with God, and therefore we ought to have peace with one another. Christ Himself is our peace. He'll tell us in chapter 2, He's the one who came and preached peace to those who were far off and peace to those who were near. He brings the wholeness that we long for, the wholeness that we need in our lives. See, friends, Paul wants to see grace and peace go hand in hand, just like holiness and faith. Those who know the God of grace can experience the peace that He offers. That's why He says grace and peace are from God the Father. And the Lord Jesus Christ. They are bound up in Christ who brings us to God and who enables us to call him our Father. Grace and peace to you. And yet in just two short verses, did you notice that there's one name repeated three times? Paul is an apostle of Christ Jesus. The saints are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace and peace come from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. See one reason that this letter is somewhat general in its uh greetings and And tone is because the focus of Ephesians is not on Paul. The focus of Ephesians is not even primarily on the Ephesians. No, the focus is on the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one that we serve. He is the one that is the king and head of his church. He is the one who we are joined to by the Holy Spirit. He is the one who is the object of our faith. You see, friends, we don't just have faith in the abstract. Our faith is always directed at something, and Christian faith is faith in Christ. Trusting in him, as we confess, a receiving and resting upon him alone, as he has offered to us in the gospel. Think of it in uh I like to use that illustration of a parachute, right? You might look at a parachute and say, I I understand that that is designed to save me if I jump out of an airplane. That's good. That's not saving faith. You could even go a step further. I believe that if I jumped out of an airplane, the parachute would save me. That's a better step, but it's still not what we mean when we talk about saving faith. No, saving faith is putting on the parachute, putting all your hopes that it's going to save you and jumping out of the plane. That is what it means to have faith in Jesus Christ. Friends, do you have this faith? There are so many things in this life that desire your trust. Money offers the promise of security. Other people can give genuine guidance and help. We even want to turn to ourselves at times, but everything else in this life will let you down. It will leave you empty and without help, without hope. People will let you down. Money can be lost and you can't take it with you. But friends, Christ will never fail. He is the one who is able to save to the uttermost all who come to God through him. Even when your faith is weak, friends, you can rest confidently in your faith. strong savior. Because you're not saved by the quality of your faith. You're saved by the object of your faith. You're not saved by the by the the strength of your faith, but by the one you place your faith in. Even when we fail to live holy lives, and when we constantly we fail to constantly walk by faith in Christ, there is still grace and peace for us who are in Christ. Friends, if you're not trusting in Christ this morning, come to Him. Put your faith in Him. Receive the grace and the peace that He offers, the undeserved favor of God and the wholeness that He gives. As we'll see, everything good that we have is only ours in Christ. Paul's going to trace that out at length and in Friends, as we continue this study in Ephesians, my prayer for you is that you will come to know more deeply the grace and peace. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you. You have sent your Son. To preach peace to us. You sent your spirit to effectually call us so that we might live and abide in that peace and the grace that are yours, that are ours in you. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for the life that we have in you, for the hope that we have in you. We pray that you would help us to live these lives of dependent faith, pursuing holiness, longing to serve you and love you all the while, living in a deep, profound Found experience of the grace and peace that are ours in Christ. We pray all this, Jesus, in your name. Amen.