Your leadership of worship. It's a joy to be together. It's a joy to see you this morning. And recognition that uh this is the family that God has given us. And that's actually the focus that uh we're going to look at this morning. If you haven't had a chance to look at uh Romans chapter twelve through this week, I would encourage you to to look at it, to read it. um reflect through it over the next couple weeks. We're going to sort of camp out in this particular chapter for a little bit and uh we're still going to keep on the theme that we've been following of one anothering. But there's a lot of one anothering in this text. So I I couldn't do it all in one week. I'm just gonna stick with it and um uh keep looking at it as But there's another thing I want to do, and that is I want to recognize that we are uh approaching the Easter season. So I want to pull some uh some historical theology, some biblical theology and i around this text. Uh and uh so there's going to be a lot of uh pieces that I hope to uh weave together. Uh maybe the colors and the hues come out almost as interesting as my shirts uh that I wear. I don't know, but I I hope I can do that because uh God's word is just rich. Uh it's rich and it weaves around our lives and it weaves in our lives. So I want to read this morning and I'm going to ask as you st that you stand as I read from Romans chapter twelve. Romans chapter 12 is the word of the Lord. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Don't be conformed to this world but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you might discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to every one among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment. Each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Prophecy in proportion to our faith. The one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Let love be genuine. Abhor what's evil. Hold fast to what's good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Don't be slothful in zeal, but fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in Bless those who persecute Bless and don't curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Don't be haughty, but associate with the lonely. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it's written, Vengeance is mine. I will repay, says the Lord. Lord. Don't be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Let's pray. Father, would you cause your good presence Your good spirit to come upon us today. We want to see Jesus. We want to lift him up. We want to leave this place recognizing that you have called us into your family. So, Father, be with us. Let us hear your voice. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. The central text that we're going to look at uh this morning is the tenth verse. sort of the um again the pivot point uh that i i want this text to revolve around. Uh love one another with brotherly affection. Now the Greek of that brotherly affection might also be translated something like family love. So I want you to think about families and family. We're going to start there. Because that's the that's the the meaning that is given to And everything else revolves around first that word. Verse ten gives us another piece of that. But but the first here is family love. What is it about family love? Well I'm a grandfather. I remember when my children first arrived in the family, and I remember when my grandchildren arrived in the family and And some of you can remember when your children and your grandchildren arrived in the family. And some of you may look forward to the time when they come, and some of you may be looking at your children and thinking I'm looking forward to them growing up. So, you know, but that's the point. That is exactly the point. When we are in the family, there are multiple times. I don't know how you guys manage changing two diapers at the same time. Uh there is a unique challenge in that. But here's the point. Family love doesn't look at an infant and look at that infant and say, Hey kid, grow up, take care of yourself. We take care of it. How does that child grow into family love? How does it happen? Well, it doesn't happen overnight. Uh you know, we're we start to celebrate spring this time of year and those little buds uh that were just you know, little swellings on the end of a uh of a stick. Uh they burst into a flower and eventually those flowers may turn into The leaves, or they may even turn into fruit, depending on what kind of tree it is. So there's growth. And the same thing happens in a family. So when we look at this word, this idea of family love Uh it's not a completed thing. It's a process thing. And we've got to understand that that's what it is. We sometimes look at each other and look at the church and think, hey, you know, you've got to be better. We look at ourselves in the mirror, how to be better. But I'm not. And and and we look at each other and it hasn't happened yet. It's not fully happened. So what is it? Now let's take a little step back, because as I said, we are going to enter, we are entering now Holy Week or a anticipation of the coming uh of Easter and every all the events that preceded Easter, the death, the resurrection of Christ. And around Christ, in his death and his resurrection, were these people like us called disciples. Now think about the disciples' family love. Love for each other. They competed with each other, they accused each other, they betrayed each other. Right up to the end, they ran away from each other. But something happened. Something happened. And when that something happened, they had not only had each other's backs, but they still continued to bicker That just you know get your get your head and your arms around that a minute because we're not significantly any different than the disciples the New Testament. We're still broken people. And we're still growing. As old as I get, I'm still gonna grow, I hope When I watch my mother at ninety-eight, growth seems to have stopped. But we celebrate even the occasional day. That she can smile. That there's a little flicker of recognition of who's around her. We celebrate even those days. And so in our human lives, there's a growing advantage Diminishing. There's a rise and a fall. And that's really what we need to look at this morning. What I want you to look at with me as we look at this. What changes other than age? What changed for the disciples other than the fact that they were just longer? with Jesus. There were some things that did change. And and I want you to look at the pieces that go into that kind of a change. Because the disciples first simply had to come to a recognition that they belonged together. There was a sense of belonging, a sense of dwelling in the same spirit. So if you think about the uh the history of the disciples as they come to this, uh they didn't first compete uh even after the resurrection, though they gathered in The upper room. They had gathered in the garden. They had gathered in after the g after the upper room where the Lord's uh Where the Last Supper was celebrated, they gathered in the garden. After after the death, before they even knew about the resurrection, they were gathered in one place again So there was this sense of belonging. Well was it more than just a disciple club? I it was hard to read. It's hard to know who was there, but they gathered again at Pentecost. And we know that there weren't just twelve, there were at least 120. So the sense of belonging was there, and it clearly was growing. The sense I need to be there. It's something we have lost doing Zoom Having to worship at distance, and we're beginning to pull that back together again. I'm thankful uh that we can still be with a people even uh even through Zoom, e even through uh whatever means or platform we're able to get where we can worship together. Mm but the difficulty if you've ever worshipped and I think all of us have worshipped at distance is you see a screen, you may see the person in the screen, but you don't get to see You don't get to engage in everybody's life in the same way. You can't hear all their words in the same way. So there's this sense of gathering that belongs in this text. And and and let me pull it out. That belonging uh i is is like is like two socks that match or two shoes that go together. And so when God says uh uh through what through the Apostle Paul Oh here. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice If that's not the beginning, then there is no beginning. We have to begin with that. That sense of sacrifice, it's a sacrifice that we see, we receive. from Christ Himself. And that's the core of what makes us in the church a family, the sacrifice. And that's why some of our human families break down. Because we're not willing to sacrifice. And sometimes fathers and mothers aren't willing to sacrifice sacrifice. Every they expect everybody else to sacrifice. But as part of that growing spirit, isn't it also for children to say, wait a minute, I'm not supposed to be sacrificed. sacrificing here. I'm supposed to be being given to. It's my mother's responsibility to do my laundry. It's my mother's responsibility to clean my room. Is it really? Uh well w what do I do for my mother? I'll either wait for till she's old and then I'll take care of her. Really? So so this idea of sacrifice Sacrifice is at the center of what it means to be family, whether it's in our human family or whether it's in our spiritual family, the church. And whether it's in a congregation as a spiritual family or a much wider congregation, which is the church outside of these four walls, sacrifice, it's the center. Be transformed, the next verse tells us, by the renewal of your mind that you might discern what is the will of God So belonging to each other and the body of Christ is to recognize that we have differences. It's that discernment. We are transformed, we discern what is the will of God. Uh and then we recognize that there's a diversity of gifts. So we are different. We we we're not this is not about a sameness Uh if any of you have mismatching socks, then you belong to the family of my grandson. On the on the on the way to church this morning, uh I saw a woman running and she had one black sock and one white sock I thought, oh yeah, that's that's Damien's sister. And Damien's sister does the same thing. And she looks down at her feet, well, why do my socks have to look alike? Uh I can't wear two right shoes. I have to have a right shoe and a left shoe. So they but they go together, don't they? Now maybe I could wear one shoe that's black and one shoe that's brown, one left, one right. I don't know if any of you would notice it or not. But but there it is. Some things go together and they have to be different. In the family we have to recognize We are both different, and yet we belong together. So belonging begins there. It begins with sacrifice, it begins with a recognition of identity. uh that is inclusive of difference. We are not in the church or in the family of God, we are not of one race, we are not of one economy, we are not of one education, we're not one any of those things. We don't live under one roof. But we are one in Christ. There's a unique oneness, and it begins by this sense of belonging, of sacrifice. Secondly I want you to think about when Peter and John run to the tomb. There was a a sort of a dawning on them. I you know, I d uh the sense when you read that is that they were competing and one was a faster runner than the other. They both hurt at the same time. They both run down. They both get in there, but one beats the other And and and and if you've ever read that text trying to you know get into their shoes uh or into their socks, uh then then you'll have this sense that when they left the tomb they were both one. Wondering what in the world is going on? Together they wondered that. What is going on. Together, at all probably almost the same time, they began to recognize that actually they believed in the same thing. Something had happened to them. So what that something is, is that they began to believe together. Now believing also isn't a simple yes-no process. I believe it, I don't believe it We grow in our belief, and our faith is challenged, and sometimes we find our faith, our belief, actually begins to be challenged, and we step back. When that happens, we need other people to come around us and remind us of God's glory, of God's truth, of God's love, of God's faithfulness. So our believing together becomes a second step. And that's what had to happen to the disciples. There was Mary. It was Mary who goes also. And she looks at a man and says Thinking as the gardener, where have you put it? She begins to play a narrative in her mind that wasn't even true until she heard her name. Mary And then she knew who he was. So there's a sense of of growth in our belief. We do believe together. We may believe in the same thing. So though we though many, verse five says, are one body in Christ individually we're members of each other. We believe that. There's something that's core in that. It's not just that we gather in the same place we We see each other's face, but we recognize we are diverse people that belong to one body and come to one Lord and one Master. There is something deeper than the color of our skin, than the way we spell our names The way that we've gone to school, there's something deeper that says we are one family. And it's not because we've all arrived at the same level. We haven't. That's the whole point of the family language. We're not all there. We're in different stages of our growth, our growth of belief, our growth of trust, our growth of understanding each other And we still better. That's the reality. That's the reality of the church, that's the reality of the family. I I was reflecting on this Um yesterday this text, this message, and I talked with my daughter Hannah, who was having a particular day, difficult day with her three children, all of whom were not happy about family love. Uh I I think that might be the best way to say it. And all of you can fill in the details. And I was burdened for her. Because it's a heavy piece. as a parent, to look at your children and to hear harsh words and and think how do I How do I get them to shift? How do I how do I get them to believe the things that I hold dearly How do I move in their hearts? Maybe you have grandchildren, and you're looking down the generations thinking, how do I help my grandchildren to believe? That they might belong in this family. This family that doesn't just have four walls. This family has many walls. And this family that God has called to take the walls down and to put together. How do we get them to believe together? It does mean sharing a meaning and even sharing a greater identity. That identity of who we are Uh I don't know in your individual families what your family narrative is, what your family history is. But for all of us, uh, if you know it, you can trace I know that my grandfather came from Germany. You can look at my last name and guess that, right? That's not a uh particular mystery. Um and uh and if my name was um Einstein, which is My father went to another country and my father was born in Japan. And you say, Well, you don't look very Japanese. Uh well that's true. So so my looks don't betray what where my father was born. And that raises the question of history. And so there's something in our our believing together that says it's more than just my history. the history my physical history, but my physical history is a part of it. I have to believe not only where I've come from, where I am, but where I'm going. That's what I'm trusting in. And where I'm going is not the same place I came from. That's what this text is about. Be renewed by the transformation of your mind. So that's what I believe in. Am I there yet? No. Is my mind fully transformed? No. Do I struggle with unbelief? Yes. Do I struggle with temptation? Yes. Does that mean my mind's not transformed? No. It means it's being transformed. And that's what I believe In that God in Christ is putting his arms around me and moving me to a different place. He's endued me with the spirit inside, and he's changing me to be somebody different. That's what I believe in. And that's what that was the process of the disciples, but they needed something more. And that is they finally had to become together. So you remember what happened. The disciples, there were two disciples, we didn't even know who they were, were walking on the advanced road after the resurrection, struggling in their faith Right? They were together, same time, same place. They that there was this sense of belonging together. They were going home to their village. They believed together, but they were sure struggling with their belief. What in the world happened? And this stranger comes and joins them. He says, What are you talking about? Haven't you heard the things that have happened? What things Oh come on. How can anybody be around here not know what happened? Until you sat with them and broke bread. And then they knew that Christ Jesus was in their midst. At that moment They had become a family. There was something that was unique that happened to them. They had experienced the presence of the walking of Christ with them both. And even though it was a journey, they tried Turned around and ran back to tell the t other disciples. Because they had become one. There was something that these others needed to hear, needed too Yes. So we become at some point. We grow at some point together. At some point we begin to share each other's burdens. And you take that story just a little bit longer. And you recognize that when during the ascension, Jesus looks at his disciples, now gathered many before him. We don't know how many. And he gives to them a common task that was an impossible task. Go into all the world. What? The few of us? Yes, go. But but we struggle with unbelief. We struggle with each other. We struggle with these things. I know. Jesus. Could have said, I want you to go, though. And in that going, they became one family. So it's finally in our task that God And this chapter is full of those tasks. Whether it's verse 12, rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant. This is not a list of aloneness. This is a list of togetherness. Contribute to the needs of the saints. I somebody hasn't has a need, I have something I can. There's a sharing. I begin, but I begin to grow, and when I grow, I understand. Understand and I begin to walk. And that walking in Christ is family love. There's a lot more different kinds of love, but if we can't love in a family love, if we can't understand each other as Children, teenagers, young adults, older adults, old adults. Then we don't understand the family We are growing. We are growing together. And it's together that we need Jesus calls us together, and I'm thankful that he gives us the table. Supper. Because it's at this point that we recognize, and the same thing happened with the disciples, when Jesus gathered them in the upper room. He called them together, they were together, but even there they were victimized. Who is the most important? Who's going to betray you? All of those dynamics are present in that first And final supper. We st still have them today. They're different levels. We might not say the same things at the They said, we might not express them out loud. We might just have them in our hearts. But with the family. And and God said, I want you to know that you belong together. I want you to grow in that belonging together. I'll give you my son. Not just remember those that are not with you. You probably can remember them, right And you wonder well w what happened to them and their brotherly love, their family love. For a moment I want you to um to do this before we take the table. Look around. Turn your heads and look around.