Good morning, Grace Church. Good morning. It's a joy to be here this Lord's Day. I'm Pastor Stong. Some of you may not know me. We'll talk about that in a second. But uh if you have a Bible you can stand. We're gonna is the scripture gonna be here? We're gonna read the scripture, John chapter twelve, verses one to eleven. Do we post the scripture or is it just your Bible? 1143 in your pew Bible. And if you have a Bible, you can turn into it. ESV translation. I can just read it. And you can stand and listen to the meaning of God's Word. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus. And wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judah Iscariot, one of his disciples, he who was about to betray him. Said, why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? He said this, not because he cared for the poor. But because he was a thief and having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me. When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well. Because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away in believing in Jesus. God's word, let's pray. Lord, I thank you for this portion of your word. Help me to be faithful, Lord, to communicate it. And we'll give you glory for what you'll do as the word sinks into our lives, our hearts to change our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. And you may be seated My initial title for the sermon was gonna be Mary and Judas, but then as I was looking at it I changed my title and it's a crazy title as you can tell. How many of you remember the movie Guest Who's Coming to Dinner? How many remember that movie? Okay. In this passage, we look we look at some people who were around the table. They came to this dinner party. And that's a fascinating dinner party. We see it in John 12. That was one reason why I chose that title. But there's another reason. Let me go to the other reason first, a smaller reason, but then we'll get to the main reason. This message brings a brand new season in life for me and for you. Grace Church. My interim status begins today, in case you didn't know, in case you can't read or haven't been listening. And I'm e excited that this new season has begun. Some of you know me too well, like Joan over there. Too well. Some of you don't know me Harley at all. Some of you don't know me. And um some things are very evident about me, even as I stand before you as someone who maybe you have never seen before. One, I'm a male. I'm a man. And that will that I will try not to make that impact my preaching. I will try. Two, I'm what the old the young folks call an OG. I'm 66 years old. I'm old. Now some of you that might not be old. I don't know, but that my kids remind me, you're old. Three, if you look very carefully, I got something on my finger. It's it's a ring. I'm married. That impacts my preaching, hopefully. Fourthly, and this is the main one I want to talk about right here, I I'm what what's been called a POC. I'm a person of color. Okay? That's the elephant in the room, isn't it? I mean, in in my life, that is right now. Pastor Sam, where are you going? I'm going to be Grace Relay Church. Grace Relay? Yeah, Grace Relay. Yeah. The movie Guess Who's Coming to Dinner was a movie about a a uh a interracial couple, a document woman who who wanted to get married and and he wanted to meet the parents and have the parents blessing and vice versa. It's 1967 or 68, Sidney Portier, and Catherine Hepburn and Tracy, Spencer Tracy. Classic movies a black and white movie. No pun attended Great movie. Go check it out. I guess it's probably on Netflix. I don't know. But but but the movie comes uh in the the tension of race. which is was back then and still is a major issue in our world. Now be be assured that though the the the identity markers that I've talked about um are are all important to me. Yes, I'm a male. Yes, I'm married. Yes, I'm a person of color. Yes, I'm an OG, but but that is not the most important identity marker for me, and I hope it isn't for you, whatever your ethnicity. 1 Samuel said, man looks at the outward appearance, but God looks at the heart. Remember that verse? I am a child of God. Saved by the grace of God through the blood of His Son Jesus Christ. And I hope you will find that all those other identity markers, as important as they are in our lives, Are insignificant compared to the truth that we are children of the living God. Amen? That which is true of me, I hope is true of you. God sees and recognizes and has given us gender And identity, an ethnic identity, and and and our age. That's all part of who we are. We shouldn't run from them, but we shouldn't major in them. More importantly Is the fact that God is looking at our hearts. 2 Chronicles says this: the eyes of the Lord run to and fro through the whole earth to give strong support to those whose heart is blameless toward him. So guess who's coming to dinner? It's me, a black man in your pulpit. You'll we'll get to know each other. I hope you'll get to appreciate each other. But again, the passage today we see another thing because the main thing here is there's a dinner party that's going on, you see. And again, the passage reminds us that the hearts are important. How we respond to Jesus reveals the nature of our heart. It reveals the spiritual condition of our heart. And that's what we're driving at this morning as we look at this passage. My outline is pretty simple. Jesus demands decision, you see, and we're going to look at the characters, we're going to do the contrast, and then I'm going to give you some reminders. Okay? In this text, we're going to see very different responses by two people in particular. Last week in chapter 11, uh Brother Eric uh Pointed out that this is a hinge chapter in John's Gospel. It's a hinge. John's Gospel, most scholars believe, was written after the other three Gospels. And so those stories are pretty well known. And John says, there's some stories that you need to know as well. So he kind of fills in some of the stories, repeats a few, but gives some stories that the other gospels writers didn't give us. And and and so and he does that very quickly. And then here in chapter twelve he begins to slow down. From twelve to twenty-one. A little over a week. It's not that long. A couple weeks. Uh he's gonna slow down. And the the la I mean one one almost w half of the gospel is that last week. Because that this is particularly the upper room discourse, upper room teaching. John wants us to have that, the last words of Christ. So The gospel is grinding down to a slope. He's zooming in. And he's selecting stories. In fact, at the end of the book, he says, look I could have given you a lot more stories. In fact, the libraries of the of the universe couldn't hold all the stories about Jesus. He says, but these are written that you may believe. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. All the stories of the Gospels are for that purpose, that we might believe and receive Jesus Christ, because Jesus demands decision. First of all, let's look at the characters at the party. The characters at the party. There's six of them in my highlight, but four of them are my first point. Who's at this dinner party? Well, character number one, we'll look at verse one. Six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany. Jesus is my first character He's the guest of honor in one sense. He usually is. Whatever wherever Jesus is there, he's the guest. He's the main person in the story. We know that. It's a week before Passover. The Jewish Passover season. They're excited. Bethany is a kind of two miles from Jerusalem. It's a little suburb of Jerusalem, a little village suburbs of Jerusalem. Um and of course Lazarus was there. Bethany was where he lived. And he points to the previous chapter. Jesus had raised Lazarus from the dead. The second character is this man Lazarus. Lazarus! We were introduced to him again in the previous chapter. Um the the dinner is in one sense for him. It's for him. It says Martha served, Lazarus the one of those reclining at him at the table. John, as you know, was the one who often liked to re And recline next to Jesus on his breast. Remember that? Well, apparently on the other side, this party was Lazarus. Lazarus, a close friend of Jesus. In fact, chapter 11, I'm sure you might have reviewed this a few weeks ago. We learned about Lazarus. He's introduced by John in chapter 11, verse 1 to 3. He says, a man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany. village of Mary and her sister Martha. So they're de- d that's the family. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. Now now John says that in chapter eleven Even though it's going to talk about it in detail in chapter 12. So he's sort of he's saying the story was out there. People knew that story. But he's not going to get to the story until chapter 12. So here he is in chapter 11. He says, this is the one you heard about, the woman who anointed Jesus. I'll talk about that in a minute. That's what he's saying here. So he gives that little aside there in chapter 11, verse 2, pointing to the fact that this Mary Lazarus and Martha and Mary is that one that anointed uh the Lord Jesus. So again, Lazarus, we took we learned about Lazarus there, but the main thing I want you to see is 11. 3. 11. 3. The sister said to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. Lazarus and Jesus. He knew that Jesus loved him And they loved each other. They had a real relationship, just as Martha and Mary, that family was a very important family in Jesus' life. Okay? So, Jesus is the guest of honor, 1A. The 1B guest is Lazarus. Think about what has happened here. He is an instant pop culture hero. He's the man who was dead for four years and Jesus raised. Think about it. People want to see this dude. They want to see him, they want to hear him you know, uh I don't think he wrote a book like uh what I did when I was dead like people do today. I I don't I don't think he did that. He could have, but he didn't. But people want to see this man that uh was dead for four days and was now alive. Period Now, character number three, the verse two says, so they gave a dinner. Who gave this dinner? Okay. Now we have to look at a the parallel passage in Mark. You read Mark chapter 14, verses verse 3. Because it's the parallel passage you'll see. He says, while he was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper As he was reclining at table, a woman came with alabaster flask of ointment pureonard. Very costly, she broke the flask and poured it over his head. So that's the same incident, the same event. And so this is the house, this is not, maybe this is next door, maybe it's down the street from Lazarus' house, but this is the house of Simon the leper. Now think about it. Think about it. Really, technically, it's probably Simon the former leper. Because if he was a leper, wasn't nobody going to that party? Amen. Okay? Obviously Simon had been healed. He's the host of the big dinner party. People actually show up. Lots of people show up. So I don't know if if Mary and Martha had a catering business, but these are come help me get some food. Okay? So they're helping him. And they're all excited because the people are coming to see Jesus and to see Lazarus, the man-dead man who's now walking. Character number three is Simon, the former leper. Character number four. You saw her in verse two. Martha. Martha. This is Mary's sister, Lazarus' sister. It says in in verse 2, they gave a dinner for him. Martha served. Lazarus of the one reclining at the hymn table. She was there in the previous chapter, yes. She runs to meet Jesus. Talk about that the last few weeks, I'm sure. And we're told there that Mary stayed at home. Martha went to him with the hope that Jesus would heal her very sick brother, Lazarus. And so she has a conversation with him, and Jesus tells her that he is the resurrection and the life, and that anyone who believes in him will never die. He says, do you believe this? She says, yes, I believe in the resurrection. I believe in the resurrection. He said, no, I'm the resurrection now. It's going to happen now. And she said, I believe that you are the true Messiah, the Christ, the Son of God. So she's the one who's serving. Now, if you know your Bible, you know Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10, where Mary and Martha are there. And it says this. If you don't know your Bible, it says this. As they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. Probably Bethany doesn't say here. A woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. She had a sister Mary who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. She's serving. Just like in John 12, she's serving And she went to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. The Lord answered, Martha, Martha, you're anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. So now Martha is assisting Simon, the host, hopefully the host, she's serving again. By the way, whether it's done by a man or a woman, the gift of serving is much needed. It's a great gift. God dignifies acts of service. Jesus said that he came to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many service. It's high in the heart of God. If God's giving you gifts of service, a desire to serve, and meet people's basic needs of food and clothing and shelter, do it with joy. As unto the Lord. If your gift is a serving gift and not a speaking gift, guess what? God will evaluate you on judgment day on how you served, not on how you spoke. Think about it. 1 Peter 4 talks about different types of gifts, speaking gifts, serving gifts, leading gifts. So anyway, so Martha is assisting Simon, the leper Now, there's two other people at this dinner, guests at this dinner. This is my second point. I'm going to look at the contrast between these two Because I think this is the primary thing that John wants us to understand about this dinner party. There's two people there, Mary and Judas. Mary and Judas. So character number five is Mary. Mary is the fifth character at the party. And again, she's a sister of Lazarus and Martha. You know, uh again, Luke 10 and Luke John 11, she shows up. Interesting thing about those passages. First, in Luke chapter 10. We saw that she was sitting at the rabbi's feet, listening. Don't run past that That's very, very radical in that day. Sitting at the rabbis' feet was a task that only men did Working in the kitchen was a task many women did. Jesus is teaching her. Just with the twelve. The twelve and others, and the others include women. Look at Luke chapter 8. So the the teaching role, the listening role, learning theology, learning from the master is not just something for the men to do And and and so yes, he's chosen the better portion. He's not again, Jesus does not minimize serving role, but he's he's saying there's also a listening and learning and theological role for women as well. Whatever that means. in our context. That's the first thing. She's at his feet learning. And the second thing is interesting if you look at chapter 11, glance back at chapter 11. Verse 32. She runs to Jesus. She hears that Jesus is dead. And Jesus is coming, but he came late. He was late. He was, you know. And so she runs and she's look- she's frustrated. And she comes, she falls at his feet Jesus if you'd been here my brother wouldn't have died. And they have that they have they have a conversation. And someone has noted that uh in those two episodes as well as in this episode there's something about she's always at the feet of Jesus. Jesus. In in in in in chapter ten, she's listening at his feet. In in chapter uh chapter ten of Luke, in chapter ten of John, she's she's praying at his feet. Here in chapter 12. She's worshiping at his feet. She's worshiping at the feet of Jesus. She washes him with extensive nards, perfume. One commentator Milney says, Nard is an oil-like perfume extracted from the root and spike of the nard plant, grown in India. It's from India. He says it's definitely not one of the low quality brands sold at the Bethany supermarket. So that's why it's so expensive. It came from a long way away. And she used it. And it was often used for um for for dowries. It was often used in burials. It was used for special occasions where something special was needed. Expensive. It's quite an investment to have some of it. This remind gee so one what am I s one of the things I'm saying here There's two passages in the Gospels, two stories in the Gospels of women who washed anointed Jesus. One is in Luke chapter 7, and then there's these other three episodes. And we believe that there are two different events, two different women. There's some people they kind of think it's all one. In Luke chapter 7, if you just read it sometime, Luke chapter 7 is clearly a woman who's a sinner woman. She comes from the streets, and and you don't even think she maybe she doesn't even know Jesus, but she just blasts into that party. This is not that Jesus knows this woman. He knows her. So I believe there's two different incidents. She is not the sinner woman from the streets. She's the one who Jesus knows that family and knows her, and she's worshiping at his feet. and uh anointing his head with oil, his feet. Calvin says that uh some some have asked the question, the the discrepancy. Some say, did he anoint his her hair? or his hair or or or feet. And Calvin said the whole body wasn't on it down to their feet. By the way, they were they were they were at a table, they were reclined, the tables below, they they were laid, their feet would behind them. Have you seen last supper uh uh pictures of the the kind of at a table. They weren't at a large table. They were a low table. The tables were low and you would you would eat with one hand and you'd you'd lay you you'd be you'd be laying down, basically. And that's the way it was. And uh So the fifth character, Mary, is is this one who anoints Jesus. We'll come back to that. And then the sixth character. Is Judas. Judas. We see him in verses 4 to 8. There's a few verses about him. Let me read those verses again. Judas Iscariot. He says, but, contrast, Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples. He who was about to betray him. He says, why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? That's a year's wages, 300 denarii. And then John tells us the whole story. He didn't care about the poor. He was a thief. Judas Iscariot. Iscariot is probably his hometown. He was the only disciple that was not from Galilee, the northern region. He's from the southern region. A little town called Iscariot, scholars believe Um his role he he was the designated treasurer for the role for the the among the apostolic band. He carried the money bag. It's quite interesting when you think about the fact that uh Matthew was a tax collector. He was probably good with money too. How didn't Jesus pick Matthew? Interesting. His origin, his role, his sin, dipping into the money bag. Notice Jesus' incredible, gracious response to Judas. He always does this. Jesus gave Judas many chances to repent. For three years, think about it. While Judas is stealing from the bag. I wonder if the other disciples or the other women who were around even had a hint of what was going on there. Were they ever suspicious? His death may be no is he was he betrayed Jesus. He shed tears of shame. He committed suicide, sadly. And eternal punishment. He went to his own place, the scriptures say. It's a very important note here on just poverty. Some people look at this verse here. Jesus said, the poor will always have you with you. Verse um eight. Is Jesus predicting that that poverty's okay? Don't worry about it? Is that what he's doing? No, that's not what he's doing. In fact, the something he's citing even part of Deuteronomy chapter 15, verse 11, where it says, For there will never cease to be poor in the land. That's what Moses said in God said through Moses in Deuteronomy. But the next part of the verse says this. He says, You shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy, and to the poor in your land. The fact that there are poor people and there will always be poor people doesn't mean therefore we shouldn't worry about leviating poverty. It means Jesus says, get to work. Get to work. Open your your heart and your hands to those in need. It will never be accomplished fully. That doesn't mean we don't try. We don't seek to do that. That's another sermon. The Bible focuses on our responsibility to the poor, not on their inevitable existence. Now, Judas and Mary, Judas and Mary, they point to two contrasting reactions to the same thing that happened. Which is Jesus at the party and what he did is she anointed his head and his reaction to it, his receiving that kind of worship. Now see both Mary and Judas are followers of Jesus on the outside. Think about it. I mean, Judas is one of the twelve. Mary's one of the key women who've been following Jesus for months and months, a whole couple years. In her heart, she's come to respond in love. in adoration, in affection, in worship, in submission to Jesus the King. But Judas had responded by an evil hatred of King Jesus. Because he doesn't understand Jesus' kingship. Judas never fully Truly wanted to follow Jesus, he was always in it for the money, for what he could get from the beginning. Aren't there people like that today who want to follow Jesus not because they've come to understand Jesus and his grace and they've come to understand their own sin, but for what they can get out of it, what they can get out of God. Both Mary and Judas walked with Jesus. They both listened to Jesus. They both served Jesus. Jesus sent the disciples out two by two. He didn't say Judas don't go. Judas went out and did evangelism. Think of it. But Mary lovingly responded by adoringly giving him the extravagant praise that he deserved. Judas responded by agreeing with the conspiracy to kill Jesus. This contrast is startling. It's startling. It's dramatic. And it's not new in the Gospel of John. You've been looking through the Gospel of John. Think of chapter 3 and chapter 4 Very quickly, chapter 3 and chapter 4. You got a dude who's uh named Nicodemus, let's call him Nick. Come to Jesus at night, Nick at night. And you got a woman at a well. We don't know her name. Let's call her Natasha. Natasha, she comes at noon. Middle of the day. End of the day. Think of the think of the contrast between those two two chapters. Nick's a man, not Tosha's a woman. Nick is respectable. Nick's a Jew. He's part of the the the theological power structure of Jerusalem. of the region. Natasha, she's a Samaritan. They're they're they're almost are they a cult or they're just wrong. They're they're outcast. They're Samaritan. They have an incomplete Bible. And and legends that aren't right. She's an outcast for an outcast group. Nicodemus being a Pharisee would be respectable. We'd be married and have family. She's got five men, and the one she's with now. Anyway, contrast. John loves contrast But the biggest contrast is how those stories end. You ever remember how those stories end? With Nick at night, um Nick comes with all his authority and Jesus turns the table and he and you go away saying, well What's Nicodemus' response? Later in the gospel, we're going to find out Nicodemus did respond somewhat. But her response, she goes to town, brings people back, and revival breaks out. Think of it. Contrast. Contrast. Jesus, what a friend for sinners. Reminders. We've looked at the characters, look at the contrasts, reminders. First reminder is about Mary. We have a woman here that we can emulate. The importance of just loving Jesus and worshiping Jesus. The aroma of the perfume that filled the house. Jesus said that she was anointing his uh him for his death. I'm not sure she knew that was what he was doing, what she was doing But he says, that's what she's doing. He's been talking about his death, and disciples haven't been hearing that, but she anoints him. Her act was simply a spontaneous response. Douseing her beautiful Saving with a beautiful fragrance, a very expensive perfume. A great act of devotion. Her deed was also an act of great humility. You know, if it flowed from his head to his feet, the cleaning of the feet was a task of a slave. We'll see that in chapter 13. Humility. Mo uh one commentator Morris says, a Jewish lady never bounds her hair in public. It's a mark of loose morals. So here she is at a party, she takes she um her hair, you know, is you know loose. She's uh she's responding to Jesus. Mary's response is what I would call self-forgetful worship. God encourages self-forgetfulness. He does. This was similar to David dancing. Remember in the Old Testament before the ark in 1 2 Samuel? The physical aspects in Scripture of worship are stunning when you think about it. People as they come before God, they bow, they kneel, they raise hands. They clap hands, they dance, they stand. And and the different demeanor that people have is startling too, because sometimes it's tears, sometimes it's laughter. Sometimes there's a soberness, a seriousness. Sometimes there's anger. There's things to be angry about. But we need to have a bit we need to have a better understanding of worship. I am, as you know, because the session has asked me to be the interim here, I am an ordained PCA pastor. And you know, we in the PCA It'll often be called the chosen frozen. You know that, right? You've heard that. I'm sure you've heard that phrase. Let's admit it. We're a cerebral blunch. We are a very cerebral blunch, aren't we? I would say sometimes too cerebral. We, all of us in the PCA, are afraid of emotions in worship. We are. I mean like this about myself years ago. And the first step to change is just to first admit the problem I I grew up in a church that was not afraid of emotion at all. I grew up in testimony. Twelve years old, Baptist church, saved Sunday morning. that uh baptized Sunday night. Baptist Church, Washington, D. C. Big Church, a lot of formality, a lot of great worship, energetic worship, Black Baptist Church, Washington, D. C. Um my family's church, my mom and my dad and my four sisters and I. Um that that was my experience. And I'll never forget as a kid, one time you know, you get as a kid Kids are kids some kids are still here. And as as children, you get used to the kind of the church's norms for worship of how much emotion is allowable, right? Okay? And case so k you know as a kid, okay, you know, you know, so okay, so I'm in in in in the pews and you know there there people are are getting the Holy Ghost, etc. etc. Some of you don't know what that means, don't worry about it. Um And and and there was a woman who I'd never seen before that that Sunday morning, and and she was so excited, and she ran around the church. Tearful with tears, just running to enjoy. I had never seen that. I had never seen that And I never saw it again there either. She never came back. But it dawned on me, you know, with all the emotion of Meridian Hill Baptist Church, there was a certain line he didn't cross. And everybody knew it. And you know what? That's the way churches are. Every church has a line. Right? Amen? And I say that again, reminded you, I am a PCA pastor because I rejected some of that stuff. But now I've come to appreciate not the extremes, but the importance of emotion. God says, love me with all my mind, all your mind, heart, soul, and strength, holistically. And so this woman, she spontaneously married, she just comes with emotion into this party. And her story, it says in the other gospels, will be told for the rest of time. She'll become famous for that for what she has done. Uh CC Wine has written a song, or she sings a song if she wrote it, um, talking about um actually she meshes the Luke 7 story and this John 12 story, but it's a great song, and here are the the lyrics, some of the lyrics. The room grew still as she made her way to Jesus. She stumbled through the tears that make her blind. She felt such pain, some spoken anger, heard folks whisper, There's no place here for her kind. Still on she came, through the shame that flushed her face, until at last she felt she knelt before his feet, and though she spoke of spoke no words, everything she said was heard, as she poured her love. for the master from her box of alabaster. I cannot forget the way life used to be. I was a prisoner to the sin that had me bound And I spent my days poured my life without measure into a little treasure box I thought I found until the day when Jesus came to me and healed my soul with the wonder of his touch. So now I'm giving back to him all the praise he's worthy of. I've been forgiven, and that's why I love him so much. And I've come to pour my praise on him like oil from Mary's alabaster box. Don't be angry if I wash my feet with my tears and I dry them with my hair. You weren't there the night he found me. You did not feel what I felt when he wrapped his loving arms around me. And you don't know the cost of the oil in my alabaster box. That's CC wine, it's an old song, but the spontaneous praise given to Jesus. Reminder about worship. The second reminder is based on Judas. It's a reminder to us all about the demonic power of the deadly power. Demonic deadly power of greed. Greed. Jesus eventually questioned the wisdom of Jesus' mission and betrayed him. Jesus knew all along that that was going to happen. The Lord Jesus was perfect, but his ministry, those in his ministry, were not. One commentator says, the real challenge presented in Jesus' statement about the poor i i is m is motivation. Our giving to the poor or the preaching for the of the gospel. is finally sterile, if motivated in either case from a desire to attain merit before God. What Jesus brings is a radically new motivation of gratitude. Devotion to Jesus and gratitude for his sacrifice will lead, in fact, to service for the poor in a manner quite different from a legally required almsgiving. Judas says he could have given that to the poor, and it really wasn't his motivation. Really well his motivation. But he was not being motivated by love for God and grace for God to give to the poor. In fact, the money wasn't going to the poor, the more was going into his pocket. His his see his his root sin though was not just um his taking from the bag. His root sin is that he never truly followed Jesus for the right reasons. Think about it. His motivation was that Jesus would be an earthly king, a material king to deliver them from Rome. And that the Jews would be would again rule the world, rule the known world. John chapter six it says that the he th that's the story of the bread and the wine. You probably looked at this. And at that point they weren't to crown Jesus as king. Look, and they can turn bread i i it it into into into into um um Turn turn water into wine. He can do anything. He can take care of the Romans. We can do that. Jesus said, he slipped away. His time wasn't yet. When he did that, I'm sure Judas said, Why are you doing come on Jesus? This is the moment. But no, it wasn't that wasn't, no. That wasn't what this that wasn't what his kingdom was about. Judas never got it. Jesus to Judas Jesus was a failure. You understand that? A Messiah who's going to be crucified? No way. You're going to Jerusalem to rule, not to be crucified. Come on, Jesus. He didn't sign up for a crucified Messiah. His own judgmental words reveal his heart. Third reminder. This is Jesus. A simple reminder about the importance of trusting in Jesus. The importance of trusting Jesus. Your lack of decision is dangerous. Believe in his power. Power to heal, yes. Power to help, yes. Power to guide us, yes. But more than anything, it's believe in him. Believe in him, the one who is the resurrection and the life Believe in his power to deliver us from sin, its penalty, its power, and his presence. See the good news, gospel, the good news is about Jesus. How we relate to Jesus determines our eternal destiny. If you don't know Jesus, guess who's coming to dinner? Guess who's knocking on the door of your heart? Mary and Judas are two extreme symbols of the kinds of people who respond to Jesus in the Gospels and even in our day. John said, he came to his own, but his own did not receive him. How we respond to him reveals the condition of our heart. Jesus demands decision, choice from all of us. Every day, in fact. Jesus, a weak, poor carpenter, rabbi, is the most amazingly powerful man in history. His ministry, his life, his death, his resurrection, they have ripple effects down through the ages, even today James Alan Francis, I'll close with this story that you might have heard. It's a poem. He poetically said this. Here is a man who was born in an obscure village. Child of a peasant family. A peasant woman. He grew up in another obscure village where he worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty. And then for three years he was an itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. Never held an office, never owned a home, never had a family, never went to college, never put his foot inside of a big city He never traveled 200 miles from the place where he was born. He never did one of the things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He had nothing to do with this world except the naked power of his divine manhood. He had he while still a young man, the tide of public opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. One of them denied him. He was turned over to his enemies. He went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed to a cross between two thieves. His executioners gambled for the only piece of property he had on earth while he was dying, and that was his coat. When he was dead, he was taken down and laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend. Nineteen white centuries have come and gone. Back then when it was written. Twenty now. And today he's the centerpiece of the human race and the leader of the column of progress. He says, I am far within the mark when I say that all the armies that ever marched, all the navies that ever were built, all the parliaments that ever sat, all the kings that ever reigned, put together. Had not affected the life of man upon this earth as powerfully as has that one solitary life. James Allen Francis You probably have some opinions about Judas and Mary. Ultimately it doesn't matter. You probably have some opinions and thoughts about Simon and Martha and Lazarus. Ultimately, it doesn't matter. But what you think about Jesus, it may Matters now and for eternity. Believe in him. Worship him. Follow him. Let's pray. Well as we transpose ourselves back to that scene, we remember that the scene transposed itself back to us. The choice is still ours every day. Will we follow Jesus? Whatever that means for us. Well, for some of us, it may mean an initial step of following Jesus. For others, it may mean decisions we face. Will we choose the biblical way, the road less traveled? We'll go the way of the world. Lord we all will face decisions in our lives. Help us to know that it pays now and eternally. To follow you. Thank you for this portion of your word. May it sink into our hearts as we reflect on it. In Jesus' name. Amen.