Well, this is supposed to be my last time, isn't it? We'll say more about that tonight, this afternoon of the meeting, but it's been a great privilege to to serve the body of Christ here at Greece and to come to love you guys. Um but our our series today as we continue we're talking about uh uh w wilderness wanderings. Wilderness wanderings We wander journey through a the wilderness of of life and we're looking at the children of Israel in the uh Old Testament as they experience that um time of of wandering, trusting God. So if you have a Bible, turn to Numbers chapter nine, verse sixteen to twenty-three. We'll um read the ESV translation. Numbers 9, 16 to 23. On the day that the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, the tent of the testimony. And at evening it was over the tabernacle like the appearance of fire until morning. So it was always. The cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night. Whenever the cloud lifted from over the tent, after that the people of Israel set out. And in the place where the cloud settled down, there the people of Israel camped. At the command of the Lord, the people of Israel set out, and at the command of the Lord they camped. As long as the cloud rested over the tabernacle, they remained Remained in camp. Even when the cloud continued over the tabernacle many days, the people of Israel kept the charge of the Lord and did not set out. Sometimes the cloud was a few days over the tabernacle, and according to the commandments of the Lord, they remained in camp. Then, according to the commands of the Lord, they set out. And sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning. And when the cloud lifted in the morning, they set out. Or if it continued for a day and a night, when the cloud lifted, they set out. Whether it was two days, or a month, or a longer time, but the cloud continued over the tabernacle, abiding there, the people of Israel remained in camp and did not set out. But when it lifted, they set out. At the command of the Lord they camped, and at the command of the Lord they set out. They kept the charge of the Lord at the command of the Lord by Moses. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this portion of your word. Lord, help us to truly dig into and understand some things that are here that are for us as we work through our lives, journeying through the Word. Thank you for for your Holy Spirit who teaches us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Did into the wilderness. You know, it was uh early 60s. My dad um had a new car, the Ford Fairlane, and um One of his college roommates had invited him to come out to see him. This was out in Iowa. I'd never been past Maryland and Virginia Virginia. Iowa. And so my dad and my mom packed up uh four kids in a Ford Fair Lane and headed west. And it was a it was a memorable road trip. Um again um these are the days of of sundown towns in Jim Crow America. If you know what I'm you know you if you don't understand what I'm talking about, you need to know your history Uh an African American family in the early sixties traveling through the w thu th uh westward um was not exactly the safest thing in the world. I remember we stopped them one night in a city of Toledo, Ohio. That was where the most Toledo, Ohio, then on to Iowa the next morning. My dad, you know, to prepare for that trip, he got he's got got a map out, you know, you know, and it just maped just he figured out how w which highways to take Fast forward 30 plus years, uh I I was the dad and we had five kids and we wanted to make a road trip. My sisters in Texas, two sisters have families in Texas Texas, they invite us to come to Texas. And so we said, We're going to Dallas, Texas. And on a road trip. Fortunately we didn't have a a sedan. We had a van, a seven passenger van for seven people that was good they also had game boys back then that was helpful very helpful Well you know we didn't we didn't we didn't have to worry about getting a microscope out and in a and and a map because they had these new things called triptychs, triple-A triptych You go to AAA and this little thing little flip thing and instead of having to look at the the map you you you every page is like the next fifty fifty miles and you're gonna see everything that's gonna be there where the gas stations are, where the restaurant Mushrooms are everything. How to make the interstates work? Your terms was a wonderful new invention. It helped us because we had never driven to Texas and we needed someone to guide us along the way and the triptych was very helpful. Oh my goodness now. Now Chipticks look like they're ancient, don't they? Now we have GPS in our car, satellite base, turn by turn Telling you not only which turns to make, but hey, there's a speed trap up there. Hey, there's an accident over there. Hey, go on this detour It's very nice knowing not only where you're going to go, but every little detail of the way, isn't it? Like it's great to know where you're going and how to get there. You know what? Don't you wish God did that for us? That just tells us where we're hidden, but every little step step in the direction, so we don't make any mistakes. But you know what? For some reason, God has chosen to not do that Being lost is a horrible feeling. Not knowing where to go is a horrible feeling in the realm of travel, but it's also A horrible feeling in the realm of life, isn't it? Not having direction, not knowing the next steps to take. Because, let's face it, we want to be in control, don't we? We want to know where we're going. It's not totally bad, but but we we want to know our path. In fact, we want to plan for ourselves where we're going and hope that that plan works But God created us to simply follow Him, step by step, to be dependent upon Him, step by step, day by day The verse in Proverbs 3:5-6, if you don't know it, memorize it. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. Doesn't say don't have any understanding. It says don't lean on your understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And he'll do what? Direct your paths. God promises to guide us even through the wilderness experiences that we have in life. God promises He's going to be with us to guide us through those experiences. Last week, Brother Carl, we looked at the the the the last couple weeks, the provision of God and and the and the protection of God in the wilderness and Today we're going to address this idea that God guides us. He guides us as his sons and daughters through the wilderness experiences that we have. We're going to look at at several of the means in this passage by which God guides people back then and still principle guides us in the same way. Numbers nine is our starting point. Um So we have the same promise of guidance that Israel had. We have the same promise of guidance that Israel has. Because we have the same God. The one who is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Now they had four things. Well look at four things that they had. The first thing is is they had this thing called the glory cloud. It's all over this passage. This this cloud, the glory cloud. It was a it was a cloud by day and fire by night, but it was a It hovered over them. Now again um initially, even before the tabernacle was was built, there was the cloud. We'll look at that. We'll look at that look at the this verse in in in um Exodus chapter. um thirteen find that verse where where it where is at the Passover and then the uh as they're leaving um Egypt. Um we find the verse Uh looking for more verse here. Um Okay, let me let me just talk about it. Okay, so when they when they were leaving the the the uh uh uh i Egypt uh uh for the Passover, it was when God established the fire in the cloud, okay, and began and been And that's where it was begun. In Exodus chapter thirteen, verses seventeen and following, okay. But so so there there's a there's a cloud that they had to follow. The cloud would go and they would have to follow it. And I call that in our lives there's kind of situational signs that that that are there. There's situational signs that appear And that we have if if we're trusting the Lord and prayerful, we can see that God is moving us. That's an important part of guidance. Watching by the Holy Spirit, watching this side Urban Irving Jensen wrote this. He said regarding the camp of Israel, the church in the wilderness, movements were guided entirely by God's miraculous cloud which rested upon the tabernacle Everything was done at the command of the Lord. Picture those two million people entirely dependent upon God for guidance as well as for sustenance. They were never sure how long they were to remain in one place or where they were to go next. It was foolish to drive their tent stakes very deep or to become greatly attached to one spot. For at any moment they were likely to have to pack up and move on. They were to be looking upward constantly for guidance. To keep their eye on the cloud when it moved, whatever direction, they were to follow. What a beautiful picture, he says, of absolute surrender and dependence upon God. Christians can learn much from this. We too should be constantly looking upward for guidance, following only where he leads. That's gentlemen. You have experiences in your life where you just weren't sure where the next step was? We got married in nineteen eighty one. i i when Terry finished um her uh uh uh first grad school at Loyola, her mas got her master's, uh we we had a decision, uh an important decision to make. And we didn't have any children at that point. I was on Navarcy staff and doing very well there and enjoying it here in Baltimore and I was beginning a sense of a need to go to seminary. So we applied for seminaries. And and we've we we approved a seminary in in St. Louis and a seminary in Philadelphia. And we were I thought we were going to seminary My supervisor, Doug, he comes to me and says, You know, I don't think God wants you to go to seminary yet. I said, Come on, Doug. He he convinced me the university began to have a program where where some of the staff could work could connect with seminaries and continue to during the summers be b begin to take classes during the summers and continue for the next four years uh on on campus. He convinced me to try to do that But what was funny, what what was interesting, what wasn't funny, what was interesting was that the during that spring when he convinced me that maybe God wanted me to stay and work for the university. I never forget it He told me, I got good news for you and bad news. The good news I really want you to stay on staff. The second news is that your month income uh income last month was very poor. And unless you have probably with the best friend you ever had You're gonna have to move up get off staff. So you've got a decision to make. We want you to stay, but you've got to raise a lot of money this month. We said, well So we prayed and does God really want to stay on staff? And we we stepped out in faith and said, I think the Lord I'd I'd like this this idea of staying on staff for four more years, starting seminary. I like that idea. Lord, we trust you. We're gonna do we're gonna try that That last June was the greatest month of income I had in my 11 years on staff. God confirmed to us We walked in blind faith, trusting he had a pattern, uh a will for us. And he and and and to be frank, those last four years of staff were my best years on staff. uh in terms of fruitfulness, I believe. But what we had to step out on faith. We didn't know. But God knew. You see, it's true what it says in Second Corinthians, that we walk by faith, not by sight. We were looking at the situational signs and saying, Lord, open this door, do this, or we know your will is to go that way. If you've walked with God for any bit of time, you begin to understand that that's one thing you have to do The second thing is the tent of meeting in this passage. This tent of meeting. Um Exodus 33 gives us some uh real some good information about the tent of meeting. Um but but um it's called the tent of testimony in in chapter fifteen of Numbers. Um again, this is before the tabernacle has actually been been built, uh because the tabernacle comes in chapters the last chapters of Exodus. So it's kind of a campground where they where they would rest. The cloud would be there. They would rest in their little campground. Okay? Exodus 33 says this. Now Moses used to take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp. And he called it the tent of meeting. And everyone who sought the Lord would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp. Whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise up, and each would stand at his tent door and watch Moses until he had gone into the tent. When Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent. And the Lord would speak with Moses. And when all the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship, each at his tent door. Thus, the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face as a man speaks to his friend. When Moses turned again in the camp, his assistant, Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the tent. So Moses would go out and have and the the the cloud would follow him. People say, Hey, God's God's about to talk to Moses. Moses' about to talk to God. And this incredible experience, and Joshua his assistant, with went with him. And again, this idea of face to face is is is is an idiom for for intimacy and privacy that God wants each of us to have. The tent of meeting. Do we have a tent of meeting? Jesus in in Matthew chapter 6 is instructing on prayer, remember? He says, uh the Pharisees love to know let people know that, hey, I'm praying. He says, no, don't do that. says when you pray go into your house shut the door you you go go into your your closet the King James says and shut the door the uh ESV says go into your room that word uh can be translated the it the inner chamber or the private room or the storage room. It's a smaller room, a private room. The idea is that he's emphasizing is don't let people know that you're doing it, but do it. Because it's it's where you get your power and your strength from. Shut the door and talk to your father who's in To your father. And we saw that in Jesus' life. Think of the life of Jesus. In Luke chapter 6, he called twelve apostles. It says the night before he did that, he went to the mountain and spent the night in prayer. Before he chose the twelve apostles in Luke 6, 12 to 13. In Luke 22, he talks about this is the during Holy Week. He went to the Mount of Olives, which was his custom What was he doing to the Mount of Olives? They were sleeping, they were praying. They were praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. That was a place Jesus loved to go out in nature with his father's world and talked to his father That was a pattern in his life. Go privately and pray. Even if we know in that passage he says, I'm gonna go pray. You guys stay over here Come close, but but I'm going to pray to my father. But there's a time to pray properly. We know times in in the Gospel of Mark. Busiest day, one of the busiest days in the Gospels. Jesus is up morning praying. He went to pray Prayer. We have a prayer meeting on Wednesday nights. I'm glad you know when I two years ago we didn't have that prayer meeting. We have it now. I'm glad. And um Just I I'm glad that Mark mentioned today. You don't have to be there for the whole hour. Pop in. Say, hey, I I've had a busy day. Pray for me for five minutes. And then and then go go go bathe the kids or or whatever you gotta do. We know you're busy You should be busy if you got kids particularly. But but pop in and pray. Your brothers and sisters want to hear and it it's it's been exciting to hear th that that that the just over the these two years that the congregation is really s taking that prayer meeting. It's on Zoom. You don't have to get your car and come here. It's on Zoom. Pop in. If you can stay the whole hour, wonderful. Prayer meeting. See, Jesus said you have not because you ask not. That's what it says in the book of James. And we need to take that very seriously. Glory cloud, attent of meeting. The third thing they had was a godly leader. A godly lead. Let's talk about Moses. Let's talk about Moses. Um review something about his life that ch as we think about him and particularly um his relationship with God Moses as you might remember in the book of Exodus in the first and second chapters, he grew up in Pharaoh's house in the t in in in in in Egypt. Um interesting how that happened, but he was there and he wo he he he was really trained an apprentice to be the next pharaoh in one sense As an adult, he began to realize that I may have been brought up in Pharaoh's house, but I'm not Egyptian. I'm Hebrew He began to identify with his own people. And he had a clash with an Egyptian. And he killed an Egyptian. And then when it was found, he went to his fellow brothers who were Hebrews and and and Because he began to have a sense of his calling to be a deliverer. Because God had given him access to the power of Egypt. And so he's gonna do what God wants him to do. But he did it in the flesh, and so he has uh some problems there. He goes to his brothers who think, Oh yeah, you're you're you're you're one of us. They says Who are you? You're not one of us. You've been up in you've been up in the big house. We don't know you. So there's tension. And so he's a guy who's rejected where he was. He's also a guy who's rejected where he wants to be, his own people So what does he do? He goes to Midian. I'm out of here. He begins to have a wilderness time of his life. That's what happens in Moses' life. God gave him a wilderness experience, and he goes and he's a shepherd, he gets married, and everything's cool until one day, as a shepherd, he sees this bush that's burning. And it it won't burn up. It's just interesting. Now he as a shepherd he'd seen lots of bushes out there. This one was weird God is in there. God is in that in there. He has this really this talk with God, and he's called to go back to the people who he thought had rejected him. And and and be the deliverer. So he goes, he goes, if you've seen the movie or read the book, but he goes to Pharaoh, let my people go. The Ten Commandments movie is what I'm talking about. Cecil B. DeMills, the guy who did that movie Let my people go! Pharaoh says, yes. Then he says, no. And so the plagues come. You know the story of Moses. And uh finally the last plague, the the firstborn. And the Passover, okay? Pharaoh says, okay, okay, I'll let you go. And then what happens? Then that's when the cloud comes in, okay? Here it is, the verse right here. Here's Exodus 13. When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, which was the easy road. Around, although that was near. But God led the people around by the way of the wilderness toward the Red Sea. God sent them to the wilderness. And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in the pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and night. It was no accident that they went that way. God led them into the wilderness The wilderness experiences that you have in life, they're not an accident. God is using them to form you, to train you, to humble you To draw you close to him. Moses had a very interesting relationship with the children of Israel, though, didn't he? They moaned and they groaned and they complained about the fact that he he had this private education in in in i in Egypt. He was privileged, he was an Ivy Leaguer They complained because he led them to the Red Sea. When God's the one, he was just falling the cloud. But they claimed, You led us to the Red Sea to die. We should have just stayed in Egypt. Remember that? It took us to this dead end. They complained because he hadn't told God that they wanted more than manna on the menu. We're tired of this man. Talk to God. Tell God give us more. Give us a variety of food. They just complained to him. They complained later about his wife, who wasn't one of them culturally. In fact, his own sister was part of that rebellion, if you remember, in Numbers chapter twelve. And you recall that Paul that Moses got frustrated with them And he God said st uh talk to the rock and he struck the rock twice. He was frustrated as a leader. They were afraid, and they pleaded with Moses. You go talk to God, you intercede for us. They had this very interesting relationship with Moses. Sometimes they he frustrated them And sometimes when they were frustrated with God, they said, You go to God. Very interesting. You remember that Moses went up to Sinai and God gave Moses the law? In Exodus chapter 19 and 20. Interesting, they're commitment. They were afraid of God. God spoke with a powerful voice. Moses, you go. And he brought the law down. In Exodus 32, he went to inner the golden calf when they were involved in idolatry. And Aaron was leading that Moses interceded for them when God was ready to say, I've had enough of these people. I'm about to have another flood or whatever. This is to wipe them away. No, Moses interceded. Moses, you see, had an interesting relationship with them. Moses was like them in that, yeah, he was like them, and he had he was frustrating. But there was a sense in which Moses was apart from them, isn't there? Isn't it interesting? Like us, but not like us. See, Moses points to someone who was like us, but not like us. Moses pushed the one who was the only mediator between God and man, the Lord Jesus Christ, fully God and fully man. In Hebrews it says, brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession. Who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house. But Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, you see. the the the people there they loved their Moses they were Jewish people they loved law they loved Moses and the writer of Hebrews is saying Moses was okay but there's one greater than Moses greater than Moses is the Lord Jesus Christ Christ. They had an interesting relationship with Moses. But it have you ever looked looked at the end of his life, the end of Moses' life in chapter thirty-four? Read from starting at verse five So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab according to the word of the Lord. This is before they entered the promised land, okay? And he buried him in the valley of the land of Moab, opposite Beth Peor, but no one knows the place of his burial to this day. God did not let them know Exactly where Moses was buried. They would have made it an enshrinement, or we don't know why, but it's it's clear they don't know. Moses was 120 years old when he died, his eye was undemmed, his vigor was unabated. The people of Israel wept for Moses. The plains of Moab thirty days. And were those tears of joy or tears of sorrow? I believe those were tears of sorrow. Sorrow. They wept when Moses died. Though again they had this very interesting relationship with their leader There is not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face, it says, none like him, for all the signs and wonders that the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and all his servants, and to all his Land for all the mighty power and all the great deeds of terror that Moses did in the sight of all Israel. By the way, many believe that Joshua wrote chapter 34, not Moses. Moses didn't, Moses, of course, did not write about his death. So the words that we see here are is the summar the commentary of of um of of pro of of Joshua about the one who discipled him. He had this relationship with God, this intimacy with God God in reviewing his life. The point is simply this. God still guides his people using apostles and Leaders and pastors, deacons, who, just like Moses, are weak, frail, but called to lead. Not perfect people, but called to lead, called by God to lead, to be to shepherd the people. The application for us is again, let's continue to pray for our search committee as they pursue the next leader for the church. He won't be a perfect man Because Jesus is not going to be the physical leader of the church. So pray that he's a man that that that that can lead the congregation where God wants to go, full of the Spirit, one who when he fails and falters is humble enough to say, hey, I blew it. Who's accountable to others? Pray for the search committee. So we got God used this glory clown, circumstances, there's a tentative meeting, prayer There's a godly man that lead the help that God uses to lead the people. That's one more thing, one more very important thing Not only did he did you have Moses, you had the words of Moses. And the words of Moses, we have in the scripture, the holy word. We have the holy word of God. The five books of Moses, they're called the Pentateuch. And I love what the Apostle Peter says about Old Testament scripture. In 2 Peter 1, he says, holy men were carried along by the Holy Spirit, giving us the word of God, not just the mere words of man. Then he says in in the sa in the third chapter of Second Peter, you guys there in Sunday school yet? I know you're in the third chapter somewhere Here's a commentary if you haven't gotten this verse. 2 Peter 3, 15 and 16. Here's what Peter Peter's Peter said there's some things that Paul wrote that are not easy to understand. Well we gotta wrestle with them. We should not reject them because we don't understand them. Because what Paul wrote to them was equal to the other scriptures, he says. Peter calls what Paul wrote scripture, even though he didn't totally understand it. That's important, folks. That's very, very important. In Joshua chapter 1, this is as they're about to go into the prophecy. Moses is dead, Joshua's leading the people, and he's reminded by the Lord in a conversation that he's to keep the book of the law, meditating on it day and night. And that would be the key to blessing, the key to success in their conquest of the Promised Land. As he led the nation He was to be one who kept the Word of God and meditated on the Word of God in his life day and night. The Lord tells him, Joshua, you want to follow me Follow the book. Follow what Moses said. Moses followed me. What I have to say to you, some of it is right there in the scroll that you have. The words of Moses. Follow the book. Scranton, Pennsylvania, on Interstate 81. I'm sure some of you know where Scranton is. Um when you think of Scranton, you think of uh I think of several things. I think of the the the TV show The Office because it happens in Scranton, Pennsylvania. It's a Philly show, my son loves it. Terry likes it too. Uh it's okay. I'd give it a a four. Anyway. Joe Biden's hometown, he talks about Scranton quite often. A great movie by Denzel Washington called Unstoppable. It's about a train, a runaway train. In Pennsylvania and and it i the the train is th they they gotta stop the train. They can't stop the train. It uh the the brakes aren't working and it's Scranton, Pennsylvania where there's this incredible curve and they was afraid that it was gonna uh uh uh just destroy a residential area and uh great movie if you have a chance to watch it a good drama then end with a s put a smile on your face. By the way, uh I uh it uh the the movie is based on a true story that happened in Ohio. It wasn't really in Screen in Pennsylvania Pennsylvania. I don't know why they chose Pennsylvania. Maybe they got better rates. I don't know what it was. But it was actually in Ohio where that took place. But for me Scranton, Pennsylvania reminds me of the early eighties when Terry and I we first got married and we we we got married in January. So we let's take a summer trip. We went to Niagara Falls. This was wonderful. But we stopped on Route eighty one to get gas in Scranton. And again, these are the days when you had a map, I don't remember if you have a triptych or not But somehow the access road from the gas station back on 81, it was one way, you had to do some weird things, and maybe I was talking, I don't know what was happening, but I missed my turn and got lost in Scranton We spent forty five minutes trying to get back on the interstate from the gas station. You feel dumb, but you know, you know, back back in those days, you know, you you Some of you don't know what a map is. On the other side, there's this little there's a little there's a little mini map of the big city of Philadelphia, another mini-map of Pittsburgh, and a little small map of all the little towns, like Scranton. So I'm kind of looking at little map and say, okay, where do I go? So you know those days you you ask somebody, you you again people don't talk to strangers now, but you ask somebody, you stop at the gas station, say, how do I get back to 81? And you know they don't no one knows where the roads are. They say when you go by three blocks by the church and make a ride So I you know, I don't know. So we we spent forty five minutes in Scranton, Pennsylvania. But um the point is we knew where we were going, but we got lost on the way. That's what happens sometimes, isn't it? You know where you want to go. Sometimes you get lost on the way. Psalm 119 says this: Your word is a lamp to my feet. A light to my path. That's why we sing that song by Emmy Grant. A lamp to my faith. God doesn't promise to give us a booming spotlight on everything. He doesn't. Don't you wish he did? It's not what he says. It's a foot lamp. It's a spot it's it's a foot lamp, a lamp to our feet. We can see the path ahead, but you can't see much Early settlers in our country who went to the frontier, often they would befriend a Native American who would be a scout. You know this. And they would they they were the ones who made the map. They didn't have maps yet. They the ones who they eventually made maps, but they they didn't have a map. It was step by step Yard by yard, you know, through the woods, over the creeks, around the swamps. They had no mask, but they had something better than a mask. No, they had a person to guide them Who knew the way. That's what God promises us, isn't it? We may not know step by step what the next steps are, but he says, I will be with you to guide you. through the way. You'll be our personal guide. What are the sources of of guidance we talked about? We have the cloud So be alert. Watch God's mighty hand manipulating circumstances in your life. Opening doors, closing doors, answering prayers, not answering prayers because he knows that's not what you need. We have the tenth of meeting. Go into your own personal closet. Talk to God As we pray, He changes us. He changes our longings. He changes our desires. He changes our yearnings. We have godly leaders. Thank the Lord for elders and deacons who humbly walk with Him and serve Him and model godliness and model truth and speak truth Pray for the next pastor that he would be the same kind of a godly leader. And lastly we have the scriptures. Read it. Don't just say, hey, I've got a Bible. Open it up. Read it. Study it. And trust the one to whom every page points, the Son of God. In the bulletin you see a f a few questions, reflection questions, and I like that Carl's asked us to do this. Questions to think through for the next few days. Look at those questions and uh ponder them the next couple days. What does it mean? What does what does it mean in your life? What's God saying to you I hope that whatever as you pursue guidance and success and direction, that Jesus is central to it. That Jesus is central to it. John 14, 6, 1 to 6. He said, don't let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. My father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again. And take you to myself that where I am, you may also be. And you know the way that I'm going. So you know the way that I'm going Thomas said to him, Lord, we don't know where you're going. We don't know where you're going. How can we get through this wilderness if we don't know where you're going? We don't know the end point. How can we know the way? Jesus said, I am the way, and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father. That's the destination. The Father, the Father's house. No one comes to the Father except through me. He prepared a place for those who love him and want to be in the Father's house. Are you prepared? Are you prepared when that day comes? Our confidence should not just be in the journey ahead. The confidence should be in the one who is taking us on that journey. The Lord Jesus. An old hymn that my mom used to play on the piano all the time, On Jordan's Stormy Banks I stand and cast a wishful eye To Canaan's fair and happy land, where my possessions lie. Over all those wide extended plains shines one eternal day. Their God the Son forever reigns and scatters night away. I am bound for the promised land. I am bound for the promised land. Oh, who will come and go with me? I'm bound for the promised land. No chilling winds or poisonous breath can reach that healthful shore. Sickness and sorrow, pain and death, are felt and feared no more When shall I reach that happy place and be forever blessed? When shall I see my father's face? And in his bosom rests. As a kid, when we sang that song, always thought the father was small F. I said, my dad's not dead. But it's the capital F. It's when should I see my father's face? As Moses had a face-to-face intimacy with God. That's what the writer's talking about. I am bound for the promised land. Who will come and go with me? I'm bound for the promised land that promised land. In life, the joy is seldom about the destination. It's often about what happens to you. What happens in you? What happens through you along the journey? The good news that we know the end point. It's a father's house So as you continue along that journey, Jesus would say, Let not your heart be troubled. Let's pray. Oh God, we thank you that despite the wilderness of life that we experience, and we are in in different phases of life, maybe there's someone who's not really in a wilderness right now. They just need to hang on, it's coming. It's coming. The bumpy roads are coming. The hills are coming. The valleys are coming. And yet you're with us and you'll take us where we need to go, where you want us to go Because it's not about us. It's about you who loved us and died for us that we might be your people. Let's strengthen the church here. Bless the congregation as we continue to serve you and seek you and seek your face in your direction. And we'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. And Brother Mark says