Okay, green. I thought I'd just give a brief little you know a little more than that um that you guys saw in the bulletin. I was born in Detroit, like MM, and um moved to a little small town in South West Southwest Missouri, a town of like four thousand people, which is where I grew up. My uh parents owned a nursing home and so they ran I met my uh wife that my sophomore year, she became a Christian Uh so we have a deep heart for a collegiate ministry. After we graduated we moved to uh Stillwater and I worked for the Navigators for four years. Then went to seminary and then did RUF for ten years. So I've spent a lot of time in Missouri and Oklahoma. After uh I decided it's it was time for somebody else to take over the church that I planted because I loved it enough to not run it into the ground. Uh COVID was oh we don't want to talk about COVID ever. So um so and then my son wasn't doing very well and we We decided to move to Baltimore because my wife's mother has worked at Hopkins for a long time. person. And so we got an apartment right on the water and Fells Point right across from her apartment, and it's been delightful. My son's doing better. I feel like myself again. My wife is happy And um and and I've become like a Maryland tourist pro promoter. Uh uh it's been awesome to be up here And so you'll hear me, you know, if if if this all works out, you'll probably hear a lot of Oklahoma illustrations, but I I'm working on new ones. My wife isn't here today. She will be here next week along with her mom. So she'll be happy to meet you all too. Our text today, I picked Zephaniah. So let me read just 14 to the end. Zephaniah is near the end of the Old Testament, like really near the end of the Old Testament Testament. Let's hear what the Lord says in Zephaniah three. Let's stand, okay. Guys, do what you do. Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion, shout, O Israel. Rejoice and exult with your heart, with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord has taken away the judgments against you, He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst. You shall never again fear. evil. On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion. Let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt over you with singing. I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival so that you no longer suffer reproach. Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors, and I will save the lame and gather the outcast, and I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth. At that time I will bring you in, at the time when I gather you together. For I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, said the Lord. Amen. Two opening illustrations for you. You get a bonus opening illustration. Because last Sunday Julie and I we went to uh a musical that was written in two thousand. sort of becoming more and more popular. It's called Hades Town. And it's about two love stories, one with Hades and Persephone. And the other by mortals, Orpheus and Eury Eurycides. And Orpheus is working on a song. That he ends up singing to save his girl, who has made a terrible, terrible choice And he uses the song to get her out. Tuck that back in there. We'll come back to it. These days in the US there's about 2. 5 million weddings a year. I have done a lot of weddings. When you're a college pastor, you do a lot of weddings. I've probably done at least a hundred. And I I love weddings, but we all know that that they don't all work. Sometimes they end in separate Or divorce, or people stay together, but they're asexual and dysfunctional, cold and bitter and many manipulative. And studies show that three out of ten marriages are considered happy ones. There's a man named Ty Toshiro who wrote an article of the Atlantic called Masters of Love. And he he talks to couples And then he does longitudinal studies to track how they do. And he brings them into his office studio and he puts uh electrodes on them because he wants to measure their responses to normal conversations. It's it's not even really like marriage counseling, it's like normal conversations He asked them normal basic questions, and he says he can predict with 94% accuracy if the couple will be happy. Do you believe him? So we'll come back to that too. Is Zephaniah a good book, a good place to think about joy and happiness? Uh after all, uh this minor profit and any minor profit doesn't mean like m like the minor leagues. It means there's not as much information on the book. It's not as big as Isaiah or Jeremiah. But but Zephaniah was written in six hundred thirty BC thereabouts. He was the grand great grandson of King Hezekiah. He was probably writing during the time of of King Josiah. So this book is old. And here we are in Maryland in April in June. 2023, talking about it still. What does it have to say to us today? Because it is a book about doom and hope. Not one of the other. Not one of the other. It's about a holy wrath and a holy healing. Zephaniah can can be considered by some a summation of all the minor prophets. So let's see what he has to say to us today. The first point is he warns of God's judgment. That's what the prophets do. Warn of God's judgment. We all know it is not smart to ignore the warning signs. Right? Your car's warning signs just go away when you ignore them. The health metrics just take care of themselves when you ignore them, right? We know that's not true. One of my favorite uh singers, his name is David Wan uh David Wilcox, and he has a a a song called Rule Number One And he w he wrote it for a a woman who was on a string of bad relationships. And she was wondering what to do. And he said the song goes you know a little bit like that Like this, you're having a great time, it's all lovey-dovey. The wine is great, uh, but the service is slow, and suddenly he becomes cruel to the waiter, a waitress. And he says, and he goes, if hit if he's rude to the waiter and it makes your heart confused, this is lesson number one. Run That's a warning sign right there. Tied to Shiro, our guy, he says there are indicators. Because what's happening in these conversations? is you're acting calm, but your insides are all worked up. You're having a normal conversation on the outside, but on the inside there's contempt That you're hiding. A simmering hatred. Because what's below the surface isn't being talked about, but but couples that don't make it don't believe the best in each other. Believe the other one is out to get them. They reject kindness. They don't connect in small moments. They are passive-aggressive or just aggressive They're not interested. They're practicing judgment. They're sowing doom Like the minor prophets point out. If we look over at Zephaniah one Look at two verses two and three. I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth, declares the Lord. I will sweep away every man and beast, I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea What does that sound like? The flood, right? And the as as Zephaniah goes on, he talks about how our religious lives are corrupted. a lot of times that that one thing we want to do is not talk about them out there because this is a book to God's people, us in here We have corrupted religious lives, idolatrous priests. And of course, we think to ourselves, no, we don't we don't worship other gods. But we do worship success, our reputations Being competent at everything our bodies, beauty, adrenaline, food Money, sex, power, gain a hold, and they want first place in our lives, and that's why God calls that spiritual adultery for a reason. Sleeping with other gods while we're married to our Lord. So there's idolatry, but there's also just apostasy, turning away. You know, um you used to be so passionate about the Lord when you were in high school or college or or whenever or when you first came to Christ and now it's like a slowly I'm I'm a little too busy. You know it's sorta nice to have a Sunday morning free. I always think we gotta be better than sleeping in. That's our standard right there. Better than sleeping in, okay? We set our sites low at first, right? But but but but you know other things get our attention. So we turn away, God calls uh says this in verse six those who have turned back from following the Lord, who do not seek the Lord or inquire of him And then and there's a lot of this in Zephaniah too, and that's just injustice, which is a huge theme in the Bible, maybe especially in the Old Testament. God's people are turning a blind eye not only to the Lord but to other people and using them, destroying them But there is a day of the Lord that's coming when everything will be set right, and the Lord does not turn a blind eye to all these things I want you guys to pray for uh two friends of mine in in Fells, I call it the village, and um Andy and and Dave and Andy and Dave were were helping each other and Dave fell in the water and he hates the water. He can't swim and he panicked and he had to have nine one one come and we're not sure how He wasn't in great shape before. And so I was sitting with Andy later, who was of course completely shook up, and I said, Andy, I'm gonna give you a thirty second sermon. This is not the way things are supposed to be. And there's a day when everything will be set right. And I want you to think about those two things, and maybe we can talk about it. So pray for Dave and Andy that they'll be okay, but also they'll they'll come to the Lord. Maybe just thinking that, right? Isn't the way it's supposed to be. There is a day of the Lord coming. Now, one thing that we have to realize is not only do we live in a world where stuff happens to us We get sinned on. We do it to ourselves too. Any of you ever played bath racquetball? There's this thing in racquetball when when the ball gets past you And you come to the back wall and you hit it off the back wall, back to the front wall, which means you're not facing the front wall, which means you can hit yourself in the head I've done it lots of times. I don't have anyone else to blame for getting hit in the head except for me. And we do that. With our laziness, our doubt, our cynicism, our drifting. Johnny Cash didn't write this song, but he has a song, The Beast in Me Not the beast out there. And then when we hear this bad news, we we want to kill the messenger, of course It's like we want to go into the doctor's office and say, like have the doctor say, You're great. You're the epitome of health. Uh you I'm going to use you as an example to everyone else. But then eventually he says, you know, y you probably can't Can't eat Oreos all day as your only food. I know it's a bummer. It's not the way you were made. So first, God's wrath. Second is God's rule. This is when the day of the Lord really comes up. There's a day when every knee will bow and every tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. And may that day come quickly, Lord. The suffering we are going through The horrors that we witness. My friend is Chad Scruggs, the pastor of Covenant Presbyterian Church in Nashville. My friend. But that day of the Lord as we prayed is also here today. It's not just only out there, because we pray your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven today, now. Not just in the future. So when you look at chapter three, verses one and two, woe to her who is rebellious and defiled the oppressing city She listens to no voice. She accepts no correction. She does not trust in the Lord. She does not draw near to God. They are obeying themselves. They are ruling themselves. They are rejecting the Lord's rule. They're not accepting any correction. They're always right. They are confident in your answers, just like my kids were We we would grade our kids math papers, and uh we had our we had the key and they didn't have the key, and because this happened one time, one time the answer key was incorrect, one time. But every time after that, Dad, the answer key's not correct. My answer is right. Okay. That's not true. And you need to correct it to the right answer. No, the answer key is wrong, Dad. Eventually I would call Becky. Becky the teacher. Becky, put him on the phone, right But we think we're right all the time. Or else we've drifted away, not drawing near. Because it takes time. There are opportunity costs. To worship, to pray, to read. There's opportunity cost for our tithes to go somewhere else, right? And then A month passes, and a year passes, a decade passes, and we've drifted away. Back to Ty for a minute, Ty Toshiro. He says that all happy couples actually have rules. They don't call them rules. They're demeanors or practices or habits. So they would believe the best of the other person. They will stop to listen. They'll put down the thing. iPad. He calls these bids. They're tiny little uh interactions or invitations to connect, right? Honey, look, or did you hear this? Or can I can you help me with that? this. And and for couples to thrive, you you respond to these. You stop ignoring now I'm not saying you do it completely correctly all the time But you you you take the bid, and that's how relationships grow, right? It's the rules, but it's the relationship. It's the practices because there's a person, and today there's a bid. God is calling out to you again today Through this worship, through what we've been saying and listening to, will you respond? Now I I hope you're tracking with me, but I do want to actually also point out okay, I'm not saying this is gonna save marriages or anything like that. There's a lot to it. It's way more complicated than than what And there are real struggles, betrayals, suffering, pain, hard stuff, prodigal sons and daughters. Older brothers making it hard on the younger brothers. So maybe you can see yourself Today, the thrill is gone. So what do we do? That's the bad news, right? The bad news is really bad. The good news is God calls out to us He is making these bids to us. First of all, seek the Lord. Zephaniah 2. 3. Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land, who do his commands. Seek right Righteousness, seek humility. Perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the Lord. Seek the Lord. It takes courage and humility to say, like, oh, I need to come back. And hear the gospel. Right? God is not only to be feared. And when the doctor tells you you are in trouble, yo You change because you love, not just because you're afraid. Why do you change because you love your family? Fear is a tempor temporary motivation, but love lasts. So we today, church, need Change, rescuing, forgiveness, hope. We grieve and hate our sin. We're not surprised by it. But old Doug is getting less and less, and new Doug is getting more and more. On the way over, I was listening to uh the song Beautiful Things. It says, You make beautiful things out of the dust. You made me new, and you're making me new. It's beautiful. You know, it's not today, Satan. You are not going to win today The good news is, as we said, when we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. It is not by works that we are saved. By grace through faith in Christ alone. And so we've been singing this Oh for a thousand tongues to sing, my great Redeemer's praise. Could you imagine having a thousand tongues? Think about that for a second. I don't think I really want it. But we don't have enough because we're not we're not singing enough With these little moments when God speaks into our lives where we see that hope and love and that we know we can be known and also loved. And and what I'm suggesting is we often know that intellectually, but we forget it emotionally That God poured out his love on us. He poured out his wrath on Jesus. So we could pour out his love on you. Jesus didn't worship other gods, he worshipped his father perfectly. Jesus didn't drift away from God. He was right there. Jesus wasn't in just unjust to his his people. No. No. He did all of that for us. And when we fail over and over and over again, he still loves you That's what I was saying to the kids. I do think we often think God's just mad at me all the time. But remember, we we said we started with this: He will exalt over you with loud singing. Oh man. I would love to hear that song. Someday we will, won't we? I I don't know about you, but sometimes I can be uh Uh uh Christian song snob. Know any of those? Like oh, not theological enough. Ooh. Too modern. Ooh, no. Too too repeated. Over and over. Come on. Now I would encourage us to say, like, okay. You know, one of the things you do when you love other people is you love what they love. So some people really like these songs. And I was in a sort of dark time, probably during COVID, and uh and one of these songs came on on one of my You know, Pandora, you don't pick all of them. And I was like, oh give me some theology here. You know, I I need this. And but I left it on and it's one of the ones that repeats and it says, Oh how he loves me. Oh how he loves me. Oh how he loves me. And it was like I heard it the fiftieth time So if you would have only had two, I wouldn't have heard it. Oh how he loves me. Oh how he loves you. Sings over you. Beloved child. He knows you blew it. And you can't undo it. But he loves you. Jesus didn't escape. He bore the Brunt. He gave his life as a sacrifice. He restores the fortunes of his people. He takes the judgment. That's due you became a man, lived the perfect life, died on the cross. Rose from the grave and is coming again. Amen? The day of the Lord is coming. It has come and it will come So we can be free, so we can dance with joy. So we can understand and know kindness Connection, dignity, restoration, redeeming love can be sung from our lips. Back to Hades. Town. That means we're almost done. Okay, we got these two people, normal ish people And when when Orpheus meets Euricides, he is completely taken. And she says, What do you do? And he says, I'm a singer Okay, and she's like anything else? And the behind him is uh someone with a guitar but it's a liar, right? So he looks at and he says liar. She's like, Oh you're a singer and a liar. Not he says, not like that, not like that. And then there's this other guy, he says, tell her what you're working on. So he's gonna tell her about the in the song that he's working on, right? And he says, it isn't finished yet, but I'm working On a song, and when I sing it, spring will come. Whoa. It's a song that will fix what's wrong. Take what's broken and make it whole. A song so beautiful that it brings the world back into tune, back into time. And all the flowers to bloom. Okay. Uh that's something. She presses in and she says, Lover, when I sing my song all the rivers will sing along, and they'll break their banks for me, and lay their gold around my feet. Lover, when I sing my song the trees will sing along. And bend their branches down to me to lay their fruit around my feet. And lover, when I sing my song, the birds will sing along. They'll come flying to me to lay their feathers at my feet feet and we'll build a life together and we'll live in the shalom that we all long for. When everything is made right and everything is flourishes and we only just ever barely Touch that today. But someday, beloved, he is coming and he will sing that song, and everything will be just the way it's supposed to be. And Orpheus sings that song for the first time in hell to save Jesus has gone now. Not far. To sing that song over us. Song of Solomon says in verse one for We will exalt and rejoice in you, we will extol your love more than wine. Rightly do the They love you. Follow the song. Follow the song. Listen to it. We often have a soundtrack in our heads, and it's it's often belittling um You you should have done this, you should have done that, right? Self deprecating. Listen to Jesus' song in your head. Get that one in there. Amen. Man, let's pray. Lord, we come to you asking you to meet with us. That we would hear your song of love and that we learn to sing Sing it and it would be on our lips so others could hear it. As you go into the depths of their lives and release them from captivity, may you do that today. May you use us. May you use this church. We ask this in your name. Amen.