Well good morning, good morning. Greet you in Christ's name today. Good to see some faces out there that we haven't seen in a while, other than on a computer. Amen. We're going through the book of Habakkuk, that Old Testament prophecy of the of the prophet Habakkuk, and today we're going to finish the second chapter. And uh if you can stand, we're going to listen to God's Word from the ESV translation. This uh sermon series, we're calling it Waiting in Faith during difficult days. Waiting in faith during these difficult days. Habakkuk chapter two, the ESV, verse six to twenty, six to the end. Shall not all these Take up their taunt against him with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own, for how long? And loads himself with pledges Will not your debtors suddenly arise in those awake who will make tr tremble, who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations. All the remnant of the peoples shall plunder you. For the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities, and all who dwell in them Well to him who gets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm. You have devised a shame for your house by cutting off many peoples. You have forfeited your life, for the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond. Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity. Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire and nations weary themselves for nothing? The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink, you pour out your wrath and make them drunk in order to gaze at their nakedness. You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink yourself and your uncircumcision And show your uncircumcision. The cup in the Lord's right hand will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory The violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, as will the destruction of the beasts that terrified them. For the blood of man and the and violence to the earth, to cities, and all who dwell in them What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? A metal image? A teacher of lies? For its maker trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols. Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, Awake to a silent stone. Arise. Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there's no breath in it, breath at all in it But the Lord is in his holy temple, that all the earth keep silence before him. Let's pray Wow, this is a very complicated passage. This is confusion. There's a lot of things going on here. I pray you'd uh bless us as we look at this portion of your word. You'd speak through me, give me clarity, give us uh Give us ears to hear what you want us to learn from it, Lord. We'll give you thanks, and we'll we'll give you a heart of obedience, Lord, as you would give it to us by your Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Most of you know I was not raised in our denomination in the PCA. I was raised in a Black Baptist church in Washington, D. C. And it was a it was a black Baptist church like many traditional churches uh of that day. They believed the Bible. They believed in personal salvation. They believed in that God is able to help you in this world. The church was a combination of uh a very interesting combination. Uh African-Americans in Washington, D. C. , some were like my mom and dad, pretty educated. My mom and dad met in college, very educated. And some were like others uh in the church, like a woman named Mrs. Holmes. Um I I don't think she had maybe maybe second, third, fourth grade. I don't know if it but but I know that her all her life she she worked in the homes uh cleaning for white people. That's all I knew about her. That was her. And she used simple language, but she loved the Lord and she trusted in him. Just as much as my parents did. And I'll never forget in one time when she was just talking as she was she was almost like the Old Testament prophetesses who would say who would have a word for you And one time in in in sh in a presentation she ended it with these words, it was kind of a drop the mic moment for me, because I'll never forget it. And she said, um The Christian life is not really about your ability. Rather, it's about responding to his ability. And I heard and that and that was still her last and it stuck with me because I was a new Christian trying to figure out what this thing's all about. Is it about me, my effort as a Christian, or is it about God's grace and the Holy Spirit somehow helping me to do what I was having problems doing? Now she didn't read that in a reform book, trust me. Maybe it was a sermon. She learned that from the oral tradition of the black church. The Old Tradition, maybe you've heard the phrase, it's become a pretty common phrase, you know, the uh God is good all the time, and then it responds all the time, God is good. You've probably heard that. That's God mainstream. But there are other phrases that uh that I that I heard you know most were from songs. Jesus on the main line, tell him what you want. That's an old song, but that's a call-response thing Jesus is a bridge over troubled waters. I think Garfunkel made that famous. I don't know. He may not come when you want him to come, but he's always right on time. My title today comes from one of those oral traditions, those phrases. He sits high, but he looks low. Trust me, I never remember hearing in the church of my youth that God is sovereign. I never heard that, but I heard this. He sits high, but he looks low. And over and over again we heard that as a mantra, every now and then, or a reminder. And as I look at Hebrew chapter two as it is, I think about that mantra from the oral tradition. You know, here's the here's where we're going. Our sovereign God, He delights in humility, he he will certainly eventually crush the proud. He's a sovereign God who who delights in humility among his people, but he will eventually certainly crush those who are proud. We've been given access in this book to Habakkuk's spiritual journey, his conversations with God as the prophet. He's unfolding that to us. He's rightly concerned and disgusted by the violence and injustice that he sees among his people in Judah. And so Habakkuk cries out, God, how long? Why? Do something, Lord. And God says, okay, I'll do something. I will judge Judah. I will judge my people And I will do it through my vessels, the evil-hated Chaldeans, the Babylonians. And Habakkuk says, what? No, that can't be. Habakkuk is confused, frustrated. He goes to the watchtower to wait for God to give an answer to that dilemma. This dilemma that he feels the and the answer comes. In a nutshell, he's encouraged He needs to trust God, to live by faith. The just, the justified, will live by faith that enduring principle throughout all of time. Today we're going to look at this this uh this last half of the chapter. The chapter is going to come to an end, and uh we want to look at three things. First I want to talk about the fact that he sits high. Verses 14 and 20. Does he never talk about the fact that he looks low? Verses 16 to 13 and 15 to 19. And then I've got some takeaways for us as we think about this important text. He says hi. Now, the um verse 14 in the uh the the the ESV translation of this passage as you probably heard it, uh can be somewhat awkward. It's a good translation and but but in this in this chapter it's very awkward. I looked at the Living Translation excuse me, the um New International Translation, which is very a little more helpful But I'm going to be using as I go through this the New English translation, which is very creative, but very I think clear more clearly expresses what's here. So I'll give you s a little bit of that, uh the feel of that translation with some of these verses. So verse 14, for instance, verse 14 in the ESV, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And the NET says, for recognition of the Lord's sovereign majesty. Will fill the earth just as the waters fill up the sea. So the knowledge of the glory of the Lord is the recognition of his sovereign majesty. Okay, that's so to that's the kind of translation. So he he sits high. He's sovereign He notice this this verse says that he the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. He will sit high. This points to a future reality. It's a prediction. And the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah chapter two said, It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it. And many peoples shall come and say, Come. Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem That's in the latter days, it says this points to a day when the people from all the nations who want to know the truth of God And they will know that Jesus is the truth and confess that Jesus is the Lord. Now the prophet could be pointing to the ministry of Jesus in the Gospels. When the nations began to come, but he could also be pointing to that future time, even for us. When all the nations shall come. Philippians 2 says, Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. There's going to be a time when all will acknowledge, yes, Jesus Christ truly is the Lord and Son of God. Now here's the big question. Is this a saving confession? Is that confession gonna come to mean that those who come to that realization at that point, even if they're it's after death and in judgment, will that save them? Well the sad reality is that this passage and many other passages tell us that that the answer is no, not all will be saved. Though some do believe that all will eventually be saved. No. Sad truth is that there there's there's a judgment that is coming, a judgment that is real. We see that even in this passage Verse 14, a future reality of him sitting high on the throne as the sovereign one. Verse 20 The last verse of the passage, it's the climax of the passage. In this back and forth dialogue, it says this. The Lord is in his holy place. The NET says, his majestic place. That all the earth keeps silence before him, the NET says the whole earth is speechless in his presence. Speechless In the presence of God. Now, if verse 14 says that the earth will be filled with his glory, this verse tells us that he is now in his holy temple. And so the earth needs to be quiet before him. See, the sovereignty of God, the reign of Jesus Christ, the kingdom of God, is not just a future thing, folks. He reigns now. He reigns now. He is in his holy place now. He already sits high. The great song we sing, high and lifted up in all the earth is who you are. Lord, we exalt your name. Great gospel song. Isaiah had a vision. It wasn't just a vision of the future, it was a vision of the now. He saw the Lord. The train of his robe filled the temple, the glorious smoke, the beautiful angels, and his he cried out, Woe is me. The Apostle John saw a vision Same scene in the book of Revelation. Holy, holy, the before the throne, the worshipers. The Bible uses royal throne imagery. To give us an emotional connection to this truth, that God sits high. His power, his might, his authority, his transcendence, his otherness. He sits high. He said it's holy temple, verse 20 says, the implications is on earth, keep quiet, be silent. The humble silence that recognizes, Lord, you alone are God, and I am not. There's an implication to those who keep silent before Him. Another gospel song says, I say yes, yes, to your will and to your ways. When your spirit speaks to me with my whole heart, I'll agree. I'll say yes, yes, yes. to your will. See, though the the those who keep silent keep silent because they know that he is Lord and we're not. And we're we're submit to him. The worship posture in Scripture sometimes many postures, but one of the postures is the raising of hands. And you know what that is? That's the universal sign of surrender, isn't it? You're in warfare? Different languages? You don't know the language of the Korean or the Russian. You don't know. But if they do this, what does that mean? Stop shooting. It's a universal sign of surrender. Sin is fighting God. Sin is rebellion against God. Sin is fighting God. Faith is laying down your spiritual weapons and submitting to God, saying, Lord, I give up. Psalm 11 says this. Psalm 11 verses 4 to 7. The Lord is in his holy temple, that the Lord's throne, the Lord's throne is in heaven, his eyes See, his eyelids test the children of man. The Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked, the one who loves violence. Let him rain coals on the wicked, fire and sulphur, and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup. For the Lord is righteous. He loves righteous deeds. That's an interesting verse. It talks about this holiness of God, this sovereignty of God. He tests the righteous. He he hates the wicked. He loves He is righteous. He loves righteous deeds. We see God in that in the in that text there. The point of the first point is simply this: that God sits high. He's sovereign. He's majestic. He's king over all. The second thing that I want us to see is that he looks low. He looks low. Don't think that just because God created the universe and the galaxies that Just because he has that kind of power, the power that we can't really fathom, really think about it, that he's not concerned about the smallest details as well. No. The Bible tells us that he that is high and lifted up, he has his eye on the sparrow. Jesus said that. The sparrow who flies in the sky. The song. His eye on the sparrow, so I know he watches me. The text shows us that the one who looks low has an opinion about the things that are happening down on earth. So in this passage, there are five prophetic woe oracles that are given against the actions of the Chaldean people and the leaders. We'll see that they are given in somewhat veiled language, as I've said. But the Habakkuk knows what God is implying. God is saying that He will judge Babylonian sin, because He judges all sin. Though it may look like they're going to get away with it, they will not. This word woe, a woe oracle, was a prophetic message of warning, a message that the Lord Almighty is not pleased with your actions and with your beliefs. The expositor's Bible commentary said, an extended oracle or judgment signaled by the opening declamation of woe, an interjection commonly used in prophetic literature to introduce a judicial indictment. We see three woes in the book of Revelation, in the middle of the book of Revelation, during the seven angelic trumpet judgments. Jesus in Matthew 23 pronounced woe against the religious leaders of Israel. Remember that? Woe. There are five woes here. We're going to just take our time and walk through this a little bit. They're generally pointing to some universal principles, but they apply here specifically to the Babylonian situation. Verses um 6 to 8, again from the other translation, NET, woe to the one who accumulates what does not belong to him. How long will this go on? He who gets rich by extortion. Your creditors will suddenly attack. Those who terrify you will spring into action and they will rob you because you robbed many countries All who are left among the nations will rob you. You have shed human blood and committed violent acts against land, cities, and those who live in them. Babylon is being condemned for their greed and conquest and their violence. In the language it's about the the spoils and the loot that they've accumul accumulated, the stuff that they've taken in victory of war victories. And God is saying that a great reversal is coming. A great reversal is coming. You've taken spoils from other people. They're going to come and take your spoils And if you have time, look at Daniel chapter 1 and Ezra chapter 1. In Daniel chapter 1, King Nebuchadnezzar, which was down the road, he was eventually became one of the leaders of uh of Babylon during most of their their captivity. He came to Jerusalem and besieged it and it says, this is remember from the book of Daniel, the first part. He gave the king into his hand some of the vessels of the house of God. He brought them to the land of Shar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury. of his gods. So he accumulated the stuff, the spoils uh of conquest and brought them uh back to uh the main city of Shinar. So King Nebuchadnezzar. That was in 587 BC, maybe 25 years after Habakkuk wrote these words. the nobles and the and the temple wealth away from Jerusalem to Babylon. And then later in Ezra chapter 1, Cyrus would do to Babylon what Babylon had done to others, had done to others, including to Judah. This was in 530 BC. The end of the captivity is about to come So again, look at the first chapter and you see Cyrus is this king of Persia who who the Lord used. Interesting language in the Bible about about this man Cyrus, but it says um He he f he there's a decree he says you can return back to the land and in in the fr in verse six of that first chapter all who were About them aid it then with vessels of silver with gold and goods with beasts and with costly wares, besides all that was freely offered Cyrus the king also brought out the vessels of the house of the Lord that Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem and placed in the house of his gods. And then the next few verses it goes and lists all the many riches of Babylon that were returned. to uh the holy land. So again, fulfilling what God had told Habakkuk was going to happen. You've plundered others, God's going to plunder you. God's going to get the last word. The plunderers will be plundered. That's the first woe. The second woe is verses 9 to 11. 9 to 11. N-E-T translation. The one who built his house by unjust gain is as good as dead. He does this so he can build his nest way up high and escape the clutches of disaster Your schemes will bring shame to your house because you destroyed many nations. You will self-destruct, for the stones in the walls will cry out, and the wooden raptors will answer back. King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon built a famous walled city that was inaccessible to the enemies. It had a hundred one hundred bronze gates around in this wall. The wall was wide enough for four four um horses hor uh horse chariots to r to have races around there. That's a that's like a superhighway. That's how so wide the wall was And he said the the f the phrase is i i is uh i is is uh that that the uh the phrase I think of is that you just can't hide from God. You know, he built this high wall to to protect himself and to and to have a great defense so he couldn't be attacked. But you can't hide from God. They did evil. They built a protective this high nest, a nest, like a bird, like an eagle, like a fortress on that hill. But God Can reach them. God will hear the testimony of those who are pressed, those who witness against you, and he will get you. You cannot protect yourself from God's judgment. There was an old movie or a play that says your arm's too short to box with God. God's gonna win. God's gonna get you. You can try to run, but you can't hide from God. Okay, the third woe, verses 12 and 13. Woe to the one who builds a city by bloodshed, he who starts a town by unjust deeds. Be sure of this. The Lord of heaven's armies has decreed the nation's efforts will go up in smoke. Their exhausting work will be for nothing. So here Babylon is being condemned for violence and injustice. Those are the twin things that in the first part of chapter one, Habakkuk was concerned about the violence and injustice in Judah. Remember that? Well here the same there's violence and injustice in Babylon as well, but and God sees it, and woe to them because of it. Verse 12 is about prospering economically at the expense of those who are weak and vulnerable. Using slave labor to build buildings and not giving fair wages may be in mind there. Verse 13. Uh it it's it it it the yes these says it's it it is not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire. They labor for fire. Today tomorrow is labor day, isn't it? Labor for fire. And the issue is, again, the fruit of labor. People are laboring and they're laboring and laboring, but they're not getting the the the what they deserve for their labors. They're oppressing people. Oppression is not something new. You know, originally Labor Day was was about labor unions and the fight in our country for fair wages. children were forced to work. They had child labor laws. The unions were were were were forcing big businesses to to treat workers justly, and that's good. And now in our culture the only real significance of Labor Day in our culture is that it it marks the end of the summer. I don't think anybody thinks about labor laws and child labor and all those kind of things in the labor unions. Interesting that today is the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Iron Man feat. I heard about this this morning Cal Vipkin breaking Lou Gehrig's 56-year-old record uh playing in 2131 consecutive games I remember that happened back in nineteen ninety whatever it was. I remember when it happened. Running around running around Kai Pi, you know, around around the stadium. Um, 56-year-old record was smashed by Cal Ripkin. He didn't just stop there, he just played on from a couple hundred other games. And and when when he when asked about that, he just said, look, I was just simply doing my job. I was showing up the work. That's that's the work ethic that I had. Labor. Labor is good. And we need to remind people that that life is not about getting As much as you can without working for it. No. Life is about working for what you and deserving what you what you get. We need to train our children and train ourselves to know that work is a good thing. God worked And then he rested on that Sabbath day. Third world. The third world of the e the the e the um uh The EVC, these uh commentary says um there's a third world reiterates uh from verses six to eleven the indictment of ruthless self-ag aggrandizement achieved by bloodshed. applying it to the construction of the Babylonian capital as it had been applied previously to Jerusalem. The judgment pronounced on such an enterprise is inevitable. A civilization built up by the destruction of other civilizations and by the conscription of their labor for its own ends will itself be destroyed Okay? That's commentary. The principle is that prospering economically by oppressing others through slave labor or whatever will eventually catch up with you. That's the principle. That's the woe. That's what he's coming saying about Babylon. The fourth woe, verses 15 to 17. In the gallery to NET, Woe to him who force your neighbor to drink wine. You who make others intoxicated. by forcing them to drink from the bowl of your furious anger. So you can look at their naked bodies, but you will become drunk with shame, not majesty. Now it is your turn to drink, and expose your uncircumcised foreskin The cup of wine in the Lord's hand right hand is coming to you, and disgrace will replace your majestic glory, for you will pay in full for your violent acts against Lebanon. Terrifying judgment will come upon you because of the way you destroyed the wild animals living there. You have shed human blood and committed violent acts against land, cities, and those who live in them. What's going on here? There's a lot going on here. Babylon is being condemned for violence to their neighbors, to the land, and even to the animals. Violence against their neighbors, to the land and and to the animals. Now the the the cup The cup that you uh excuse me wrath on others the cup that you gave to others that we passed on to others, you're gonna drink it You're going to experience violence and wrath. Rather than filled with glory, they're going to be filled with shame for the alcohol that impacts behavior. Verse 15, he gave they to their neighbors the experience of wrath, of military conquest, but soon that wrath will come around to them. You can drink it with some people, passing the cup around. That cup, which is the wrath of God, is going to come around to you. You're going to get yours. Don't miss an interesting connection in these verses, though. Substance abuse leading to nakedness and shame. How often is is is is sexual sin accompanied by drugs and alcohol? Think about it Alcohol and drugs, alcohol gives gives a kind of courage to people to do things that they normally might not do Their mind will tell them, no, don't do that, but under the effect of of alcohol, that inhibition is just gone And some illegal drugs have the same effect. Interesting this passage, the combination of drunkenness and the shame of nakedness upon your neighbor. Interesting what he's trying to get at here. Verse 16, often in the prophets we see divine judgment portrayed as drinking this poisonous cup. The prophet Jeremiah. The prophets do that. The poisonous cup. Verse 17 is interesting. This violence even to the woods, the the the area around uh Lebanon. You know the cedars of Lebanon, the great cedars of Lebanon were used uh in many of the um engineering and the uh building uh projects, the great cedars of Lebanon. The animals in those woods were destroyed. And to secure land for these enormous building projects like the like I said, the this great city wall the with the four-lane highway around it They didn't care. They didn't care about the animals, didn't care about the creation. This is a great passage about creation care, which many Christians are starting to understand. That God cares for the creation and we shouldn't just wantonly abuse creation It's a good passage about how to care for bees. The woe is because they don't care about the animals that are in that end of the field. Now again, God has given us dominion, amen. Over the creation. But but it goes too far, clearly. The world is because this four this fourth flow is because they've gone too far with that And uh I was thinking about what the the main principle here um is is the the cup is gonna come around to you The wrath that you inflict upon others will eventually be inflicted upon you. Now in the secular world they call that the karma principle, but I don't call it that The fifth will, finally, the fifth will is verses 18 to 19. What good is an idol? Why would a craftsman make it? What good is a metal image that gives misleading oracles? Why would its creator place his trust in it and make such mute, worthless things? Woe to the one who says to wood, wake up, who says to speechless stone, awake! Can it give reliable guidance or is it overlaid with gold and silver? It has no life's breath inside it. Again, this is simple the idolatry. They're condemned for the idolatry. And um a great passage is Isaiah chapter 44. I'm not going to read it, but just read Isaiah 44. This in that passage it talks about uh uh the one who fashions idols, this idols that are nothing. And he goes on and talks about Um how the they they go to a tree, cut down a tree, uh uh and and and they they they the the wood is used to warm themselves, for warmth. The wood is used to cook food, and the wood is used to make an idol. The same tree. You have created this thing. And then it says, and the rest of it he makes into an idol. And falls down to it and worships it. And he prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. This thing that you have made. Out of a portion of the tree, you now say, deliver me, you're my God. And so they talk about the folly of idolatry And Paul in 2 Corinthians says this about eating of food offered to idols. We know that an idol has no existence. And that there is no God but one. That's the reality. That's the reality. And so Babylon had their system of gods, and he had the idols, and and the fifth will was about that, the folly of it The point is, if you don't stop worshiping a speechless idol, you will be rendered speechless before God that all the earth keeps silent. before him. So the five woes, there's uh the the this this greed and and and plundering, there's hiding from God, there's Violence and oppression, there's alcohol that combined that leads to immorality, and then there's this idolatry. And all of it can it goes back to one thing, it goes back to pride, realizing that that God is God and you are not This is from Martin Lowe Jones. He says the five woes recorded in this chapter are true, not only with respect to the Chaldeans, but as a universal principle in history. Everything that is evil is under the judgment of God. Though the Chaldeans were to be raised up to flourish for a while, the limit of their prosperity was absolutely fixed. The wicked may triumph for a while, but it's not going to last. Their doom is sealed. What perplexes God's people is, why does God allow it? He allows it for his own purposes so that the world may stagger under his evil powers before he suddenly shows his power and manifests his own sovereignty. The principle for us to hold on to is that God is over all. The way of the transgressor is hard, whether it be an individual, a nation, or the whole world. Your worldly man may take may make a fortune by evil business methods and arrive at the top. But see the end of the ungodly. Whatever may be happening in the world today, the principle is still operative. Woe is declared upon the ways of all who are opposed to God. They are doomed They may have great temporary success, and we must be prepared for that. They may apparently bestride the universe, but Certainly as their star arose, it will go down. The woe, the judgment, the doom of God upon the unrighteous is certain. What are some takeaways for us? A few applications for us. First, God will crush the pride of his children. God will crush the pride of his children. We we've seen recently the very sad news about um the former leader of the Liberty University. It's uh it's the height of arrogance to think that you are s you can supposedly lead an organization that claims to follow the word of God while secretly being involved in an adulterous relationship like that. Your sins will find you out. Passage that are arrogant and create toxic environments, like there's there's a few I can name. Um it takes a dose, it takes a heavy dose of confidence To dare to stand up and say, Thus saith the Lord. Many people just would not have the the guts to be to do that. And I understand that it takes some confidence, but uh it also takes a heavy dose of humility to do that. And when that humility is lost, bad things happen. God resists the proud, Peter said, but gives grace to the humble. That's why we are we're encouraged to confess our sins. We confess our sins when they rise up in our hearts, so they won't spill over into our words and our deeds. There's a sin continuum that we often feel to appreciate. And one of the signs that we're not as humble as we think we are is when we go into seasons of what I call prayerlessness. Prayerlessness when our prayer life is weak. When I know my prayer life is weak, is because maybe I don't trust God as much. I'm trusting my own mind or my own skills, my own what whatever, and I'm not really trusting the Holy Spirit to use me. God will crush the pride in his children. Second, God will crush the pride of nations. He will crush the pride of nations, even a nation like America. Yes, a nation like America. The predicted day of reckoning came for the Chaldeans, didn't it? And I have sobering news for some for some of you. the day will come for our pagan nation in America at some point. The day of reckoning. Usually revivals come during times of deep sin in a nation, when the people of God clearly see that apart from God there will be judged. Does the church in America right now have the desperate, humble sense of dependence that God usually honors? If so, I certainly don't see it. Now, I see a spirit of pride in what we were in the days when things were more stable, more productive, more peaceful. That's what I call the conservative pride. Those on the right fail to realize that the good old days weren't as good as they think they were for some people. Not for the poor or people of color, for people, everybody who are not part of the mainstream. Among God's people, I see us joining the the pagan spirits of compromise, a spirit of nationalistic entitlement, rather than calling the nation to repent. So even God's church is guilty of underestimating the sinfulness of our own lives and of our nation. So we compromise and we hope all and we also wish that things should just go back to the good old days. But also, on the left there's a spirit of pride. A spirit of pride, not in the days that were, but the days that will be. See, we've come, the progressives have come to understand that the ignorant, oppressive people of past generations were too stupid to realize what we know now. That's liberal pride. Pride in the days that will be. See, those who become woke go on a mission this generation to not only change wrongs done, but to eliminate history. The Jewish Holocaust survivors had a slogan that you've heard before, never forget. Know history accurately and don't forget it, and learn the lessons from history. God will crush the pride of nations. And thirdly, God will crush the pride of leaders. He will crush the pride of leaders. And I just want to say as we enter into the last few days months before this election, I want to encourage you to think biblically about your vote. As a pastor, I will never persuade a congregation to vote for a particular candidate or a or party. It's not only illegal, it's unwise. But I can urge you to think biblically about your vote. And one of the difficulties is that it takes a lot of self-confidence to be a leader Now I know that that from pastoring. To stand up and dare to think you have a word from God is humbling, but it takes pride, as I said. And leading a nation takes the same thing. It takes a lot of confidence to do that. So one thing I look for in political campaigns is the spirit of political politicians. It's the spirit of humility. I look for that. I look for that. I heard a helpful discussion yesterday about the distinction between the candidates' policies and their personality. It's a very important distinction. And it got me to thinking about this as I was thinking about the text. And uh we also need to distinguish between their personality and their character. What's the difference to me Personality is is is is what you are when the lights and camera are on. Character is what you are in the darkness what your wife sees and your kids see. There's a difference. We need to understand. You can't hide your character flaws from God. He looks low. Well, I see my time is about up. Let me just close with uh with an illustration from a movie, an old movie for some of you, for some of us. Um it's uh Indiana Jones and The Last Crusade If you know that movie, Jones was trying to get his dad, Sean Conry, through a cave. He goes and there's all these booby traps and there's dead bodies and there's spiders and snakes and all this kind of stuff. It's decapitated heads and there's a he has an old beat-up book. that has the the cryptic uh uh uh uh riddles of uh of what to do and um to to guide him through this cave. And and and the only clue that he has right now at this port is simply only the penitent man will pass. Only the penitent man will pass. And so he's thinking, what does that mean? What does that mean? I mean he's seeing dead bodies around him, defabricated heads, and he says, Oh, what's only the penitent man will pass? And then he sees um The the spider the cobwebs begin to blow and he says the penitent man the pen the penitent man he kneeled and he knelt and as he kneels the sword comes And he's spared. He is not decapitated like everybody else was because he got the secret that the penitent man will pass. Listen, only those who kneel before God will escape the sword of God's righteous wrath. He says, hi. But he looks low. He loves us. He sent Christ for us. Christ will die for us to take care of our justice. But when we fail to receive Christ, who is the justice of God, the sword, the cup of God's judgment remains upon us. Let's pray. But God, this is a very complicated passage, but we're reminded of the grace that's there. That while we were yet sinners, you died for us. You took our judgment for us. That Christ is King. And as our King, if we're in Him, we're spared the certain judgment that we deserve. Lord, I would pray for anyone who It hasn't embraced Jesus and embraced that message that forgiveness is available by trusting in Him and not our own selves That indeed it comes from confessing that all these things, that we are proud and we're we're we're sinful and we do care about ourselves too much and we think we want to control our own lives rather than submit to you and your word And yet there's a remedy, and it's as as we sit bound to you in faith and trust you. Do that work in our hearts as we worship you today in Jesus' name. Amen.