At the Old Testament prophets that we don't often get to. Um The minor prophets, and how they look forward to the coming of Christ. uh as we enter into the season. And and all I can do is sort of take bits and pieces from our various prophets. I can't go through the whole book, but I I wanted to give a sort of a snapshot pulling out of many different uh books. A a clear focus. And part of what we've been doing in our adult Sunday school class is exactly uh to try to figure out how do we understand the New Testament and the Old Testament. Uh sometimes it doesn't seem very uh very apparent Uh the text this morning, and I'm going to read two texts, uh although I think we have only one we'll have only one on the screen. But The two texts come together. And one is actually almost repeated in the other. So the Old Testament is repeated in the New Testament. And we see then how God weaves this together But the theme is is deep for us. And it does build on God's compassion. Understand, we're going to be looking at the book of Malachi. Chapter 4. I'll have you stand in a minute as we read it, but I just want to give a little more background before we read it. Malachi was basically a contemporary of Ezra and Nehemiah. And uh and the people of Israel had long been uh carried away into captivity. The people of Judah uh had been carried away. But as you know in the story of Nehemiah, they were brought back and the temple was rebuilt and the wall was rebuilt and there was this great sense of, yes, we're we're gonna get there And then it didn't happen. You know, they they they were still lost in in the way they worshiped God, they were still lost in who they worshiped themselves. Uh and and it seemed as though God's promises weren't really happening. What was four hundred years before Christ actually came before Christmas morning. Four hundred years. Four hundred years is a long time. Forty years is a long time. Four years is a long time. And if you ask your children, four weeks can be a long time. It just depends on our perspective. Oh, four hundred years. So it's really easy for God's people to think It's not happening. It's just not gonna happen. That was Micah. And they wondered about God even as they wandered away from God. It would be a little bit like, I'm going to go forward a little again before I come back to the text. It's a little bit like in our political world today, our our parties are for are vying for power. And the Christians sometimes like to make their political party whatever that is, say the things that seem to be the most righteous and the most right, and we will sometimes defend our political party for that. So but you know, you know as well as I do, it doesn't matter which side of the which leg or s which foot you're gonna stand on, um, you know, the Make America Great Again has been about dominance and And trash talking others and aggression and like those are really great Christian values, aren't they? But on the other side, uh you know, we we've lifted up uh uh abortion we've we've made uh uh abortion a a personal right as if you know I get to do that Uh we have glorified same-sex marriage and relationships. So I it doesn't really matter which side of the political party you're looking at, there's something deeply wrong. And and we haven't found the reign of Christ in our political parties at all. Having just come back from Italy, I we were reminded again as we stood in the Colosseum. of the great power uh of the Colosseum. As the emperor would wait until the battle was at its point and there was uh you know one of the two Combatants was ready to die. And and as they were in a uh oppressed position, the emperor would take his thumb and either go up for life or down for death. But he gave that same power to everybody in the Colosseum. So while he waited, he looked around and everybody said, No, let this guy live. No, let this guy die. As if life and death were somehow a personal privilege. Amazing. We haven't progressed very far, have we? So here it is. It's the Word of God. Even as in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, we still live. Anticipating, waiting for the fullness of God's kingdom and God's presence and God's redemption to happen. And yet he sent Jesus Christ. I want you to stand. I'm going to read these two texts. The first comes from Malachi chapter 4. It's the last book of the Old Testament. You can probably find that one if you're going to turn to your Bibles. But I'm going to also read from Luke chapter 1, verse 16. 67 and following. So if you have your Bible sort of stick a finger in Luke 1 67, stick the other finger in uh in uh in the book of Malachi. Malachi chapter four, verse one. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and evildoers will be stubble The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it may leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall rise, with healing in its wings. You go out leaping like calves from the stall, and you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and the rules that I commanded him at Horem for all of Israel Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, and he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children. And the hearts of children to their fathers. Lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. Is it hopeful? Turn to Luke, chapter one, verse sixty-eight. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies, from the hand of all who hate us. To show the mercy promised to our fathers, to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear. Holiness, righteousness, before him all of our days And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people. people in the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness. And in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. The Old Testament prophets Malachi, Zechariah, and John. Let's pray. Father, would you take these your words? Your prophets from of old and allow them to speak to us this morning. Because we ask that you might turn our hearts To you. We are your children. Turn our hearts, Father, to you. That we might hear you, that we might love you, that we might serve you. So guide us in that, even now we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. And so we have this juxtaposition of these three prophets, the last of the Old Testament prophets: Malachi. Zechariah, as he and it was his prophecy, it was his prayer, it was his song that we read, and most of it was anticipating the coming or the speaking of John the Baptist. But John the Baptist himself was simply pointing forward to Christ. So we have these three Old Testament prophets, and they align. Now Malachi writes about a hot fire. Uh and you know that a a a fire will burn hot if it has the right kind of fuel. We watched that conflagration happen in uh in the west coast especially uh and in Texas over this last year. Now I was a little surprised when I went back and reviewed how bad was the fire. It was pretty bad. But it wasn't as bad in twenty twenty-two as it was in twenty twenty-one. We tend to forget how how hot the fires were, how badly they burned, how much destruction they create. It's a year ago already. So in this hot fire, uh it's it seems like everything is gone. Certainly, if you have a home, it's gone, it's burned up. Everything's gone. But what happens after a forest fire? It might be a week, it might be two months, might be twelve months. Until suddenly, one day, there's a little touch of green that starts to come up through that char And you look across the burned field, you might see charred sticks that used to be trees, but all of a sudden there's this little Breaking through. A little green blade. And the green blades begin to grow. That's the picture. That these prophets are painting, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, there is a fire of God's judgment. But in the fire of God's judgment, and after the fire of God's judgment, there will be a gentle green leaf that will grow up. Everything is not destroyed. So here's the thing: when power and pride consume our communities, consume our homes Consumes our families. It seems as though everything is gone and there is no hope But what God does is he says there is hope. It's not over. There is still a coming green leaf. There will still be life. So let's look at it. Let's look at it in our text. And I just want to build around the word picture that both prophets have used of the sunrise. Dawning. What is the sun rising and what does it do? What good is it? Because this is the picture that the prophets have done. And you might spell son S-O-N and say, yes, it was Jesus Christ, the Son of God. But both of these texts talk about the S-U-N The sun. And and if you don't look at that and sort of think, well, uh do I uh do I just put a a loopy top on the on the uh on the U and make it an S O N? Or or do I listen to it as the S U N? I want you to listen to it as the S U N, but recognize that there's something greater that God is doing, and He's doing it in His Son. Jesus Christ. And that's why these two texts come together as we anticipate the coming of Christ in Christmas. So a sunrise. It's first of all God's compassion to us in giving us a new day. Now some days you get up and you think, I don't want to see a new day. Yesterday was bad enough. I don't w need a new day. But actually we do want a new day. And God gives us a new day. And it's His compassion that says, I will raise the Sun up today. So that even the things that you wish didn't happen or the things you wish you could redo, you've got another opportunity. It says compassion Uh you know, we talk about cooling off periods when we have a conflict. And uh and that's what the New Day is about. It's to give us a cooling moment. out of the fire that in the cooling we might actually see something new that would happen. We may not want a changed heart towards others. That's true. But God wants us to have a changed heart. And that's why He gives us a new day. That's why the sun rises. It's actually God's compassion that He gives us another day. Our family relationships are the first place that that sunrise happens It happens in our hearts. It happens in our relationships at home. And in that, we begin to understand the world that is in pain, the world that is broken. begins to be refitted because of God's sun rising, giving us a new day, that our focus and our heart might be changed in Christ. This week we received a Christmas card. They're coming already. I don't know how people do it. They must, you know, they must send them out in July. Um but uh but here it is. We got a Christmas card. It was a picture of a family that's been very close to us for many years. The father and the eldest son have been estranged for probably forty years. For many years, the there wouldn't even be a conversation. The son wouldn't even call. He was someplace on the West Coast, and the family was someplace on the East Coast The picture that came, he was in the picture. Now mind you, he wasn't smiling. Everybody else is smiling. But he was there. And sometimes what we need to recognize is that it might take 40 years. Didn't I say that earlier? 40? Four hours? But and we we find ourselves impatient. For forty years he'd been absent from the family. There's a divorce in one of our churches. And about three months after the divorce, there's a change of heart. And the husband decided, actually I want to rethink this. Sometimes even the things that are impossible in our minds, God says, I can change the heart. That's what God does. God changes the heart. And he gives a new day for it. The sun rises. When our hearts are changed, they're only changed because we have a new focus. And we focus on Christ. And he shows us something new. But when he shows us, it's the second function of a sunrise that I want you to think about. Because sunrise changes darkness to light. And when we're trapped in a difficult situation, when we're trapped in what seems like an endless pain, when we're trapped As it were, yes, in an entire field of our lives that's burned flat. God causes the sunrise to come And slowly the darkness turns to light. And in the light, God's compassion, God's kindness, God's tenderness Illuminates the pains and the needs. He shows us what we did wrong, what we thought wrong, what we should have changed He illuminates that because in his kindness he gave us the dawning of the sun. And the sunrise changes that darkness to light. Or if you've ever fallen, uh taken a bad fall, uh maybe hit your head or you know twisted your knee or I Almost if it's a really bad tumble, there's this sort of tightening of your eyes and and uh sometimes if you actually knock yourself out, everything does go dark, right? It's just black. You did it But even if you're not knocked out, it's just like, oh, it hurts so bad. And then you open up your eyes and you check it out. I'm still alive. So it didn't take me out. Still hurts. But did I lose my leg? Did I lose my arm? Did I lose my hand? Is it bleeding? What you know, how bad is it? I can't move it. Well, all right, that tells me something about it. Is it my muscle or is it the bone? But I can begin to understand in that fall with light. God gives us light to understand, to understand the pains, the pains that we've had in our lives, the pains that we've created in our homes God gives us light, and his compassion is to give us light. We often don't want the light. We would rather not know what we did wrong. Let me just keep my eyes closed. But God in His compassion gives us light to help us understand. And that light brings a change in us that the text says, you know, the leaping of calves from the stall. Now I don't know if you've ever seen a calf be born. I've watched it actually on the savannah in Kenya. uh where a a a wildebeest is born and uh and you actually watch them fall to the ground And stagger. And and if the birthing is of a calf in a manger stall or in a in a shed stall then there will be a falling down and a sort of staggering out. That's that is what is in this text. The leaping Because initially there's no leaping at all. It's a staggering. It's a shock. God, in his kindness, allows us to see What we've done, what's gone wrong, what the pain is, he gives us a sunrise to see. And the light is not just the light of the physical sun, but it's the light of his son, Christ Jesus, that says, Let me show you. In his tenderness, he shows us. Sometimes it's painful to look at it. But that leads us to the third thing that a sunrise is for. It changes cold. to warm. In these chilly days, uh it may be chilly, but it's sure a nice feel when you get out in the sun if it's not windy. And you can just feel the warmth of the sun beginning to change the temperature Changes the temperature outside, it changes the temperature inside. We feel the warmth. So the sunrise is about giving us warmth. It's about changing the cold into something warm. Compassion is not the heat of a scorching sun. Compassion is the gentle ray that God says, I will infuse your life and gently restore you. And bring warmth after the coldness. And so he says the hearts of parents will be turned to the children And children returned to their parents. Children that have walked away. Parents maybe that have walked away. Parents that have said mean things, disturbing things, children that say mean and disturbing things. God says I will in my compassion allow the sunshine to rise in your relationships. And that sun will give you the opportunity to turn coldness to warmth again. We have a story in the Old Testament, the story of David. There was a bitterness between David and Absalom. It divided the family, it divided the nation. And you remember the uh the end of that story that Absalom uh in the end uh hung himself or was hung uh on a tree because of his long hair and then David's general skewered him. An ugly, mean story. But it came out of a bad relationship. A bad relationship of father to son. And then scripture tells uh tells us that Christ is the new David. You think, whoa, wait a minute. Well, that's what's new. Because as Son, Christ obeyed that which the Heavenly Father had for him. To yield his life, to pay the price of death, to unite us in our families, in our homes, in our church, in our nation. That God would by his grace give us his peace and begin to turn cold toward So let's look at the next attribute of a sunrise. The first was God's compassion for a new day, and then God's turning darkness to light, and God's bringing warmth to cold. But the sunrise also establishes peace in the midst of insecurity. Darkness Is what brings about instability and insecurity. Scripture is full of it. The deeds of evil are done in darkness. So the sun rising is to give a place not just of light, but light that there might be peace. Where we are able to see clearly the deeds of the dark and understand what the deeds, what the corrected deeds ought to be that give us peace, to change the uncertainty to certainty It's not about hiding evil, it's now about exposing evil that we might find our peace in that environment, that our families might grow in their security. instead of insecurity, that our families might be healed and pulled back together instead of broken apart. Again, the Old Testament, Saul had a disturbed heart. Angry with God, angry with himself, full of pride. He was the kind of person that everybody wanted as a king. He was tall, he was handsome, seemed like he had everything. But inside he was hollow, hollow as a pipe. And he was angry. And David would play his harp. And it would calm him. It would bring him peace. But ultimately, the insecurity that was inside of him broke out. To where even Saul wasn't solved, salved, helped by that music. And he hurled a spear at David. In Christ, in Christ alone, we have a son whose heart Changes our heart, whose heart to fulfill the Father and the Father's calling was going to bring us a change. And he changes our insecurity, our uncertainties. Into peace. He gives us peace. And that's the function of the sunrise. It's not just to warm us. Warming is good. It's not just a second chance, a second, a new day. A new day is good. But the whole point of it is that we might experience God's peace. Peace with each other, peace with him. And so the rising of the sun reminds us of that. Fifth, the sunrise causes barrenness to become productive. Think, well, how's that happen? There's some mysteries that I don't understand. Uh some of you that are uh better in your earth sciences than I am, you can explain it to me. I remember being explained in science, but There's this thing called photosynthesis that only comes from sunlight. So the sun comes, and the photosynthesis creates life It causes life in the plant, in the tree. It's what bears fruit. So when God says, I want my son To shine upon you, to break into you, it's so that you receive his photosynthesis. I'm not sure. That Zechariah understood that. In fact, I'm sort of going to guess he didn't understand that. But his words were clear, and so were Micah's. The sun rise will bring us growth, will bring us life And it physically is so. It physically gives us vitamin D, makes us more able uh to function, to have the energy we but it's not just this physical thing that God says, I'm going to send my Physical sun to break upon you, it reminds us simply that we need God's Son, Christ, to photosynthesize us or we will not produce. So here's the question. Are you producing? Or are you simply looking at the forest bird That's what Micah saw. That's what God's people saw. It's burned territory. Micah said, no, there's more. The sunrise will cause those little shoots, those little green blades to come forward again. Are those greening, fruit-bearing moments how in your life. You assess, you evaluate. That's what Christmas is for. We look At the presence and the coming of Christ, and we say, Am I fruit-bearing? Am I fruit-bearing? Because He has brought His presence into my life. And again, it doesn't matter whether it's Old Testament or New Testament, there's a story of uh of Eli that we know very well, couldn't even discipline his own sons. So God gives him another son, Samuel, to speak to him. And in the night. God comes to Samuel. He comes again and he comes again and finally Eli says, just tell that voice that you hear, boy Samuel. Lord, I hear. Your servant is listening. Speak. God does. And he says, the household of Eli will be burned. It will be destroyed. And Samuel had the unfortunate privilege of carrying that news to Eli. Eli said, Don't spare it. Tell me what God said He did. Eli now looks at this boy Samuel and recognizes that in his care, in Eli's care, God gave A blade, a growth, a sprout, that there was more than his sons. And God turned the heart of the Father toward the Son. And the heart of the Son to the Father. Finally, I want you to say that the sunrise produces healing It's good for a lot of healing, you know that. Uh if you suffer from the winter depression that many people do, you look forward to a longer day where there's more sunshine. There's more alertness. It's good for inflammation, helps our blood pro I don't know, I don't know why, don't know how. But that's a physical sign What we know is that when the rising of Christ happens in our hearts, when God has changed our hearts by his compassionate love, when he brings the healing to us, It turns our hearts. Our hearts are the center of the choices we make. It's the center Of our behavior, what we do, the choices I make, what I do, and God says, I'm going to change your heart. I will heal your heart. That's God's promise. That's God's truth. And that's what God does. And so this morning we came and we lit a second candle, anticipating Christmas morning. The Old Testament prophets anticipated the fullness of God's answer in the Messiah. Even Zechariah writes, and he says, the son of righteousness. Will dawn. And we look forward to that dawning. And the text suggests that way the S U N Of righteousness. But the S-U N of righteousness is just a picture of the SON of righteousness. In whom we have our righteousness. And in whom we have our redemption and healing. We come this morning to the table of the Lord.