You all. It is good to be in the house of the Lord. And it's good to be this morning in the passage of the King. We are the third week in the fourth chapter of Ephesians. Three weeks ago I told you I was going to camp out a while. Well I have. We're come to the end of it today. We're going to go to another section tomorrow. Uh I mean next week or two weeks from now. Uh don't miss next week because Next week, you'll have the privilege of hearing your missionary, one of our very good friends, Hugh Wessel, back from France. You will enjoy Hugh. He is a scholar. He is an able preacher. And he's just a fantastic person. Enjoy him. And enjoy the time next week. So this morning we want to look at Ephesians chapter 4 again. I'll give you just a moment to open your Bibles there. Ephesians 4. You can look on the screen. screen it's up there. But let's stand as we read. I'm going to start at verse 25. Therefore, having put away all falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor. For we're members of one another. Be angry. And do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger and give no opportunity to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal. But rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he might have something to share with anyone in need Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it might give grace to those that hear. And don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. But let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you Along with all malice, be kind to one another, tenderhearted, loving, forgiving one another, as God in Christ. Forgave and forgives you. Let's pray. Father, would you allow our ears to hear? Allow our hearts to receive. Would you cause our lives to reflect your love and your forgiveness? Teach us now from this your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. A couple weeks ago I had the opportunity to Be a part of a mediation. It was a disagreement that had lasted over many months between four men. They were all friends. Or they used to be. We started out, and each one began to tell their story, the story of what had caused a division among them. And at one point, after a good deal of time had gone by, three of the men turned to one of the men. Said very specifically what they had done and what they hadn't done. They confessed their failure to him. And I stopped for a moment and I said, we need to stop for a moment. You have just heard what your friends have said to you Do you have anything to say back? I I'm assuming that you probably had a good idea what I was asking, right? And uh actually he did too. He said, I don't think I have the status to forgive. I sort of went like a knife in my heart. How how could you you can't forgive? You've just heard your three friends ask for your forgiveness and you can't give it? So I I don't have the status for it. So, well, forgiveness isn't about your status, it's about Christ's status. It's not you, it's Him. Can you grant forgiveness? No came the answer. Not now. We ended the mediation and that was as far as We got that particular individual could never share what he had done wrong, and he could never forgive And so we left. It was a particular pain in my heart. I love to come to a good conclusion. And that was anything but a good conclusion. Last night, actually yesterday afternoon, I I got a text from him. And he said, I I owe you a response. He said, please, could you wait just a little longer for me? I'm struggling because I know if I say what I need to say, I will be ashamed I thought, yeah, well, that's true. It will be. I wrote back to him and I said, Do you remember In the last battle, that's the last book of Narnia, for those of you that might be Narnia C. S. Lewis fans. In the last battle, there is uh almost in the last chapter There is a picture, a word picture, of a stable. And there's a small door in the stable. And all of the warriors are They don't want to get into that door. They have to bend low, they have to expose themselves, and they're ashamed of what's happened in the battle. They have lost. the battle. I said, shame is what you may see over that door It's not until we actually confess and we go through that door that we discover that the inside is bigger than the outside. That every step we take is a step upward, inward, with greater brilliance. If you've read that story, you know it. He wrote back to me and he said, actually, What's been in my mind is that I'm useless. And the scales of the dragon are deep on me. And I need them to be scratched off, but it hurts Why is forgiveness so difficult? Have you ever thought of that? I think of it often. It's in part difficult because we'd like to hide. We'd like to think, well, I'm waiting for somebody to first confess. And when I get a confession that I think is good enough for me, then I can forgive. But in that's why it's hard, because it's hard for others to confess. Do you get that twist? Yeah, it's hard for others to so it's hard for me to No, wait, we get the whole thing wrong. It's also difficult because often I'm not asked to And if I am, I don't want to let go of my self-righteousness. I feel like for a moment I'm on top. I'm authenticated. So I find it difficult to actually forgive. I'm afraid that if I forgive somebody, I might have to, you know Act like it doesn't bother me when it does. So I don't want to forgive. We have actually a lot of misconceptions about forgiveness. And it might make more sense If I started out by talking about confession. But this morning I want to talk about forgiveness. That's how this chapter ends. But it is mixed in all the way through With the idea of change, of the old becoming new. That's confession. That's repentance. But right now I want to focus on forgiveness. It's actually a very simple word in the Greek and in the Hebrew. And yet we've made it really complex. And it is complex. So let me go back to the original languages. Basically, what they mean is to let go. To let it go. You know, you you have a a bird that you catch, well let it go, let it let it fly away. You get a little bunny in your hands, well let it go, we'll let it bounce away. You've you've been holding a wrong in your heart? Well, let it go. Forgive it Jesus came to his disciples and he said, Forgive your nets. What? My nets didn't do anything to me. That's the same word. Let them go. Let them go and come to me, is what he was saying. Leave your nets and come and follow me. Does that make any more sense when it comes to forgiveness? Not a lot, probably, but it's a start. I want to take another step into this And try to talk about, as this text tells us about, forgiveness. Speaking the truth of forgiveness, first of all, keeps an offense from growing. That's what verse 26 says. Look at it. Be angry and do not sin. Don't let the sun go down on your anger. I didn't see the word forgiveness. Did you? Oh, but it's all part of this. Here's what happens. When we forgive We are stopping the pain, the ugliness, the anger, the angst of that offense from continuing. If we see sin as sin against God rather than just against us, then we're able to recognize that What it is that I'm holding against my brother or my sister or my people, you people, whoever it is I'm holding it against, it's not against you. It's against God. So it allows me To ratchet down that conflict. It's there. One of the more difficult things in in my life and in my ministry And understand the many years that I've been in areas of deep violent conflict. So that colors my understanding of forgiveness. If you Uh I'm not even going to do it, too many kids in a room. There have been deep, deep offenses And I have stood in front of people that have been deeply offended. They have watched murder take place in front of their eyes. And yet they're able to say, I. Forgive you. How? What does it mean? And so this has deeply been into my heart and soul And abuse is one of those things. Whether it's a physical abuse, an emotional abuse, some of you have felt the pain, the razor pain of abuse in your lives. And you will surely ask me, how do I forgive my abuser? How can I do it? And all I can say is, how can you not do it? Lest the pain of that knife continue to cut But it's not simple. And I'm not talking about just walking away from it. Abuse is against God. It's against God's creation. It's against the image that God has made and has put in me. I am made in his image. If you abuse me, you have abused God. I can forgive you, but I'm also going to protect the image that God has made in me. And you're not going to do it again. Do you understand how forgiveness is at once defense, but only if I see the offense as being against God? So when I agree that God is the judge and God is the one who takes the actions That it's against a sin, an abuse, a a grievance is against him. It's not fundamentally against me David cries out Psalm 51. He says, Against you and you only Lord. Well, wait a minute. I thought there was somebody else involved in that story. That's Bathsheba's story. Wasn't there somebody else involved? Yeah, it was Bathsheba. It wasn't just her either. It was her husband that David made sure was dead on delivery. And yet he cries out in Psalm 51 Against you and you only, Lord. Wait, wait, wait a minute. That doesn't feel like an adequate confession to me. Probably doesn't to you either. But if I agree that God is the judge and God is the actor, I can actually forgive because he's going to pick it up. I don't pick it up, he picks it up. I transfer that sense of bringing judgment to God. I don't bring judgment. God brings judgment. I can forgive. And if God is judging, then let me not make another offense of my own in acting as if I am the judge. Forgiveness means I am placing myself in a place that says, Lord, this sin that I have felt is against you. I want to let it go. I'm going to release it. Not so as to extend the offense. But that it's you, Lord God, will deal with this offense and the offender in your grace. And in your mercy. That's not an easy step. Look at verse 29. It gives us the second understanding of forgiveness. Speaking the truth of forgiveness brings grace. Verse 29. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such as good for building up, as fits the occasion. That it might give grace to those who hear. So when I speak and I speak the truth of forgiveness, it brings grace. How does it bring grace? When I speak forgiveness, I am saying both of us need God's grace. So take you back to the mediation I did. The three men who were confessing Said, We need your forgiveness. We have failed What was missing, of course, in the reconciliation was that they couldn't give forgiveness and they couldn't receive forgiveness. They were stuck But they weren't completely stuck. Because they'd been very clear, and they could receive God's forgiveness. even if they didn't receive the forgiveness of their friend. They had confessed and they had given it back to God. When we agree That we need. I need the grace of God. You need the grace of God. I can forgive you because I need God's grace too. And I'm simply delivering to you God's grace. That's all I can say. That's all I can do. I can speak God's forgiveness to you even before you confess to me. Because I can speak God's forgiveness and I can receive God's forgiveness. If I don't have a relationship with God, there's no way I can deal with offenses. Do you get the incredibly powerful part of that? I cannot deal with an offense unless I understand the grace of God. I can say things that might help, but I'll never be able to forgive. I'll never be released from the bondage unless I understand God's forgiveness. In fact, I must speak of God's release, even if my victimizer is dead, and that often happens. Maybe you have felt the pain of being victimized, of being abused by a mother or father that's no longer living. And you say, well, how do I forgive my mother for what she did? How do I forgive my father? How do I get forgive my uncle? How do I they're gone? I can't have this conversation anymore. No, you can't But you can have a conversation with God, and you can receive His forgiveness. And say that's the forgiveness that He's called me to release even the one that I can no longer talk with. So I have to see, I have to speak about God's release, even in those circumstances. circumstance. Even if my victimizer, my the one who's that I'm struggling with isn't interested in coming to me. I can still forgive. Our lack of forgiveness May be the single thing that plows the church into furrows and camps and fields. We have difficulty forgiving each other, even sometimes for small things. So here's the thing. I want to go back to the stool It's not just a child's lesson. It's a parent lesson. When we have failed, we've gotten up on that stool It was easy enough to get up there, but it's really difficult to get down. Especially if I have to back down. Now you saw the kids do it. I've got a lot older. I used to be a lot better on my feet. Well if I have to keep coming back, I'm not sure how far back I am. Anybody ready to catch me? But that's the point, isn't it? Forgiveness is the willingness to stretch out a hand And bring a person down. Let them down, not take them down. Let them down. There's a big difference, isn't there? What we want to do is, I'll just take you down. God says no, forgive. Bring them down. And that's something only the body of Christ can do. Only you can do it, and you get it, and God gives it to us to each other to do it. Bring. each other down. We all sin. And we all need to be back down. We are blind. We don't get it. We we can't get down there by ourselves. We're afraid of the way that we have to do that. Verse 31 ends bitterness, rage, clamor, and slander. That's what it says. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you. Along with all malice, it's because I look to Christ to see what He's done. If I'm looking at Him, I'm not looking at you I'm looking at his forgiveness, and it overwhelms whatever you have done to me. So I can speak the truth to you, about you. There is no other way I can do it There are hard things that we have to say to each other. And those hard things often need to be said. Because if we're to help each other come down, then we have to help each other in forgiveness. That we come down from the things we have sinned, we have failed, we have done that we shouldn't have done, and the things that we failed to do that we should have done. We need to help each other come down. Because I look, I focus on Christ, what He does for me. I can speak the truth about me. I can speak the truth about you. Because God has exacted the punishment on Christ Jesus. Jesus has paid the penalty for my sin. But I'm not alone. He paid the penalty for your sin. And you're not alone I can't say that in every place. I couldn't say it in every place if I walked in every square, but I can say it in the midst of the people of God. If you have known the mercies of Christ, you still have to have the forgiveness of his people. And they are transmitting to you his forgiveness so that you hear it again. It's told to you again. It's standing down off that stool. Every those children saw the stool. They knew it was only this wide by this wide. And it was about this high. And their eyes immediately told them about how high they needed to step up And about how far back they needed to step. It was pretty simple if it's only a one-step stool. But it's really complicated when we don't keep things simple. Well, I guess that's part of it. Scripture tells us that we need to keep short accounts. We need to forgive at the end of the day. Don't let the sun go down on your wrath and on your Your anger. Keep it short. Keep the stool low. So it's easier to back down. Failing to understand and to speak the truth leaves me with revenge. Cursing. Clamor. Because if I can't let go of it, I keep it in. It was a classic illustration of that this week. Because it's public, I can use names. Nancy Pelosi had called for a war Uh if those weren't her exact words, they were certainly the meaning of her words, weren't they? She was going to do everything she could to bring down pro-life and anything that might divide or take Roe v. Wade out So she declares a war on right to life. And then she got barred from Catholic communion. It's like did you catch what went on? I can't forgive you for a position you hold. I'm going to make it worse on you. You're going to suffer more. I'm going to use my position to make sure that your position is decimated. That's what she said, in essence. We can't talk about this anymore. Now we're going to make laws that make it impossible for you to hold your position And the Catholic Church says, You gonna go to war on that? You can't have communion anymore. So, well was that the Catholic Church not forgiving How how do we understand forgiveness in this? Or was it the recognition that in Christ we have to have these conversations? It didn't make her desires right. But until this point she was still being given communion, right? Think about what impact forgiveness has on our lives. Imagine if we could be even a little bit politically forgiving We would not be so divided as we are in our country today. We can't even have a conversation. There's no room for mediation because we can't get in the same room and talk about it. All we have room for is vindication and revenge. I want to turn the heat up. I want to make it worse. Imagine what would happen if we said, I think I could forgive the way you said that at least. I may not agree with you But I understand that being wrong is often something that is a part of my life too I have seen, I have known, I have experienced God's mercy in my life. I can forgive you. God's forgiven me. Last I want you to see verse thirty-two in this whole context. Be kind to one another. Remember this whole series is one anothering. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgives you. It means that when I see you, I see myself. I see in you one who is struggling with sin. I see in myself somebody who's struggling. with sin. I share your struggles because I struggle too. I struggle with evil. I struggle with sin. I don't have the standing To see it otherwise, because I know I have failed. And even if I don't want to fail today, I know I'm going to fail tomorrow. How do I So when I see you struggling with, I have to have compassion because I'm struggling with the same things I'm not better than you are. You're not better than I am. We struggle together, and it gives us a heart of compassion for each other to say, yes, I can help you down. Others have helped me down. Come, take my hand, brother. Take my hand, sister. I will help you down. It doesn't lessen the pain. It doesn't lessen the shame, but it enables us in the glory of Christ to come down. And God says, do that together. Do that for each other. Do that with each other. And if I look at my brother, my sister, and I say, well You haven't confessed yet. When you confess, I'll forgive. It it feels good to us. To want to hear somebody give a confession. If you've ever noted most confessions you've heard, they're not quite good enough. You always wish they were a little stronger, a little more specific. A confession that would a little better tell you the pain that you've experienced. Almost always are confessions feel Weak. That is the confessions of somebody else to us. Our confessions, on the other hand, always feel strong. I told you everything. How could you not get it? And maybe what I said was, well I'm sorry because someday I may have done something that you know was you took wrong. It's like Wait a minute. Did I hear a confession in that? Uh if you had trouble hearing a confession in that, there wasn't any confession in that. It it was I want to confess that you took something wrong. Something wrong with that, right? So I don't have to forgive. Because I didn't hear it right. Or I didn't hear it at all. God says, be kind to one another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. Your sins might not be my sins, but we do share the forgiveness of Christ. And we're called to give the forgiveness of Christ. And we're called to give back to Jesus Christ, back to God. The right and the privilege that we would want to take to adjudicate, to judge that which is wrong, and to bring the sinner To salvation and change. And that's what we declare when we say, I am a Christian. I follow Christ. What is it to be a Christian? It's to say, I am guilty. And Jesus has set me free. It's that simple. And we declare that to each other. I am sinful. God has set me free. I believe you're sinful. And God will set you free. I didn't let him off the hook, did I? We don't let each other off the hook. But it's God's hook, it's not my hook. We give it back to God. I was deeply moved a number of years ago in South Africa. There was a church larger than this, probably the congregation was about uh maybe four times the size of this room. It had doors just like these, but the doors went to the outside. And one day during the South African political struggle There were four armed young men that broke into that congregation. It was a feeling like this. And they did exactly what you're afraid they might have done. And it was a church massacre. I talked to one of the women that survived it. She's a beautiful young woman. She had lost her legs. I said, how do you feel? He said, I can forgive them. Have you met them? No Why can you forgive them? Because Jesus has forgiven me. And then I said, Well, what will you do? And she leaned forward in her wheelchair and she looked at me and she said, I'm in medical school. I want to go back to the community where those young men came from and serve them. Case done. Forgiveness takes action It didn't make right what those four young men did. It made right what God wanted to make right. And he used her. To make his way right. And God will use you to make his way right May God go with you. And this week give you words of forgiveness Let me pray for you. Father, you have loved us in a way beyond our understanding of love. When we were high on our self righteousness Loving who we are. Or when we'd given away all sense of who you made us to be. Deep in our own despair, forgetting who you are. You reached down to us and helped us out. You reached over to us and helped us down. You forgave us in Christ. Father, we think of those that you've used in our lives. It have been your hands, your voices, that have helped us down, and have helped us up. Have helped us to step out of the despair that we feel. So, Father, I want to give back to you. Each one of your children this morning. That you would speak into their hearts. My child, I forgive you that we might hear that voice And speak that voice to each other. Oh Lord Come, be dear us. Hold us in our pain. That we would not hold that pain. Hold us in our frustration that we would not hold out that frustration. Hold us in our anger That we would not hold forth that anger. But hold us in your forgiveness, that we might hold out that forgiveness That sets us free. That takes us from the old to the new. That creates on us a right heart and a right spirit Lord God, help us today to be your hands, to be your voice, to be your feet. Even when we get point hours. Guide us, we pray. Build your body in Jesus' name. Amen