I am just delighted to be here. Thank you so much for allowing me to come again. It is delightful seeing you here. The title of my message is Holiness, Making Holiness a Buttress Against Suffering. When I was in Paris, I um a year after college I spent about a year and a quarter in Paris and most of that time From my apartment I could look out and see the towers of Notre Dame de Paris. Notre Dame de Paris. Now I wasn't a Christian when I was there But I never looked at that as just a building. And every time I looked at it, I saw those arches. Notre Dame de Paris was the first building that used buttresses And they would support it on three sides and give it stability. And so as I was preparing this, this was the metaphor that came to me. That's allowed that church to stand for over a thousand years. Any who are able, please stand while I read today's scripture. It comes from 1 Peter 1 thirteen through twenty five. Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober minded Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy. You also be holy in your conduct, since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last time for the sake of you. You who through him are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave him glory so that your faith and hope are in it. In God. Having purified your souls by the obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love Love one another earnestly from a pure heart, since you have been born again, not a perishable seed But of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of the grass. The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever, and this word is the good news that was preached for you. This is the word of the Lord. Let me pray, and then you can sit down. Father God, we thank you for welcoming each of us into your presence. We thank you, Lord, for giving us this injunction to join with you in a foreign attribute, holiness. Which is hard for us sometimes to grapple with. Lord, if it be your will, I pray that you would open the eyes of our heart open and unplug our ears that we may know and understand your will in our life in the name of Christ Jesus amen you may be seated I was for years intimidated by the term holiness. By holy, especially when that was applied to me as an individual Uh it seemed brash, it seemed almost heretical. And yet, uh so I went to the four gospels and I did a concordance search on the word Holy. In nowhere is holy used to modify a contemporary person. It's used most of the time with spirit, holy spirit, often with Christ. A couple of times to prophets of old. But it's never used about a contemporary person. So I felt somewhat sustained in my feeling. However, Peter disabused me of that. And he asked that I once again consider this as something that I use and apply for myself. So, I'm going to start out by going to 2 Peter 1 verses 4, 5 through 7. And I think he gives a very good definition of what this is all about, what this holiness, this godliness is about. So it reads, For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue Your virtue with knowledge, your knowledge with self-control, your self-control with steadfastness. And steadfastness with godliness, and he doesn't stop there. And godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection. with love. Now, when the first time I read that my initial reaction was easier said than done, right? But in fact, there's no mystery to any of this. The first attribute is faith. Faith is not ours. Initially it comes totally from God. In John one verse thirteen He tells us those who believed were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. So this faith to begin with is a God thing. Now, to be sure, in our maturity, we need to apply this faith and change Choose well, but initially it is a God thing. So as we use this faith to inform our behavior Our behaviors then are transformed into virtue, into right-minded ways of behaving. We go out into the world, knowing that we need to be as wise as serpents and as meek as doves We need to have knowledge. We need to have a good, clear understanding of what the world is, of the obstacles that we're confronting, just by virtue. Of being in the wide world. Once we have knowledge, there's only one way to corral pride and Willfulness and that is self-control. And then once we take self-control and we apply it again and again and again, now we have steadfastness. And given this steadfast, Peter says we're on the doorstep of godliness. But notice he doesn't stop there. From the godliness, we now have to apply it to um brotherly affection. And from there, the strategy of love. So I think that is what Peter is talking about when he's talking about holiness. There are going to be three parts to this message: the cost of holiness, the good news of holiness, and the glory of holiness. So that is what we're going, that is our destination today. It starts in verse 13. Therefore. Preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus. Christ. First word, therefore. That is an adverb, and it's telling us everything that goes before apply to this. So I can reference what I talked about last week with regeneration, with this new heart, our new being that we get as a result of responding to God's call. So we carry that into today's message. He then says, preparing your minds for action. And that's a pretty good translation. But in Hebrew it actually reads, Gird your loins. Now what gird your loins means is put on your armor. Today's parlance get out the bulletproof vest. Why? Because there's a cost for holy city. It is not natural, it is not easy, but through God it is ours. And from there, he says, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now there there's almost a oxymoron there with gird your loins and yet be prepared for the The grace of Christ. The point is that once this grace of light of Christ touches us, everything changes. And it doesn't come to us without struggle. It doesn't come to us without having that armor on and fighting the good fight. This is all the cost Of holiness. Peter continues in verse 14. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions Of your former ignorance. So he takes us back to our youth that we need to inherit Former ignorance. Another way to say that is do not fashion yourself after the ignorance of your passions That there will be a struggle between earthly impulses and fleshly impulses and what godly behavior requires. Going back to First Corinthians thirteen, the love chapter, I'm only going to go to eleven and twelve When I was a child, I spoke like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man I gave up childish ways, for now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known. So the cost of holiness is always humility. What we now see dimly, we will see. At Journey's End, face to face. And as Paul says, never forget, we are fully known. Now, Paul exhorts us to come into holiness. In verse 15, he continues. But as he who called you is holy, you shall also be holy. In all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy as I am holy. This was obviously a verse that was internalized by young Hebrew children as they went to study. It comes from Leviticus 11, 44 and 45. And I looked in several places and they said it's the most important verse in Leviticus. It reads, For I am the Lord your God, consecrate yourselves, therefore, and be holy, for I am Am holy. In a couple of minutes, Carl is gonna come up and conduct us in an application of consecrating our ourselves. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground, for I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy as I am holy. In Leviticus, Moses is telling the story of how a prefiguration of Christ The tenth plague required a spotless lamb, and in Moses' life, the God of his Walked onto the stage, and under the power of the Spirit, He's calling us to be holy. While the word holy does have a moral dimension, it is involved with our conduct, with how we live our lives. But it also tells us that we are to set ourselves apart. Meaning In Leviticus, he goes on and he talks about how we are to worship the Lord. That are certain things that are going to be hallowed to him. There are musical instruments, there are sensors, there are vestimates that are to be reserved for worshiping God. And as those are set apart to be holy, we are to ourselves set ourselves apart to be holy. In the next verse, which is seventeen, Peter is gonna tell us That God is not only a God of encouragement, a God of patting us on the back and telling us everything that's going right. He is also a God of And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially According to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. To be sure we are his. And by fury, doesn't mean anxiety or nervousness or trepidation. He means that God's will ought to have weight And value and presence, because if we have the weight of the Lord That fear, that justified recognizing that He is everything and our God is what allows us as sinners to sin Sin less. What allows us as people who are confused to go the right way to be holy? The next section. So that's the cost of holiness. The next section is the gospel of holiness I'm going to read from 18 through 21. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of of you, who through him are believers in God who raised him up From the dead, and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. This is the gospel. of holiness. He starts talking out about how the Lord will ransom us In a ransom, the victim has nothing to offer. The victim is trapped and in a dilemma However we are in the dilemma of a fallen world of the um inherited from our forefathers. Note that what God is talking about as he did last week, is he wants us to focus on the spiritual adoption that we have through the Lord. The payment, not gold, not silver, not dollar bills, but blood. So Christ was called and And he brought the new covenant, this fully God, fully man came with Incarnated into our midst. He gave us the new covenant. He gave us a new vision for how God wants our hearts. Not our brains, not our eyes to compare, but our hearts to lead us to the truth And so he became convicted on the cross, he was forsaken. And all of this for our faith and our hope in him As a result of this gospel, as I was earlier mentioning earlier When Peter described what godliness was earlier in in uh chapter one of seven Second Peter. We can't stop at the gospel. And we use it so on verse twenty two Having purified your souls by the obedience to a truth for sincere, brotherly love. Seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. So this gospel Gospel is not something that's just part of you and I and we walk around gospel people. No. God wants us to apply it to the wide world. I was thinking of unlikely converts. There's of course Rosario Butterfield. But even more shocking to me was the story of Bob Marley. Bob Marley was the high priest of pot, of all things. He was a Rastafarian. His music was reggae, and he was the prophet of Jah. And Rastafarianism believed that Hale Selassie was Jesus Christ reincarnated? That that's what Rastafarianism is. Well apparently Heli Selassie knew that he wasn't Christ because he sent his archbishop, the archbishop of the Episcopalian Orthodox Church, to Jamaica to visit with Marley. He came. It was quite a consternation. The local authorities were just totally exasperated. And they were arresting Rastafarians and then cutting off their dreads and every time they were arrested And Albuna, um Yezekah, this archbishop, said, Why don't you hold off on that Why don't you let truth be the arbiter? Well Bob Marley heard about this and he went, and for the first time he heard the gospel and of Jesus Christ that wasn't Haile Selassie's gift to give, but was God's gift to give. He was converted. For half an hour, he and his wife and his children wept together. At when they were baptized at the church. And much to the consternation of many of his followers, his funeral was a solid Christian event. Another example. Carniel means. He was the gentleman who uh came with me last week. He's been here. A number of times, good friend of mine. For ten years, he was a drug addict and a alcoholic and homeless and living on the streets. Uh at one point somebody took a shotgun and fired it into his uh back. And this was enough to convince him that maybe he needed a new a new path for how he was going to live. So he got out and he was still in this fragile state and he tried to go into church after church after church. And he felt isolated, he felt like didn't belong there. And then one day he was over at Mullins Park, which is around the corner And he was going to get a lottery ticket, which was his thing to do, and he saw that there was All of this music and dancing and whatever coming from the park, so we went over. Maria Garriot, who was uh Pastor's wife, was the first one to talk to him. And then Pastor Craig came and then a number of other people. For twenty years, Carney Means has been a sitting deacon at Faith Christian Fellowship. He's headed up their Usher ministry. And I gotta tell you, when it comes to holiness, I think I might be his disciple. He hasn't been to the seminary yet, but this man knows God and radiates God. So now, just to summarize, we've got the cost of holiness, we've got the gospel of holiness. This now brings us to what Peter is going to share with us at the end, which encapsulates Suffering at its most core. The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was. Preached to you. This section comes from Isaiah chapter forty. For thirty-nine chapters Isaiah is giving bad news to the Recalcitrant Hebrew people. He tells them, Nebuchadnezzar will come over, the Assyrians will come over, they will conquer you. But in chapter forty He now has a feeling a sense of commiseration with their plight Well, let's think about this metaphor. All flesh is like grass, and all its glory like flowers of grass is not a great picture of man is it. It's certainly a long way from David's we're fearfully and wonderfully made. He's saying we're like stalks. Turns out that grass is the most fruitful of all plants. There's more grass on earth than any other type of plant. But it is highly conditional. If there's rain and sun, it'll be green and straight. If it's not, it will turn brown. And it'll fall. If this grass is out in a field with a lazy shepherd, then the sheep will come up and will eat the grass down to the roots. And there will be no more grass. There is something in this metaphor that it's good for you and I to remember. That we will have seasons where marriage, where children, where achievement happens, but in The end. We are exiles here on this earth. And we need to keep the end in view. At least we're not like the materialist who thinks that this stuff is all there is before the universe. Of was God is. He called light out of darkness He called all matter together. He fashioned the waters and separated the land He caused every creature to exist. This was God's word. Of years later, Moses wrote down the word of the Lord, and we found out about Abraham and um the judges and um he brought to us poetry and prophecy and history That we might know him. So there was the kingdom and the divided kingdom, and then the exile in Babylon, and then Then there was revival when they came back from uh Babylon. Five hundred years of silence. Then The last verse reads But the word of the Lord remains forever, and this word is the good news. That I've preached to you. So in some, we have the cost of holiness, from faith to virtue to know Knowledge to self-control, then to steadfastness, to godliness, and then to brotherly love We've talked about the gospel of holiness that there is a secret and it's not what we're doing, but it's what the gospel And finally, the glory of holiness. Notre Dame de Paris. It'll take decades to get it put back together. But from the outside you see these individual stone arches That keep the structure solid and upright. I would submit that Christ is Is calling us to this new hope. Christ is calling us to this holiness that Through the midst of whatever we need to confront, we will know that God will never Leave us alone. So that is the end of my presentation, and I think Carl is going to come Up and offer us a way that we can tangibly worship the glory of our God.